Verses one and two of chapter five of the Fall of Psalms There is some period of time. Who knows how long? Perhaps a month, perhaps a year, perhaps more, perhaps less However, long it is, there's an unbelievable change that has occurred between verses one and two. You remember that the Song of Solomon I told you is like a series of snapshots in a photo album looking back on the relationship of a man and a woman in love. You remember that in chapter one, verses two and four, we saw the snapshot of the bride saying, Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. For your mom is more delightful than life. Take me away with you. Let us hurry. Let the king look me into his chambers. With chapter 2, verse 3, where she said, like an apple tree among the trees of the farms is my lover among the own men. I delight to sit in his shade. And his fruit is sweep to my taste. In chapter 3, verse 4, where she said, I held to him, and I would not let him go. I'm still with love. I'm fixed with the passion, the ardor of this one that my soul could not do without. And now, sometime after the wedding and the honeymoon are over, we begin a new chapter in their relationship. And it begins in chapter 5 and verse 2. Let's then give our attention to God's word as we hear him speak to us through this story. I flesh, but my heart is away. Listen, my lover is not you. Open to me, my sister, my darling, my dove, my flawless one. My head is drenched with dew, my hair with the dampness of the night. I've taken off my robes. Must I put it on again? I've washed my feet. Must I foil it again? My mother thrust his hand through the latch and My heart began to pound to him. I arose to open for my mother, and my hands dripped with nerve. My fingers were flowing there from the handles of the lock. I opened for my lover, but my lover had left. He was gone. My heart sank to his departure. I looked for him but did not find him. I called him, but he did not answer. The watchmen found me as they made their rounds in the cities. They beat me, they bruised me, they took away my cloak, those watchmen of the wall. Go voters of Jerusalem, I charge you, if you find my mother, what will you tell us? Tell him that I think his love. How is your beloved better than others, most beautiful of women? How is your beloved better than others? Which he charges of. My mother is radiant and ruddy, outstanding among ten thousand. His head is pure as gold, his hair is wavy, black as a raisin. Thy are like God, by the water stream, washed in milk, melted like jewels. The cheeks are like beds of spice, yielding for smooth. His lips are like litter, dripping with mud. His arms are rod with gold, set with chrysalite. His body is like polished ivory decorated with sapphire. His legs are pillars of marble settle in cases of purest gold. His appearance is like Lebanon, choice of the seated. His mouth is cheapless itself. He is altogether my friend. This is my mother. This is my friend. O daughters of Jerusalem. Now may the Lord give us understanding of our own lives. Do you see the picture that Solomon is presented to us here? It's the picture of the lover coming to her room in the palace one night. She comes sometime now after the honeymoon of the wedding. And his response to his artist, he basically says, I can't be bothered. I I'm already in bed. Uh you want me to put on my robe again and my feet are all clean, I've wiped them, you know, I'm gonna get them all dirty walking across the floor to open the door. It's too much trouble. What an incredible difference. Talk about being taken for granted. And can you imagine coming in and and getting that kind of response after he said, Oh, oh, it's gonna be my sister, my darling, my dog, my flawless one. Oh, go on. I'll see you in the morning. What a stuff. Give yourself taken for granted. Imagine what he would have felt in that situation. Notice, first of all, that it's entirely the wife's problem. Now, let you rise off, jump up, and start brandishing your Bibles at me. I am not saying that the fall of Solomon is indicating that whenever there is clearness of love or lack of gratitude That this is a picture for us men to say, see, it's the wife's problem. God's word says it. We need to understand why it is the wife's problem. Remember, this is not always a picture of a man and a woman. But they are in part a type to us of Christ and his church. And Jesus is the perfect lover. Whenever there is a coolness in our relationship with him, it is never his problem. His order is constant. The problem is always on the bribe's part, on the church's part, on our part. We're the ones To become ungrateful. We're the ones who have our love cooled. And that's why in the Song of Solomon, the sin is always on the white side. But Solomon is saying in this that we both have that problem. Both men and women become ungrateful. Make sure you understand why it's the wife's problem. Both the husband and the wife. Will fall prey to that problem of ingratitude. And yet they must look back and they say, Well, I can remember that time when we were so much in love. And our love was such a special love. And we looked at other marriages and people got married in five, ten years down the road. After a while we saw that they'd settled into a humrum existence and You no longer bring me flowers, you no longer sing the love songs, you know, and on it goes, you know. Well you say that would never happen. You know, our love is special. Our love is like the fall of Solomon. Our love will never grow cool. Can't we identify with that? Those of us who are married, or those of you who are moving toward that Or mother special beyond anyone else's. You know that that is a non-Christian view of life. What more romantic book was ever written than the Paul Fallen? And it's in the fallen soul that we see the bride love cool. You see, one of the most wonderful things about the scripture. Not only is it so beautifully idealistic in presenting to us God's family, but it is so utterly realistic. It deals with life as it is. If we didn't have this picture here, we would say, that's a nice book, but I can't relate to it. And somehow there's something wrong and abnormal about my love because it is cool. It is abnormal in the sense that the whole world is abnormal. And when we go to be with the Lord in heaven, our love will never again cool. But the Bible is utterly realistic to say unless you have this incorporated into your view of your marriage. And you're not dealing with reality. Because reality is that every marriage suffers from this. 100%. No one will escape you. Don't think that you're different. Don't think that you'll never say, oh, I would love to put on my robe and dirty my feet. I'd run halfway across hell to open the door to you in rain, rain and wind and hail and storm. There will be that time when you'll say, ah, come on, I got my robe off, my feet are clean, forget it, I'll see you in the morning. I have control of it It happens in that disenchantment that comes when that person that you married who is such a perfect creature gradually becomes so ordinary. And various things in your life begin to crowd in on that relationship. That relationship by which you were committed to the deepest intimacy with each other. You were going to always set aside those special times. And gradually they become more and more crowded out. Blake Herbie small in his book, After You Set Our New, has captured this so poignantly. Let me read from what he says. Life at home could be entitled The Ravages of Routine. As someone has said the private dialogue of their intimate lives has no more plot than the TV sitcoms that the husband turns on lightly. No more spontaneity than Saturday shopping. Nothing could really be called exhilarating, but in their secret hearts both questions the bonuses of married life The excitement of exploring each other's lives has long since been phased back. The stimulating discovery of their new roles as husband and wife now seems part of a passing dream. the promise of domestic tasks that they shared in their first home, the hours of leisure that they once enjoyed, the talk that provided zest and adventure. Our dim recollections now. Where once the formula seemed to be joy's double and burden's half, now it stands reversed. The taste and the pressures of life have swept intimate discussions out of the relationship. The work tempo of office and home alike are inexorable Most of the bright goals of earlier years are now so many disappointments, as it is no longer efficient to share domestic tasks. Life becomes more compartmentalized. The news for each other is taken for granted. The same as writing the monthly check. The competitive demands of the husband's work threaten to make him a stranger to his own children. Even love must buy for a place overstead. There is nothing that is not predictable and routine. All of this means that awareness of each other's needs has diminished dangerously. Centrifical forces have succeeded in creating a strange distance between the two to marry in order to find the joy of infinite learning. And I want to say to you that from my observation, that problem is greatly intensified by the reading of romance novels and watching folk operas. I don't know who I'm hitting here. I don't check into what you read and what you watch. But I can say this without worrying about who's going to be offended. Reading romance novels that pour forth today, and watching soap operas with all their glitter and glamour, feed that self-centered longing for someone to pamper me. And for someone to give me romance, and for someone to make my life exciting. And the more those kinds of things are involved, The more self-centered and distorted becomes my view of what real world is. And the more I will be liable to the kind of ingratitude Is this why suffers though? Because what spouse can ever compare with the heroes and the heroines grieving heavy in the passionate romance novels was a sustained atmosphere of glitter and glory of the soapbox with all the intense emotions Well this is the problem that we see here. A lack of gratitude. A lack of gratitude for that one which he thought was so precious before. And our whole culture sees that. As far back as the medieval times when the knights grew those ladies who were in distress And the pictures of the French courts, and the pictures of the southern bells in our own country, the modern novels, and the modern TV grammars all have one thing in common. They all think that real sex And relance are only possible outside of marriage. Inside of marriage, it can never be excited. You always have to go outside marriage for the excitement and for the realness. And Paul's following deals with that. It deals with this cooling of love. It deals head-on with the problem. Of ingratitude. Where if she looks and she thinks something has come in between, but he doesn't look so good as he used to before. Notice that there is no spaces for it on her part. It's interesting to notice that in verse 2, where he calls to her, There is no other place in the entire Soul of Psalmy where he piles up so many terms of injuries as he does in this verse. Open to me, my sister, my darling, my dog, my flawless one. No problem of loss of order on his part. The problem is simply that she has cooled in her response. And that's how trivial is her response. I can't put on my robe. I can't get my future, the ludicrousness of it, picked up, how inexcusable it is, just so that we don't miss the point. What is it that's creeping in between you and your husband, between you and your wife, for those of you who are married? Such things that crept into your schedule that make you so busy. And so that you look at the longings of your own heart for longings, for intimacy, and you find that one that you marry to lacking. And in that lack, you'll find your heart is growing cold. There's a lack of gratitude and appreciation and response to that. Or what is it that has come in between you and your Lord? What is it that's come between you and the Lord Jesus Christ? In your own relationship. So your response to him is not what it points to us. He hasn't changed since he first called you to himself. He doesn't love you any less. There's no less grace extended on his part in accepting you freely and wanting to envelop you in his arms that he might love you, that he might show you how much he cherishes you? It must come between you and since. So that you no longer find your heart responding to him the way that it wants to. You thought you're so busy serving him, working for him, the combination of all the schooling that you need to pursue, and the career that you need to pursue, and all the things of the pace of life that we get so wrapped up in. That made you so busy that you gladly get them crowded out. And using the activity of service for you Looking other people's needs, going out in these evangelism explosion ministry, and sitting that into your scandal. We're picketing for the abortion clinics. We're going in various situations, taking up great deals of time to do very good things. have nevertheless had the effect of beginning to crowd Jesus as a person. It is very real and precious to you. Toward the periphery of your mind. Do you remember how it was put in that classic little booklet, My Heart Thanks Home? Or the person who had gotten so busy, but had pledged to meet with the Lord in the drawing room of his heart every morning. One day after having missed a few days with the Lord, Do you remember how he went past and he saw the fire looking there was the Lord sitting, waiting. And all of a sudden he was struck by the fact that though he had been missing those times with the Lord, the Lord was still there. And you remember he stopped and he went in. And he said, Lord, have you been here all these mornings that I've missed? Yes, he said. I told you that I would be here every morning to meet with you. And then I was even more ashamed. He has been faithful in spite of my unfaithfulness. I ask his forgiveness. And he readily forgives me if he does when we're truly penitent. He said, The trouble with you is this: you've been thinking of the quiet time, of the Bible study and prayer time as a factor in your spiritual progress. But he's forgotten that this hour means something to me also. Remember, I love you. I have redeemed you at a great cost. I desire your fellowship. That he said. Do not neglect your salary. It's only for my sake. Whatever else may be you desire, remember, I want your fellowship. What's come between you and the Lord? So the third time that used to be so precious to you, your family just slipped with you. They've gotten shortened. And missing a few has become easier and easier. Until you've got to the point where any trivial excuse, so I have to put on my robe again. Do I have to swell my feet to get up and meet with me this morning, Lord? It's so much easier with the same day. And meanwhile he continues to laugh and recall, Oh my God, my sister, my loved one, my God, I want to meet for you. He stands at the door and he knocks. The things have crowded him out as we see in the thing. Notice also his response to this. Very important as we see this. Notice his response. He does not retell him. Notice, first of all, in verse 4 to 6, that there is no word from him in response to what he says. I mean after all, what could he say anyway? She didn't just simply get her more defensive when she's in that frame of life. But only his wisdom he knows when to be quiet. Edith Schaefer has made a point of this in her relationship with Francis Schaefer that so many times uh the pictures would have been so trivial because they were tired, there was this, there that, and she said she had to learn that there were times simply to be quiet. And know that you're not going to get anything settled now. And put it off to later to be able to discuss it. And so he doesn't engage you in discussion now. He doesn't plead, he doesn't pout, he doesn't punish, he doesn't do anything in response, in a verbal response to her. Except one thing. One thing he does. He leads a lovely. They said, where do you see that? Well, it's right there in verse uh verse five. You see, you notice that when he left She rose and she said that when she went to open the door, what happened? Her hand dripped with myrrh, and her fingers with flowing myrrh on the handles of the light In the customer best culture, where you love somebody and you wanted to leave them a lovely, you would take a bit of myrrh and you would put it on their doorhandle. So that when they would go to answer the door, their hand would take that and then they would sell that for team as a remembrance of you. And he doesn't just leave her just a little bit smeared on it because I mean he takes it and he pours her on so much that when she goes to open the door, her hand drips with her favorite cologne, as it were, that he's left her. What's he doing? He's simply communicating his love to her in a way that she can deceive. It's no good to argue with her. It's no good to berate her. That's not going to help her. He simply said to her in a way that she can receive, I want you to know my love has been chosen. I still not. Now there's a man who has this. We could remember something like that. You know, there's one thing that he has learned in this. As a picture of Christ that is invaluable for us in our relationship. He has loved that when the person that you love hurts you. And when you give to them love and there's no love in response, you have at that point a very unique opportunity. An opportunity that you don't have any other time when they're nice to you and when they're responsive and everything's going well. What is that? It's the opportunity to experience and communicate a godliness You see, the Greek word to communicate God's love to us. There is one word in the Greek language It communicates the love simply of a person who sets their heart on another regardless of the response. Arrows doesn't say that. So let's o doesn't say that. They all have to do with how the person responds in their loveliness, in their appeal to you. But the word agave speaks of someone setting their heart on another regardless of the response. And John tells us, this is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us, gave us a grape, and sent his son to be a pleasing sacrifice. And so if God so loved us, so also we can love one another. If he could set his heart on us, then we preserve nothing but his wrath and his goodness. But another person treats us in a way that doesn't seem like we deserve to. What an opportunity to say, Lord, that reminds me how little I ever deserve the least of your loving life. And now, Lord, here's an opportunity for me to extend love to this person. Even though in my own estimation, now they don't deserve that. But Lord, this is an opportunity for me to understand a little bit of how it felt for you to like me. And read out this world just in the smallest possible way, even no matter how deep suffer it is, what it meant for you to sacrifice your son, Jesus, because you refuse to give me up. So he takes that opportunity, leads to that love now, and she gets the marriage. Do you see what happens? The effects of all of this. She comes and we read that first of all her love is rekindled. In verse 5. Verse 4 at the beginning, when uh she sees his hand in. She says, My heart began to pound for him. A little bit of a throb begins to come back, you know. And then at the end of verse 6 When she sees that lovely that he's left, without derating her, without anything else, he says, My heart's thank you. And its departure. All of a sudden she realized what a precious gift she had. All of a sudden she began to realize something of its true work to her once again. But oh I wish that I could I wish that I could learn this better. So many times I've seen in a situation where Kathy and I have had difficulties where there's intention. And I'll respond and I'll sort of respond defensively and I go back, you know, and I sort of want to show her that I'm really right. And it doesn't accomplish much of anything, it just sort of prolongs the tension a little longer. But when I finally back down and I finally I finally don't simply try to retaliate, to pal, or to punish, but I can admit my wrong and I can extend love to her. She always responds. That always melts us. That always brings us back together again. You see, Agape will always overcome. Now I'm not saying that any person that you love in Jesus Christ is going to necessarily love you back. But they can't be passive to that kind of an overtruth. God will work through that. In a powerful way. You notice also that in this situation where the two of them really do love each other, that because of this alienation nothing goes right in her life. Now this whole thing may be a dream sequence. You see, it begins in verse two. I slept but my heart was awake. But it reads at this point, it's probably a repetition of the dream that she had in chapter three. Do you remember where she dreamt that he had gone away and she ha didn't have him and she ran after him? But now notice the difference. Now you see in verses six and seven and eight that now she's going running after him, but no longer is there any Any uh tranquility to that. It's not simply a her longing for him, but she pictures in her dream the watchman beat her up Yeah, but nothing's going right. And even they're not helping. She can't find them and she goes out and they take off her clothes and everything just is just going down to twos, you know, just tension. It's surely you'd experience that. When there's tension between you and that person is so precious to you and you're alienated to each other, nothing else goes by neither. Just the whole thing. The cargoing start right. Nothing works right. One of the things that I'm grateful for when I feel such deep pain is the fact that at least I see that that's a sign. The Catholic and I love each other so much that we still really hurt when there's the elevation. How tragic when I forced this couple, where there's no longer that pain, where there is no longer the ability to notice how the goes because of whether they're reconciled or alienated from their partner. But you see in this situation where two hearts are close and there's alienation, nothing else can go right again. Nothing can be right until the two of them are reconciled. That's why it's so important for us to take that time to work that out. You know, do benefits when I take the time to be with Kathy to work those things out. Because when I write with her, My whole ministry picks up. Everything about what I do has more of a lurk to it, has more of a spring to it. I'm able to minister more effectively because the two of us are together. This is what Peter was talking about when he said that men should listen to the other. Live with understanding with their lives, so that as joint heirs of the grace of life, their prayers would not be hindered. There's a spiritual dimension to whether the man and the wife are getting along together, and their ministry cannot be effective, even a separate. ministry as long as the two of them are not united. And so you benefit and there are times when I say I cannot do this. I cannot involve myself in that ministry. I can't meet with another person because I need time to cabin. That's necessary for me to minister effectively. And I know as our church gets larger, that becomes more of a problem. But I'm committed to that because I know you benefit and the Lord is pleased in the long run. And then you see finally, and she comes through this to a deeper realization of her mother. The borders of Jerusalem asking, well, what's so special about this guy that you're running all around like a maniac along the city looking for this guy? What's so special about it? And she takes that opportunity to go on and on and on. Oh, I'm glad you asked. Let me tell you about this dude. And she begins to describe characteristic after characteristic. Notice again the significance of numbers. in scriptures, he describes ten beauties of his. He described seven of her. A number that has to speak of salvation. She describes ten of his, a number which speaks of perfect completeness, if you can't add anything And so she describes him and she speaks of his head and his hair, of his eyes, of his cheeks, of his lips, of his arms, of his body, his legs, his appearance, his mouth, all those things we don't have time to explore now. But notice The beauty of how she describes him as a perfect sloth and his beauty and his stature, his glory. Gold is used again and again, pure as gold, to speak of his glory. He's all Together loving, perfect and complete in his loving. Just between husbands and wives, in order to be a great value. If you're finding that things that come between you and your wife or your husband. Because sitting down, and saying if somebody were to ask me now, what's so special about my husband? Why did I marry her? What's so special about your wife? Why are you grateful for her? Here's some reasons and lift at least ten like she has. Lift at least ten reasons why you are grateful for your husband or your wife, for that person that you're going to marry, or someone that you find um And deep relationship of the particular way we're speaking now between men and me. Put down at least ten columns for which you're grateful to that person. Gave you one relationship with us. And you begin to single again that heart of gratitude to God for who He's given peace. But you see also here A reflection of this again between the man and the woman and Christ in the church. Do you remember that when I began this series? I began by telling you a story of a woman who was so desperate that she came to me wanting to kill herself because her marriage had become so dry, had become so empty that she felt that her husband was. only loving her out of duty. Because he said that Jesus has commanded me to love you, and if I love him off Jesus' commandments, therefore I'm gonna love you. And she felt as if simply she was a project of him for him to love her. And you remember how I described that there was no delight in their relationship? But as we began to study the Song of Solomon together, particularly as he and I discussed that, and he began to look into the song of Solomon as the picture of what God would have his attitude to be toward his wife. And he began to see how God what it was to be life in her. Began to blow his mind by remembering his father. He couldn't believe that was in the Bible. He began to look at it. Well, that is quite a bit different from the view that I've had, yes. I But you know, another thing happened. And I haven't finished that story, and here comes the end. As he began to study that, he also began to realize. If this was a picture of how Jesus loved him, and that even more blow his mind. He was a person who was somewhat uptight, had a rather poor self-image, a sort of a compulsive person, and didn't have a great deal of joy expressed. through his life in a number of ways. And he said as he began to read that, God gave him a whole new freedom in his own worship of the Lord. Because he began to see the perfections of his beauty. He began to see how wonderful the Lord Jesus was in the way he had, in his own perfection, calmly, given us heaven. Given up the glories that were his, had come and taken on a body, had become a man, and had come to live and to die, to take his guilt To take the punishment which he deserved, to die for him personally, not just as one of a whore, but personally for him. Set his love upon him had called him to himself. And had ascended to heaven that he might bring him along with him thunder and set his love on him for all eternity. And if he began to see that, It was a whole new joy, that freedom in his worship. And in the way he treated everyone. Because he began to see again that intimate connection between Jesus and us and our love for one another. And if our marriage is periodic kind of renewal, so we as a church needs to And that this loses us, left us the church at large, the Columbia Prestop. We desperately need to see Jesus once again as true words How ungrateful we become, how short are our memory to remember how much the Lord is God for us. How perfect are his qualities of beauty. And once again, we need to meditate on the grace of Jesus Christ. We need to see Him as He's presented in Revelation 3 to the lukewarm church of Laodicea. Stand against the door and knockle. Say, I stand and I knock. Behold, The one who opens to me, I want to come in and I want to fellowship with you. I want to sit down with you and I want to share my life with you. Some of us have become too busy to know the city's market. Our lives have become so crammed that it's too much trouble to put on our robes and dirty our feet to respond to them morning by morning. To respond to him as a congregation who values Jesus and his true. To see him that very Magdalene saw him, as the one who loved her in all of her sins, so that she wanted to come to him and she wanted to pour out her perfume upon his feet. And she wanted to waste herself upon him, for she loved him so much. Need to see Jesus once again. Those true words. So that is the essence of revival. That people don't exist. But two of the others. Lord we come to We come to confess to you Lord that there have been times and maybe for many of us times right now when our hearts have grown cold. Though we haven't changed our beliefs, we're still orthodox. We still believe that you come and you died and you think heaven for us by your substitutionary sacrifice. But even the words have become dry upon our lips. There we have we have forgotten that you're still there at the door knocking. That you still bid us to give you entry into our lives and into our hearts. We might open ourselves to you and simply cry as you love you and love you. Lord, we love you, for you've loved us so much, and you are so glad, so beautiful. You're all together loveless. Your glory is as the purest gold. And your eyes are so soft with compassion. Your lips speak wisdom and compassion too. Lord, we have forgotten your value. We've devalued you in our hearts, and we've become unreal. Lord, give us revival. Give us that renewal in our hearts, Lord. That renewal which is the works in us as a church. And among the churches of this country must be winded up, personal, private us, and only belonging and not believed. But Lord, if there's anyone here this morning who's never come into that love relationship with you, we pray, Lord, that you would show them that great love that you have in your sacrifice. We can draw that person to see their need, their desperate need for you, a Savior, a Lord of their lives. Lord we come to you. I ask you to warm our hearts. To bring us this to glow before you until we have found our hearts warmed again in a passion and a delight in your value to us. And pray in Jesus' name. But it does speak about why we have no choice but to do that when we think of the greatness of his love for us. So we're going to sing two hymns here. One uh And can it be that I should gain an interest in the Savior's blood? Died He for me, who caused his pain. Amazing love, how can it be that thou my God was done for me? And then the second Him will sing, Now I belong to Jesus. As we sing these, may they not be dry words as thou prayed in his prayer, but a heartfelt response of our love for Christ and what he out of his love for us is Uh so on sort of. Tim eighty-eight, Anton D.