John chapter twenty, we'll be looking at verses nineteen through twenty-three. A couple summers ago, I was doing an internship in Miami, Florida. And we're part of uh the part of Miami that we were in was the What was called Little Havana, and if you know anything about that, it was ninety, ninety-five percent Cubans and many Nicaraguan people there. One of my tasks as an intern was to do evangelism. I was to go around the community and find out who the people were and meet them and perhaps have a chance to share the gospel with them. Well one Wednesday afternoon, I was walking along and I saw this car in a driveway. It had Maryland license tag on it. And I thought, nah, what's a Maryland car doing here in Miami? Well anyways, I went to the door. I said I might as well knock on this door. And so I knocked on the door of the house, and after a few moments somebody came to the front. They opened the door and I stood. I was shocked I didn't know quite what to say. I wasn't sure, you know, if I should speak to them in Spanish or in English. No, I'm not Billy Graham. I'm you know evangelism is one of the things that drives me and wakes me up in the morning. Maybe you can relate to that. But I I was shocked because the man was standing there, he had the door open, but he was in his underwear. You know, they never taught me about that in seminary. And after I got over that, I I I explained to him who I was and what I was doing. And and right there In front of his door, for the next forty-five minutes I had a chance to talk with him. And after he realized that I wasn't a part of a cult, he invited me in into his home. And I shared some more and I had the chance to share the gospel with him. But you know what? He didn't pray to receive Jesus Christ. But you know what he did do? He invited me back into his home the following week. I went there the following week and for several weeks thereafter, and I learned something about Joe and his wife Helen. I learned that they were hurting people, that they were lonely people. People who really had no friends because here they were in an environment and a community that had changed around them, they couldn't talk with a neighbor. They couldn't speak the same language. Hurting lonely people. Joe and Helen are typical of millions of people in America today who are exactly like that. Hopeless, frustrated, but perhaps with a facade of success and strength, but nonetheless hurting deep down inside. People who are unreached. As yet unreached for Jesus Christ, because they've never heard of Jesus. They've never heard the gospel in a way that they could understand. They've never received it. When we talk about unreached people, we can talk about people all over the world. But this morning, as I speak about this, I want us to consider the unreached people not in Japan, not in Africa. But I want us to consider, I want you to think about the unreached people that you work with, that co-worker. Your neighbor, your family member, about those people you meet in the grocery store, that car mechanic, the store clerk The people that you have relationships with already, or perhaps you can develop relationships with, the people that you rub elbows with regularly, these are the unreached people in your world, in my world. And these are the people that I want us to consider this morning. Now I've been thinking a lot about reaching the unreached because Alan, Steve, and I, we went to a conference this past week, and Matt was there as well. For part of it, entitled Reaching the Unreached. You know, and being that pastoral intern that I am in that exalted position as intern, when we voted about who was going to preach today. I voted, they voted, and you know, I found out something. The interns vote doesn't count. So here I am. But anyways, in light of that, in light of the people who are yet to be reached for Jesus Christ, I want us to consider this morning Jesus' words to us. Words that send us out to the unreached. Let's read John chapter 20, verses 19 through 23. On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. After he said this, he showed them his hands and sides. The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. Again, Jesus said, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. And with that he breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive anyone his sins, they are forgiven. If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven. Let's pray. Lord, how desperately we need you to teach us now. Open my mouth, O God. Open our ears that we might hear you by the leading of your Spirit. Speak to us and teach us. For we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Jesus says in verse 21, As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. He is sending you and me to the unreached, to those who do not know Jesus Christ. One of the dominant themes of the conference that we attended was that the world around us, the culture around us is changing, has been changing, will continue to change. But the amazing thing is this, is that although the world around us changes, the church's method of reaching the unreached has not changed. We've been operating as a in the church using the same methods that we've used 30, 40 years ago, but our culture has changed. And so the methods we use today oftentimes are ineffective. We know that in Colombia, nine out of ten people Do not attend any religious service at all. Whatsoever during the week. Nine out of ten 90%, at least 90%. So if we want to see people commit themselves to Jesus Christ, if we want to see them reached for Christ, then we can't wait for them to come here to our worship service, can we? For the most part, the non-believer's not going to come to church. It's rare, but it happens, praise the Lord. But it doesn't happen every day, every Sunday. So, we must go to them. It's been said that for the unchurch, for the non-believer, that the institutionalized Christian church has become irrelevant It doesn't say anything to them. A church that's irrelevant to them. So they don't come. So we must go. I wonder how many of us would feel comfortable attending a service in a Muslim mosque Not many of us, I assume. And perhaps there's something that's something of the same feeling that a non-believer might have coming to a worship service here. It's foreign to them. It's another culture. The bottom line is we must go to them. Jesus sends us out to them. And so the first thing that I want us to consider about this commission that Jesus gives us is the prerequisite for reaching the unreached. You see that in your first blank. The prerequisite is peace. Peace. Verses, we see that before Jesus gives a commission in verse 21, he tells the disciples two times in verse 19 and 21. He says to them, Peace be with you. What we need to have before we go out into this world of unpeaceful people, of people filled with insecurity and anguish, we need to know God's peace. We can't go unless we know that. I'm not speaking of peace in terms of cessation of war, but I'm talking about peace with God and peace of God. Peace with God. Note that after he says to them, Peace be with you the first time, in verse 20, he says to them that he showed his hands and his side to them. Jesus, the crucified one, comes before them. He had died, he had risen, and he shows them his wounds, perhaps as a means of identifying himself. He showed them the prince in his hands and his side, still fresh on their minds. But by showing his wounds, he is demonstrating that he has shed his own blood. He has died so that they, so that we might have peace, real peace. Not just A semblance of it, not just a facade of it, but real peace. He is in effect saying, look, people Look, I really did it. I really did just as I said I would. I really did die. I died for you. The penalty that belonged on your head fell on my head. The wrath of God that belonged to you, I felt. Your sins are forgiven. You have been reconciled to God by my death, by my wounds. Therefore you have peace with God. Romans 5. 1 tells us that we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And as this truth, we see this in verse 20, as this truth breaks upon the disciples, their hearts are flooded with joy. And they It says here they were overjoyed when they saw the Lord, the risen Lord. Here is Jesus. This is not a ghost. This is the risen Jesus But why was his peace necessary? The Romans 5 tells us because we were God's enemies. You know, it's not just that we were neutral about God when we were without Christ. It's not just as if there was a friendly separation between us and God. And that we could love him or leave him as we desired. It's not that at all. But we were opposing God all the way. We were his enemies. That's the way you, that's the way I was. Before Jesus Christ took a hold of us. And not only were we God's enemies, but because of who we were, being people polluted by sin in the face of this holy God, God was our enemy. Paul makes that so clear. And while we were yet still his enemies, we were reconciled to him. Enemies of God, but no longer. Because Jesus came and he brought us together. By his death and resurrection, we have peace with God. Amen. Years ago in Dallas, there was a married couple who were struggling in their marriage. got to the point where they were really estranged from one another and they eventually separated. They both left Dallas and they went to live in different parts of the country. Well, one day the husband comes back to Dallas and for business reasons, and while he's there, he goes to the cemetery to visit his only son, son that had died while they were lived in Dallas. And he's at the seminary. Cemetery. Maybe that's a slip. That's very intentional, who knows? But he's there at the cemetery Reminiscing, remembering, he hears some footsteps behind him. He turns around, and it is his strange wife. His first inclination, her first inclination was to pull away, to turn away. But they didn't do that. They had a common binding interest in that grave. And the next thing you know is that they're holding hands over the grave of their son. And they were reconciled to one another. It took nothing less than the death of their son to reconcile them to each other in their marriage, and it takes nothing less than the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ to reconcile us with God. Nothing less. Do you have that peace with God this morning? Do you know Jesus Christ? If you do not have peace with God, then I beg you, I plead with you, come to Jesus and know his peace Know the peace that he offers. Know the love of God. Don't wrestle anymore. Don't be his enemy, but come and know his peace. Peace with God. We need that. But we also need peace of God. In verse 19, it says that the disciples were locked in a room because they feared the Jews. You know, given the way that they treated Jesus, they crucified him, what might they do to Jesus' followers? So here they are huddled in a room, scared, afraid, confused. This is Sunday evening, Easter Sunday evening, and several days beforehand, you know, they had just walked with Jesus, but then they'd seen a whole series of events that confused them. And sent them off in a frenzy. Yeah, they remembered the Last Supper. But they also remember when he was arrested, and he was crucified. And they remember some of his followers how they had denied him, how some of them had betrayed him. And then Sunday morning rolled around, but the stone was rolled away from the tomb. And the Lord was no longer there. All these events going on in their mind, what's gonna happen to them? Where's the Lord? He's not in the tomb any longer. They're confused, they're anxious, they're uncertain, perhaps a bit excited. And in the midst of this, Jesus comes to them and he says, peace. Be with you. Perhaps they might have expected, but given the way that they behaved That Jesus' first words would have been a rebuke. Hey guys, I thought you were my loyal followers. What happened to you? But he didn't say that, did he? He said, peace be with you. As followers of Jesus Christ, we are at best, you and I, are at best inconsistently faithful to the Lord. That's reality. We're anxious, we're fearful, we're insecure, we're disobedient, even with the Great Commission and a host of other things. And we would expect the Lord Jesus to come now and say, hey, shape up. But no, he doesn't. He doesn't do that now. He doesn't do that. He doesn't come to lay guilt on you. He doesn't come to rebuke you. He comes here today to tell you that his peace is with you. Peace. Paul says in Philippians that the peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts and mind in Christ Jesus. You see, if we're frazzled, if we're fearful, if we don't know how the Lord's going to handle us or deal with us, how can we go out into a people who are really in a frenzy, who are really insecure, a people who have deep needs? Unless we ourselves know the peace of God. Oh, this peace is a gift. It's the gift of our Christ, the gift of our Lord Jesus. He gives it to us. And some of you know that peace oh so well, don't you? You can tell me stories upon stories of feeling and sensing God's peace. Some of you through difficulties in your marriage and relationships and finances and a host of other hardships. But you know God's peace and that's precious. That makes you a testimony, a shining light to this world. The peace of God in your lives. It's when we have this peace that we can be ready, that we are ready to be sent out. We don't go because of our great ability. I didn't go to Joe and Helen's house because I had great ability in evangelism. No, it was my job. It was more than a job. I don't go because I feel good. I don't go For a host of reasons, I go not because of any gift I have, you go not because of any gift you might have. You go and I go because of the gift of peace that has been given to us in Christ Jesus. It's his gift. His peace. That's the only prerequisite. Training is good, but that's not required. Now the question arises, now that we have his peace. How are we to go? What are we to do? And this brings us to the second point in our outline. We see Jesus. Jesus is our pattern for reaching the unreached. In verse 21, we see not so much a command to go. That's not what's emphasized here. Rather, we see a pattern. And has as to how we're to go. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. Other translations Read something like, as the Father has sent me, even so or so I send you. It's an as-so relationship that's important here Our reaching other people is based on how Christ was sent to reach other people. Now there are various ways of looking at this, but this morning I just want us to look at two ways. The first one comes from John 17, 18. In John 17, Jesus is praying for the disciples, and he says to the Father, As you sent me into the world. I have sent them into the world. As you sent me into the world, so I send them into the world. Now what does it mean to be sent into the world? Well, this is what I call the principle of identification, or some might people some people might call it incarnation, and I think the two thoughts are interrelated. We think of John 1. 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. The Son of God took on a body. He identified with us by becoming human, identifying with you and with me. This is identification, becoming one with those we want to reach out to, becoming one with them. Consider what Jesus did. He didn't stay in heaven and shout words of salvation to us, did he? He didn't say, hey Israel, Jerusalem, believe on me, hey Columbia, hey Mike, Mark, believe on me. He didn't shout those words from heaven No, but he came to you and to me. He came face to face with people. He looked them in the eye. He identified with them. This Jesus had a body, he had a will, he had emotions. He made himself vulnerable to people so that he would feel temptation. He would feel pain. He would feel sorrow. If he had come in any other way, we might not have identified with him. We might not have understood him, and for sure, we might not have felt that he would have understood us Some years ago I was working as a social worker in Baltimore City. I was working in what was called the Parent-Child Stress Center. Some of you it's no longer in existence, so if some of you would like to go, forget it. But I one of the things that I had to do there in the center, for some reason, since I was the only other employee besides my boss, Uh I had to do parenting workshops. Four week parenting workshops. And one of the first things that parents would ask me as they came would come into the workshop is, Tito, how old are your kids? You have to understand this was in 1983, 84. I wasn't even married yet. You know, and I would say to them, uh, they're very young. Real young. But when they found out that I didn't have children, I lost my credibility They felt that I couldn't identify with their struggles, with their pains. And to some extent that was true. I didn't know that. I was living in another world. But Jesus, from the cradle to the cross, he identified with us all the way. In the same manner, we are to identify, we are to become one with the unreached. Now you might hear that and say, how do we do that? What do you mean by that? I think the way the best way of applying this principle is by the building of what some of you are already doing, and that is building caring friendships, building relationships with non-Christians. John Scott says that the greatest weakness in the evangelical church with regard to evangelism is that we don't identify with people. We just don't do it. We don't build relationships. We don't build friendships. And you know why? Because it costs a lot It demands a lot from us. A lot of time. A lot of energy. And who of us here can say that we have time to spare? We're so busy already. We're trying to remove things from our schedules. We don't have the energy any longer. It's costly, but it must be done It was said in the conference and I've heard elsewhere that people today are not looking for friendly churches. They're looking for friends. They're not looking for friendly churches, they're looking for friends. You know, we don't need training for this, do we? We don't need two weeks, sixteen weeks, a thousand weeks of training. We just need to be a friend. We all have friends, and we've been befriended. But yet, even as we think about this, as we begin to build relationships and build friendships with a non-believer It's a lot of hard work. It's hard work. I believe it's hard work because we have to cross a cultural chasm. We need to do what missionaries have been doing for years. We need to go and do several things. One is we need to learn their language. We need to understand their language. We need to speak in their language. Don't use Christian jargon. You know somebody came up to me and said, hey Tito. Excuse me, have you been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb? I would have looked at them and said, What? No, thank you, I'm not hungry. I wouldn't have understood. So we need to watch what we say as we relate to people. Speak with language or with words that they understand that they can relate to. We need to understand the worldview. We need to seek to understand their values, their priorities. What makes them tick? What makes them hurt? We're called to be vulnerable, to be transparent, to earn their trust. We're called to love them with the very love of God by which we have been loved with. It's a love, and that love gets past those quills of our porcupine friends sometimes. And that's the kind of love that we need because past those quills is a soft belly. Are needy people with hurts and pains. So we need to see past those things. And something that I'm struggling to do and I'm learning is that I need to learn to listen to people. To listen before I speak. David Augsburg said that being listened to is so close to being loved that oftentimes it's indistinguishable. Listening and loving the other person. You see it? This is what Jesus did for us. He identified with us. But there's another element in this pattern, and that is the purpose. Why? Why are we sent into the world? Why are we sent to the unreached? And essentially it's for the salvation of those who are without Christ. First Timothy 115 says, here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance. Christ Jesus came into the world to save. Sinners. No, we don't save sinners. The Lord does, but He does that through us. Our ultimate purpose then is to see these people Those who have not yet believed on Jesus Christ to believe on him, to turn from their independence, and to depend on Jesus. Not only do we identify with people and develop relationships with them, but we are called to pray for them. We are called to persuade them, to urge them to believe on Jesus Christ. There's that element that's missing. It was missing in my lifestyle evangelism years ago. I was so comfortable being a friend that I never got to the point of persuading people and urging them and showing them the significance of believing on Jesus. I must do all that I can do to bring this person one step closer to Christ. You know, some have defined evangelism as taking the initiative to help a person move one step closer in the process. I think that's a good perspective in some ways. We need that mindset that reaching the unreached, that reaching your neighbor who doesn't know Jesus Christ is not an event, it's a process. And sometimes a very long process. And so the ultimate goal is to see them come to Christ so that our God will be glorified. Our God who is worthy of all that glory. Being real friends, persuading people This is what God, our God, calls us to do, but we can't do this in our own strength, can we? The only way that we can be rightly sent into the world as Jesus' son was sent into the world and see men and women come to Christ is That we depend not on our own strength, not on our own power, but that we depend on his power and his strength, that we depend on the Holy Spirit. That brings us to point three. The Holy Spirit is the power that equips and sustains us. The Holy Spirit is the power that recreates us and makes us new creatures. In verse 22, after Jesus gives the pattern for being sent, we read, and with that he breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. We are not to go out on our own strength, neither were the disciples. But we must go in his power, realizing that if his power working through you and through me, through our words, through our actions, through our friendship. It's his presence that is crucial. Because it's his power that works in us, that makes us new, that makes us and causes us to see the unbeliever as not a project. But as a real person with needs, with real hurts and pains, just like you and me Notice that Jesus breathed on them. This breathing is symbolic, symbolic action representing that light that the Holy Spirit gives. It's this breathing that signifies a spiritual life and power that comes from our Lord Jesus Christ. It's not ours. He had to give it to us. It's interesting that the words breath or breathing, wind, and spirit are in their definition throughout Scripture all have interrelated meanings and significance. So that we see in Genesis 2, 7, that the Lord God breathed into man, into his nostrils, and that man became a living being because of the breath of God. It's that very same breath, the same spirit that makes us new creatures, that recreates us, that enables us and equips us to reach the unreached. It's a power that enables us to overcome our fears, our anxieties, the million and one excuses that we have for one another and to God for not reaching the unreached. You see, the mission that the Lord calls us to is not our own mission. It didn't originate with us. It's not our task. It's the Lord's task. It's the Lord's mission. It's not as if he handed us in this a baton in this relay race of reaching the unreached No, he didn't hand us that baton and then say, okay folks, you guys take it now. Finish the race. I'm gonna go sit in the bleachers here for a while. He didn't do that at all. It's his mission. While he was on earth, it was his mission. And even now it's still his task. It's still his mission. He is in bodily form, is in heaven, but by his spirit is with us. His Spirit's mission working in us and through us. And so he hands you and me the church the baton. And we run, we go, we run Try to reach the unreached, but all along Jesus is right alongside of us, running with us. He's not in the bleachers. He's running alongside of us, telling us to go, go Jesus is present with us. That's why we go. If he didn't say that to me, I wouldn't go. If he didn't give me his power or his presence, I wouldn't go to the unreached. But I know that he has. He's given it to you and to me. It's not by might, it's not by strength, but it's by his spirit. But what do we tell them? We go to them and we we knock on the door. We see them in the grocery store. But what do we tell them? What do we speak to them? We must say something. We just can't be present there silently. That brings us to the fourth thing. The message for the unreached. And you probably think, well, there's gonna be a P there, don't you? No, there's not. Just to throw you off. But you know what it is? It's forgiveness. Forgiveness, the message for the unreached. You see in verse 23, if you forgive anyone his sins, they are forgiven. If you do not forgive them, They are not forgiven. I don't have time to go and unravel this for us. But this verse has certainly perplexed me in the past. So if you have questions, more after oh uh after I finish what I'm saying, talk to me after the service. But let me say what it's not saying. Say two things. What it's not saying, what I believe it is saying It doesn't mean that there's a special class of people in the church who have this power to forgive sins or not forgive sins. No one has that power except for God. Okay, but if we allow Scripture to interpret Scripture and look at Luke 24, verse 47, we see that Jesus is telling The followers, Jesus is telling us that we are to proclaim, we are to declare the terms on which God forgives sins. We the church had to declare that term, that sinners are forgiven only through Jesus Christ, only through the cross. Yet on the flip side of this, of this proclamation, is another declaration that we must make. We must declare or proclaim a warning. to those who reject the gospel when it's shared, who reject Jesus. So if a person repents and believes, we The church declares that their sins will be forgiven because of the work of Jesus Christ. But if they refuse to repent and remain hardened in their hearts, We say your sins are not forgiven because the only way that your sins can be forgiven is through Jesus Christ. Perhaps difficult or harsh words Reaching the unreached. Joe and Helen, whom I told you about at the beginning I had the privilege of praying with Joe in particular and seeing him come and profess faith in Christ. And not because of that first step, that first visit, but because of many, many visits. Reaching the unreached. It's not a matter of crossing the seas. I'm not asking you to go overseas today. Maybe some other time. Not a matter of crossing the seas, but it's a matter of seeing the cross. We need to see the cross. A matter of crossing barriers because of the work of the cross in your life and in my life. You see On your outline there, there's this diagram. Essentially what that is, it's the work of Christ, the cross that propels me. That's what drives me to the unreached, but at the same time, the needs of the people pull me to them. And you also see there some application steps. We would want to say that after the service I will be up here. If you have questions or need clarification about that, I want To help you, to begin to build friendships. And I know that you can help me in that process. And so that's what this application is all about. One final thought. Have you ever considered where you would be? If nobody had ever reached out to you?