And uh as I was thinking about what I would be speaking on here at this time Um when before I took off for a vacation in French Creek, uh it occurred to me that it was just fifteen years ago, this month On September the 24th, 1978, that I preached the message that first proposed Ephesians chapter 1, verses 17 to 23, as the statement of purpose for our church. Now God had sealed those purposes to my heart four months earlier, on May the 24th, May the 22nd, 1978, in a time that I had set as A half a day of prayer to go out and to seek God for what his purpose was for this work that was going to become Columbia Presbyterian Church in this new city of Columbia at that point of the eleven years old. And I remember I went out that day with this one question to focus. God, what is your purpose for this group that you're raising up in Columbia? I was very concerned about that question because I knew that as the organizing pastor it was going to be very important that we would have a statement of purpose, a mission statement, because that tends to guide and Very much shape your philosophy of ministry. And so it was very important to me that we had something that we could really believe in that was this was God God's purpose for us, his unique purpose for us as a body. And I remember I went out and um was asking that question, thinking about all the different kinds of philosophy of ministry that there was There are and there certainly is a tremendous competition in today's church world and if you travel around and been to various churches Churches, you know that it varies a great deal today what the philosophy of ministry for a church should be. Everything from uh those on the one end or extreme who see every fad for being able to add people into your body by whether secret services or anything else that the church growth people promote all the way to the other end of the spectrum. From traditionalists who say that the Holy Spirit hasn't revealed anything new about how to do church and a culture since the 17th century. And all between those two, there are Are many people who advocate what the church really ought to be about? Is this and it ought to be about that. And so it's very important for me to be thinking, Lord, what do you want us to set as our foundation for this? And so I um as I think about that, I I believe that we're again at another landmark September as a church, fifteen years later. Because we anticipate occupying our new facility this fall. And if we do that, then that's going to affect very much our identity as a body, our opportunities as a body And our temptations as a body of the Lord Jesus Christ. So I think it's important that we come back now after 15 years that we might be able to reaffirm what it is that God has called us to do and to be. I remember that day as I walked through those spring woods, I was going back and forth on uh the rocks that were once the bed of a river, a mighty River near the crest of what had been a falls that had rivaled Niagara Falls in the centuries after the receding of the Ice Age. As I walked back and forth through those spring woods, upstate New York, May. Twenty-fourth is just or twenty-second is just the beginning of spring up there. So I remember as I'm walking back and forth uh in those woods, I was asking God, God, what is it that you want for us? to establish. What can be our foundation? And you know, and you ask those kind of questions and didn't hear anything from heaven, you know, so uh figure well Well, I guess I'll have to think about it later. And I started walking on. And as I've mentioned this story to many of you in the past through newcomers' classes and other times. I've mentioned to you how I I stopped and I said, Lord, no, I don't want to go on until I have some sense of what that And so I walked back again to where I had been before, and I remember I was so engrossed in that that uh there there was a snake out there sunning himself and one of the those early spring days and warm days in upstate New York. I almost stepped on him because I just was thinking about this question. And you know, and I'd like to say that I'm always that preoccupied in prayer that I don't know Notice anything that's going on around me, but I can't really say that's the case, you know. I'm not usually that engrossed. But God had really laid on me the importance of importance of this and as I went back and forth asking God before I move on what is it? I remember that at that time, uh Ephesians chapter one came forcefully to my attention and I hadn't been reading it recently. I don't know why it came in terms of any natural explanation. But I turned to it and and all of a sudden my heart was gripped with a conviction that this Clearly, as God had given this to Paul as the prayer for the Ephesian church, this was a statement of purpose that could be the foundation of who we are and what God had called us to be And my mind seized on that. I presented it to those who were part of the body at that time. I preached it about last September, 15 years ago. And we quickly adopted, embraced that, and through the years that has been the statement that has helped us to see what is it? That distinguishes us as a body, what is it that we are called to do? What shapes our philosophy of ministry? What is it that becomes our criteria for whether we are succeeding or not? When we look about how we accomplished what God's called us to do, there's a lot of criteria you can use for that, but these are the basic three that we have used as we have sought to evaluate. And so I want for us to look in our own lives. Because each one of us needs a sense of purpose, don't we? I was looking at this brochure just this weekend. I tucked away from the summer from navigators. They had a conference this year called Men Called for a Purpose. Don't we all long for that? I mean, don't you in your life have that long, what is God's purpose for me? Because if you can identify that, that really frees you up You're able to say, this is why I exist. This is my passion. That rules out these things that don't really contribute to that. That helps me to focus on these things as my priorities. That gives me the sense that if I enter into this and that's God's purpose for me, then I can claim his success because he wants to accomplish his will. So it's very important for us individually to be asking this morning, what is our purpose? And as a part of this body, what is our corporate purpose to be Together. And I would like to suggest that Ephesians chapter 1, verses 17 to 23 are an excellent statement for us to adopt. And to reaffirm in our own minds and together as a body this morning. Three purposes, and you're familiar with them. They're on each of our bulletin covers. They're all over the place. I don't know if they're yeah, they're right up here this morning on the the banner that you see. No mystery what they are. The first one you see in your bulletin outline there then is to know what? To know to know him. Now, you know, we talk about that a lot. Verse 17. Paul says, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. The question is: who's him? You know, fifteen years we've talked about who's him? You say, well, obviously it's it's Jesus. He wants us to know Jesus better. Well Yes, I think it refers to Jesus, but I think that the hymn there is more inclusive, that it really refers to the triune God. You notice that verse 17 refers to the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. The God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation. Revelation. He's the God of the Lord Jesus to know him. Then verse 18 talks about him who called you and has called you, uh the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance. Well it's the Father who has called us. He goes on then in verse nineteen to talk about the him who raised Jesus from the dead. Clearly Again, that's not Jesus, that's the Father. And so I believe that what we have here is that God's purpose is that we know Him, the three persons. of the Trinity, of the Godhead, to know them all better. That we know them with full experiential knowledge. And you remember that we've talked about Many times about the fact that that word there to know, I pray, keep asking the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him. And the no is not the word no, which means a cognitive knowledge, but it is the word that has a prefix on it which means full experiential knowledge. The kind of knowledge that you have of someone that you live with. You know them on a day-to-day basis, not simply a nodding acquaintance. Now, how is it that we seek to accomplish this purpose? Well, as a body, our primary way that we have tried To do this is through the preaching and the teaching, declaring Jesus, declaring the Father, declaring the Spirit. That we know their ways. And in particular, in recent years, one of the primary ways we've sought to do this to do this is through the Names of God series. And if you're among those that remember the Names of God series, let me remind you again, we never did finish that series. We will be going back to that series someday. And uh from time to time we will get that uh knocking off a few other names until we finally finish that series. So you know we've just kind of set it aside for a little while, figured after about fifty mess And so we'll get back to that sometime. But the part you see, the main thrust of that, the purpose of that, is that we know who God is, that we understand him. Because we all have very imbalanced Very ill-conceived notions of who God is. I just was talking to a fellow last week about the Lord, and he said, Oh yes, I know the Lord. In fact, uh interesting, this guy, I guess, was claiming to know the Lord better than me because he said, I've seen the Lord. I I've actually seen him face to face. And he said, I know him. And I was asking some things that he believed about him. And he said, Well You know, he says, I believe that if we just do our part and try to live right, God's going to take care of it all in the end. Well, that was his notion of what God was like, who he was. But as we read the Bible, we see that God clears up the fuzzy thinking that we have, you know, and I tried to help this fellow to see that it's a little more uh precise about who God is than just kind of, you know It's all going to work out in the end if you try your best, because he is a person and he judges sin. And so we've seen that he is Elohim, the strong, faithful creator, that he's El Shadow. The God who brings life out of death in impossible situations, that he is Adonai, the master of all and Lord of the universe. That he's Yahweh, the covenant God, who sovereignly redeems his people into a relationship to give them an inheritance. And those poor ideas and that name which you see in your Bibles, capital L, small Capital O R D Lord, it's a through your Old Testament hundreds and hundreds of times, has a very distinct reference. It means the God who is the covenant God who sovereignly has redeemed us, brought us out of bondage to into a relationship with His self to give us an inheritance. And that in Exodus 6 and other passages. Passages is quite clear. So this God is a particular God who reveals himself, and he wants us to know him as he has revealed himself to us. To us. But as we know, he doesn't simply do that by our knowing the names or by reading the Bible. It's an experiential knowledge God revealed himself in each of his names by doing something for his people. And so we've seen that the Exodus, and as the people experienced the Exodus, They understood his name. And as you trust in and walk with Jesus, that you understand what Jesus means as Savior and Lord, and who the Father is, and who the Spirit is in your life. It's as you walk with him day by day. It's as you struggle with unanswered prayers and disappointments in your life. It's as you hang on to the fact that he is faithful and you go back to his word. And you say, my life doesn't make sense and it seemed to be flying apart, but I trust you and I come back to your word. God makes sense out of my life. But then you gain those deeper insights, a fuller, richer knowledge, that you may know him better. It's in those circumstances God gives you the spirit of wisdom and revelation as you trust Him beyond the things that feel good, beyond the things that come easy. And God, through those months and those years of faithfulness, walking with him, seeking his faith, reading his word daily, and as regularly as you're able to do that, that God then experientially gives You know that this past year I would say that uh there have been a number of things in my mom's sickness, her cancer, her death, and taking care of Her estate and all the complexities that there have been involved in that, that I realized just a couple of weeks ago that through all of God's tenderness and his Goodness to me, in his timing, and the way that he's taken care of this, I have grown to a much fuller and richer, settled confidence that he cares for me And it's it's something that has gone beyond something I could just explain to you, something that I could just uh articulate by giving Giving you a verse or two. It has been, as I've seen and there have been just recently a number of uh circumstances where things just kind of threw up in the air again and I didn't know what was happening and it looked like we had One disaster after another, that there had been such a sense of the history that God has taken care of everything in this, we can't worry. He will take care of each of these things. And take care of it in a tender way. And I've seen God's tenderness in a way that's been deeply moving to me. An experiential knowledge of his father Fatherly care. And so as you go through difficult times and as you seek his space, he reveals himself to you so that you build that reservoir of trust. Trust. And so as you know him, and the CPC's purpose is to help you to know God better. It's so that you will trust him better. That's the blank that you see down there. You will know him, the living God, so that you will trust him. You will trust him more fully and see and know that he is faithful, and that you trust him more, that you will then love him more. You'll love him because you see that he cares for you and that his love is overwhelming to you. And that as you trust him more and as you love him more, so then you will worship him more. Your worship of Him will be a worship where you prostrate yourself before Him and say, God, you are wonderful, you're glorious. How could I not trust you? How could I not give you all of my life to serve? You and to obey you in every area. And this is the purpose that we have as a church. And as I thought of this and uh want to to move on, I I nevertheless need to ask that as we um before we leave that point, I I wonder if there's somebody here discussing morning, who in all of this and all of your participation in Columbia Presbyterium would have to honestly say, I don't know him I don't know this God that you're speaking about in a way that really is personal in my own life. If that's true, then you're still bearing your guilt. You haven't been forgiven. God is still your judge. You have no power over sin in your life. He speaks here in verse 18 of the hope that we have. You're hopeless. He speaks in verse 19 of the power that we have. But you're helpless without that personal relationship with God. With Jesus. And so before we go on to anything else as a church, I want to declare to you absolutely clearly that if you are not in Jesus Christ this morning by the same By faith, loving, trusting Him, knowing Him, walking with Him in that personal way where you know your sins are forgiven because you have cast them all upon Jesus to take in His death on the cross for you. That if you are not in that situation, all the Columbia Presbyterian has meant to you, has done for you, is less than worthless. Because all of that simply heaps on you more condemnation for the knowledge that you have of Jesus Christ and the fact that you have shut him out of your life. And so I want to plead with you. If you're in that situation this morning, stop. Pause at this moment. Don't go on another hour before you face the fact of your relationship. with Jesus Christ. That you know that He is ready, stands here before you, ready to take that sin. And ready to take all of your burdens, as we just sang in that last song, to take all of that as you give that to him. That he would then bear that and would bring you into a relationship where you Would know him personally for the first time in your life. Let's pause for just a moment. Every one of us to search our hearts in this matter. It's so important. Lord, as we look at what we see in the bulletin here, are we sure that we know you? We pray, Lord. Every one of us would be honest as we think. Can I check yes? And do I honestly have to say I don't know or no? Spirit of God, we pray that you will work in each of our hearts right now. If there's anyone here this morning who does not know or is not sure, Of that personal relationship with Jesus Christ, sin forgiven, new life, new hope, transformed values and direction, purpose. That you right now, Lord, would speak to that person to break down the resistance. That you would move in each of our hearts. And for each of us, Lord, we would be sure that we do know you. And we thirst to know you more fully expressed. Experientially this year. Hear the cry of our hearts, Lord, then Do your work in power, which honors you in Jesus' name. Amen. The second thing that God calls us to do, his purpose for us, is that we would know Our hope. We'd know our hope, as he says in verse 18, I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he He wants you to see that hope with the eyes of your heart. You can't see it physically. You see it with the eyes of faith. What is that hope? That hope is a new identity and new possessions. Those are the two points. New identity and new possessions. New identity of who you are in Jesus Christ this morning. If you're a forgiven sinner and an adopted son. But you will never forget. The verse 18 says, You have an inheritance, a glorious inheritance, the riches of his glorious inheritance, because you are his child. And that's what qualifies you for that inheritance, and Jesus has qualified you to be able to gain that. And that inheritance then involves not only a new you, new identity, transformed identity, but it's also a new possession. And chapter 1 to 3 of Ephesians speaks to you that new identity and the new possessions that you have. Dick read to you from 1 Peter chapter 1. See again what God says is the nature of that inheritance. In his mercy, Peter says in chapter one, verse three, in his great mercy, he's given us a new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, that's reserved in heaven for you. In chapter 5, in verse 10, he describes it saying that the God of all grace has called you into his eternal glory in Christ after you've suffered a little while here, and he himself is going to restore you. Make you strong. God is giving to you and to me an inheritance, and it's an inheritance we see with the eyes of faith, so that some of us would be tempted to say, if I could stack up that inheritance. And you put a BMW 740 IL on this side, I think I'd take the BMW. Because with the eyes of faith we don't see. We say what I'd like is the things that would give me pleasure here and now. Paul says, if you could only see how infinitely more glorious is the inheritance that God has laid up on us In that transformed world with transformed values and all the delights and pleasures that He has for you. Then you wouldn't even consider anything of the most that you could stack up of this world now for the treasures of Christ. It's hard for us. You know, we need to enter in to scripture, to be able to make the reality of that something that we see with the eyes of our faith. So how is it that we seek to do that? Well we seek to do it again by making it evident to us in the preaching and the rest of it that Frankly, I'm still concerned that in Columbia Presbyterian, I believe that many of us are still tending to serve the Lord more out of duty than out of delight. Now duty is always a part of the Christian life. But there ought to be more increasingly the sense of delight in the things of Christianity God rather than simply the sense of duty. But I believe that as Christians, many of us have this idea of the basic conflict in life is my delights versus God's delights. Do I do what I want or do I do what he wants? And the two never sort of commingle. So I'm always deciding: do I put my delights aside in order to do what God wants? You know, because if I wanted it must be wrong, right? And if you assume that. And yet I believe that we need to see here that verse 18 presents to us a gloriously happy God. Who's intending out of the overflow of his joy to share that pleasure with us? He wants to give to us the riches of his glorious inheritance. And that glorious inheritance is so wonderful that you and I cannot even perceive it fully at this point. If you were to see the glory of Jesus Christ as it really is Is, you would die instantly. Not because you'd be judged, but simply because you and I do not have the capacity any more than we could get near to the sun. And endure the radiant energy of it, so you could not endure the glory of Jesus Christ at this time. But God is going to transform And he is going to make you and I capable one day of being able to have the capacity to see the glory of Christ and to enter into that glory and the pleasure of what it means to live with a God of infinite joy and pleasure and happiness. And so what I'm going to do is this year, I'm planning in the winter for us to begin to look at that whole area. Again. To look at what it means to desire God, to blend our desires with Him, and to see that He wants to give to us the desires of our heart To look at uh what John Piper has called Christian hedonism. That's the label that he uses, kind of gets your attention. But for us to look at some of those thoughts from Scripture, to be able to see what it means. For us to enter into the delights of God. And I believe that's really going to be important because as we have that new facility, I intend for that to be the first series after the holidays, so that those who God has begun to bring and go through the holidays. With us, we'll get that foundation of the delights, the pleasures of the Christian life. The sanctified, transformed pleasures that God intends for each of us, that we serve Jesus Jesus more out of delight than out of duty. So this morning, be honest with yourself. When you say that you serve Jesus, is it more out of duty or out of delight? And if you find that you have to say, you know, frankly, I think it's more out of duty, then I would ask that you confess to God that that's the case. And ask Him to reveal something of verse 18 to you. Say, Lord, I this isn't right. You intend for me to delight in your way. And I pray that you will begin to help me to see those in a new light. Hang on, Nano. Maybe the winter will help you out some, and I pray and hope that it will. As we seek to accomplish this purpose over the eyes of our heart. Knowing the riches of our hope, the riches of his glorious inheritance, in and for. That word in verse 18 to be translated either way, in the saints and for the saints. Finally, the last thing is for us to know his power. And you're familiar with that third part of our purpose, of course. To know his power, and here's where Paul really starts getting carried away in verses 19. He just goes right on to verse 23 in this, and he prays that the eyes of your heart will be Enlightened that you will know his incomparably great power for those of us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. And seated at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. What is that power that he intends for you and for me to know? It's the resurrection-ascension power, verse 19. Power that He exerted in the raising of Christ from the dead, verse 20, and seating him at his right hand. That's the power. Power which has given to Jesus authority over every earthly and unearthly power in the universe. That you and I and our weakness have been given to share in that power. Do you see what he says? It is for us who believe That power isn't just for him, for us to watch it, to observe it, to long for it. That power is for us individually, as families, as a body. For us who believe, God is giving to us now an internship with His sovereignty. We are going to rule angels We are going to know that power, not simply by faith when we go to be with the Lord, but right now we're having an internship with His sovereignty, that we might learn by prayer and by acts of faith In the ministry center and in all parts of our life together as a body, we would learn to enforce The victory that Jesus gained at the infinite cost of his blood on the cross and in his resurrection. Amen? We need to learn that. See, that's what an intern God has called you and me to begin to learn what it means to appropriate that power in a world that is becoming increasingly hostile to the claims of Jesus Christ. Just recently I heard about a professor at San Francisco State University who had been since 1977 teaching a course In biology. He was dismissed the grounds because he believed that God had a part in creation and was audacious enough to teach that. He was dismissed on that ground. It's a world that's increasingly hostile not only to the gospel, but just simply a more dangerous place to live. You remember the prayer request that Ron Hein Sent around a few weeks ago concerning what happened in his office when one coworker got angry at another co-worker, pulled out a gun and shot her, and then blew his own brains out. Somebody simply doing their work in the office, not on a dark street. Just yesterday, or just uh Friday, uh talking over in the construction site. The foreman was telling me about two uh guys that he knew in his neighborhood. One was twenty and the other was twenty-two, and they were just uh hanging around together. They were friends. They'd been cows for years. One of them had a pen. The other guy asked to uh for him to borrow it. So he lent it to him and then the second guy said, uh I'd like to buy this. Will you sell it to me? And he said, No it's not for sale. And he'd really like to buy it, but he said no it's not for sale. So he Pull out a gun, shot his friend six times dead. Right on the spot. Known the kid for years. And you and I live in a world that is crumbling, and Jesus Christ says it's in this world. World that I want you to know, the fullness of my power. The body of Jesus Christ is the only hope for this world. Believe that? And so when you and I move into this society, It is to show the fullness of the power of Jesus Christ in brokenness, in disintegration of families and homes, violence, drugs, and substance abuse. Of interpersonal violence and abuse. And you and I are called in that exciting task, perhaps on the brink of renewal and revival in a world that is coming to absolute spiritual and moral bankruptcy. To show that there is a living God. Jesus has risen. He's ascended. And so he is giving to us the opportunity of a base of ministry and to begin for us to be saints equipped for that ministry. To show that power. And how is he doing it? He's doing it as you and I, as you see there, abide in the head who is Jesus, as we've looked at this summer, Ephesians chapter 4. Verse 15. And as we abide with one another in being equipped for ministry, and as we practice ministry, he's giving to us the opportunity to know and to express and to demonstrate that power. As we mobilize together, none of us doing anything impossible, none of us doing something that's beyond us. Simply each part of the body joining. Together, that we might demonstrate that Jesus Christ is alive and He desires to rebuild and to transform lives. So this fall, beginning two weeks from today, We're going to begin a series on the book of Nehemiah. Just going to go through this fall. Nehemiah is a case study for ministry for Columbia Presbyterian. Church. And we're going to be looking at what we think is an appropriate model for us this fall as we enter into the new building for us to be able to see that back in that time there was a building project going on. And as they were rebuilding the walls, there was also something else going on. There was a rebuilding of their lives. And to see what God was doing through Nehemiah and through the people as they joined together in that That project. That you and I would then once again come to be available to and excited by the possibility of our God using us in the wor brokenness of this world to demonstrate the power of Jesus Christ. That you and I would begin to see God can use me to share Jesus Christ with someone else To begin to bring healing into the world that I live in and the people that God has given to me, who know me, know my life and its weakness, to be able to demonstrate that Jesus Christ. Christ is alive through us. Are you available to him? Can you honestly say that you want for him to use you in his rebuilding project? anyway? And you look forward to what God will do to lead us and to lead you as part of that this fall and this year. Let's join together in prayer. Lord, we want to examine ourselves once again to see is this really our purpose? To know you? To believe that that is something worth devoting ourselves to. To turning off the TV and opening up your word to know you better. To trust you in those hard situations where we think, why in the world are you doing this? and see that you're doing it that we might know you better. To know our hope and to get beyond the duty orientation, that we might delight in your ways. That we might know your pleasures and see you as a happy God who intends to share out of the overflow of your joy the pleasures of your glory with us. And that you've given to us in this life the first fruits of that by your Spirit, to know that with the eyes of faith. And to know your power. To see that that power is exerted in conflict, as Jesus subdues the hostile powers to himself And to see, Lord, that as we are available to you, you'll use us in ways that will surprise us. But only as we're available. At this moment, Lord, we pray that you would work in each of us to make us willing to be available. Hear us, Lord, because through this you are glorified. In Jesus' name.