Indeed, may the Lord bless the preaching of his word, and I think the best thing you can ever pray for any pastor is that we show Christ. Let's turn together again as I'm stuck on hope. I love hope. And partially the reason I wanted to spend a couple of extra Sundays on hope is because I recognize that if you actually go and do research on how many books are written on Christian hope, you'll find precious few, surprisingly. So we spend this Sunday before next Sunday where Pastor Flora is going to be taking us to the new section in 1 Peter chapter 1 as he moves us. Into a section of, okay, if if we have this hope in the midst of suffering, how should we live? But before we get there, I want to spend one more Sunday on hope. And this week, rebellious hope. Rebellious hope. This morning I'm first going to read again 1 Peter 1 verses 3 through 7. And then on the final point of my sermon, I'm going to use as an example not only of rebellious hope from 1 Peter, but what it looks like in the life of the psalmist, looking at Psalm 42, which Pastor Tim read for us earlier. But let's turn to God's Word. If you have your Bibles with you, if you do not, they're on the screens in front of you. 1 Peter 1, verses 3 through 7. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth Into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you. Who through faith are shielded by God's power, and so the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice Though now for a little while you may have to suffer grief in all kind and all kinds of trials. There these have come so that your faith, of greater worth than gold which perishes even though refined by fire, may be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed Praise be to God. Many of you were perhaps at least heard, if not have read The book, The Hunger Games. Perhaps fewer of you have seen the film, but what is interesting about the film is it has an interesting quote about hope that doesn't appear in the book But in many ways unpacks what's going on. The quote is from President Snoke, who is the president of this dystopian country that is part of what was the United States and he's the president over this and dictator over this new country. And he is it's in the midst of the hunger games, and what's happening is in the midst of these hunger games is that those who should not have success are having success, in fact, it's making the country, it's making the president, it's making his dictatorship look foolish. And in a conversation with the man who's responsible for running the Hunger Games, President Snow says these words. He says, why do we have a winner that is a winner of the Hunger Games? He says, why do we have a winner? Hope. Hope. Hope. It is the only thing stronger than fear. A little hope is a good thing. A lot of hope is dangerous. A spark is fine as long as it's contained. The scriptures believe that hope is stronger than fear. But what the scriptures mean to give to us through the gospel of Jesus Christ is not a spark. But a flame. A flame that burns and ought to be a hope that is ultimately so powerful. That it rebels against the status quo of our lives. In fact, rebellious hope, I believe the kind of hope that Peter points us to, pushes back at the world that offers counterfeit hopes. Hopes in ourselves, in our attitudes, hopes in our success, hopes in our education. If you don't believe those are the kinds of hopes that the world puts forth, let me ask you a question. Why is it That the most educated countries in the world, which are oftentimes also the most affluent countries in the world, why are they also where depression and suicide are at the highest rates? Why, more than any other time, perhaps in human history Is anxiety at such a high level and so oftentimes so part of our culture, our speech, the way we talk, the commercials that are put at us? If more education, more money, more freedom for the individual More opportunities for success than at any other time in perhaps recorded human history offered to us on a daily basis. If those things are open to us, then why is it that depression and suicide are so high? So oftentimes it is put back on us, put back on you. Put blamed on other people But the question is this, wouldn't it be nice to have a hope that causes a fire that cannot be contained That rebels against the status quo of our lives, that rebels against the false hopes that so oftentimes we're directed to, a hope that cannot be moved. A hope that stands. That is what we've been looking at. That's what I want to look at again. This morning we're going to look at these verses again and what we're going to see about rebellious hope. It is rebellious because it is unique. It is dangerous. It is full. The rebellious hope offered to us through the risen Christ Salvation through Christ gives us a hope that is unique, dangerous, and full. Let's work together. Why is this rebellious hope unique? What makes it different? What makes it different than just a rallying cry of having a picket sign going against the world? Hope, you know, we're just going to march, we're going to have some reason. What is the reason why Christian hope particularly Is unique. It is this, right here in these words. First, it is unique because it is a power over death, also a power in promise. Let's look at these verses. The power over death. Look at verse 3 again. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. From the dead. The rebellious nature of Christian hope is unique first because it is Grounded in a power over death. It is right here before us. Because what this passage tells us is this Jesus In his life, he came by God's appointment, born of a woman, born into the world, taking on real human flesh, taking on humanity. He lived life as we live. And then he died. And in his death he was then buried. But on the third day he rose again from the dead. Victorious over death. Death could not hold him down. Why is this important? It is because very rarely do we as Christians talk about why The power of Christian hope is grounded in the power over death. It is probably because we don't know what to think about death. My guess is there are many in this room who profess faith in Jesus Christ who still fear death. Or perhaps it's the opposite side. Perhaps we think that death, well, it's just it's just a part of life. It's just a temporary separation from life itself. And so, what oftentimes we hear at many funerals, even Christian funerals, and even in the midst of many Christian hymns, is this idea that actually many Christian hymns don't even talk about death. Ladies and gentlemen, unless Jesus Christ comes back in the next 70 years, everybody most likely who's hearing my voice is going to die. And we need to understand, death is our enemy. It is not the way it's supposed to be. It's not the way it's supposed to be for you. It's not the way it's supposed to be for the earth. It's not the way it's supposed to be for the animals that we see killed because We hit them on the road Death so oftentimes is so commonplace to us. Do you realize that it is it's fairly unique that in the last 40 to 50 years, death has become a regular part of our conversation in America. Do you realize that if we were to cast back eighty or so years ago, do you realize that the popular culture was not full of the discussion of death? Turn on your TV. How many of you watch crime? Shows. CSI. All the other shows that are about death, you know what I'm saying? Law and order, right? They're always censoring around death, right? We're obsessed with it We want to maybe not you. We're obsessed with death. We go to art productions that are talking about death where bodies are put on display that are dead. Why? It is because we have allowed the creeping idea from the culture and from the world that says, oh, it's just death. It's just normal. I'm in proper company about what I really want to say, and I can't really. It is not normal. It is our enemy. And the power of rebellious Christian hope is the fact that our hope is anchored in one who lived, who died, but is now living and reigning. And our hope is this: that death is our enemy, but it's not the final word. That doesn't mean I should not hate it. It doesn't mean that I should not grieve it. But what this hope tells me, it tells me something about my fear. And it informs the ways in which I have become complacent about the reality of death. The resurrection of Jesus doesn't make me complacent about death, it makes me hate it all the more. Because the sting of death is sin. Why did Jesus have to die? Because of sin. Therefore I hate death. But the only way I can have hope is that my Savior and my God, who is sinless, who is righteous in my place, in your place, has died. The uniqueness of Christian hope doesn't ignore the reality of death, does not accept it as normal, but neither does it recognize it as the end of the story. There is power over death. But there is also power in the promise. Do you see? When he says And into an inheritance, verse 4, that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you. The word that I want to highlight here, the power and the promises, do you know that the uniqueness of Christian hope is in this, that God, the creator of heaven and earth, has a special gift that salvation is just the first taste of. You see, that Jesus is now victorious over sin and death, and therefore our Savior, the one who can provide us with salvation, we can enjoy the salvation of Jesus Christ. Right now, and it is full, it is free, it is beautiful, but do you know that's not the whole story? Do you know what the scriptures say, the promises, that the inheritance that God has for those who believe and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ Is not a disembodied sweet by-and-by existence somewhere out there in the clouds. The scriptures tell us that the inheritance is not just salvation from sin. It is a salvation too, the gift of a new heaven and a new earth. Do you hear those words? New heaven. Say it with me. New earth. Say it with me. New earth. Ladies and gentlemen, if you take your feet and you stomp on the ground, what is that? It's the earth. Do you know that the inheritance is a place that is real, that is lovely, where there is no death, there are no tears, there is no disease, there is only the presence of the risen glorified Beautiful God and Father, who longs to give you a new heaven and a new earth and a presence And a relationship with him that can never be taken away. Do you think that's a rebellious hope? You bet it is. We are not Gnostic Where we somehow believe that salvation and the inheritance is somehow just going to be our psyche, our ideas, our personalities sort of floating around in the netherworld. That is not what the scriptures say. The whole earth is going to be renewed. And it will be full of his glory. How does it speak of the new earth? What does it say? That a new Jerusalem that will go up to the new Jerusalem? No, the new Jerusalem will descend. It will be the city of our God. And it will be full of his praise. The uniqueness. Of Christian hope is rebellious because it goes against the status quo that says death is normal and that on the other side of death is either just a disembodied nether world. Or it's nothing. Oh, it is something. It's unique. And that is the power And the uniqueness of rebellious Christian hope, which makes it dangerous, right? I don't know if you see the danger in this passage, but I want you to see the danger again. It says, who through faith, now speaking of those who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. Do do you hear that? Yet to be revealed in the last time. But then he says this In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. It's dangerous because it is a hope that rejoices. It rejoices in the midst of suffering. Now, I want to be very careful here. How is it that the Christian hope can rejoice in suffering? Let me borrow the words from one commentator who says this. He says, the idea is that sufferings believers experience are not the result of fate or impersonal forces of nature. They are the will of God for believers. In fact, Peter will say this in chapter 4 of his first letter. But he continues: the New Testament regularly sees sufferings as the road believers must travel. to enter into God's kingdom. We should not reduce from this that sufferings are somehow enjoyable Or that a specific reason should be assigned to every suffering, nor should we minimize the evil actions of others in inflicting suffering. Rather, Peter seeks to assure his readers that God is working out his plan even in their anguish. It is not that we are in the midst of suffering and we say, Wow, isn't this great? Nor are we to believe that every suffering can be attached to a reason for it. What the dangerous aspect of Christian hope is, it's not grounded in the reason behind the immediate suffering. Or the one who's inflicting it, the hope is what? In the goodness of the one who is the author of life itself The one who is control of all things, even our anguish. If we are called to put our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, And here we begin to see something in a crack in the door that the scriptures give us for understanding. If by God's grace he calls us into Relationship with Jesus Christ, and we're called to follow Him, then we need to look at the path that Jesus went. Jesus suffered But on the other side of his suffering was resurrection. So as Jesus has gone from life to death to life, And that life that he led was a proving unto God that he is a worthy sacrifice, showing his obedience. Dying is a worthy sacrifice, and then being raised from the dead, so those who are called to follow him, the process of walking with Jesus, is God using suffering to what? To expose the ways in which we put our hope in other things other than Him. He's refining us. That is what the passage says. He's testing, meaning he's testing the solidity of it, the purity of it. And it is by this that God shows us his goodness in the midst of difficult, painful Horrible suffering, but in the midst of it, we can trust the goodness of God And so the danger of Christian hope is that it can rejoice in the midst of suffering because it is a hope based in trust. That what? That God is good. It says that we are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. God is good. But do you remember? Perhaps you've heard it before. I know I've used it tons of times, probably too many times, and I'll probably use it many times again. You'll hear it again. But that famous quote. From the Lion, the Witch in the Wardrobe, when Lucy is asking about Aslan, who is in Lewis's writing the Christ figure, this lion, and Lucy says to Mr. Beaver. As she greets him, she says, Is he safe? Mr. Beaver responds, Who said anything about safe? Of course he isn't safe, but he's good. He is the king, I tell you. If the Savior of the world Has died and suffered in our place, and is now raised to life and seated at the right hand of God the Father, who trusted the goodness of his Father, has given us grace and saved us. How much more then? Can we and are we not to trust his goodness? Because Jesus has. You see, here again The trust is not in Jesus, the trust is Jesus. Again and again, when our trust falters, when our hope is deconstructed. When we are tempted to question the goodness of God, what ought we to do? We go back before God the Father in prayer. What do we plead? Lord help me in my trust. No, let me challenge you. Before that, it should be this. Lord, I can only plead Jesus in my place. Jesus, Jesus Jesus, Jesus. I cannot bring one thread of strength To bolster my own trust in God. I cannot bring one thread to bolster my hope in Him. It can only be Jesus from beginning to last. But this rebellious Christian hope is unique because of its power. It is dangerous because it rejoices and trusts. But ultimately, the rebellious Christian hope. Is a hope that God the Father gives, according to this text, a living hope. Yes, that is unique, yes, that is dangerous, but here's the question. How do we get into this conversation? We get into it by recognizing what this rebellious hope is full of. If you have your Bibles, you can go again to Psalm forty-two. And here we will hear the words Of the psalmist. Now, you will note as Pastor Tim has already read, and as we've sung the words that follow the theme of this psalm. First, you need to know that Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 are really one psalm. But this morning, I'm not going to be able to deal with the whole of Psalm 42, but I want you to get the gist. This is a writer who is in the midst of suffering. Who is in the midst of trial, who is being tempted to have his hope deconstructed. Psalm 42 again. As the deer pants for streams of living water, so or streams of water, so my soul pants for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When can I go and meet with God? My tears have been my food day and night, while men say to me all day long, Where is your God? These things I remember as I pour out my soul How I used to go with the multitude, leading the procession to the house of God with shouts of joy and thanksgiving among the festive throng. And then he takes his soul, as it were. In the midst of prayer, he holds it up and he talks to himself. And this is what he says: Why are you downcast, O my soul? So, what does he do? He faces the reality of his suffering. He brings the question and appeal before God, and then he looks at his own heart and his own soul, which is being tempted to give up hope, and he looks at it. He's not afraid of it, and he embraces it. And he asks himself this question: Why are you so downcast? Why do you want to give up hope? Why are you so disturbed within me? And he answers. Put your hope in God, for I will yet praise him, my Savior and my God. Now he's beginning to take us through the midst of suffering, and he's looking to God just as Peter tells us to look to Christ who is the source of our living hope, God gives us in Jesus Christ. And then Peter says, even though we go through right now in the midst of suffering and this is a psalmist who's right there. He's following along with the words as it were. And then he says these words He's not dishonest. He says, My soul is downcast within me, therefore I will remember you. So what does he do? He remembers God's goodness in the past. And then he goes in verse 7, he says, Deep calls the deep, and the roar of your waterfalls, all your waves and breakers have swept over me, recognizing it is God who is in control. That he's not in coming, he's not given over to some impersonal force. It is the Lord who is with him. It is the Lord who is in providential over all these things. And then he remembers this, verse 8. Hear these words. By day the Lord directs his love. At night his song is with me. Stay with me. By day, the Lord directs his love To him. But then notice what happens at night. At night, his song. Whose song? The psalmist? The Lord's song. He's remembering not something from within him. He is full of not his own hope, his own trust, his own strength. His hope is being bolstered, is becoming rebellious. Why? Because it is full of the love of the Lord. By day the Lord's love directs, but at night I remember his song. In the night, when he is tempted to forget the goodness of God, to have fear in the midst of darkness for that which he cannot see, what does he remember? The song Of the love of God. But then he continues. And he says, I say to God, my rock. Why have you forgotten me? Why must I go about mourning oppressed by the enemy? My bones suffer mortal agony, as my foes taught me, saying to me all day long, Where is your God? Why are you downcast, O my soul? Why so disturbed within me? Put your hope in God, for I will yet praise him, my Saviour and my God. I'll I I Okay, so here's the deal. Let me give you a quick illustration. So when all of us are going through examination for ordination and ministry, usually we're always all asked this question. Can you tell me which of the Psalms is Messianic? What that means is there are specific Psalms which Jesus quotes that clearly point to him, and I'll never forget, finally, someone said in one of those exams. I know what you're asking technically, but here's what I'm going to tell you: all the psalms are messianic. I don't know if you hear, but in this psalm. Not only does it tell us that Christian rebellious hope is full of God's love, what I want you to see is that the door that is being opened to everyone who can read this psalm. Is the massive door, which is the doorway and the home of rebellious hope. It is this. It is the love of Christ because I want you to know this Psalm is talking about Jesus. How do we get this hope? We get the hope this way, to the degree that you recognize and embrace that Jesus on in his life and on the cross and in his resurrection was providing salvation for you because he loves you And he loves the Heavenly Father, and the Heavenly Father loves you, and His grace is open to you this morning, is the same degree to which your hope will become revealed. Rebellion. How can I say that? It is because this these words that are spoken by the Psalmist of himself are the very kind of words that Jesus spoke from the cross. What did Jesus cry? My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And what does he say? Into your hands I commit my spirit. Now when those who are around the cross Heard him cry out to God. Some knew that he was calling on the Lord. Others mocked him. Just as the psalmist says he's being mocked. Where is your God? You need to know. That the only way that you and I can enter into this rebellious hope, which cannot be moved, which we have sung about, it must be full of love. Yes, but it must be full and focused. And featuring Jesus alone. It is Jesus who said My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Because if he had not, we would not be able to look into God's face and know that he loves us, but in Christ He has loved us. And on through the resurrection, we are now victorious over sin and death, though it is still an enemy. We can find a home. We can find hope. We can find power. We can find strength in Jesus, who is our Savior, who is the rock. Do you see? I close with this illustration. Normally is not my practice. I try not to listen to an interview show that has call in guest at the very end. You never know what it's about. But I happen to catch the last ten minutes of an interview between Diane Rehm and the author Ford, his last name is Ford, Richard Ford, who's a Pulitzer Prize-winning author. And it was just literally at the end of the show, they were talking about how he's a Pulitzer Prize-winning author. who has dyslexia, talking about the challenges that he's faced in his life. But then this woman calls in and they take the call and she says the following words. She says, I'm a middle-aged woman in her mid-50s, and I'm like so many women like me in my in in this generation who are baby boomers. Who were married for many years but now find themselves divorced, who are looking to restart their lives And she was asking this author, Richard Ford, where could she find a place that would help her restart her life? Those were her words, restart her life, because she admits that she doesn't have the resources. to know how to start over again. Partly because of her upbringing, partly because it was not modeled for her. And so do you know what she was asking? Mr. Ford, where can I find hope? And she says, Where do you turn? And his answer was this: He said, I am not a religious person. But he said this most likely you can turn to the church. Or you can turn church where where there's faith and religion, he he used. And he then says, or you can turn to the other church, the university. But then he paused and he said these words: The obvious place you could turn is your family. But I was beginning to ask the question: but what if she doesn't have any family? But then he said something remarkable. He said, if I were in that place at a crossroads, looking for a place to turn, looking for answers. I would turn to someone who loves me. And Diane Rehms said, in a very slow cadence, that Is the obvious place to turn. Let me say to you All human loves will never satisfy the sole death aching that we have for a A hope that is immovable in the midst of shifting sands, broken relationships, and difficulty. We need I need a love that is gone in life. that has faced death and has conquered death and sin. I need that home. And the degree to which you have embraced that the God of all creation has loved you through and in his Son Is the degree to which you will have a hope that is rebellious. Against the status quo, against false hopes, And it must be a hope that is full of Jesus. If you do not know him this morning, Today is the day when you can know this living hope and you can experience new birth It doesn't mean the removal of suffering and trial, but it means knowing a love that will never, never, never. Let you go. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our hope is fickle and has a very short shelf life We confess to you that your word tells us that our hope is in Christ, but we confess. That we often invest our hope in so many other things which cannot last. Even for those who profess faith in you this morning, Lord, that is true of us. But for all of us, those who believe, and even those who hear my voice who do not, you offer us a hope that is you. Unique, dangerous, and full. By your spirit, by this word, come and give us again new life into a living. Living hope through Jesus Christ, who is the beginning and the end, our rock, our Savior. In Jesus Jesus' name. Amen.