I would like today to take three issues and relate them. Three issues that in your mind may have never been very closely connected. And I'd like to demonstrate a biblical connection that's very practical for us in the Baltimore, DC area in 1993. The first area is the area that established Um mas uh designing this for two charges uh after April 15th, but it's kind of a project of time, I guess. So it's the prison of money. It's no news to anyone here. that uh we are in economically difficult times, particularly in this area. The economies in rotate by not only are there the cutbacks, it has to do with defense and has to do with all the things that um particularly affect those and the industries in this area. But uh far beyond that there's a mere panic in our country over the whole national debt. And that's no small problem. Um certainly um it can say that All the taxes left of the Mississippi law go to pay simply the interest in the national debt. And someone added to that to Mississippi's media meeting Uh J. Peter Grace, Chief Executive Officer of WR Grace Research, has said by the year two thousand, one hundred and Two percent of all personal income taxes will go to simply pay the income from the national debt. How long do you think we can live that way? Um Certainly a time bomb ready to go off. Bill Clinton was elected to presidency in the last election largely on the issue of the economy. him to try to do something to deal with the economy and the national debt. And his goal was to by the year nineteen ninety seven to reduce the deficit. Not just not the debt we're not talking. Just talking about the deficit, to reduce the deficit to a mere two hundred and five billion dollars a year Time magazine said this week that in his first shot at that, he's done more shifting than cutting. And it isn't working. Seems like the economy is out of control. No one knows what to do with it In fact, an author like Iraq Burquette, who's a respected economist, a Christian, has written a book, Becoming Economic First Place. to say far worse than simply stagnation. We're headed for something that would be utterly disastrous, like an earthquake to destroy the shapeless nation to its foundation. when the nation's essential reaching sanctions. Well, it said that the current generation, which is the first generation you'll probably hear that term more becoming popular the thirteeners. Becoming like generation kids are you know, you follow them out these teenagers and twenties nothing and green. Now let's move on to the second issue. I think I've actually taken my mind. First issue this happened. Second issue is the issue of the right. Actually, if you were very concerned to it here because we believe that the people of God who is from the attestation to me, if God intends something related to it, then we'll experience it in our physical lines. So we're living in an era where the expected norm of faith and obedience to Jesus Christ is rather low And we think that we can expect that God should be doing more in us and through us as Christians to serve the risen Jesus that we talked about last week And so if we believe that God intends to do more, we need to begin by doing the work in us to build our faith in order to see Him. And so we as a congregation talk a lot about renewal and revival. The conscious preyers that we have on Thursday mornings and the special ones that we're holding on Sunday evenings now, in order for that to bring about renewal and revival constructing a one point seven million dollar ministry center over on Route 108 in order for us to have a basic ministry in order for God to use us to bring about Renewal and revival is lives and changed and transformed in the Howard County area. Do you believe God intends to do something more with people in our day? And that he wants to be by doing the people with human. The third issue, closely related to that, is the issue of the temple. You remember long time ago last fall And for all the other holiday series and wishes counselings and all the things that went on between us, we were looking at the names of God. We still haven't finished that. I haven't given up on that thing. about when we were talking about that we discussed the issue of holiness. Yahweh maked this gift. The Lord he makes you holy. And then that's part of this We talk about the fact that God has made human me to be his temple. That we are the temple of the living God. We are that residence of the Holy Spirit. And that God has made us corporately to be his temple, that holy dwelling for his presence. And so God has made this to be a place for begins as well. And the ministry center that we're building is not a temple. It's simply a base of operation. We are the living temple. We are the streets of the Lord Jesus that he is is building up as a place for him to show his presence. Now how three do these three areas relate? I believe that there was a book of the Bible to take all three of these and brings them right together. And it starts with the felt means of the recession. You know there's one book of the Bible that is written totally to do with the question of recession Now there's a number of passages which you deal with money and recession, things like that. But one book of the Bible was written because of the need of a recession among God's people. And if you have a bullet on out there or if you've drawn it all before, you don't have to guess what that is. It's the book haggis. Now if you're not familiar with haggis or you haven't had quite a time It's the third book from the end of the Old Testament. So maybe the easiest thing for you to do is just kind of look where Malachi hits Matthew and back up three books Because it goes, Haggi Zachariah Malachi. Right? It's only two chapters, pretty short books, so you know you can go right past it and wouldn't even notice it. But take a look Back there is a book of Haggai. I have a Bible. Please try to find it. Don't be embarrassed. Keep shuffling. Please get it. We'll get it sooner or later. And if you do, I want you to call your attention to the fact that this book has a lot to say, I believe, to uncut the A. I I first uh was um drawn to this and had my attention when uh Karen Mitchmith was leading a devotional last fall on that, and I must say that I'm indebted to Karen Mitchell for the outline this morning. Uh even uh the alliteration of it And it's uh irresistible, right? Made the point too, right? I think right on target with what I think. in my bank. I told her I was going to use it. Now, first thing then to notice as we look at this background of this the first point is God's assessment of the situation. God's assessment of the situation at that time. Now what was the situation? Briefly it was this. You remember that God had lost patience his people, Israel, Judah. Israel had been defeated and scattered to the nations of the earth. Judah kept intact was carried into captivity by Babylon and uh the nation of Babylonia. For seventy years Israel was in captivity. Judah, the remnant, was in captivity in Babylon And then after those seventy years, God released his people. He said, go back to the land in freedom. And he used Cyrus, king of Persia, to do that. Now Cyrus didn't Cyrus gave them resources, vast resources to go back and to rebuild their temple God used Cyrus to do that. He wasn't a believer, but he gave them the resources to rebuild the temple. And so right after that, around 538 BC About fifty thousand Jews took off, went back to the uh Palestine, to the land of Canaan, and they began immediately in faith and obedience to do what Cyrus Has allowed them to do and what God has commanded them to do to begin to rebuild the temple. It took them about two years to lay the foundation for that temple, and after they laid the foundation and Tremendous rejoicing that God had brought them back and that God was going to do a new thing, and they were in a day of renewal and revival. And God was with them again. Now after two years, unfortunately, things slowed down. In fact, there was opposition from the Samaritans in the land who feared a new Jewish theocracy. And so they began to oppose them. But far more important than that was that the people themselves decided to That they had been slaves and without long enough. And they began to divert some of the resources that Cyrus had given them to rebuild the temple. And they began to use it to furnish their own home. And so God sent Haggai to get their attention. And if you read the beginning of it in Hagi chapter 1, verse 2 It says in the second year of King Debias, on the first day of the sixth month, the word of the Lord came through the prophet Hagi to Zerubabel, son of Jesus. Alsail, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehazadak, the high priest. And this is what the Lord Almighty says. These people say The time has not yet come for the Lord's house to be built. Not yet for the Lord's temple. We've been slaves long enough We've done without long enough. Certainly God won't mind if we begin to just take some time to get our houses in. Nothing wrong with that. shelter, a place to live. But the problem is, you know, once you start, how do you stop? How do you say this is enough? This is where I can say I am comfortable enough now I will begin to use more and more an increasing proportion of what God has given to me to build his temple They didn't do that. And as a result, the temple project came to a blinding halt. And for 16 years, it was nothing more than a foundation. And that's when Haggai comes on the scene. 16 years later. And 16 years later he's saying, these people are still saying the time has not yet come for the Lord's. how to be built. We still have other things we need to do. There's other things we need to spend our money on. There are other things we need to give our time and attention to The Lord's house can wait a little longer. It's not that urgent. We'll get around to it. Just enable us now to indulge ourselves a little bit. with some comfort and to the with some luxury should be denied ourselves long enough. And so they continue. And because of this God brought a deficit and he brought dirt into the land to get their attention. So you see in chapter 1, verse 6, God says, you have planted much but you've harvested little you eat but you never have enough you drink but you never have your jill You put on clothes but are not warm. You earn wages only to put them in a purse with hold. Just identify with that? Never get that phrase, you know, pocket full of holes. Got a purse and it's full of holes. Seems like you're always putting money in, especially on April 15th. Seems like it just kind of rains right on through. Increasing proportion of it. Gone. You don't know where. These people weren't starving. They weren't desperate. They were simply in a recession. They were simply in a time when they could say, there's just not enough to go around. Somehow we work harder and seem to have less to show for it. So he says in verse 9, down in verse 9, you expected much, but see it turned out to be little, not nothing. Just enough to get your attention, God says It turned out to be little. What you brought home, I blew away. Why? And now we move to the second point. God analysis of the problem. The assessment is very clear. You're hurting. You just don't have enough. There's deficit and there's dirt. But now why is that? And so God gives his analysis of the problem. And in the end there, verse 9. Why The answer is crystal clear. Why, declares the Lord Almighty? Because of my house, which remains a ruin. While each of you is busy with his own house. God's saying when your houses, your comforts, your luxuries are more important than than my house, then which is my temple, and my people will not prosper for very long. You see what happened Hagi said to them back in verse 4. He said God's word through him. See verse 3. Is it a time for you yourselves to be living in your paneled houses while this house remains a ruin. Now you see paneled houses indicates they weren't just looking for some minimal shelter They were putting up cedar and oak and various things in order for them to have luxurious places to live in. That says, I know you need a place to live. I've created good things for you to enjoy. The question is not whether those things are good or whether they're evil. God says the question is the priority. Right now, he says, there is a need for an urgent need concerning my temple. It's laying there in ruins. But you're saying, well that's that's not of such concern to me as whether I not only have a place to live in. But I'm able to have some luxury. I'm able to have some things that are like the other people that I see around me. They're enjoying them. Why not can't I? And I hear enough Christians telling me that these things are my right to enjoy. And so God says because of that I haven't prospered This spiritual attitude has economic consequences. Look at verses 10 and 11. Therefore Because of you, the heavens have withheld their due, and the earth its crops. I called for a drought on the fields and the mountains, on the Grain, the new wine, the oil, whatever the ground produces are men and cattle and the labor of your hands. They need to understand in their economy that there wasn't a deficit. And so the way God got their attention was in a much more direct way. You see John Isaac said in the beginning. He has his own business, so God can get his attention more directly If his business was farming, it'd be even more direct consequences. The weather has very direct consequences. No, we don't live in that way. You know, we just go to the giant in the safe way and whatever we don't produce to get from some other nation, just you know prices rise and fall a little bit. So we're not as directly really affected by weather. But it's the same principle. God says The economic problem had a spiritual cause. Now you see, we are so secularly oriented in our thinking to the We think that whatever physical problems, economic problems, political problems that we're enduring always have natural cause and effect Causes that are explained by science. Even as Christians, we've come to believe that, haven't we? We've come to believe that whatever problem there is is has a technological explanation to why it happened and what to do to fix it. And as Christians then we sort of baptize that with prayer and we say, now God, you also help this to work. But what we've missed is that sometimes the economic problems, the political problems, the problems that we're experiencing in this world have spiritual causes. You see what it says there at the beginning of verse 10? Therefore, because of this, you say, and because verse 9, what he says He says, This is what you did. You expected what why? Because of my house. Because I intervened. I moved into your situation to get your attention And as John pointed out earlier, you see God says that specifically. Look at verse 5. Now, this is what the Lord Almighty says. Give careful thought to your ways. I've done this, so you think about what's happening. Verse seven. This is what the Lord Almighty says. Give careful thought to your ways. You see, if if I didn't do this, you just keep on building and building and indulging and going on and my house would never be built and you would just keep moving on oblivious to the blessing that I intended for you that you're not expecting And always wondering why the relationship with me seems rather boring and humdrum. And why really this world seems to have all that there is to offer, and it's just And so you become cynical as Christians. You say, why is it that the Christian life doesn't seem to bear more fruit? God says because You haven't thought, you haven't given careful attention to what's happening, the cause and effect that's going on here. That it's how you respond to the mandate I give you that a affects how you live. Your joy and your contentment, your prosperity as a church, as a nation. That's God's assessment. That's God's assessment analysis. Now look thirdly and finally at the last thing, God's assignment. God's assignment for recovery. What is God's assignment? What does he say to do? Crystal clear. Chapter 1, verse 8. Go up into the mountain. Bring down the timber. Build the house so that I may take pleasure in it and be honored, says the Lord. Can't get much simpler than that. They say, ah, we got it. This guy Is using Haggai to tell us that we all ought to get over to 108, chop down the forest in Howard County, and go build that center over there, right? No That would be an absolutely wrong use of scripture. That ministry center is not a temple. I am not using this as some sort of a ploy to raise Money. That's not my intention. What then is Haggy I saying that relates to our day? First of all, you need to understand, I am not saying That the United States is Israel. I am not saying that the economic woes of the United States are directly related simply to the spiritual cause and effect of whether Christians are have their priority statements. Not directly. I am not saying that the church in the United States States is the same as Israel. I am not saying that you can take tagii and apply it directly. There isn't a physical temple now to be built. But there are parallels and connections between what Haggai says and what God is saying to the church of Jesus Christ today, if we understand the connection. And we can understand them, I think, best by seeing the parallels. And I would like to suggest that there are parallels, three parallels, between what God is saying through heaven And what God is saying to the church today, to CPC in particular, and to the people of God in America in 1995. First of all, notice the parallel of the recession. They were in a recession, we're in a recession. God says to you and to me, the same thing he says Verse 6, you've planted much, but you've harvested little. You eat, but you never have enough. You drink, but you never have your fill. You put on clothes, but you're not warm. You earn wind This is what the Lord Almighty says. Give cheerful thoughts to your ladies. The fact that there is deficit in the United States, I believe, is intended by God to get our attention the same way that this was intended back in back then. God is saying don't simply Look to technological, natural cause and effect explanations for what's going on in your country. There are spiritual implications to what's happening. Give careful thought to your ways, the fact that you never seem to have enough, that more and more of our resources are being drained God is saying don't just simply look to political solutions. There are spiritual implications to this. Secondly, there is the parallel of the matter of revival. I believe that there are indications that just as God intended for this to be a time of revival and renewal the people of Israel. God also intends for this to be a time of renewal and revival for the Church of Jesus Christ here in America. Let me offer to you three reasons why I say that. And I hope you take these reasons to heart because you might hear this message as something that is uh you know maybe challenging but also you kind of see it as uh boy you know happy kind of uh messy one real upbeat, you know, reminding me of a lot of problems and what am I supposed to do and make me feel guilty about my priorities But I want you to see that God intends, I believe, to do a fantastic work in our day beyond anything that we may be able to conceive of at this point. And in spite of the fact that Christianity seems to be having less and less of an impact on our government, on our media, on our culture in general. I would still like to suggest three reasons why I think God intends, possibly, if the Church of Jesus Christ responds with repentance And we prostrate ourselves before God and seek his face in a new way to do something that we could not begin to guess at in terms of joy and prosperity. Three reasons, three indications. Number one, because our culture is desperately disintegrated Our culture is desperately disintegrating. And it's becoming more and more obvious to unbelievers as well as to believers. And I believe that when the culture disintegrates In the rapid pace that ours is, it creates a spiritual vacuum that makes the culture open as it was in England in the 17th century. in the 18th century particular for the preaching of the gospel. Look what we've begun to tolerate in our media, language and scenes that would not have been tolerated ten or fifteen years ago. You have a president now who is seeking to to uh legitimize homosexuals in the military Again, not to say that homosexuals are worse sinners than anyone else, but the fact that this becomes an acceptable lifestyle within our culture is a sign of decay and disintegration, uh the uh making of abortion on demand to be something that is uh legalized and encouraged even in various ways that it's being being um made accessible through this uh administration is another sign of disintegration. Just after uh one of our prayer meetings, a concert of prayer on Thursday morning or last One of the people at the prayer meeting said that they had seen a taxi drive down their street. Person in the back seat had a gun to the head of the taxi drive and uh sped up to uh and aimed right at one of the neighbors and then at the last minute swerved and hit a tree and the sky jumped out of the back seat and dashed into the side other car and took off in that car. And as I thought about hearing that, you know, I thought, you know, shooting, drive by shootings of kids and the kinds of things we see now are becoming More and more accepted. We're not shocked at some of the things that we're hearing moving closer and closer into our neighborhoods. And I'm sure if we had time here to share stories, you'd say, Well yeah, let me tell you about this What happened in this school that I've been in? Tell you what happened there. And do you know that they did a survey recently of the brightest, this is an annual survey done, of the brightest high school students in the country. And they found of the brightest high school students in the country this year, this spring now, that they were economically insecure. They were believing that they will have a lower standard of living than their parents. They were worried about getting AIDS and any other sexually transmitted diseases, but particularly AIDS. And they were were simply worried physically. Forty percent of them had been violently assaulted in their high school. Forty percent of the brightest high school students in the country in the survey. Thirty percent of these kids had seriously considered suicide. Now these are the brightest kids that are headed to I suggest to you that for the Christian that could be good news. Because when there is that kind of desperation We realize we don't have the answer. And that's when God can move in. Historically, that's when He moves in with the Bible. The second reason I'd like to suggest why we may be on the grape of God intending to do things to turn us around if the Church of Jesus Christ is responsible, is that the prayer movement, I believe, has nothing but a supernatural explanation I don't know how familiar you are with the prayer movement. We had uh we called a meeting from the coalition on Friday morning to get some people together to hear about what God is doing in the prayer movement. And uh nearly a hundred people showed up. These were mostly all pastors and church leaders. And uh you see this anywhere today. You call prayer meetings and They have an unprecedented kind of turnout. Now, we haven't exactly been knocked off our seats with the turnouts of the concepts of prayers we've been having and Thursday mornings and Sunday evenings, but we do have a number of people who do come and are praying faithfully, then God will hear and then God will do a new work in our midst. But you know, if you look at the prayer movement in general, you find that God is doing some unprecedented kinds of things. For instance, four years ago, 45 pastors in the Salem, Oregon area met together for four days to do nothing but pray Yeah, I you know, I know what my schedule is like, take four days and say I'm gonna meet with a bunch of other captions who very often are viewed as the competition, but instead to say we're gonna come together and we're gonna just seek God. Together began to have some ripple effects throughout the country. You know, since that time four years ago there have been 80 prayer summits and pastors in this country. from all over different nation uh different uh metropolitan areas who are getting together with one agenda to seek the place of God together. Right now uh there's one coming up in a couple of months in part You take uh the things that are going on on larger scales, the National Day of Prayer. It's been sort of a ho-hum affair. uh last year at twenty five hundred different municipal locations Christians gathered to pray for the government. But this year they're saying that there is more interest in ever but there is more resistance from the government than ever. I've heard secondhand that Bill Clinton would like to change the National Day of Prayer to a National Day of Fellowship. no longer had things. You see this clash that we're beginning to see the moving head on. Do you know Juan had a day of prayer? It was um thirty thousand people showed up to pray for Chihuahua, for God to do a new work in Toronto. Prayer groups are springing up throughout the world Millions of prayer groups, prayer marches, prayer fellowships have started around the world. Matthew Henry, the great commentator, once said When God intends great mercy for his people, he first sets them a friend. And we're seeing that in our day. It's not being coordinated by any organization, it's being assisted But it's not being for you. It didn't start from any human organization. God just began to move and parts of people all over this nation and throughout the world. Speaking of the world, that's the third reason why I think to God may intend revival to us. That's because that you see revival is a worldwide phenomenon except in the United States United States or except in North America. In every continent we're seeing God do amazing things. You know that in India, right now now a nation that has not been considered particularly open to the gospel. In India, there are 15,000 baptisms a week currently. In the last two years in China which has been closed to the gospel and more and more repressive 2,000 churches have been started. In um the uh course you're familiar with with the uh Commonwealth of Independent States, the fact that the Russian government has invited Christians to come in in order for them to have a specifically, explicitly Christian Do you know that two years ago there were less than fifteen Christians in all of Mongolia? Right now Now there are over a thousand Christians known in the country of Mongolia. We're seeing this all over the world, God doing unprecedented things. Albania where to believe in God was a capital offense just three, four years ago, now developing their curriculum for their school system to be specifically and explicitly Christian. In Brazil, churches are starting to faster than they can get pastors to leave them. This is happening all over. By the end of uh the point by the year 2000 Africa will probably have a majority of its population the whole continent, the majority, even with the Muslim countries included, the majority professing history. We're seeing this in areas all over the all over the world. Now, if you see God's Spirit beginning to do something on that scale, you begin to say, well, why would he just bypass us? Is there possibly something is holding back what God intends to also have in here. And that's where his hagi comes in. Because I believe the third parallel is the mandates of the In order for this to happen, it's the same mandate that the Haggy I say more potential. It's as simple as that. The good news is that when Haggy I'm said that Haggai tells us in verse 12, you know the people actually listened? You know there's only two Old Testament prophets that came with a message that God's people Israel listened to? One was Zachariah Yellow was Haggai. So this was one time they listened. Look at verse 12. Then Zerebal, son of Sheelchel, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the whole remnant of the The people obeyed the voice of the Lord their God and the message of the prophet Haggai because the Lord their God had sent him, and the people feared the Lord. It began by fearing the Lord and repenting and they said, yes, our priorities are screwed up. We need to get to work again and build the temple. What does that mean for you and for me? Well, once again. I said, look at what God has done in history. They built the temple. And that temple became the rallying point of God's people, where God's presence was. Five hundred years later, the Messiah came and he said, That I am the true temple and I come to build the temple, the living temple in God's people. Jesus Christ died on the cross for sin. Take your sin and take my sin to transform us into make us a holy people and join us together to be a new temple. And in that temple God has formed presence and its power to be seen among the nations. says in chapter 2 verses 6 and 7 this is what the lord almighty says in a little while i will once more shake the heavens and the earth the sea and the dry land Then I will shake all nations, and the desired of all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory, says the Lord Almighty. I believe in our day, saying God is going to shake the nations and He's going to begin in His people. He's going to shake you and He's going to shake me. And that doesn't mean we go out and we sell everything we have, but it does mean that when you and I look at the resources we have of time and money and we think locally and we think globally. It means that when we look at the temple The temple which as you see the references there from Ephesians, Corinthians, and 1 Peter, that temple is the living temple, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, that the mandates you and to me is simply Build the temple, the Great Commission, go and make the temple. Build my church. May the Lord give you and me a passion for his temple and our Lord our God, you have got to get a hold of us. And so Lord, in these next weeks, as we consider this vision state today Saints being the puts the ministry. We begin to talk about how you can transform us. You're people who will know your power We'll begin to see you move through us in you waves. We pray that you cause us to circumcise like that. And that those things that are deflected in Jesus from our attention and our devotion. You would make us willing to have you removed. Who you have brought to see the priority of the time. We pray for you to do that. We confess we don't have a sympathy.