We're looking at Romans chapter 8, verses 15 and 16 for five weeks, in order to understand better what it means. To that God has given to us the spirit of sonship, or the spirit who makes us his sons and daughters. So let's listen to God's word. God Himself now is addressing us through these two verses from Romans chapter 8, verses 15 and 16. For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received the spirit of sonship. And by him we cry, Abba, Daddy, Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our spirits That we are God's children. Two weeks ago we began looking at the first phrase of verse 15. You did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. And we realized how much we're slaves to fear. The basic fear of condemnation, displeasure of God. That fear that we can never measure up to his standard, that we have guilt because of our sins, and we realize That we're never able to do anything, to pay for that guilt, and that we're helpless before him, and all we can do is to receive of his mercy. We saw that we therefore, even as Christians who have trusted in the righteousness and the work of Jesus Christ, Become increasingly aware of how very short we fall of that standard. And so we fall again into bondage. A bondage of our own uh guilt and the sense of aloneness that God surely can't be with us. And so a fear of needing to protect ourselves, of needing to control our lives. That fear of needing to um fend for ourselves, feeling like if we try to pray, God's not going to hear because we don't deserve to be heard, and so we feel more guilt. Because we don't go to him. The fear of uh that guilt leading to a fear of people and their view of us, always needing to please people. A fear of what happens if we don't perform perfectly and get people's approval. The fear of Criticism, always comparing ourselves with other people, trying to feel like we're more righteous, more justified, we're better than they are. So needing to criticize other people out of fear of suffering from comparison with them. And a fear of hopelessness that will really never change. We're sort of stuck with the way we are and all the things that we don't like about ourselves. And then we look the second week, the second phrase to see and focus on the hope that is in Jesus Christ. That second phrase at the end of verse 15, you remember, that says, But you didn't receive that spirit, you see, of fear, but you have received the spirit of sonship. And by him you cry, Daddy, Father. And so we focused on how if you have come to that place where you've realized that you're a sinner who's hopeless to change and to Pay for your own sin and the things that you've done wrong, that you look to the finished work of Jesus Christ. And when you've received His work And you know that he's your substitute, that God has judged him for all the things that you've done wrong, then you know you're able to call the judge, the heavenly God, in all his majesty, you call him Father. And so the judge has acquitted you and the father has adopted you. The legal and the relational aspects of the gospel And yet, even as we looked at those, we realized that we long, though we've tasted some of it as Christians, that we still long so much more, don't we, to know that peace Of the spirit of sonship, to be delivered from the fear, the fear of bondage to our fears of uh insecurities and the Bondage of our sin that we s just don't seem to be able to tackle or to get rid of in our lives. And so we uh long for that We feel so much of the lack of a feeling of sonship, don't we? Feeling alienated from our God far too often. We know that we uh lack a freedom of sonship, feeling too often in the bondage of fear. And what do we do about that What I'd like to do this morning is to try and speak to that question. What do we do to get into that Part that place in our lives where we're sensing more the victory, the freedom, the uh sense of the spirit of sonship giving to us That spirit that can cry, Daddy, and know that our Father hears us and doesn't reject us. Well When we ask that question, what do I need to do? There's a number of answers the Christians are ready to give to us. What I want to look at this morning is one very popular wrong way of answering that question. And then try to look in contrast to that to what I think Paul's actually saying in this passage, which will of course give us God's answer, the right answer, if I'm understanding the passage correctly, for how you and I can have a greater sense of freedom. And of a sense of sonship in our lives. And so you see on the bulletin outline there, we're down to point three now. The question: what do I need to do? A, the answer that many say is receive the Spirit. That's the first line to fill in then, to receive the Spirit. And it goes something like this. I don't know how many of you are familiar with this, but uh many Christians today will tell you. You uh have the Spirit, you've become a Christian, so in trusting Jesus Christ, the Spirit of God came into your life, but he's like a guest in your home that you don't know is there He somehow snuck in, you know, and you're not aware that he is in your home. And so you haven't received him as a guest. He's there, but you haven't received him. You haven't acknowledged his presence. And so you're living in defeat because you've never received the Spirit or the baptism of the Spirit. And that is often what then what is suggested to us in order to live a bit more victorious kind of Christian life. Uh how many think that that's familiar? You've heard something like that where people say you need to receive something. Okay, well it's the rest of you hang in there, you know, maybe it'll get more familiar as we go along, you know. Two things that are characteristic of this position. Is that first of all you receive the Spirit subsequent to your conversion? That's part of what will always be in this. You see, you receive justification, forgiveness, when you receive Jesus by faith. But now, separate, and in addition to that, you need to go on to a deeper, higher, spirit-filled life by an act of faith that receives the Spirit or receives sanctification. It's a separate thing that you need to do. And both are received by faith. The second thing that characterizes all of these, and there's many, many books on this, you'll see it on TV, you see it all kinds of ways that people suggest to do this. is that it must be received by a definite act of commitment and faith as a Christian. Now usually it'll go something like this that the The Spirit is given only to those who really thirst for Him, or who are ready to totally yield themselves to Him. And when you once do that and really face up to any unconfessed sin, anything that's between you and the Lord, you've got to look down deep. The You've got to be able to examine your life and anything that's between you and God. You've got to confess that. You've got to get it out. You've got to get rid of it. You've got to take then all that sin and you've got to take the Spirit by faith. Receive the baptism of the Spirit, sometimes it's called spiritual breathing. I confess out my sin and I breathe in the presence Of the Holy Spirit, receive him that way, lots of ways. But those two things, you see, it's something that I do as a Christian in addition to receiving Jesus, and secondly, it's something I do as a definite act of faith and commitment. Now, what does the Bible say about that? Is that what we need? Well, I suggest to you that that violates both the immediate context of what Paul's saying here in Romans 8 as well as the general evidence of the New Testament. Let me try to show you why I say that. Because in chapter 8, verse 15, you see, Paul says, You did not receive the spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received the spirit of sonship. That word there, receive, that's used twice in that one verse, is a particular Greek word for receive. Now, there's a lot of words translated receive in our English. A lot of Greek words that are translated by the English word receive. All the other words except for this word have an active meaning. This word can have an active meaning of taking as well as a passive meaning of receiving passively. This word is unique in its ability to be translated either actively taking or passively simply receiving. So that you understand a little what I'm talking about. For instance, the word used in Acts chapter ten, you can look at this this up later, but in Acts chapter ten, verse forty-three, you see there, uh that word is used of everyone who believes in re in Jesus receiving forgiveness. Well now, uh, when you believe in Jesus as your Savior, you don't take forgiveness. You receive it as a consequence of Jesus Christ coming into your life You remember in the book of James, you can turn to this if you want. This is a strange one, but in the book of James, chapter 5, when we were looking at that In verse 7, James said, Be patient then, brothers, until the Lord's coming. See how the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop, how patient he is for the autumn and spring rains. You don't see the word received there at all in the English, but it's in the Greek. It's the same word used in Romans 8. 15, where it says that the farmer is patient for the spring rains. Literally the Greek is patient to receive the rains. That's pretty obvious. The farmer doesn't grab up and take the reins, you know. He's not grabbing a hold of them, taking them actively by faith or anything else. He simply receives the rain as it comes. Very passive kind of thing Or the third uh example I have there, Paul himself, just a few chapters before in Romans 4. 11, talks about Abraham, who received the sign of just of circumcision for his faith. Just like Christine received baptism this morning. She didn't do anything. In fact, she was asleep till the water hit her. She was very passive in receiving that. But it came upon her, you see. That's the word that Paul uses when he talks about our receiving the Spirit I would suggest that that's uh substantiated if you look through the New Testament to see how that word is used again and again. When the New Testament speaks of Christians receiving the Spirit in every case. The Spirit sovereignly comes upon them without them seeking or asking for him to come to receive him. He's always passively received. Now we don't have time to look through all those, but just a couple of examples of that. Do you remember the initial promise of this? was one that John the Baptist gave back in Luke chapter 3 in verse 16, where he said, I baptize you with water, but one more powerful than I is going to come. The thongs of whose sandals I'm not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. Well, you see, He's doing it. We're simply receiving it. John's saying He's going to come and He's going to baptize you. He doesn't talk about what you need to do. He says this is what he is going to do. And you remember that Jesus reinforced that in Acts chapter 1, when he said in verse 5, John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized. with the Holy Spirit. Again, it's a passive thing. He doesn't say you're going to get the baptism or you're going to do something for it. He simply says you will be baptized. With the Spirit. And so in verse 8, you will receive, you see, same word, Romans 8:15, you're going to receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. Again, you see the passive nature of it. The Holy Spirit's going to come on you. You don't do something for him to get him to come to you. In fact, in chapter two When the Holy Spirit came upon the church. You remember they weren't necessarily praying for the Holy Spirit to come upon them at that point. Simply says they were in a room together. They were waiting for what God was going to do. And the Holy Spirit sovereignly came upon them in the fullness of his power. In chapter 2, by the way, that's verse 17, not seven. That's my error. Uh and uh later on in verse 33, we'll look at those in a few minutes, the same thing. He comes in sovereign power, verse chapter 10 of Acts. The Gentiles trusted Jesus and they are surprised. The Holy Spirit comes on them unexpectedly. Same thing in chapter eleven, verse fifteen and sixteen. The Holy Spirit comes unexpectedly. They're not doing something to increase their yieldedness or their commitment in order to get him. To receive them into their lives. In Galatians chapter 4, in verse 6, where Paul's talking about the same thing he does here in Romans 8. Now notice how he states it in Galatians 4:6. He says, Because you are sons God sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, the Spirit who calls out, Abba Father. Why? Because of some great act of commitment, because of some claiming by faith, because you've emptied yourself and become yielded. No, he says, because you're sons. See, because of who you are, God has sent his spirit into your hearts. Now it's interesting when you compare that with Romans, you see. Because in Galatians, he basically is saying, because you're sons, you have the Holy Spirit. In Romans, he's saying, because you have the Holy Spirit, you're sons. Now how can you put those together? Well obviously the two are just can't be extricated. It can't be taken apart. You have the spirit because you're a son, you hire your son because you have the spirit. You cannot separate your sonship of God, the fact that you're his child, from the fact that you have received the Spirit The two of them go together and cannot be separated. Just a count, a couple of chapters before, Paul had put it very passively again in chapter 5, verse 5. He says, Hope doesn't disappoint us. Because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom he has given to us. So it's something that God has done. Done to it, to us, received entirely passively. Now why do I make such a point of that? Is that some theological point that I'm just sort of big on, you know, I studied it somewhere and I thought, you know, I had to lay it on you because it sounded good or something? No, I think it's very, very practical. Why The reason I think the New Testament lays such emphasis on this, which is often missed today, is because you must do All the things that people are saying to do to get the Holy Spirit. You must be entirely yielding. You must, in fact, keep God's law perfectly. You must do everything that He has said to do. And there is only one who ever did that. And the reason you and I don't need to do anything to receive the Holy Spirit is because Jesus has already done everything necessary to receive the Spirit. You don't think the Bible says that? Take a look at Acts chapter 2. That's exactly what it says. In Acts chapter 2, when the Spirit came in power on the church, what does Peter say about why he came? He goes to this long thing about the promise of the Messiah. And how the Messiah came and he fulfilled all of what was predicted of him And then because we don't have time to go through all that, we'll pick up the thread of his thought in verse 32. He says, God has now raised this Jesus to life. You see, he's perfectly accomplished everything. So now he's been vindicated in his resurrection, and we are all witnesses of this fact. Verse 33, exalted to the right hand of God. He has received from the Father the promised Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. There's only one person that ever earned the Holy Spirit. It was Jesus Christ. The Spirit was promised to the one who kept the law. Jesus kept it perfectly. He died as our substitute. Therefore, Jesus has received the promised Spirit. And that Spirit is now poured out and given by grace. To those who trust Jesus. That's why just a few verses later he goes down, and the people there that haven't done anything, what have they done? They've crucified Jesus. And they say, What shall we do? You've convicted us, Peter. We're undone. What can we possibly do? And his answer is repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. For the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. This promise is for you, your children, and all who are far off. Nothing in addition to receiving Jesus. Because when you've received Jesus, you have everything that God needs to credit to your account, perfection and righteousness. You see that? You can rest in what Jesus has done. You are his child because of what Jesus has done if you're trusting him. And because of that, you have received the Holy Spirit. And there is nothing that you need to add to that. You see, what I'm saying is that receiving the Spirit invariably occurs at conversion. It's never subsequent to that. In Acts, the times that it's subsequent to that are because of the transition from the Old Testament covenant God, Jehovah, to the New Testament covenant idea of Father. From the Jews, the Samaritans, the Gentiles, and they all have to be demonstrated that as they receive Jesus, He comes in the Holy Spirit in a visible way, so that it's very evident That the Spirit has come upon them as well as to those who are Jews. And so notice that you will never see after that, after those circumstances in Acts. There is never again, by the way, the bulletin should say, never uh the New Testament, no exhortation ever in the New Testament, not even. But there is no exhortation ever then in the New Testament for believers to receive or to be baptized in the Spirit. Now, you see, this only makes sense if you understand, or Romans 8 really only makes sense in that context, because what Paul's saying in chapter 8, verse 15 Is that he's appealing to something that's happened at your conversion. And that's what you can rest in. See, verse 15, he says, You did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. But you have received the spirit of sonship. He's referring to something in the past. Now, when is he referring to? Well, you look back at verse 9, and you see what he's referring to. He says, You, however, are controlled not by the sinful nature, but by the Spirit. What's that talking about? It's talking about your conversion, right? Up until that time, you and I were controlled by our sinful nature, all kinds of things in us that we couldn't get a hold of in our lives. And everything we did centered around ourselves and all we worshipped and all that we valued, all centered around us. And Paul's saying that there was a time then when you looked to Jesus Christ. And at that time the Holy Spirit got a hold of you. And so now you're not controlled by that sinful nature. If the Spirit of God lives in you. Now he's talking here about basic issues, whether you're a Christian or not. That's very evident from the next verse, the next phrase, you see, because he says, if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ. And so what Paul's talking about is what happened when you received Jesus Christ into your life. He's talking about that's the point when you receive the Spirit. That's the point. When because you were a son, God gave you a spirit. When because you had his spirit, he made you a son. When you had all that you need. Before Jesus Christ to please him. And everything was given to you at that point, you see. It's talking about conversion. Well, now then, understanding all that, that still brings us back in the fourth point. To that same basic question, which I hear again and again. Whenever I talk about this stuff, people come back and say, but what do I need to do? I don't experience what you're talking about I still feel under bondage to my sin. I still in bondage to my fears. What do I do to live more fully as a son? I would suggest that the answer is given right here in verse in chapter 8. I'm not suggesting to you, I've experienced it perfectly, but I do think I know what Paul wants us to do. And I think it's something we can do, and it would make a very practical difference in each of our lives if we practice this this week. I believe that there's two things in general that rob us of a sense of sonship. One is our bondage to sin. The things that you find yourself doing in your life that you know do not please Jesus Christ. And when you do them, you feel guilty, you feel under bondage. They're life-dominating sins. You know, they're the things about you that uh you that whenever somebody says what are the weaknesses in your life, bing bing bing, you know, you can pick them off, right? Three, four of those things. Somebody says, tell me some of the strengths in your life. You know, you scratch your head and you can't think of anything. But boy I'll say Tell me some of the weaknesses in your life. These immediately come to mind. When those things hold us down in bondage, they rob us of any sense of sonship, right? The second thing, the second area of things are the fears and the insecurities that we have. Those things that make us anxious and want to grab control of our lives, need to protect ourselves. Now, I would suggest that Paul speaks to those two kinds of things right here in the context of this verse. What do you do then when you feel bondage to sin? I suggest, in point A there, claim your freedom. Claim your freedom by faith. That's what he says in verses 12 to 14. Now listen carefully because this is something that I find many Christians Still, you know, we we find this so hard to grasp a hold of. I still struggle for it in my own life, but I think it's clear what it is that God has for us Notice what he says in verses 12 to 14 right before he comes into this verse 15. This is the immediate context He had just said there, therefore, brothers, we have an obligation, but it is not to the sinful nature to live according to it. You see? For if you live according to the sinful nature, you'll die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live. Because all those who are led by the Spirit of God are the sons of God. Now you notice what he's saying there. He says, you are not obligated to sin. Now that he has said to us again and again and again in chapters six and seven. Now you and I say, now wait a minute, wait, maybe I'm not obligated to You say, on one hand, that seems so obvious. Well, sure I'm not obligate. But don't you and I really believe we are Lord, I can't not sin in this area of my life And what Paul is saying to you is he's saying, oh no, no, no, no. You are not obligated to sin. Why? Because he says it's just taking two chapters to tell you you have died to sin. Don't do it now, but go back later on this afternoon. Read chapter 6 and 7. Again and again and again and again. Paul says, You have died to sin. You have died to sin. You have died to sin as a master Chapter 7 he gives an example. He says, sin is like a miserable domineering husband. And you've been married to that guy who's domineered your life, and he's finally died. And now you're free from his bondage. So that's like sin. It's like your sinful nature. You've gotten out from under his domineering character. You are freed from that. You do not have to sin. The problem is that you and I oftentimes come when we come in the morning or we Maybe you just come once a week, you know, in church and you say, Lord, help me this week not to sin. Or you get up every morning and you pray and you say, Lord, help me today not to sin. And then what happens? Those temptations, that nature of yours comes right on and you say, Well, there I go, right on down the slide again. Until you're right back into that sinful pattern. What you need to do, I suggest, is at that point, when you find that temptation coming on you, to say at that moment, Lord, I am not obligated to do this. By faith you have said, I have died to that. And because I have died to that, I have raised with Christ and have his power, I do not have to do this. I feel like I have to do it, but I really don't. Let me give you an example. Of how powerful that is. I've shared this with some of you in the past. A number of years ago, when Dick Ellis was our intern here, there was a fellow who uh he had come into contact with who was an alcoholic. And this fellow was so destroyed by his alcoholism that his wife and his children had left him They had gone away to another part of the country. They couldn't stand them anymore. All the promises, you know, I'll quit, I'll do something that really doesn't have a hold of me. He lost everything. He lost his job. He lost his family. He had nothing left. He trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior. But he was still an alcoholic. He'll always be an alcoholic, maybe a dry alcoholic or wet alcoholic, but he'll always be an alcoholic. But he was still a practicing alcoholic. He was still under the bondage of that alcoholism. The Ellis took him into their home to live with him. They tried to help him. He was going along and he'd go hour by hour struggling with this Obligated to be an alcoholic, obligated to take that next drink, even though he was a Christian. One day I didn't plan this, but I just happened to be preaching on Romans 6. And I talked about the fact in the service that morning that we have been freed from our sin. We do not live under its mastery and domination. We do not have to sin. And you can only take that by faith. You can't take it by your feelings. You have to say, this is what God says. I believe it because He says it, because I can't believe it by how I feel This fellow said, I heard that that morning, and he said, All of a sudden I realized I am going to believe that. I am a dead, alive man. I have died to my alcoholism and no longer has mastery over me. I refuse to let Satan use that to tell me the lie that I am under its domination, because I'm going to believe by faith that I am not. That was the last day he took a drink. In the next weeks, we began to be amazed, you know, yeah well that's good, but hang on, you know, continue with this court group. Nobody would have told him not to continue with that. But that was the last day that he had a drink. About six months later he was uh he had established himself back in a job. He uh re was reunited with his family because they had settled in another part of the country. He went there, got into a good church. And uh was reunited with his family, got his job. And some years later, he sent back a large hunk of money to our deacons Because of how they had helped him and said, God has delivered me from this. Years later, he called me up long distance to say I'm still walking with the Lord. And he said, Ever since that one day When I really understood I am not under the obligation to sin in Jesus Christ. He said, by faith, God has shown me his power. Now, I don't know what it is in your life. It may be some kind of substance abuse. I don't know what it is for you. But I know that for every one of us here, there's some area of our lives where we feel like we're under obligation to sin. Paul says, you have received the spirit of sonship. You are not under that obligation to sin any longer. The only way you and I can experience that power is by faith that we say, throughout the day, not once a day, not once a week, but throughout the day, Lord, this is what you say. I'm going to believe your word. I'm not under obligation to sin. The second area is the area of the bondage to fears and insecurity. So when you feel the fear and the insecurity that's creeping upon you, I suggest cry to your daddy. Cry to your daddy. The word remember that he uses in verse 15. A cry. The word is a word cradzo in the Greek, which means the croak of a raven when it's crying for food. Remember it's kind of a a word that sounds like what it is, you know, like buzz for bees. This is a word that sort of sounds like a croaking. And the idea is because you are in immediate distress and need. So you cry out again, not once a week. Not once in the morning, but throughout the day, by faith, you find yourself being disoriented by those fears, those insecurities, the need to control, to protect yourself, whatever it is that cripples you. At that moment, Brother and sister, cry out, Daddy, Daddy, remember I can call you Daddy. I can pray now that you will apply your promises to my life Memorize the promises that pertain to your own particular need and cry out those promises. The promises he gives are all the ones that follow right in this context. You see, it goes right on with all of these He talks about right there in verse 15 and 16, the Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit, you see, at those points, that we are God's children. Now, if we're children, then we're heirs, heirs of God, and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings. in order that we may also share in his glory. He goes on in verse 28 to talk about how all things work together for good, those that are called. To those who love him, because he's conforming us to the image of his son that he might be the firstborn of what? Many brothers. Adopted children, you see. Goes on to talk about nothing can separate us from his love. Memorize those promises. So when those fears come, you're able to say, Daddy, Daddy, help me now. I'm feeling alone. I'm feeling like you don't care. I'm feeling like I've got to protect myself. Daddy, help me to see I'm your child. Cry to him not once a day, not once a week, at every point, when those fears and those insecurities creep upon you. Know that you have us here. Just yesterday I was down with some of us here for the Operation Rescue that closed the Greenbelt Clinic. As I was walking around there, it was kinda tense for a while. There was about two hundred and fifty pro choice people there against us and about two hundred and fifty of us there and things were a little tense, you know, and I'm thinking, I really feel alone. You know, you feel where in the world are we going? I watch him take Rocket off, you know, dragging him off, arresting him, putting him into the wagon, you know, and you y you get a lot of feelings at a point like that. A lot of sense of uh aloneness It was so good to know that we, as brothers and sisters, Christ, could pray right there on the street and cry, Daddy. Daddy, we belong to you. This can't really touch us in our inner spirits because we're yours. Really works, you know. To know that a spirit will witness to you at those times you are his child. Let's pray Ah Lord our God. We all have the needs in our own lives now that uh rob us From the feeling that we're your children. Even though we've trusted Jesus, we look to Him as our substitute. We still so often feel alienated and in bondage to fear and into sin. Lord, we pray that your promises would come to us this week. And that each of us this week could try, taking you by faith. When we feel in bondage to sin, to be able to say, I am not obligated to that sin. I am able not to sin by faith in the power of the Spirit. And that we're able to, in our fears and insecurities, to cry, Daddy, Daddy, give me a promise that will show me that you're with me and what you've promised to do in my life in this time. That we might be a people of confidence and security. Lord, do that in each of our lives. And if we don't know Jesus, bring us to know him. That we might have that confidence. In Jesus name. Amen