Let me add my good morning to you. My name is Matt Bowling. I'm leader and preacher here at CPC. There is If you have uh little munchies that are having a hard time, they're wiggling, uh, there is a quiet room nursery uh that you can access to the lobby back there. There's also children's worship for children ages fourth through second grade. This morning they'll be thinking about Luke chapter 2 and verses 8 to 18 under the topic of promise proclaimed. We are working our way through a series, an Advent series, different preachers bringing different aspects of the Advent season. to our mind. This morning I'll be preaching from Hebrews chapter 1 and verses 1 to 2. Let me make one personal note before then Uh some of you know um that two weeks ago on Friday my father passed away. Um and so it uh I am definitely not my typical zippy self. Um I know it. You'll probably recognize it. So my family certainly appreciates your prayers. I do, and um trust that the Lord uh uses us in all seasons of our lives, um, including in grief. So Hebrews chapter 1, the heading here in the ESV is the supremacy of God's Son. This is the first portion of the book of Hebrews. That's the design of the writer. It's what God wanted to communicate. And so let's hear God's word as we find it here in Hebrews chapter 1 and verses 1 to 2. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, thank you that you speak at all. For if you didn't, we would know marvelously little. And so we're thankful that you speak. We're thankful that you spoke through your son. We're thankful that you gave to us the message that he spoke that final word through the Bible. And particularly this morning through this book of Hebrews and the first couple of verses. Father, for those of us that have been around Christianity for a long time, Uh it sometimes can be difficult to genuinely get excited at these truths. And yet they're profound and deep. And they should lead us to great rejoicing, just like it did for those who first heard the news about Jesus. So, Holy Spirit, would you take this word and work it in me? Work it in us in such a way that we rejoice. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I think it's a little bit ironic. that for what ends up as uh an extraordinarily busy time for us as people, um Advent by design is meant to a season meant to be a season that slows you down. Which feels uh cruel. But uh Advent as a season, why is it designed to slow you down? It's meant to slow you down so that you'd be encouraged to think carefully. To meditate on who this baby is that Mary gives birth to. You might remember that when Mary first hears this news from the angel and she's like, what, you know, that She took all these things in and she remember the word? She pondered them in her heart We're meant to do the same thing. To meditate on who this baby is that Mary gives birth to. It's that meditation that produces deep and profound gratitude and joy like the early recipients that the kids acted out this morning for us. Those early recipients had this profound gratitude and joy because they heard this good news and it was brand new to them. They heard about Jesus from the angels, and they rejoiced. You might remember the traditional Christmas hymn, What Child Is This? Which is meant to, again, help you reflect, to push you to think carefully about the identity of this baby who has come. We begin to get an answer to that question. What child is this? We begin to get an answer to this question in Hebrews chapter 1. We begin here pondering long ago when God began to give previews of Jesus coming when it was only anticipated. It hadn't happened yet. And so let's hear about that. Let's hear about some previews. Look with me at verse 1 in Hebrews chapter 1. Long ago. Well, how long ago? From probably at least Moses onward. Moses probably maybe, I don't know, 1500 BC. So that's um, I don't know, 3,500 years ago. Is that long ago enough for you? Long ago, at many times and in many ways. God's speaking has always been one of abundance. Long ago at many times in many ways God spoke. Now this is very interesting. What am I doing right now? I'm speaking. What's the the what is the way that we have relationship with speak? Think of how much life is about speaking. Well, this makes a lot of sense for us in God's image. That we speak so much because we are made in the image of the speaking God. The speaking God, if you recall all the way back in Genesis 1. And you read the account there of how there was nothing, and then God Oh come on, you can't be that asleep already. God and from nothing came everything. By the power of words, God's words. He spoke. And the universe sprung into existence. If you go just to the next verse, which Petey tried to convince me to include in this sermon, and I didn't, but here I am You go to the next verse in Hebrews He's the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. All of all of what you see. My mother, I visited my recently widowed mother this week, and she loves Christmas lights, and so we Um, an irony is Jewish mother loves Christmas lights. Anyways, but we went out driving in the country to look at Christmas lights, and it was this exceptionally clear night As we're driving in the country, there's not a lot of light around, except near people's houses, but not a lot of city light. Yeah, the stars were just bananas. And and all of that is upheld by Jesus' words You are not a jelly pile of atoms. You're not a jelly pile of atoms. Because you are personally, individually, moment by moment, upheld by the power of Jesus' word. So that God speaks is an incredibly significant thing. Well, what did he what did he speak here? He spoke to our fathers. Here you would think about this book of Hebrews is written to a Jewish audience, a Jewish Christian audience. And so this would have been thought about by that audience more than likely as the patriarchs. He spoke to our fathers, the patriarchs, by The prophets. Long ago at many times and many ways God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. Alright, let's think about this a little bit about the prophets As you would think about the Old Testament, in the Hebrew version of the Old Testament, you have the Torah, the first five books of the Bible, you have the prophets, and you have the writings. The prophets to a Jewish audience would have included these Old Testament books. They would have said that their label would have been the former prophets Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings, well, we tend to call the historical books in the English Bible. And then also the latter prophets. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the twelve, not the apostles, but the minor prophets. Why? Why did God speak? Well, so we could know. What did God speak by the prophets in many times and in many ways? He spoke, we find out, of a Messiah who was to come. Like in Psalm 2, where we read about a final king to whom we should bow down. As, well, we saw the wise men. Why do they bow down? They saw that Jesus was the final king. Which gives us some direction as to what our response should be as we would receive Jesus the Creator. We'll come back to that later. Why does God speak? God wanted his people, he wanted all people actually to understand what was coming so they could anticipate well. God wanted them to know that he cared and that he was going to do something about people and a world in pain. Why did God speak? He wanted people to know that all sin, mine, yours, that of those around us. And all of sins consequences, all the pain and sorrow and grief and troubles God spoke because he wanted people to know that all of sin's consequences would be dealt with decisively. That's why God spoke. To give us hope. Let's think about sin a little bit. Not a popular topic Remember in Matthew 1:21 what the angel tells Joseph about the son who's going to be in Mary's womb, that he is to be called Jesus. For he will save his people from their sins. That's why he gets that name You see, this is God's great concern. Sin is a big problem. Our sins need an answer. The broken world needs restoration. And it's for this reason that God sent his son to give his final answer. And so let's let's understand God's final answer secondly. Look at me at verse two. There's a series of contrasts here between verse 1 and verse 2. I'm going to try and draw them out for you. You get the idea that there's a contrast because verse 2 starts with but, which is a In grammatical speech means it's a the label for it is a strong adversive. But in these last days, the contrast here is long ago, but now in these last days. He has spoken. How has he spoken? To whom? Well, he's spoken To us, not to our forefathers, not to the patriarchs, but to the people who received us in their generation. God spoke to them personally. How did he do it? He did it not by the prophets, but by his son. Now this is surprising. You have to realize it's hard for us because it doesn't feel surprising to us. But for the first readers, it was very tons and tons of hints. about in the old in the Old Testament you get tons and tons of hints uh about the fact that although God is one, that he exists in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. That's all very familiar to us. But to these first readers This was a very odd thing to hear this kind of clarity where there had been hints before, it's kind of like it's it's right there Jesus comes and he claims to be God and he does miracles and he forgives sins and it was very disruptive. That's why when you read through the gospels, everybody's like, what? It was very, very disruptive. Because the hints were there, the shadows there, but then you get the clarity and some people by the spirits working in them, they they Put it together finally. Even the disciples who walked with him for three years, they were having a hard time putting this thing together. So we should just appreciate that And this author, we don't know, I like to call him the Hebrews author myself, but we don't know who he is. We may know in heaven or we may not care. It'll be one of those two But the Hebrews author, he's trying to convince Jews who had become Christians, they stick with Jesus. Because they were tempted to not stick with him. We'll think about what they were tempted towards in a minute here But the author here, under the inspiration of the Spirit, is trying to say, hey, listen, God's spoken. And he's spoken by his son. Let me tell you about that son. Who is he? Go on to verse two. Whom he appointed. We live here pretty close to DC, and so we hear about sort of government appointments. And we you wonder, um, is this person worthy to be the ambassador to do so-and-so? Or is it just because they gave a lot of money? Right? So we worry, is this person worthy to be appointed to this? And so that's a a legitimate question. Is this son worthy to be appointed? Well let's figure out what he's where what he's appointed to. He's the heir of a little bit. I told you my father passed away. If you go out in the parking lot, embarrassingly you will see what appears to be a contractor's vehicle because it has a ladder strapped on the top. Because I am the heir of a 24-foot extension ladder, which my wife rejoiced in. Because there's things in our house that require a 24-foot extension ladder. So I am the heir of a 24-foot extension ladder. Jesus was appointed the heir of some stuff. Is that what it says? He was appointed the heir of a few things. Is that what it says? What does it say? He was appointed the heir of Okay. Now that's a lot. Maybe that's obvious. That's a lot All of those stars that my mom and I saw when we were driving around looking at Christmas lights. You, me, everything on earth. Everything in the gigantic universe, Jesus is appointed the heir, the rightful recipient of all. How could that be? How how uh why would that happen I wouldn't um well let's go on. Now I'll come back to another thought demand He's appointed the heir of all things. And you're like, okay, but why would he be worthy of that? And you get the punchline at the end of verse 2. And I'll say it in this way on purpose. Through whom also we created the world. Um you get a line like this in Genesis 1 in Hebrew when you read Genesis 1 and the creation account. It's kind of like he made the sun and the moon and and and the stars. And you and you get this, it's it's not quite a throwaway like in theater, but it's kind of like the the punchline comes at the end and it's meant to like really sink in on you. Okay, so what this is saying. Is that God the Father, who spoke by our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he's spoken to us by a Son, whom the Father appointed the heir of all things, this Son is the one through whom he created the world. That we're told about that baby that we had little major right here, right? That baby? He's the one that made everything. That's what this is saying. And so Jesus being appointed the heir of all things, it makes sense for two reasons. One, he made everything, and two, he came to live and die and rise and ascend and be seated at his father's right hands. He is the rightful heir because he has restored everything. He made everything and he did everything needful that everything could be restored, and thus he's, if you will, he's the double heir of all things. That's who the baby is. That's the enormity of what's being said at Advent. God's final answer comes through his son, Jesus. Long ago and in many times in many ways. They were in the era of anticipation, but for us, anticipation is is over. We have the answer, and if we will pay attention to it. We can see that it's beautiful, it's wonderful, because this this answer, this final speaking that God does, he says it's it's in my sending of my one and only Son. It's in my sending of Jesus. We read a little bit earlier in the service This isn't the only place that Jesus has spoken of as the agent of creation. We read a little bit earlier in service from John 1. 1 that God was there. He was God. He was there with God in the beginning. You read the same thing in Colossians 1. 16. Jesus, um this is crazy talk. This is crazy talk. That the one who made everything He the one who made everything and then everything broke. That the one who made everything said, Yeah, I'm committed to that I I'm gonna go there. And I'm gonna do everything that's needed to fix it Jesus, who made all things very good, he saw the desperation of the world. A holy night. Gives us this. For me this week, a very memorable phrase. The weary world. Jesus, who made all things very good, saw the desperation in the weary world, and he came down. What did that coming down involve? This is a complex thought that I'm going to try and give you without being heretical, but also trying to be careful and help you get it. You should not miss the enormity of what went on in Jesus coming down, as the creed puts it, for us and for our salvation. The creator. added the creation to himself forever. Where is Jesus Somebody tell me, where is Jesus? At God's right hand. Is he in a body? Say it louder, please. Is he in a body? Will he be in a body forever? That is crazy. And it's true. The Creator added the creation to himself forever, so that what was lost could be found, rescued, and restored That includes what Jesus came to rescue and restore, the whole weary world. And its weary, broken, wandering, sinful inhabitants. People like you and me. Um one of my one of my habits in Advent each year is I always listen through Handel's Messiah. I'm driving the contractor's vehicle across country starting on Wednesday, and I will listen to Handel's Messiah as I go across country back to my house in Idaho. That's one of my habits. The second habit that I try and do is I try and read one of the classic books each year on why did Jesus have to become man? The Church Father and Soum. uh wrote a book called Curdeus Homo, Why Why the God Man? It's incredibly instructive and helpful and not difficult in English scientific to read. Why did we need A Savior who was both God and man. The catechism, Hadibur Catechism puts it this way. This is uh Haddebar Catechism 14 and 15. Here's the question. Can another creature, any at all, pay this debt of sin for us? Answer. No. To begin with, God will not punish any other creature for what a human is guilty of. Furthermore, no mere creature can bear the weight of God's eternal wrath against sin and deliver others. From it. What kind of mediator and deliverer should we look for then? Answer. One who is a true and righteous human Yet more powerful than all creatures, that is one who is also true God. What we needed, we have received That is what God has spoken to us by his son. Well, what's the right response then? To this creator who's come down putting on creation for our sakes. The response That we're called to is to receive Jesus, the Creator. In the big picture of the book of Hebrews, the main issue, as I said, the author was seeking to address was that Jewish believers were tempted to waver on trusting in Jesus alone as their only hope. They were tempted to turn back. So old covenant ceremonies. You get this as you go through the whole book of Hebrews. But and why would they be tempted to turn back to them? Well, they were familiar. They were earthy. And that I think should be understandable to us. But there was a problem with it. They were going back to the temporary things, the shadows, when they had the reality. And so that was offensive to God. They were offending God the Father who had sent his son. They were offending Jesus who had come down for them by going back to the shadows when they had the substance of the reality. They didn't need to go back. But they were. Now, more than likely, if this is a typical room for me, I'm typically one or the only one who's a Jew But though you're not Jews who are tempted to go back to old covenant ceremonies, at least I haven't heard that yet. There's a lot here that I haven't heard, though, so let me know. Um though you're likely not Jews. It's tempted to go back to old covenant ceremonies. We should not be so self-righteous as to think that we're immune. That we're immune from turning away from soul reliance on Jesus. And instead turning to something else more familiar, perhaps more earthy instead. Isn't that really the heart of idolatry? To orient your life around, even for a moment, to orient your life around something that is made instead of the Maker. The call in this book of Hebrews is to stick with Jesus. And that's very needed even for us. What are we doing? when we in a daily lifestyle live out repentance and faith. What are we doing? We're turning in repentance from an idol That we worshiped even for a moment, that's really what sin is, if you have gone that deep into your own heart and realized, oh, I was worshiping something else. That's why I chose to sin. And you should go that deep and understand that that's exactly what's going on. Every time you've sinned, you've worshipped something that's not Jesus. So in repentance, we look at that, we go, hmm, yeah, not so good. That's not going to deliver. And we go, I'm turning from that And instead, I'm turning back to Jesus. I'm going to stick with Jesus. I'm not going to try and solve my own problem and rule my own life in the way that is not going to work. That's what repentance and faith is. It's very needed for us as we turn from idols that ultimately won't satisfy Jesus alone. Now, maybe for some of you listening here or on the live stream, you haven't started that journey of walking with Jesus. And God's call to you would begin would be to begin sticking with Jesus. To put down your project of self-salvation. That's really what we're doing when we sin. We're trying to save ourselves in a moment or for a lifetime. And instead turn to Jesus that he might save us. Why would you do that? Well, this text tells you that Jesus is the one who created the world. And as Creator, he has authority over you. He has authority over me. He has a rightful authority over everybody, actually, and everything, which is why he's the heir of all things. So, as the one who has authority, what Jesus says is that one day he will judge. And the safe place to be on judgment day is to be trusting in Christ. How does that happen? How does somebody come to trust in Christ, to start sticking with Jesus? Well, the major thing I think to think about in this context is to relinquish self-rule. To relinquish self-rule. You can think of coming to Christ as relinquishing and relying. I relinquish my own self-rule and I come and I rely upon Jesus instead of myself. I receive Him as my creator, Lord. Have you done that? Have you done that? It was the point of Jesus coming at Advent. What was the point? It's so that people like you and me could be in God's family forever. I loved Pete's answer. so that we could be in God's family forever. You realize that's amazing? That God wanted somebody like me and his family. Is amazing. Even more amazing was the extent to which God went to make that possible for us. We're going to celebrate the Lord's Supper this morning. And the table speaks to you of the extent that God went to so that you could be in his family. It was to the death. The death of the Creator, Son of God, who came in flesh It's serious. It's deadly serious. Christianity is a very serious business. It's a joyful one. But it's a serious business. Because sin is a serious business. Advent is joyous because Jesus came to fill our biggest need, that our shame and our guilt and our fear could be removed. Forever. And so let's renew receiving Jesus as we come with prayer to the Lord's table. Let's pray Father, thank you that you have spoken You've spoken clearly, definitively, helpfully, but it is challengingly. For you come to us and you you speak to us a command to repent and to believe the good news about Jesus Would you help us to receive Jesus our Creator, Lord, to keep relinquishing, or maybe even for the first time, to relinquish self-rule? And to rely on Jesus, knowing how much we need Him. Help us to rejoice. For you're worthy of it. The news is good We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.