Please be seated. Well, I have a lot of papers to lay out in order here today, so take it take the time to turn in your Bibles. To Philemon one chapter. We're going to be looking at verses 17 through 20 All right. Please join me in prayer before I read God's word for us. Almighty God, we prayed it Lord, we would not forfeit peace as that melody suggested to our minds, Lord, so beautifully played for us just a moment ago, Lord. Help us not to forfeit peace by neglecting your word. Help us to know that your word is something you powerfully that we might be led forth with joy and peace. And Lord, we pray to that end that you would bless this reading of your word. Lord, it's a part of your word that convicts deeply. It stirs powerfully. It convicts Lord, we pray that this would be your work, not that of a preacher. And Lord, we pray that from the preacher to the pew. that all of us might encounter you in the reading of your word. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, may it be a blessing in as much as it is faithful We ask these things in the name of Jesus, the Word made flesh, our living hope. Amen Philemon, beginning with verse 17, the Word of God. So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me. If he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, charge that to my account. I, Paul, write this with my own hand. I will repay it, to say nothing of your owing me even your own self. Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. This ends the reading of God's Word. Many of you, well some of you at least, have known me since I was a a child. And you might remember that when I was ten, eleven, twelve years old, I was a very moody child. I had what my parents colloquially referred to as a chip on my shoulder most of the time. So much so that I had A doctor diagnosed me with gastritis, and I had to take two malocks every day to deal with some of my anger. And I lived my life by a code that prevailed for much, much of America's history. And the code was simply this. If you trouble me, I'm going to trouble you even more. You might not be aware of this, perhaps you are, especially if you've studied literature at the university level. But Southern society going back before the Great Awakening, the Second Great Awakening, so we're talking really uh during the 1700s, was built on and deliberately trying to imitate chivalry. Western Europe, the notion of dueling primarily dominating. And if you, like I did at university, study history and are interested in American history, you'll know that dueling was a significant part of culture in this country Some of you have seen Hamilton. That was par for the course. And if you do a deep dive into the history of the colonies, you'll realize that it was no terribly uncommon thing. for friends to get into a fight verbally, have it escalate to knives, and end with one dead This did not stop being a significant feature in our nation's culture until the Second Great Awakening. when the gospel made deep inroads into the hearts of people and transformed towns, cities, states. In the 19th century, there was a Scottish theologian and pastor named George Smeaton, and he said something that I encountered in my theology studies that made an impact. He said that Christians don't have a corner on creating moral people. This is in a book on sanctification, The Doctrine of Sanctification by George Meet, still in print, solid gold. And he begins to recount everything from the Scottish common sense realism of his day all the way back to the Greek Stoics and said they had many, many, many instances in the history of just our Western civilization. that have produced very fine, self-controlled people who adhere to a code of conduct and standards that we would find admirable. Maybe that we would even describe as righteous. But he said there was one thing Christians did through time. It was utterly unique. We forgive people. How many of you know the Bible verse? And please don't break my heart, raise your hand. Love your neighbor as yourself I'm very happy to see those hands go up. Jesus called it the second great commandment, a natural and immediate and essential outgrowth to loving the Lord your God with heart, soul, mind, and strength. But I would dare to say not many of us know that that verse finds its first expression in Leviticus chapter 19. And perhaps even fewer of us know that it's the second half of a verse. Not even the main idea. This is what we read in Leviticus chapter 19, verse 18. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. So the foundation for God's will that we love our neighbors are that we not do those two things that are utterly counter to the principle of love. That we not seek revenge. And that we not bear a grudge. Now go back to the Bobby Dirkus that some of you knew back in the late 70s and early 80s. That's my name if you're visiting the church. I was all about taking revenge and bearing a grudge. And with my little chip on a shoulder, in fact, I think I had chips on both shoulders. I would bide my time and wait for a time to either give you a zinger with a sharp tongue or throw a rock at you and hit you in the back of the head, which I did at a church picnic once. I did not share that with the search committee. But I'll tell you something else that happened to me as a child here. And I'm going to rely upon the memories of some of you that lived in this area for 30 or 40 or 50 years. But just south of Route 40, somewhere there between uh where Rolling Road and 29 cross Route 40, there used to be a Christian bookstore prior to his way moving out to Route 40. I think it was called Peter, Paul, and Mary or something like that. Did I get it right? Yes, I did. Thank you. Thank you, David. Now, when I was a boy, another thing that happened in my life is my folks would take us there once in a while. And they had something amazing that a young Neo-Puritan kid like me with an anger problem generally I wasn't allowed to read comic books because they were just a bunch of scantily clad people running around being buffoons. But they had comic books at the Christian bookstore. They had a comic book about Tom Landry's life and testimony. And it was very, very hard for me to resist the temptation to become a Dallas Cowboys fan. I did resist. They had a comic book about Nicky Cruz, The Cross and the Switchblade. And I learned about the power of the gospel. They had a comic book about, and it was a series of stories about people that would smuggle Bibles across the Iron Curtain. And they had a comic book about someone whose name might make some of you kids think, well, surely this person is a rapper. A comic book about someone named Corey Ten Boom. Not a rapper. Corey Tenboom was a teenage girl during the height of the Nazi expansion in World War II. She was a Dutch girl. And she and her sister were arrested for hiding Jewish people in their home and sent to a concentration camp where Cory Tenboom's little sister died. In that comic book, I came across this account, which she later details in her autobiography. I want to read to you. It was in a church in Munich that I saw him, a balding, heavy-set man in a gray overcoat, a brown felt hat clutched between his hands. People were filing out of the basement room where I had just spoken, moving along the rows of wooden chairs to the door at the rear. It was 1947, and I had come from Holland to defeated Germany with the message that God forgives. It was the truth they needed most to hear in that bitter, bombed-out land, and I gave them my favorite mental picture. Maybe because the sea is never far from a Hollander's mind, I like to think. That that's where forgiven sins were thrown. When we confess our sins, I said, God casts them into the deepest ocean, gone forever. The solemn faces stared back at me, not quite daring to believe. There were never questions after a talk in Germany in 1947. People stood up in silence, in silence collected their wraps, in silence left the room. And that's when I saw him, working his way forward against the others. One moment I saw the overcoat and the brown hat. The next, a blue uniform and a visored cap with its skull and crossbones. It came back with a rush. The huge room with its harsh overhead lights, the pathetic pile of dresses and shoes in the center of the floor, the shame of walking naked past this man. I could see my sister's frail form ahead of me, ribs sharp beneath the parchment skin. Betsy, how thin you were. Betsy and I had been arrested for concealing Jews in our home during the Noxia occupation of Holland. This man had been a guard at Ravensbrook concentration camp where we were sent. Now he was in front of me, hand thrust out. A fine message, Frulein. How good it is to know that, as you say, all our sins are at the bottom of the sea. And I, who had spoken so glibly of forgiveness, fumbled in my pocketbook rather than take that hand. He would not remember me, of course. How could he remember one prisoner among those thousands of women? But I remembered him. And the leather crop swinging from his belt. It was the first time since my release that I had been face to face with one of my captors, and my blood seemed to freeze. You mentioned Ravensbrook in your talk, he was saying. I was a garden there. No, he did not remember me. But since that time he went on, I have become a Christian. I know that God has forgiven me for the cruel things I did there. I would like to hear it from your lips as well. Fralein, will you forgive me? And I stood there I whose sins had every day to be forgiven, and could not. Betsy had died in that place. Could he erase her slow terrible death simply for the asking? It could not have been many seconds that he stood there, handheld out, but to me it seemed hours, as I wrestled with the most difficult thing I had ever had to do. For I had to do it. I knew that. The message that God forgives has a prior condition, that we forgive those who have injured us. If you do not forgive men their trespasses, Jesus says, neither will your Father in heaven forgive your trespasses. I knew it not only as a commandment of God, but as a daily experience. Since the end of the war, I had had a home in Holland for victims of Nazi brutality. Those who were able to forgive their former enemies were able also to return to the outside world and rebuild their lives, no matter what the physical scars. Those who nursed their bitterness remained invalids. It was as simple and horrible as that. And still I stood there with the coldness clutching my heart. But forgiveness is not an emotion. I knew that too. Forgiveness is an act of the will, and the will can function regardless of the temperature of the heart. Jesus, help me, I prayed silently. I can lift my hand. I can do that much. You supply the feeling. And so, woodenly, mechanically, I thrust my hand into the one stretching out to me. And as I did, an incredible thing took place. The current started in my shoulder, raced down my arms, sprang into our joint hands, and then this healing warmth seemed to flood my whole being, bringing tears to my eyes. I forgive you, brother, I cried, with all my heart. For a long moment we grasped each other's hands, the former guard and the former prisoner I had never known God's love so intensely as I did then I've been in ordained ministry since 1999, and there are two questions I have been asked probably more than any other. From people of every age, every station in life, every degree of spiritual maturity. The first one is how do I really repent? The second was, how can I really forgive? Because people think they've forgiven someone of something, and yet they're still angry, they're still bitter, they still mistreat them. They still seek vengeance. And for the sensitive, sensible Christian, this causes great inner conflict and distress. And I share the struggle of the commitment to forgive with all of you. But there are some things I've learned from my study of Philemon that have been such a great blessing to me. And it is my deepest desire that you will see how these are things Corey Tenboom understood as well. And they could unleash the very power of God to revive us. If we would in our families, in our marriages, in our neighborhoods, among our siblings, in our church. Embrace and enact forgiveness based on principles like these. There's three things in that all-too common rule of three The Apostle Paul commands after saying he wasn't going to make a command, but rather plead. There's three things in imperative moods here. And they don't necessarily stipulate what is going to happen in the future moving forward with Onesimus and Paul. But nonetheless, they're commands that we all as Christians have to encounter in our lives as often as we've been hurt, frightened, destroyed, upset, betrayed. Just a little recap. Feileman was a homeowner. An established Christian, a friend, perhaps a disciple of Paul, someone that it is most likely Paul led to Christ, based on this verse, where Paul says, to say nothing of your owing me, even your own self. Onesimus also is someone who came to know Christ through Paul's ministry. Philemon was the wealthy homeowner, large estate, a church could meet in his home. He had slaves, and about a third of the people living in one of these Roman cities around Coliseo would have been slaves. Onesimus was a slave, almost certainly born a slave because his name meant useful. He had run away, stolen things. And in that culture at that time, that was a capital offense. It would have scandalized and brought shame to the entire household of Philemon. Slaves then were not like the chattel slaves of the Deep South before the Civil War. Slaves at that time were often given High degrees of training. And this is a shock to some of you, and some of you might have words for me later. But if you were a lawyer or a dentist in the first century Greek world, there's a really good chance you were a slave. Who had received that training as part of the investment your owner put in you. You could own personal private property, you could marry, you could have kids. There's all kinds of things that were different in that culture than in the 19th century culture. So we have to focus in on that and recognize the difference. But nonetheless, we also have to realize that it was not a place you'd really want to be. It wasn't a place with honor. It wasn't a place with civil opportunity, responsibility, dignity. And so people would run away. Understandably so. A part of me would like to think I would. Donesimus runs away and meets Paul, and he becomes a Christian. And it is determined somehow in conference we don't know about. That Onesimus should go back and be reconciled to Philemon because two brothers should not have this scandal between them. So Onesimus goes, taking a great risk. He could have been put to death. Fahlemann would have been well within his rights. Legally at that time, it would have been expected. And Paul writes back after encouraging Philemon to use his sanctified imagination to imagine that perhaps the reason Philemon was separated from him for an hour was so that Onesimus could come to know Christ and return so much more. And that's where we have these three commands that help us understand what forgiveness looks like. The first is a command to receive the sinner. Paul writes, so if you consider me your partner, that's the word quininea, if you consider me one with whom you share this relationship. this mutual commitment to Christ through faith and repentance. If you consider me really your brother, do this. Receive him as you would receive me. Now it's one thing to say receive him. Say, yeah, well I can receive him. I'll receive him all right. Let me go get get a large stick. But he says, receive him as you would receive me. Now Martin Luther, the great Protestant reformer, writing after his 95 theses are posted on the door in Wittenberg. He is commenting, preaching from this text, and he says, here we see a wonderful exchange. Because what the Apostle Paul shows us how to do here, dear Christian, is how to apply the gospel of Jesus Christ and the forgiveness that's ours to our relationships with other people. Paul is specifically and deliberately putting himself in the position of Christ intermaking inter uh mediating between a sinner and a master. Just like Jesus interposes himself between you and the Father. Paul interposes himself between Onesimus and Philemon. Follow me on this. Jesus Christ pays the penalty for your sins, and he says to the Father, welcome, receive Bobby Bjerkus, the angry two-chip on the shoulder. Freak boy who throws rocks at people at church picnics. Receive him as you'd receive me, because I've covered his debt. I did nothing to earn the favor and the welcome the Father gives me. Jesus did that. And Paul here is saying, receive this guy who sinned against you, this runaway slave, this thief. the scandalizer of your reputation and your name. Receive him the way you would receive an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ who brought you to faith How can you do that? Paul is in a sense imputing his righteousness to Onesimus. And he's saying, Philemon, you receive that person as if that person is me. And Philemon, treat me the way he should be treated. It's not just receive the sinner by this imputed righteousness, but it is resolving the debt. Yeah you see, sometimes when bad things happen, my kids would often I have four kids and since none of them are here and can defend themselves I can speak freely. My my kids would often hurt each other, mostly with words. Sometimes with actions. And when I would confront them as their father and say, you need to be reconciled. You need to ask for forgiveness. My one child would say, sometimes meaning it, I'm sorry I said that, I'm sorry I did that, will you please forgive me And my other child would say, oh, don't worry about it. It was nothing. Have you ever had a conversation like that? And I would always stop it right there and say, no, it is not nothing. It is something. And the debt has to be paid. You see, when you hurt or you offend someone, or when you are hurt or you are offended, something Of great significance has happened. And we can't simply forgive people by pretending that it really wasn't that important. We can only forgive them by taking the great importance and the gravity of the sin that was perpetrated against us and resolving it. Not ignoring it, not denying it. And how do we as Christians resolve the offenses others have committed against us? What if they're dead and we struggle with bitterness and anger? What if they have no interest in having a relationship with us and we're left sleepless, with a knot in our stomach, maybe crying every day. We can resolve such debts. In Matthew chapter 18, there's a fascinating parable that Jesus tells where he says, the kingdom of heaven is like an owner, like a master, like a rich man, a prince who has a servant who owes him millions of dollars. And he summons that servant before him and he says, You owe me millions of dollars, give it to me now, or I'll throw you in debtor's prison, and until your friends collect the money and give it to me to pay your bail, you'll be in prison. And the man falls down before the great master and says, Forgive me, I can't pay it. And the master, full of pity and mercy, says, I will forgive your debt. Pays it basically himself, eats the loss, and lets that servant go free. And that servant then encounters someone who owes him a couple of dollars. And he beats that man and he says, you owe me five dollars. Give it to me now or you're going to prison. And the man falls down and begs for mercy. And the person who'd been forgiven millions of dollars refuses to forgive and has that man thrown in prison. And the great master hears about this and summons that fellow before him and says, because I heard you did this, you're going to prison. until every last penny is paid. Now I want you to think about that parable in context. Because that parable comes immediately after Jesus had just told his disciples that they had to forgive people not seven times. but 77 times or 7 times 70 times, depending on your translation. Do you think that those 69 previous requests for forgiveness were genuine? Any takers on that? If I were to talk to somebody earlier this week and we were talking about this very text, I said, suppose I were to punch you in the face 69 times. And each time, you know, and they separate maybe a couple days between each punch, so just enough time for you to heal up a little bit. I mean by the time I punched you like 40 or 50 times and said, I'm so sorry, will you forgive me? Do you still have to forgive me? What are the, on what human metrics could you begin to imagine that I was sincere in my apology? You see, Jesus is saying something radical. Because we have been forgiven so much, we can forgive. And there is nothing you can ever do to me. that is anywhere near as significant as the sins I have committed against my Maker. Because he is a holy and an infinite God who is nothing but love and mercy and grace to creation that abandon him neglected him, suppressed the truth of who he is, and chosen to worship creaturely things rather than our Maker. And there's nothing that you can do to me that I cannot take And write down in my book, opening my ledger of wrongs committed and forgiven, and say, okay, I'm going to write this down. So and so did this against me. God, the living God, has commanded me not to bear a grudge, not to record wrongs. Not to take vengeance. And all of a sudden I notice what that God has done for me. And all of a sudden, I realize I'm the manager. Who went out looking for my $5. And I can be reminded of how much I've been forgiven. And I can resolve the debt by recognizing that in terms of the forgiveness equation, I have been forgiven so much that it costs me nothing. To forgive you of everything. And so my marriage can heal. My kids can love me. I can love my kids I can hug my parents when I see them. You see, all of these relationships which I've just shared with you are relationships in which sins, some of them great, have taken place. But they are all sins. As dreadful as they are, if I keep my eyes on the horizon of this world, begin to look very, very small when I look at how much I've been forgiven. And my heart is able to be refreshed How can you forgive, receive the sinner, resolve the debt, impute it to the mediator who says, I long for you to forgive that person, charge it to me. And then you go and you write it in the book under their name and realize that the one who has asked you to forgive them has delivered your soul from hell itself. Refresh the heart of the mediator. Paul writes to the Corinthians and he says, Find out what pleases the Lord. And I am persuaded that one thing that pleases the Lord more than anything else that I can do is when I imitate Him by forgiving somebody who sinned against me. By not insisting upon their pound of flesh. And how easy it is for me to say, I forgive you, but these are all the consequences. And is my heart full of love for them and grace and compassion for the sinner when I enumerate all of the new rules and the new realities? Or have I offered some counterfeit version of forgiveness that stopped somewhere short of welcoming? Onesimus, as if he were Saint Paul himself. When the Apostle Paul says, Yes, brother, I want benefit from you in the Lord, refresh my heart in Christ. refresh, to repristinate, to make new again, to regenerate, to enliven, to cause, to beat. Paul has noticed that Philemon in the past, if you look at verse 7, Paul says, there, I have derived much joy and comfort from your love. Philemon, because the hearts of the saints have been repressed through you. And think about what that verse is saying. I, Paul, have derived much joy and comfort from Philemon's love, my brother. my koinonia, my partner in the faith of Christ, because you have refreshed the hearts of other people. Paul's heart beats with joy because Philemon has blessed third parties. And Paul here, very skillfully interposing himself as Christ in this great model of the gospel being applied to broken relationships, he says, Jesus has a heart that thrills. When you love and receive and forgive the person who hurt you. To refresh the heart of Christ. We spend our lives wanting Christ to refresh our hearts. Restore to me the joy of my salvation. Common theme of my prayers. You know what else should be a more common theme of my prayers than that? Lord Jesus, help me to refresh your heart as I find out what pleases you and forgive people who have hurt me and love them and welcome them. And it is a funny thing, dear friend, that when you resolve to love and forgive that way. Repentance, true repentance, is far more likely to be a result. Because both repentance and forgiveness is both repentance and forgiveness, they're promises that look forward. After I've punched you in the face 49 times, And I say, please forgive me. I repent. I'm promising that I'm going to change. You know, metanoia. I'm going to change the way I behave. And very often I'll fail in that. And lo and behold, you're getting punched a 50th time. If, however, you say I forgive you, Bob, and you love me, and you see how these things begin to reinforce each other mutually? I've watched this happen in marriages where I've been privileged to counsel as a pastor, with parents and kids, where I've been privileged to be there as a counselor I've watched this happen in my own life. And I can honestly stand before you and say that in the footsteps of Jesus and Corey Ten Boom I've learned some hard lessons about forgiveness. I learned them from Philemon. That when I look at the person that hurts me, if they have named the name of Christ, Remember, what I do for the least of these I have done for Christ, according to Matthew 25, and that includes prisoners. And who are the least of the prisoners? Those are the ones who are really guilty. And in as much as I have welcomed or received or visited or given water to them, Jesus says, you've done that for me. You've welcomed me. And this picture of how we are to treat people in light of who Christ is and what he's done for us and how he wants us to proactively, unilaterally treat other people in certain ways. What if we were to go back and revisit the wise words of George Smeaton sitting in his pastor's study in the 1800s in Scotland? And say that one thing distinctive that we can offer this world by way of witness is this. We can forgive. And if we were experts at it. And if our forgiveness looked like this, if you name the name of Christ, I will embrace you as if you're Christ Himself. And if you have wronged me, I will mark it up to Christ's account and compare it to what I've been forgiven, and we're okay. And I am going to bless your heart and in so doing cause heaven to celebrate. Wouldn't you love it if your pastor was like that? Wouldn't you love it if you were like that? If your spouse was like that? Your kids were like that The absolute beauty of the life we live on this side of heaven is that by the grace of God and the power of his Holy Spirit, we are invited to be like that. And beloved, we can be like that. Can I get an amen? Can I get a bigger amen? I can't tell you how happy and peaceful I have been when I have forgiven people that hurt me. And newsflash, I've forgiven people that never apologized. I do not see that as a necessity in the Bible. Abigail asks David to forgive Nabal, her deadbeat bum of a husband, and David forgives him. Nabal never asked for it. And I've been asked to forgive people who sinned against me by someone far nicer than Abigail. I've been asked to forgive by Jesus. And so I can. And so can you. Forgiveness. Forgiveness is what marks out the Christian. Forgiveness is what marks out our testimony and our witness. Forgiveness is what you need, dear friend. Wouldn't it be something if every sin you ever committed was forgiven? Cast into the depths of the deepest sea, the very Marianus Trench, the lowest point of it. And when God says in the book of Isaiah, come, let us reason together. Though your sins be as scarlet, I will wash them whiter than snow. He's saying to you, all you need to do is come and receive my grace and my love, and you will be forgiven. Repentance is you recognizing your sin and coming to Jesus and letting Him throw it away. And resolve that debt, that you might be received as a child by God Himself, and that you might have joy. that others in this room might have joy, and that the triune God himself might sing a hymn of happiness. Almighty God, we ask your blessing on us. Lord, we confess that we live in very trying times where outrage and suspicion are the bywords of our world. Father, we long to be different than that. We deeply desire to love even our enemies and to forgive those who have hurt us. Father, help us to be wise and faithful and bold and daring in our forgiveness, knowing that you are strong. And you are loving, and we can safely follow in your footsteps, no matter what the waves and the wind are doing. Oh Lord Jesus, Impress upon each one of our hearts and fill our minds with the magnitude of what we've been forgiven, that we might truly be quick to forgive. Lord Jesus, we pray that you would help each one of us to see just how beloved we are by the Father who welcomes us as if we were you, Jesus. Because we are in you by grace through faith in your Spirit's work and help us to love and welcome even those who have sinned against us. And Lord Jesus, we pray for grace and mercy. We pray for growth in our obedience. We pray for true repentance for ourselves and for those who've sinned against us. Above all, we pray for you, Jesus, that you would be present by your Spirit. Make us different people each day as we come to know you better, to embrace our hope and to experience your power These are our prayers in the name of Jesus Christ, our beautiful Savior. And all God's people said.