If you have your Bibles with you today, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to Paul's letter to Philemon. This will be the third Sunday where we've looked at Paul's letter to Philemon. And this morning I'll be reading for us verses 8 through 14. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. Lord, we thank you for its truth and for its beauty And Lord, we pray that you would help us to understand it rightly. Holy Spirit, work in us that we might have eyes that see and ears that hear. Lord, the reading of your word is precious to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, we pray that inasmuch as it is a faithful echo of what you have said in your holy word, Lord, make it memorable. Lord, give it the impact that it needs in my heart, in my mind, and in those that listen. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Paul's letter to Philemon, the Word of God, beginning with verse 8. Accordingly, Though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required, yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my child, Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart. I would have been glad to keep him with me in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel. But I preferred to do nothing without your consent, in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion, but of your own accord. This ends the reading of God's Word. One of the things I got to do this week was I got to have lunch with Sandy Sharp. who Sandy Sharp had to suffer through two lunches back to back with me. So keep him in your prayers as he recovers. But at that first lunch It was the second lunch. We were joined by Greg Hill, who is the regional MTW director. That's our mission to the World Agency for our denomination, and Jeff Brown. And is Jeff Brown here? Is that you over there? There he is. All right. Now Jeff, I'm going to try to get the details right. If I don't, remember, stoning is no longer an option. So Jeff was telling me an amazing story. He was telling us about his time and about how he would be walking back to his apartment And he saw this one Japanese guy and he kept thinking, Lord, give me some opportunity to talk to him. And one day he was like, Well, I prayed, and he's there, and I'm here. Why don't I go talk to him? And believing that God had heard and answered his prayer, he saw that as an opportunity. And it's not like he waited for that man to, you know, drop a quarter on the ground and have it roll and land at Jeff's feet and y you know, some divine miraculous thing that would draw him to him. No, no. Jeff said, I'm going to go talk to him. And so Jeff went and talked to him, had a great conversation, was able to speak of some of the things of the Lord And begin a relationship. Jeff, did I get that more or less right? Phew. But I want you to think about what Jeff did. If you know Jeff, and I've gotten to know Jeff a little bit, he's not the most outgoing guy in the world. But he trusted and he had faith that he offered a prayer, that God heard it And he could go in faith. I want you to think about a meme that maybe you've seen on your Facebook feed at some point or other. And it's one of those things that it uh it hits deep. And it talks about a prayer meeting for rain in a rural farming community, and only one person brings an umbrella. Now, so often we praise so many things, but we don't do anything That indicates we actually believe that what we prayed is actually either real or going to happen We take no personal responsibility. We have no agency when it comes to assuming that God has heard us, that he answers us, and I can now step out in faith. And that's why hearing Jeff talk about praying for an opportunity and then seizing the day, making the most of every opportunity because the days are evil to Take Carpe Diem and put it back in the words of Ephesians 5. That is the Christian life in so many respects. And that's what we so often miss. My assessment of my own life as a Christian man is that in prayer my theology is actually pretty, pretty good. But in practice, my confidence that my prayers are heard and answered could be far, far better. I want you to think about something that matters a lot to you, whatever it is. And imagine you have prayed about it. What now? Give you a second to think about that. Now I want to tell you a very familiar story. There was this apostle named Paul, and he's sitting in prison in Rome. And some guy named Onesimits, who's a runaway slave from the area of Asia Minor, what we call Turkey today. somehow met him while he's under some form of house arrest. And in the course of their interactions, the Apostle Paul leads this Young man to Christ. This fellow Onesimus becomes his son while Paul is in chains. Paul becomes the spiritual father to Onesimus. And he loves Onesimus. He is passionately, positively engaged with the bright prospects of this young Christian man, perhaps thinking he could be a pillar in the church, the next great missionary. A faithful elder or deacon, someone who will love their family well and be a beacon of God's grace in a dark world. This man becomes Paul's very heart. And Paul discovers That Onesimus is a runaway slave who ran away from another person who is very dear to Paul, from a church that is very dear to Paul. And Paul sees an opportunity for the gospel to demonstrate its power and its truth. And so Paul takes a risk that I would dare say I probably wouldn't. Don't say that to boast. Say that as something of a embarrassing qualification. Paul is a better man than me, but I will try to be like him. Amen. Jesus is a better man than Paul. Paul was trying to be like his Savior. You see, Paul was committed to a gracious, gospel-driven optimism with respect to the people he knew that had named the name of Christ. Last week we looked at his prayer, and we saw that Paul was full of gratitude in his heart every time he remembered in his prayers people like Philemon. his most probably his wife Athea, Paul's dear sister, and Archipus, probably an elder or a leader in the church that met in the home of Philemon. He knew that Philemon was a man who loved and had faith in the Lord Jesus and loved the saints. And he doubled down on his conviction that I can with joy and gratitude think about who you are in Jesus because you actually know Christ. What a thought. Therefore, I can make a daring and a bold assumption of God's grace and power and look for the best, look for the good. Trust, remember, love always trusts. Hope. Remember, love always hopes. And Paul is willing to actually take an issue that concerns his very heart. Pray for rain and carry an umbrella. There are three things in the verses that I read for you that really stun me. That really make me sit up straight in my office chair and say, oh Paul, are you sure you want to do it that way? The first one is that Paul, because of what he believes to be true of the gospel, of the power of God who works in God's people, And in Philemon, being a Christian, Paul does something radical. Paul offers an appeal, not a command. And verse 8, accordingly. Notice, because I pray with thanksgiving and joy when I think of you, because I know that you know Jesus, even if you're a baby Christian, I know that You love the Lord and have faith in Him, and you have refreshed the hearts of the saints, and I'm sure you're going to refresh my heart. I'm confident of it. Therefore, accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you. Paul had the authority. He had the privilege. He had the personal leverage. As we'll find out later in his book, Paul led Philemon to Christ. Paul could have said, okay, this concerns my heart, so you know what? I could go here and you know, realistically speaking, Christians sin a lot and they fail a lot. So I could say maybe there's a 50-50 chance he's going to do the right thing. I'm not going to give him the option. I'm going to just come right out and say it, Philemon. Here's what you're going to do. Now I think of myself as a pastor. And there have been times I have been bold Perhaps to the point of arrogance, and told people what was going to happen next. How long do you think that lasts? Do you think it comes from the real heart and mind and the very spirit of the person who is doing my bidding? I'm not persuaded that that is an effective way to really accomplish much. And when your children are small, You have to be very, very direct with them and give them clear commands. And when things are very egregious and very blunt and very desperate. Sometimes even as adults. I think police officers at a crime scene or after a natural disaster. But as often as not Playing that bold authoritative card and expecting that I can impose my will on a situation by fiat unilaterally. It's not the most effective way to have a happy marriage. It's not the most effective way. To have relationships with the people sitting in the pew next to you, behind you, in front of you. Although these aren't really pews, are they? And it's not what Paul does. He doesn't do it here. He doesn't do it in Philippians chapter 4, when he entreats Eude and Syntaik to get along. He doesn't do it in Philippians chapter 3 when there are people who don't agree with him on the doctrine of sanctification. Why doesn't he do it? I think we see part of that in 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Pardon me, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. When Paul thinks about his ministry, he thinks about it as a ministry of reconciliation. Fundamentally, he is seeking to reconcile men and women, boys and girls to God through Christ. And I want you to think about how he words this. From now on, therefore We regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, in Christ. God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his command. Well, wait a minute. Read that again, Pastor. God making his appeal through us. We command you, therefore, oh, wait a minute, Pastor. We implore you on behalf of Christ be reconciled to God. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working together with Him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain. You see, Paul understood his entire call to ministry, which was premised on the fact that God in Christ was reconciling the world to himself, to appeal and to implore. That people receive that well and act in a manner that accords with God's glorious grace. And when it matters most, Paul doubles down. And when Paul's very heart is at stake, he makes an appeal. And he resists that all-to-human urge to simply make a bold command. Paul appeals on behalf of something that is of desperate importance to him But he also introduces himself in a manner that is unique in the writing of Paul. We already saw that this letter To Philemon is the only letter in the New Testament that Paul writes where he calls himself a, identifies himself at the beginning as a as a prisoner for Christ. That's a label and a title that would not have been something you bragged about being a prisoner in that culture or in ours. And he refers to himself here. He says, I, Paul. The apostle to the Gentiles, the planter of churches, no. I, Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner. Paul makes his appeal from his position of weakness From his position of inability to travel. Remember when he writes to the Corinthians the second time, he says, next time I come, if you don't get this right, I'm going to bring a whip. And that situation was a situation in which a church was going off the rails in promiscuity and pagan worship. That was a natural disaster. In this situation, Paul wants to make it very clear to Philemon that there's really not a lot Paul can do. Paul's in prison, and he is old. And having just had a birthday, I can relate. Uh with that part, I I'm not a prisoner and uh my my in-laws let me leave whenever I want to. Paul lays aside his authority and his right to compel because he's got a bigger goal. He wants Philemon to turn a tender eye towards not only Paul, but to Onesimus. And so we have not only an appeal instead of a command, we have not only an old prisoner instead of an authoritative apostle, but we have a useful brother, not a useless criminal. I appeal to you for my child Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment. And then there's this fascinating aside in the ESV that I'm reading from, it's in parentheses, which it it it ought to be. the way our grammar and our sentence structure works. This is completely irrelevant to the logic of the case Paul is making. And so it's particularly important to notice such things. Paul says, formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart. Now, the name Onesimus is a name that literally means useful. That's one of the reasons we can be 99% sure that Onesimus was born a slave. Because he was given a slave's name. Useful. It would be as if you if someone was named Handy, uh, or someone was named uh uh you know whatever you would associate with slaves doing given that title and onesimus did not live up to his name He says, formerly he was useless to you, the opposite of his name, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. So Paul wants Philemon to know that this guy, yeah, once he was an absolute bum. He hurt you, stole from you, ran away, brought you public shame, disrupted your family life, you know, wrecked your business. Remember that was the basic model back then. You were either slave or you owned slaves. And here we have a situation in which he wants Philemon to consider Onesimus to actually in every way live up to his name, not only with respect to Philemon, but with respect to Paul himself. So much so that Paul says, I would have been glad, and that's perhaps the understatement of the letter. I would have really wanted to keep him with me so that he could serve me the way you would want to serve me, Philemon, if you were present. But I preferred to do nothing without your consent, so that you would have your own goodness and grace affirmed. This is this concept of your own accord. that it might redound or bounce back to your credit to have done the right thing rather than me playing the trump card and stealing this guy from you and explaining it to you after the fact. So Paul wants Philemon to understand that Onesimus Cannot be understood and valued in light of his past actions, but must be understood and valued in light of his present reality. He is useful in doing a brother's work in ministering to Paul. Treat him accordingly. I want you to think about how you and I look at the issues in our life that need reconciliation. I had 15 minutes ago asked you to think about something that really engages your heart. An area of brokenness, rawness, or relationships, something that r really maybe keeps you up at night once in a while. And I want you to think about how nice it would be if you could just impose your will on the situation and say, this is how this is going to look going forward. And I want you to dare to think that that might not be the best way. When the Apostle Paul, speaking by the Holy Spirit, describes the very message of reconciliation that concerns the pulpit the most, that concerns the Christian's heart the most. And that is the reconciliation between your Maker and you. The languages to implore. to plead, even as Christ wept over Jerusalem. And yes, there are commands in that But the tone and tenor of all of it is begging the souls that are wayward to return. And how much more so as Christians? Do we find Philemon when his heart is most closely affected, being appealed to on the basis of who he is in Christ, do the right thing? And make no mistake about it, it wouldn't be spontaneous. Paul had to write the letter It's not like Christians will spontaneously want to do the right thing. We have to hear the appeal, and then we do that hard personal work of finding out what pleases the Lord and saying, yes indeed, Lord, it would please you. If I trusted that what the scripture says, the other great reconciliation text from 2 Corinthians, the old is gone, the new has come, he is a new creation, she is a new creation, I can with confidence Prayerfully take a positive step forward, expecting good. And yes, dear Christian, sometimes we receive bad. But the model of the gospel is one that forgives 70 times seven times, that welcomes sinners as if they're Christ Himself and looks at runaway thieves as if they are valuable brothers. simply because they are Christians. Does that shock you? I mean, wouldn't it be nicer if we could have a standard and say, well, Christians who have Some of these sins in the pasture have hurt us deeply in this way or that way. They're sort of persona non grata. And I'm going to be real happy to see them in heaven, but I'd prefer not to see them until then. And I'm going to imagine that there are people about whom you feel that way, because there are people about whom I feel that way. And I say that to my shame. Because I read a text like this, and I think I should have every assumption that if I have seen the signs of any operative grace, the pulse, the heartbeat of any relationship with Christ in someone, the Holy Spirit of the living God is, by inference, at work in that person. And they are more than a conqueror. And I can boldly take a step towards them and with them. And when we think about the reconciliation God calls us to with brothers and sisters in Christ, this is of critical importance, that we embrace a perspective in which we see ourselves as less than majestic sovereigns who can impose our will and help people and ourselves see those who've heard us as far more than the person that stole from us and broke our heart. Isn't that hard? Isn't that hard for you to do? It's hard for me to do. I suspect it's hard for you as well. But the thing that makes it all possible Is this idea that keeps coming up and coming up again and again? How Paul is in Christ, he's a prisoner for Christ. Everything that He does and is is soaked, saturated, is surrounded by His identity in Christ. And that's what Christ did for and with us in His incarnation. He came down and he took every risk, knowing full well how badly that would end in human terms, so that he could be united with us. And the wonder and the beauty of the gospel of Jesus Christ, understood horizontally between Christians, is that we can actually love and trust each other. Despite the fact that to use the language of Galatians, we have teeth marks that match each other's dentistry. In our arms. We bite and devour each other. And yet, by the grace of God Because you love Jesus and I love Jesus, we are able to love each other and receive each other as more than slaves. As dear brothers and sisters, we are able to call each other useful in the best and most glorious sense. And we are able to implore one another to be reconciled to each other as we walk forward boldly towards Christ. Drawing ever closer to him and each other. What an optimism. This letter humbles me, inspires me. Are you optimistic when you think about the possibility of reconciliation? Does that reflect itself in your willingness to make an appeal to be reconciled to a brother or sister in Christ. Are you willing to stop trying to command them to conform to standard X, Y, or Z so that you can look them in the eye and shake their hand? Do you think the best of people who have hurt you, or do you think the worst of people who have hurt you? I think every human being by nature, the default setting is someone hurts you, boom, they go into that bend. And the good things they do get qualified by the bad thing they did. The good things they are qualified by that. We are constantly in the scriptures confronted with the fact that God would have us think of others as image-bearers of the living God, and if they are Christians, as children of the living God. Who yet struggle with sin. Dare to think well of those who hurt you and do not hate them We sing a hymn in which we as Christians even acknowledge the fact that the blood of Jesus strongly pleads for us, even now. Does what Jesus did for you strongly plead to God the Father for you to be accepted. I want you to think about this. Martin Luther, the great Protestant reformer from the early 16th century, he notes in his lectures on Philemon that Paul here plays the role of Christ. Philemon is the owner. Onesimus is the runaway slave. Paul is the one reconciling. Spiritually speaking, God is your owner. You are the runaway slave. And Jesus is the one who is seeking your reconciliation. And even as Paul appeals and pleads, With Philemon to welcome back the one he sinned because Paul himself is willing to pay every penalty, which we'll get to in four weeks. Jesus Christ, his blood, appeals to God the Father, saying, welcome him as a son as you would me, because by repentance and faith he's united to me. And I have paid for all of his offenses. And Paul shows us how we can take that very same gospel that enables us to be reconciled with the Father. And we can now apply it to our relationship with our spouses, our kids, our neighbors. You can apply it to me, your pastor. Because if I haven't hurt you yet, I probably will. Not happy about it, but I know my own self. We can be reconciled to each other, dear Christian. Amen. Because of who Jesus is and what he's done, because we are in Christ, and because we are each in our own way. prisoners of his, who are nonetheless freest of any human that's ever walked this planet. If you don't know this Jesus, and if you've not been reconciled to God the Father, your rightful owner, the one who made you, the one who knows you intimately. The one who has given you the very air you breathe. Know that Jesus Christ, his life was a letter to the Father, like this letter was to Philemon. saying, forgive this one. See, I've paid his penalty. Welcome him. Be welcomed by the Father as you trust in Christ. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise. Lord, we thank you that your servant Paul, our father in the faith, in so many ways Shows us how we can apply the gospel of Jesus Christ to our own relationships when we are seeking to reconcile others and when we stand in need of being reconciled to others. Lord, we pray that you would help us to think differently about ourselves. Lord, help me to climb down off of whatever high horses I think I own and sit upon. And help me to be an old man who's a prisoner more often. Lord, help me to think of others as useful brothers and sisters rather than useless criminals. And Father, I pray that for every soul that listens in on the internet or is sitting here this morning, help us to see each other in Christ and treat each other as if we are. And Lord, what a glorious and a beautiful thought that that reconciliation that we have with you might become the standard by which we interact with each other in a manner that spreads and grows. Lord Jesus, thank you for loving us. Thank you for interceding on our behalf and reconciling us to the Father. And thank you that we can be reconciled to each other We ask your blessings of this preaching and the reading of your word in Christ's name. Amen.