If you have your Bibles with you this morning, I'd invite you to turn with me to Philemon. We're going to be looking at the very last verse of that text this morning. And I am looking for my sermon notes. Well, if Bill Cionello was here, I'd ask him to help me look. Well, I'm gonna use the same notes you have. All right. Well this morning we are ending a book that has been very dear to me, and uh it has been very useful. in God's work in my own life. And I've heard from a number of you that uh it has been a blessing to you as well And while it certainly does not answer every question that could be asked about reconciliation, it drives straight to the heart of the matter, does it not? Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless us as we have our last visit with this letter here on a Sunday morning at Columbia Presbyterian Church. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your word. Lord, I don't know what I would do without the scriptures. Indeed, I can't think of a more confusing and a hopeless world in which I look at creation and know there's a God, but that's all I know. Lord, we thank you so much that you have condescended to our level and you have spoken to us using the ancient languages of people long dead. And using language that can be translated even into our living modes of communication today. And Father, thank you that your word is truth, and we can know you, and we can hear in it an invitation to come to you with repentance and faith. And be changed, be renewed. That that divine spark, which is the image of God in every man, woman, boy, and girl, Lord, that it might have an answering. response in your word that tells us yes, the glory that we sense we were designed for was not only intended, but it is possible. Because we can be put in a right relationship with you that is eternal Lord, it is my prayer that as we visit this letter for the last time here in the Sunday morning sermon series, Lord, I pray that you would bless it to that end. Lord, we long to be a church where people are coming to know Jesus as Savior, where people are encountering grace, not only for the tenth or the thousandth time, but Lord, even for the first time. Make us such a church we pray. Mark us deeply with your grace. Father, bless this reading of your word. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, Lord, we pray that you, O God, would do your work with it. We ask in Christ's name, amen. Philemon verse 25, the Word of God. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. This ends the reading of God's Word. Small verse which packs as mighty a punch as you could ever imagine. In fact, I suspect that we don't imagine enough how significant those words are. I have had a delightful opportunity over these last uh several months, really since I think about March when it was formalized, to to have an intern. You all know we have an intern, right? What's his name? There we go. What's my name? And I was uh delighted to spend a couple of hours, two hours this past Thursday, talking with Edward Edward, about five kinds of sermons, five of the most significant kinds of sermons. You know, we homilitians have different titles for these things. And uh you know, principle consistent, application consistent, interrogative, narrative, biographical sermons. There's all kinds of sermons. Those are the main five. And since now we have not one seminary and in our midst, but two, and hopefully as the years roll on more and more and more, uh, this is going to be a very old-fashioned kind of sermon It's going to be of the analytical variety. And we're going to talk about grace. Because if we don't understand grace. We can't possibly understand Philemon. If we don't understand grace, I would submit to you that we can't even understand the gospel itself. And to the extent that we understand grace, it is to that extent and no more That we are able to understand the gospel. You see, grace in the script of your life can be in really small number eight font in an italics that you can barely read. Or it can be an all-caps bold font 38 point. And what is grace for you? How significant is it for you? Well, grace is very significant for Paul. And not only for Paul, but for every New Testament writer And it's significant and important to the New Testament writers and the text of Scripture because it was important to God. From the very beginning. In the Pentateuch, the blessing that God instructed the Iranic priesthood to declare over God's people that he might put his name upon them. was grace and peace. May the Lord be gracious to you. Paul was trained as a rabbi. He was a rabbi of rabbis. You couldn't be more educated than him. You know that every single letter that he wrote He ends. Grace be with you. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you. Grace of the Lord Jesus, of our Lord Jesus, sometimes be with your spirit, as he does here. Every single one. If you think Paul wrote Hebrews, as many scholars do, that book ends that way as well. So does John's Revelation. You see, that first part of the benediction, the grace of God be with you, nested within it like a Russian doll, is peace. Grace is not simply the foundation. It is what conveys every single grace that God gives us. Have you ever wondered at why it is that if you pick up any systematic theology and you look for the name of, well, what is it that defines the way God relates to people? It is called Almost unanimously through church history. Covenant of grace Why is it that if you pick up any theology, whether it comes from a Baptist, a Methodist, even a Catholic perspective dating back to the 1200s when Aquinas was writing? And you say, well, what what are those doctrines that describe how salvation is applied to us? They are called the doctrines of Grace is everywhere in your Bible. And it is almost everywhere in your Bible, especially your New Testament, especially the letters, the first and last word. At the beginning of his letters, it's what Paul wants you to have. And at the end of the letters, it's what he wants you to have. What is grace? The first thing we're going to talk about this morning is what grace is. And to begin with, we're going to rule out a couple of ideas that have perhaps made it more difficult for us to understand the concept. The first goes back to the 1200s In the 1200s and the rise of Western scholasticism, grace was understood to be a substance that was infused into Christians. Grace was thought of as something that God gave you, and when you took the Lord's Supper, for example, you were nourished by grace as if it was a calorically countable stuff that was in you. That it was like gas that you would put in a car Now that idea is an idea that by the time of the Protestant Reformation, when Bible scholars throughout Europe in particular were really doing a deep dive into the languages of Hebrew and Greek, they realized this is completely wrong. Grace isn't a stuff that we now have as if it's a possession and we have a certain amount in the the inventory or the bank account of our soul and I need to get more grace, so I'm going to do these things and my grace is going to pile up and I'm going to have enough grace then to do this as if it's a currency. They begin to realize that grace Is the favor of God. You see, grace resides in the heart of God and is expressed to us. Grace is not a stuff that He gives to us. And there's something that's very, very beautiful about that. If grace is something that He gives to me and I have a certain amount of it, I can run out of it, can't I? But grace, if it is the favor of God directed to me, and if in Christ my sins are forgiven and his righteousness is imputed to me, God's grace, his unmerited favor, is inexhaustible. It will never run out. God's grace to me is as infinite as He is. Have you ever thought of that? The question isn't how much grace can you hold in your frail, sin-struggling, weak self? The question is, how much grace can a perfect, holy, powerful, immutable, eternal, unchanging God who has determined to love you have towards you? More than you can imagine. You see, the favor of God towards those he has delighted in, who are standing in Christ, whose sins are forgiven is limitless. There's something else about grace that we want to preclude right away. I can remember one of the ways that I learned how to share the gospel when I was in my 20s was from the Evangelism Explosion International. And that's a wonderful evangelistic program, and I'm not in any way trying to knock that. I still use many parts of that when I share the gospel with people who don't know Jesus. But they have a way of describing grace as it's an acronym, God's riches at Christ's expense, you know, G-R-A-C-E. Has anybody ever heard that? God's riches at Christ's expense. And that's a great way to think about grace, because grace is basically that I get all of these infinite riches that are in God. But I don't have to pay for him, Christ does. But grace has another side to it that that definition completely ignores. You see, grace is not just God's favor towards us. On account of what Jesus is worthy of. Grace is not simply God's favor towards us because Jesus deserves lots and lots and lots of love. There's a, you might call it logically a negative side to grace. Grace is also God choosing not to hold my sins against me. Imagine for a moment that you have a little boy. His name, let's just say his name is Bobby. And Bobby is just having a normal day. He's minding his own business. He hasn't bit either of his brothers. At the time when he's going by the name Bobby, let's just suppose your kid has two siblings. The third hasn't been born yet. Uh and let's suppose Bobby's having a pretty a pretty good day. He hasn't done anything particularly great. But he also, like I said, he hasn't bit his brothers. He hasn't broken their Lincoln Log forts. He He hasn't made a mess of the kitchen table. And the ice cream truck comes by. And you decide, you know what? I'm going to get Bobby one of those orange push-ups because he loves them. That's grace. I'm getting something I don't deserve. Right? We often think of grace that way. Or let's suppose, if we want to stretch the analogy just one step further and say, well, you know, let's suppose that Bobby has a brother named Douglas. And Douglas has been really good. And so mom is going to reward Douglas with ice cream and then says, well, you know what? Well, that would be gracious. But that's not all. I want you to imagine that Bobby has been an absolute reprobate of a stinker all morning long. Not only did he bite both of his brothers, but he bit his dad. He kicked the cat. He tried to throw the goldfish on the floor, and he stomped his foot and refused to eat lunch. Grace is offering Bobby ice cream too. Have you ever thought of yourself as that kid Think about all the ways you have lived your life. Living a certain way and thinking of it in psychological terms as nurture and nature, and well, how could I be different or do different or think or feel different? Well, at the end of the day, you are very different from the holy standard of God, and yet God has expressed great and infinite favor towards you. And God's grace can never simply be understood to be God's riches at Christ's expense. It is also God's riches despite you being utterly undeserving. Grace Is amazing. And it is alone And the characteristics of God's actions towards us in one very important way. God loves me. I can love God. God is truth and he speaks honestly with me And I can confess truly before God. You see, the ways God interacts in relationship with me are reciprocal. I can mirror back to God the attributes that he represents to me if they're communicable. That's not true of grace. Have you ever thought that you cannot be gracious to God? That God can be gracious to you, but you cannot be gracious to God? There is no favor you can show God that He is not only worthy of, but infinitely more worthy of, even than what you're doing. There is no sense in which it means anything at all to say I'm going to be merciful to God this one time. And if we think that, we are dreadfully in error. The only way We can appropriately respond to the grace God has shown us is to reflect it to others As the cliche in our world puts it, pay it forward. And grace is another, another important factor when we think about the fact that this unreflectible Quality of God's relationship with us not only informs but is the foundation for every other good thing that God is. Is God honest with you in speaking truth? It's because he's gracious. Does he love you? It's because he's gracious. Does he cause the rain to fall upon you and water your grass and your fields and your flowers? It's because he's gracious. Through and through, every good and right and pleasant thing you have from God is anchored in this thing called grace, the fact that he has favor towards you. Grace is hugely important. But what does it do? Why is it that the Apostle Paul doesn't just say, Well, you have grace. Let me just remind you of that in closing. Why does he say, May grace be with you? And why does he say on three occasions? May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Why does he say that Because grace is supposed to do something. God's love for us is supposed to do something, and it is supposed to intersect our being at the very core of our identity. Now, when Paul says something, or when the Bible says something, or the Holy Spirit speaking through prophets or apostles, says something like, be with your spirit, that's not invoking some kind of duality where we're body over here and spirit over here. In the Hebrew world and in their mindset, there was think of it more as like an inner and outer. And by the inner man or the inner person or the inner woman, they are using idioms that reflect heart. Feelings, love, thoughts, meditations, they don't separate between mind and heart the way we do, or brain and heart, or thinking and feeling. That's That hard division is alien to the ancient Hebrew mind or the biblical worldview of what it means to be a person in the Old Testament. But when they talk about how the Lord keeps your spirit or your soul, for example, in the Great Keeper Psalm, Psalm 121. May the Lord keep you in your going and your coming, both now and forevermore. The Lord keep your soul, your nephew, your spirit, or as the NIV puts it, your life. This idea of your spirit means the basic core, white hot center of your being. It in short, it means who you are for eternity. And when Paul says, may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, He wants the grace of God to penetrate into the very holy of holies, the inner sanctum of who you are. You see, there's something about grace. That this encounter with the infinite favor of the God who made you should exhaustively impact every aspect of your personality. Exhaustively. Theologians like to use that word when they're talking about the Trinity and how the Father, the Son, and the Spirit each exhaustively reflect the very substance of God. There is no remainder. There is no part of God that Jesus is not. What does it mean when I say to you as a theologian and a pastor that the grace of Jesus Christ should exhaustively intersect your personality. It means that there is no part of who you are. No part. That the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ should not be stirring up, transforming, agitating, growing. Beautifying. Purifying. There is another way to say this. There is no part of who you are, starting with the innermost recesses of your psyche. That God does not want to sanctify. And just as we are justified by grace through faith, So are we sanctified by the encounter of God's grace as it's offered in the gospel. And so Paul says to Christians over and over and over again, May God's grace be with you present. God's grace It is your greatest need. Well, how can you have an encounter of an infinite favor, of a bottomless love? of the deepest knowledge and intimate appreciation of who you are and desire to see you at your best and most glorious forever. How can you have such a thing? Well, grace is not only your greatest need, but it's your greatest gift. And it can only be found in one place. Only one place. When I was a kid growing up in Columbia, Maryland, there used to be the Potomac Toy Store. Some of you that are my vintage will remember it was in the Columbia Mall, real close to that big clock. I don't even know if the clock is still there. That was the only place we knew of where I could spend my allowance when I was in grade school to buy a Brayers horse model. The only place. There was no other place to get it. Toys R Us didn't have it. There was a little kind of one-off before the big box stores took over everything. Toy Store in Ellicate City. They didn't have it. If I wanted that, I had to go to one place, Potomac Toy Store in the Columbia Mall. Now When we buy items today, we have a lot of options. We can go on Amazon. We can compare price at Costco or Target or Walmart. But if you want grace, if you want divine favor, you can only have it, you can only have it from Jesus Christ. Yes, it's from God. But the grace of the living triune God comes to us through our union, our personal union with Jesus Christ. as the Holy Spirit intimately connects us to Christ when we are born again. And there is no other way. There's no other way to experience grace. There's a verse in the Proverbs that says, What a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than to be a liar. Have you ever thought about that verse? Have you ever heard that verse? What a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than to be a liar. I want you guys, and I'll invite you men, because I have a little bit more in common with you men, to think about the things that you really want in life. I would really like to get another 78 Opalmanta. I would really like to get a Selmer Super Action 80 Alto Saxophone. I would really, really, really like to get the original hot off the press 1559 edition of Calvin's Institutes. I'm probably not going to get any of those things ever. And you know, we spend our lives pursuing the things that we really want. We spend our lives pursuing the career we want. We spend our lives pursuing the people that we want to have in our life. We spend our lives pursuing A house on the right street with the right kind of parking. We spend our lives in pursuit of all sorts of things. And what the Word of God is telling us in that strange proverb is that it's better not to have all those lesser things. It's better to be poor. than to be a liar and to spend our life chasing after all of these lesser wants when at the heart of it, deep down, To quote Augustine, there's a restlessness in our spirit. What we really want is unfailing love. There's really only one place to get that. You see, unfailing love, and as much as we are deeply and irrevocably on this side of heaven, uh affected by sin. Is no more or less than unfailing grace. That's what we want. We want to be welcomed. For who we are, despite our flaws, appreciated for who we are, despite our flaws. We want to be patiently and even adoringly. Tended to and assisted and taught despite who we are, these are all things we want. More than a car or a saxophone or an old book. What you desire is unfailing love. And there is one place and one place only you can get that Philemon couldn't get it from Onesimus. Onesimus couldn't get it from Paul. Paul couldn't get it from Peter. Moses couldn't get it from Aaron. Joseph couldn't get it from Mary. Abraham from Sarah. There's only one place you can get that. And it's Jesus Christ. Who being God perfectly and completely. without remainder, exhaustively, took on our flesh. And he lived for you sinlessly. He died in your place with agony. And he offered you the perfect record of his absolute righteousness that you might stand before God, your Maker, the Heavenly Father, not as an object of wrath. But as a child to be delighted in, to be embraced, to be prized Have you ever wondered at the scripture saying that we are the apple of God's eye? You know that phrase, the apple of God's eye, does not show up in your Hebrew Bibles? That phrase comes out of Shakespeare's translation or paraphrase of the Latin Vulgate. The actual Hebrew that gets still translated, apple of your eye, as late as the NIV, literally means little man of the eye in Hebrew. And it's because if you stare intently and gaze with purpose on one person and you were able to look directly back into their eye, you would see a little version of yourself reflected in the eye. And did you know that the Hebrew text of Scripture, when it says that you are the apple of God's eye, it says that his gaze is so focused on you that if you were to look full into his face, you would see yourself reflected in his pupil. Such is love for you. It is a limitless, endless, perfect Love that you want more than anything else. It's your greatest need. It's your greatest gift. You can have it for free. Offered for free. You can have it from one source. The Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God from eternity. And this represents your greatest opportunity. There's two things I want to say about this opportunity. First is that the church needs this experience of grace, and second that the world needs the witness of this grace. I want you to think about the church needing the experience of this grace. This has been this letter that Paul wrote to Philemon Is a very personal letter. It is addressed to Philemon and by extension to the church. But once Paul moves past verse 3, No longer is he speaking in the second person. Now, for you kids here that didn't learn grammar the way I had to learn it, first person is me, us, we. Second person is you. Third person is them. Most of this has been in a second person singular. From verse 4 all the way through. Verse 24. Paul has been saying, you singular. All of the verbs, everything, Paul is talking to Philemon. But this phrase, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, is back to plural. And there are some Bible scholars, in fact, nearly every one of my Bible commentaries says, well, that's the it's really a personal plurality. It's almost like an honorific thing. He's still talking just a Philemon But you know, I spent a lot of time and I got a the chance to go over this with Edward. Uh and I don't know if I've mentioned this, I love having interns But we were able to look at all of the all of the 13, 14 including Hebrews, instances in which Paul says, Grace be with you, or the grace of our Lord be with you, or the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you, or be with your spirit. There's one other place where Paul is addressing a person, Timothy, and he uses this exact same formula, word for word, jot and tittle. Everything is exactly the same in the morphology of the words included. The grace of Jesus Christ be with Your plural, spirit singular. But then in Galatians, it says Adelphoi. Anybody know what Adelphos means in Greek? Anybody from Philadelphia? It means brothers. Adelphos is singular. Adelphoi is plural. The only other case where we have the exact form of this greeting as we find it in Philemon is at the very end of Galatians. And it immediately makes it crystal clear that this is actually, in fact, intended for everybody, not for just one person. And why is it that after writing this intensely personal letter urging Philemon to be reconciled with somebody who really hurt him badly, who, as far as we can see from this text, has made no and in fact can make no efforts at recompense. How is that an us thing, not a Philemon thing? I want to tell you a funny story. Now, I don't think Gary Ahrens is here this morning. Are you here, Gary? Take that as a note, so this gives me free license. That'll teach you not to be here, by the way. Think about that next week. And I can tell this story because my older brother Doug was the first Birkus to be a lacrosse coach. And back in 1988 or 89, I can't remember which year it was. Doug was Gary Ahrens' assistant lacrosse coach at Oakland Mills High School, Men's Lacrosse. And that year. Gary's team, assisted by my brother Doug, who is a college lacrosse player, an All-American goalie, had made it to the state game, all the way to the top game. And they were good that year. I went to all their games. In fact, when I wasn't at their games, I was going to the games of the people they were about to play. Remember, this is before the days of video cameras. easily and affordably available. And so I would go and write notes on what other teams were doing, get them to Doug, and then they'd game plan for that next game. And it was just so exciting to be there. They got their butt kicked. Pastors allowed to say that? They got their keister whooped. Ooh, we have keisters here. I should not use that one either. They got a beatdown in the first half. And I want to tell you why they got a beatdown. There were two boys on that team. And the night before that big state title game was the prom at Oaklands High School. And these two buddies had taken their dates and gone to prom. Only one of the guys left the dance with his teammate's girlfriend. Now both guys were on the offensive end of the ball. A key attackman and a key midfielder. And throughout the first half of that game, one guy wouldn't pass the ball to the other. And they got a beatdown. And they lost the entire game. And they ended their season. Why? Because one guy had a grudge against another guy. There were about 25 other guys on that team. Many of them would have had no idea what had happened. All they knew was that they lost because there were two unreconciled people on that team. You see, there's a sense in which everything you or I do has an effect Whether the other people in our world, our family, our church, our community know about the details or not, they suffer from the effects. If I have an unreconciled issue with my wife, my kids might not have any idea what it is, but they know that it is. And to the extent that I don't play nice with another brother or sister in Christ, all of us who are in the same church family One way or another, that effect is going to come home. And that's why it's so important. That the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with y'all spirit, even if only two of you are fighting. I'll tell you something funny. Uh you know, I've uh big believer in the fact that uh there's got to be a measure of self-disclosure in every pulpit ministry because Paul could write that you know everything about me. And there's still many things that I hope, boy, I hope you never learn about me. But one thing happened to me when I was a kid. My daughter Maggie had a tough time in middle school. Maggie, I owe you five bucks for this. Middle school is hard on girls. Dads, be very gracious to your daughters. Super hard. Way harder. I had three sons, one daughter. Oh my goodness, all three of my boys' troubles put together socially in middle school don't equal what a girl in middle school can sometimes go through. And she had one friend that really mistreated her. Long after my daughter and her friend made up and were friends again, I was still mad at that girl. Who needed grace for that reconciliation to work? Not just Maggie. Maggie and her dad. And sometimes when we see one person get hurt by another, we as the third party can be the least gracious person in the entire transaction of reconciliation. And that's why grace is so necessary, dear Christian, if and when you have been hurt or someone you know has been hurt big or small, continuously or just on one occasion, there is a need for grace to be with all of us as we patiently bear with one another, because the number of occasions in which we're going to disappoint one another, dare I say our legion, But if we have had this encounter with a God who loves us endlessly, eternally, And whose favor comes home to rest in our hearts and is exhaustively reaching its tendrils into every corner of our psyche, our very soul, our personality. We can be gracious with all that that means, even in the most difficult situation, whether we're a first, second, or third party. And we desperately need that. We need that desperately. Our churches in America need this kind of experience of grace. But so does the world. Something that was brought to my attention by an old Puritan named John Howe. I was reading through a book he wrote about the Christian life, and when he was talking about John chapter 17, he said something that at the time reading it, it was it was new to me. I had never connected these dots. And this might be very old to you, but I'm going to refresh your memory. Jesus Christ in his high priestly prayer When he's praying for the church and he's praying, sanctify them, the church, his people, Jesus is saying, sanctify them. in the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I consecrate myself, or I sanctify myself, I set myself apart, that they also may be sanctified in truth. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one. just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me Now that's the part that got my attention. Jesus is praying that we be sanctified by the Word of God and the truth, all of us, that even not only Jesus' immediate disciples, but all those who will come to faith in him, that includes me, that includes you, that we might be united to the Son, who is united to the Father, so that the world will believe. That Jesus was sent by the Father. And have you ever thought that that one distinctive thing that the gospel community of Christians has to offer the world? Grace. Grace, which in its beautiful wild glory is unique to Christianity is the one thing Jesus says the world must see in us in order that they believe in him. And the world, when the world sees Christians who are ungracious, who are not united, who bear grudges, and we're just like every other religion. An organized opiate for the masses, with no vital divinity empowering us in our every relation. But what a thought. We who need the experience of grace, what if we had it? What if we basked in the glow of the Father's favor, beaming down at us through the work of Christ? It's welling up within us by the presence of the Holy Spirit. What if we were united despite real and significant differences and even hurts? and loved each other in a way that comports well with the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, what might the world see? And what power from on high might attend your witness. Because, brothers and sisters, you would have a witness. People notice if you love your enemies. People notice if you bless those who curse you. People notice if you care about the person who couldn't give a rip whether you lived or died. People notice. And your Lord Jesus Christ, who has loved you from eternity. In love, you were predestined to be in him before the foundation of the world, Ephesians tells us. You, brother and sister, would live to his glory. Paul's letter to Philemon is a letter about grace. It's a letter about applying the gospel, which is gracious, which is grace demonstrated in our relationships with each other. And as I said before, while it does not say everything that can be said about reconciliation It says what is most needful. Because unless and until husbands and wives, parents and kids, friends and neighbors, brothers and sisters. Unless and until this grace hits home in our hearts, resides in our very spirits. Reconciliation will always be an idea. That unfailing love that you desire more than anything else will always be just around the corner. It is my hope and my prayer as a gospel preacher that the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ would be with your spirit. And that you, who you are, if I could speak past your costume, your wardrobe, your facial expression, into the very center of your being and say, you. are so loved by God that he orchestrated all of history to bring you to a point like this where you would hear a preacher like me, despite all of my flaws, To say God so loved you that he gave his only son, that if you believe on him, you might not perish, but have everlasting life. And what could possibly prevent you from laying hold of that and responding to that offer of grace? Following the service today, if there are any of you here who need to know where you stand with God, And would like to give yourself to the God who shows such grace. There are going to be members of a prayer team in that corner. And they would love to see you. You know who would love to see you there more than them? Jesus who loves you Almighty God, we pray for grace. Lord, forgive us for making it just another word in our religious vocabulary. Lord, forgive us for thinking it's amazing in a fairly pedestrian way. Lord, help us to know just how Ineffably, indescribably glorious is the thought that you smile on us in Christ and you love us perfectly. despite our unmerited stance before you, our unworthiness for even a grin And yet when we look up at you in prayer, we see ourselves reflected in your eye. So great is your love for us. May we know it and live it and grow in it and reflect it. We pray this in the name of Jesus Christ, our sovereign and our living Lord, in whom and through whom. We have grace. Amen