If you have your Bibles with you today, I'd invite you to turn with me to Paul's letter to Philemon. Today we're going to be looking at two verses. Verses 15 and 16. So I'll give you a moment to turn there if you brought your Bibles. This morning I did what many of you do, and I looked at my Facebook page. And I have a friend who pastors a church down in Georgia and his Facebook post, he posts every single day. I post maybe once a month. And uh His post was, I've never been more excited about preaching a text than I am this morning. And I thought of texting back, same. But I figured that'd be too much of like a fanboy thing to do. I'm not a fanboy, but I am very excited about this text. Struggling with this text as a Christian man has yielded more spiritual fruit and growth in my life and in my relations. than perhaps any other. And I don't know if that will be true of you, but I hope that you will consider the message tied into the very heart of these two verses. that can be so impactful in our condition. Please pray with me before I read these verses for us. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your word. And Lord, we pray, as always, that we would consider it to be exalted above all things but you yourself. Father, make us a people of your book. Make us a people who, guided by your Spirit in the Word and using the Word, would be living out your word. And Father, we pray that this reading would be blessed to us and the preaching that follows. Father, in as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said and done, Lord, make it a blessing to us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Philemon Beginning with verse 15, the Word of God. For this, perhaps, is why he was parted from you for a while, That you might have him back forever, no longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant, as a beloved brother Especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord. This ends the reading of God's Word. So you might think about the statements I made earlier about how these words were so revolutionary in my life, and you might be thinking, wait, did you read the right verses? That seemed a little mundane and strange to me. I want to share with you something else I read many, many years ago. And I don't often read from novelists as sermon introductions, but when I do, it's Michael Crichton. Some of you know him from Jurassic Park. He wrote the books, and kids, the books are way better than the movies. But he wrote in a science fiction thriller named the title of that book was Sphere. He writes this indictment of the human race, this comes from the alien intellect who has observed humanity for millennia. And this is what that alien intellect says. He says to the protagonist of Sphere, a psychologist named Norman Johnson. He tells Norman Johnson. On your planet, you have an animal called a bear. It is a large animal, sometimes larger than you, and it is clever and has ingenuity, and it has a brain as large as yours. But the bear differs from you in one important way. It cannot perform the activity you call imagining. It cannot make mental pictures of how reality might be. It cannot envision what you call the past and what you call the future. The special ability of imagination is what has made your species as great as it is. Your greatness lies in imagination. This is the gift of your species. And this is the danger. Because you do not choose to control your imagination. You imagine wonderful things, and you imagine terrible things, and you take no responsibility for the choice. I remember reading those words and just stopping how true it is. And I want you to think about your personal interior life. And I have read in any number of practical theology works and in devotional literature over the last 25 years statements that run along these lines. After you've had a disagreement with your husband or your wife or your dad or your mom, you go back to your quiet place and you rehearse and reimagine the argument. How often do you lose? Your imagination is so biased. Towards what makes you think or feel in the immediate context of now as good as possible And your imagine runs wild with disparaging and hopeless, censorious criticism of those you perceive have hurt you or upset you or disadvantaged you in any way. Imagination can also be called fear Whenever I'm in a relationship and somebody has done something that has discomforted me or made me uh nervous or edgy, I'm afraid that that is a harbinger of another shoot-a-drop that will perhaps be even worse. And I begin to act defensively because I'm imagining that troubling conversations are just around the corner, that desperate actions will be needed soon. And my amygdala is beginning to churn out all kinds of chemicals and impulses in my brain that are generating flight and fight type mechanisms and all of a sudden all I am is your average bear. Well, what in the world does Philemon have to do with this, you might ask? This text got my attention when I was a far more um Precocious young theologian. I had graduated from seminary, I had learned my languages, and I was resolved that I was going to translate the entire Bible for myself. And I began that work. And if you notice in what used to be Steve Green's office and then I believe Tim Flora's office, there's still about 15 unpacked boxes that are mine. And in those boxes are my beginnings of a translation of the entire Bible. They're not very good translations. And they were painstakingly carved out of those original language texts. I am not a linguist. It would literally take me an hour to translate three verses out of Hebrew when I got to Ezekiel. And I can remember thinking to myself, if I'd alternate between a New Testament and Old Testament book, I can remember thinking to myself, Jyrkis, you are really not good at this. Surely there's a better way to spend your time. And other people have been given these gifts, and you can stand on their shoulders. I took a deep breath and I said, Lord, I'm not going to translate the entire Bible. Instead, I'm going to focus on preaching it. But I did translate Philemon. And let me tell you the first two words of Philemon, verse 15. Takagar. And those words translate best for perhaps. And boy, did that hit me hard. I was in my early 30s and I was having trouble reconciling myself to things that had happened in my 20s that had caused considerable pain. And thinking about people that had caused me considerable pain confronted me with the fact that as I think about them, and I think about the fact that in God's perfect world I would be reconciled to them and I would love them. because I'm called to love those who hate me, but the reasons that I could not love them were tied with what they had done and the reasons they had done it And then I read Taka Gar for Perhaps. When the Apostle Paul writes to Philemon, he writes to Philemon on behalf of a man named Onesimus. And Onesimus was a slave who ran away. And in that culture, we think that in our culture, a slave running away is a good thing. The slave is always in every case the bad the the good guy. And uh there's should be no problems we should all castigate and disparage Philemon because he owned a slave at all. And that's a whole separate conversation. I want to invite you to walk with me back into the world of the first century A. D. in which two-thirds of the people were slaves. And when you were slaves, you were considered a part of the household. You didn't live in a little five by eight cottage out back. You usually lived in the house. You were treated as a member of the family. Legally, you were a member of the family, such that if there were no kids, you were the inheritor. And I don't want to defend the institution of slavery in any sense, but I will say we have to remove our imagination at least a step or two from the chattel slavery of our own country's past. That's not what the slavery of first century Hellenistic culture was. When Onesimus ran away, Onesimus would have stolen, and he would have done things that in that cultural moment Even amongst the other slaves, and that's two-thirds of the culture in many of the larger cities in the Greco-Roman cities, it would have brought shame, it would have brought scandal. It would have greatly reduced the entire reputation of the entire oikos or household of Philemon. So it would have hit In terms of public reputation, it would have hit in terms of uh uh the the household's concept of stability, it would have hit financially as someone had stolen enough to go on an international journey, it would have hit in a lot of different ways And Philemon would have been upset and hurt whether he, as the Bible said, was a a good supervisor or superior, mindful that he had a master himself, or whether he was a terrible one. And Paul writes to him saying, Philemon, I want you to receive back, Onesimus. And I want you to do it of your own goodwill. And I'm not going to force you to do anything. But I'm going to ask you to welcome him back. In fact, I'm going to ask you to receive him as you would receive me, verse 17. And I'm going to ask that if he owes you anything, if he hurt you in any way, just charge it to me. Don't hold him accountable And in giving a reason for why Onesimus should engage in this very costly, very sacrificial, very painful reconciling Reception of someone who hurt him, the best Paul can do is say for perhaps Maybe. It might be the case, after all, that this is what God intended. I want you to go to another place where there was a deep family rift, because that's how this would have been conceived in the first century A. D. And we're going to go back even further to the time of Joseph and his brothers. Jacob, their father, had just died, and Joseph's brothers are safe in Egypt. Now remember, Joseph's brothers had conspired to kill Joseph, and only at the last minute one of his older brothers persuaded them to sell Joseph to some slave traders. Joseph ended up in Egypt for the rest of his life. Joseph ended up being a slave in someone named Potiphar's house, being falsely accused of being a womanizer and a rapist, being thrown into prison, being forgotten in prison. He had a hard life. And yet the Lord was with him in his hard life, and ultimately raised him up to be the second most powerful person in all of Egypt. He raised Joseph up so that Joseph was in a position of authority, able to give God's own word about an impending famine, so that food could be saved, so that life could be saved. And after Jacob died, Joseph's brothers, who had come down because of the famine and been well received by their brother, thought, uh oh, now we're in trouble. Our dad died. Now Joseph is going to punish us. And instead Joseph says to them in Genesis chapter 50, verse 20, You intended it for evil, but God intended it for good, even the saving of countless lives as he has done. Joseph was able to look at the hurt someone had caused him, the betrayal someone had thrown at him. The oppression others have made him endure. And say, yeah, it's true. You really hated me. You really sinned against me. You intended it for evil. But God's intention was good. And he was interested in saving life, which he has done That would be powerful. But that is not what the Apostle Paul, speaking by the Holy Spirit, tells Philemon. And I struggled with that. Why couldn't the Holy Spirit have spoken to Paul and said, Paul, you tell Annesimus? You tell Anesimus, because listen, this is why God did that. God in his sovereignty ordained that Amesimus run away from you, so that ye meet my servant Paul in Rome, become a Christian. and be this glorious shining example of what reconciliation could look like for Christians for generations to come, millennia to follow But we have no certainty. Instead, we have for perhaps. Everything about these two verses I read is subjunctive. It might be the case that this is what God intended. You see, the word of God, delivered by the Spirit through Paul to this ancient brother in Christ named Philemon, says, I want you to imagine this. Imagine that God orchestrated this entire painful and shameful chapter of your life for this reason. That you might have Onesimus back as far more than a bondservant or a slave, but that he might be your brother in Christ for eternity. Your imagination is important. What you imagine about the situations in which you have been hurt and about the people who have hurt you are important. And I want to ask you three questions about your imagination based upon this text. The first question, as our elder Wayne referenced earlier, is who is sovereign in your imagination? Is it people or is it God? And I'm going to be doing a little bit of self-disclosure here this morning, so forgive me for that if it makes you uncomfortable, but prepare for discomfort. When people hurt me, my imagination tends to go backwards and downwards very quickly. I think about the past and I dissect every single thing they have done and I think the worst. They are evil. How about you? When you have your shadow boxing matches with your spouse, with your kids, with your neighbor, with that person sitting behind you in the church pew here. When you rehearse those conversations, do you put the best possible meaning and tone of voice and vocabulary into their mouth? Or does it trend towards that which best supports? Your feeling of being disrespected, being hurt, being wounded, being nullified. You see, when I think about my own life, one of the first things I want to do is I want to go back and get all the facts exactly right. And this can be a great annoyance. Just ask my wife. It's a horrible thing. It's a terrible thing. I want to get all the facts right. Now, imagine I'm Philemon. And I received this letter for perhaps the reason he was separated from you for a while. I would have said, stop right there, Paul. He was separated. Why are you making him the subject, or rather the object of a passive verb? Like he was removed from me for a while. No, no, no. He did something very active and intentional. He ran away. So let's first of all clear that up. Perhaps the reason he ran away from me. You see, I insist upon making the person who hurt me sovereign. And I begrudge any suggestion that Onesimus at the end of the day is subject to the ordained will of God. And in God's ordained will, he was separated from me. I refuse to consider the possibility that I ought to consider other people as being as subject to the will of God as I am. And I refuse to take that holy and sanctified perspective of Joseph and look at my brothers and say, God was using you to accomplish something so much bigger than the evil you intended. And I can love you for the sake of God. God is sovereign, and God is the one who separates. God is not left trying to pick up the pieces and try to make the best out of the free sovereign choices that the people in your world make around you that impact you negatively. God is not like some glorious, wonderful, powerful Tetris player trying to take these random associations and actions of the people in your world and make it all fit. Your God, dear friend, has a plan that encompasses the birds that fall dead in your backyard, the number of hair on your head, and the conversations others have with you. The words on their lips, he knows, Psalm 139, just as well as he knows the words to come on yours, before they're spoken, before you're even born. I can trust that God's sovereignty superintends every single moment and instance of my life. And I can choose to look at everything that happens to me within the course of my life as something that happens within the lane markers of God's absolute sovereignty. And I can choose to look at the people in my life as people who are acted upon by God's sovereignty in the same way that I am. As we'll see later, that doesn't mean there's no such thing as personal responsibility. But it does mean that there is a strong motive for grace. when I hold people accountable. Because there's another thing I would really be upset about if I were a Philemon. You know, if you did want to do what I did and try to translate the Bible, you'd really struggle as I did with idioms. Idioms are ways of saying things that are, in a sense, non-literal. For example, During the Civil War, a phrase came up in our culture, in American culture, called by the farm. Because evidently it's the case that in the Union Army, that's the Northern Army, for those of you who aren't steeped in U. S. history, there was a a cash award given to those who enlisted for various terms in the Union Army and it was talked about quite a bit by the Union soldiers. What are you going to do with your with your money? And many of them said, when I get out, I'm going to buy the farm. I'm going to buy a farm. And so it was an easy step saying, well, what happened to Joe? Well, Joe bought the farm. He died. He got out. And so if you were to say someone bought the farm today, you probably mean that they passed away. But it's an idiom. And if you were translating the idiom, you'd be like, what do we do with this? What is this about buying a farm in the middle of this context? You have to know the idiom. Well, there's two things that are used in this verse that really qualify as idioms. And they would have been shocking to Philemon. Here's what literally we would read there. For perhaps The reason he was separated from you for an hour was that you might have him back for an eternity. When you hurt or offend me, my feelings constrict my vision more narrowly than my retinitis pigmentosa does my eyesight. And I'm thinking about right here, right now, the last 60 minutes I'm not thinking about the fact that the past has almost no relevance to the future. I'm thinking about how the past is the only thing relevant to my present. If you were Philemon, would you say, wait a minute, Paul? He didn't run away for just an hour. He would have been gone for a minimum of many months. Perhaps years. Why are you saying he was separated from me for just an hour? And why are you talking about having him back forever? Our lifespans are three score plus ten, more if we're strong. You see, Paul has done this before. In 2 Corinthians, Paul tells us about how our light and momentary troubles are earning for us a glory that is eternal and far outweighs them all. The Apostle Paul speaking by the Spirit is constantly contrasting or juxtaposing the shortness of things here and now and the length of eternity. And he's urging us to make our decisions to set our values to accommodate people in light of eternal values, not these tiny, short little temporary ones. And he's inviting us to think that these things that are so heavy for us now are as light as a feather compared to the unspeakable weight Glory by the war way, the Old Testament Hebrew word meant weight, covod, weight, heaviness, the glory that is eternal and weighs the sum of the masses of every galaxy God created. And I want you to think about what Paul is saying here. God is sovereign. The pain, Philemon, that you've endured for this past hour was according to the will of God. And God, imagine this, God had a plan that has its roots in heaven. And I did say its roots, not its fruits. Because God is outside time and he sees the end picture and everything we do is connected to that. One of the few people that has served as a prime minister of his country and was a noted theologian was Abraham Kuyper. And he wrote that a year of your life can never be understood by itself. Every year of your life must be viewed in connection with your whole life in the hereafter. because it stands so and not otherwise before God, and is so and not otherwise to be explained. But if this year the child of God must go through a perilous period when God puts him in a smelting furnace or makes finer cuttings on the diamond of his soul, Then, though the tears make his eyes glisten, he will nobly bear up in the exaltation of faith. For then it is certain that he is in need of this. That it cannot be otherwise. And that if it did go otherwise, his life would be a failure forever. I cannot interpret my deepest, darkest days, the deepest hurts and wounds I've experienced. unless I am in my imagination standing on the gold-paved roads of heaven thinking about how I should bless the broken road to quote rascal flats right after Right after uh Abraham Kyper. I don't know if I'm allowed to do that in a sermon, but I just did Blessing God for the broken road that got me safely on the shores of heaven. Have you ever thought about that? And how does that free us up? If God is sovereign, I can ask myself, when is most important? Eternity or an hour? Am I going to relate to you or establish my connection and relationship with you in light of this past short little tiny season of life or one or two conversations? Where am I going to allow the magnitude of an eternity we're going to share as creatures created in the image of God who alike, despite whatever disagreement or confusion we've had, have named the name of Jesus. When is important. Yesterday or heaven? An hour or eternity? And then we have another question. What do you value? Paul has juxtaposed sovereignty and freedom in his choice of words. He has juxtaposed an hour with eternity, and he has contrasted the flesh. With union in Christ. Look at what he says at the end. He says He was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever, no longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant, as a beloved brother. Especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord? Both in the flesh and in the Lord. The flesh is used throughout the New Testament in a way that is not always positive. The flesh were to put to deeds, the misdeeds of the flesh were to mortify the flesh, we're to uh put off fleshly things and pursue the spirit. And here we have this juxtaposition between my natural human relation with you as a human being created in the image of God and my spiritual relation to you as yes created in the image of God human but in Christ a new creation You are no longer my brother or sister on the account of the percentage of DNA we share, as contrasted, say, to a chimpanzee or a goldfish. Now we have this bond that is different, a whole order of magnitude different, because we have alike been united to Christ by grace through faith in a new spiritual identity. And is that more important to me than whatever happened in the here and now of the last hour? You see, when I think about my need for reconciliation with people, these words for perhaps catapult me out of Where I am right now, what I'm feeling right now, what my understanding of the immediate history has been, and it pushes me into this world in which God is sovereign. Eternity is crowding into my earthly experience. And I have a union with people that is so much bigger. in an argument about where we're going to eat or what the dress code is for this or that event. Or what precisely our policy should be on X, Y, or Z in my household. And what about you? This could be a shocking exercise. Think about your life and the disagreements you've had wherever your address takes you after this service. And say how many of the fissures or debates or breaks accommodated these thoughts? God is absolutely sovereign Heaven is eternal, and it's just around the corner. And these people with whom I am in disagreement. Are the very bride of Christ and far closer to me than my own flesh and blood? And would it make a difference? Well, it sure made a difference to me in a couple things I was working through in my early 30s, and it set me free from my understanding of even my own past. It set me free from the need to hold everybody responsible for everything I perceived in their character or conduct. That rubbed me the wrong way. And it set me free to be able to love people that in the flesh I wanted to think of as enemies. And I want to ask you, dear brothers and sisters, and I know because of vacation we have a small crowd, so if you're listening to this later, you're not off the hook. If I'm on this hook, you're on it too, baby. I want you to think about how we are invited to consider our relationships that are stressed or broken. And think about the gospel of Jesus Christ and what that means for who we are, what we value, what is important to us, and who is sovereign. On the back of your Bulletin outline. It says application. And usually I give a couple of pointers that you can questions you can answer in small groups or at your lunch table. We always explore them for like 30 seconds each here at the end of the sermon. But I wanted to give you a blank sheet of paper that begins with these two words, for perhaps. And I want you to think about a relationship in which you need reconciliation. And I want you to finish the paragraph. And the way you can finish that paragraph is to not be like that bear in the sphere. Take responsibility for what you imagine. And allow your imagination to be profoundly informed by the fact that God is sovereign. Heaven is more important than the past. And my connection with people in Christ trumps anything that is merely flesh. And perhaps like Wesley, you might find your heart strangely warmed towards both Christ and another person. Because the gospel commands and compels that we love even our enemy. And boy, are we bad at that. But these verses so quickly sped by in a quiet time give us a key to unlocking our hearts that much more. Amen. If you're not someone who knows Christ this morning, I want to plead with you to consider how hard it is for you to love people, even the people that love you. And I want you to consider the fact that God in Christ has loved you because He has freely set his favor upon you, and he has invited you to come to him irrespective of your past. Your past is not relevant. He has basically said, come, let us reason together. Though your sins be as scarlet, I will wash them whiter than snow. You come as our hymn said, just as you are. And I will have you as my bride, as my friend, as my companion, forever, in the closest of associations you can imagine. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your gospel. Lord, we pray that you would help us. To grow in our both desire to and ability to accomplish reconciliation with people who've hurt us. Lord, we pray that you would reconcile husbands and wives. We pray that you would reconcile brothers and sisters. We pray that you would reconcile parents and kids and kids and parents. Lord, we pray that you would reconcile churches and cultures and societies and schools. And Lord, we are better at breaking than we are at making relationships. But Lord, your gospel is a gospel in which we read of Christ who reconciles all things to himself, and in reconciling things to himself, he reconciles them to each other. Lord, give us the courage to begin the paragraph for perhaps in those relationships that cause us the most trauma or pain. And help us to acknowledge that your will and your gospel The power of your spirit. Make the forces of every feeling, every psychological motion of our soul, everything else, Lord, is so weak compared to you. So temporary compared to your truth, so trifling compared to the immense worth of knowing and following Christ. Bless us, we pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.