Well good morning. I am glad you kids will be here again and remember Uh kids, if you can remember anything from the sermon in particular, but even from the worship service that you would like to tell me about, I'll be standing at the welcome desk and I'd love to hear from you. And if you brought your Bibles today, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to Philemon, chapter, well, there's just one chapter. Just turn with me to Philemon. We had a great time on Friday. Carrie and I got to have lunch and meet the uh Brazil missions team, except for Esther. Where's Esther? Well There. Welcome. She flew in later. But I got a kick out of that because we gave them a tour of uh of the facilities and remain seated for this. I gave them a tour of the Potter's house. Bill Cianella gave them a tour of the Ministry Center. And I'm thinking, doesn't the Bible say something about blind guides? But uh I trust you didn't miss too much, and we had a delightful time getting to know you guys. Well, this morning we're going to be looking at Paul's prayer. Paul prays in all of his letters but one. And those prayers function in some respects as a foundation. for the letters that he writes, and in some respects as a table of contents. So the prayers are very, very important. If you want to understand any of the epistles of the New Testament, especially those that the Apostle Paul wrote as the Holy Spirit moved him. Pay attention to these prayers because everything from the structure to the vocabulary comes out in what follows in the scriptures. We're going to be looking at verses 4 through 7. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we thank you for this day and for the blessed privilege that it is to gather in the name of Jesus Christ. We thank you for your word, for its truth and its beauty, for the fact that it ties your people together across centuries, even millennia, across cultures and continents alike. Lord, we would pray that you would make us a people of the book, your book, a people of your spirit, a people of your name. And Father, may this document, which is so much more precious to us than any mere constitution, be to us our love letter Our Declaration of Independence, our marching orders, indeed our own will and testament. Bless your word to us as it is read Almighty God, in the preaching that follows, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said, make it a blessing we ask in Jesus' name. All God's people said. Philemon verses four through seven, the word of God. I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers. Because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you. This ends the reading of God's Word. Many of you know and I never get tired of talking about the fact that I have been a lacrosse coach for over thirty years. And There have been times when I have coached a team, whether in Maryland or Vermont or California, where the other team was bigger, faster, and stronger. And yet, I did not approach my team before the game and say, well boys, you're about to get whooped. That other team's bigger, faster, and stronger than you, and you're going down, and it's gonna be a hard fall. But have fun out there Never done that. There have been times I've told the guys, this is going to be a tough one, guys. They're bigger, faster, and stronger. We need to do our best. But I have never prepared my kids for defeat by forecasting that they're going to lose. Now, some of you who are coaches might think, well, that's a great strategy. You should try it sometime. Me I think I'm on a pass, a hard pass, because I have seen many instances where the Word of God in Ecclesiastes has proven true. The race goes not to the swift nor the battle to the strong, but time and chance happen to them all. I've as a coach had a team that was expected to lose by ten, win by two. That doesn't happen When young men go into the game thinking, believing, knowing that they are going to lose, that they are going to fail, that they are not enough. It simply doesn't happen. And yet, we as Christians, when we try to navigate our life often hear voices and speak to ourselves such that one of the voices we hear is our own saying, it'll never happen. You're not enough. The people you're working with are too strong. They're too stubborn. They're too opposed. They're too other. They're too different. Sometimes as parents we raise our kids and our kids are having a fight, and we have so little uh invested optimism in the way our kids are that we assume failure. By assuming it, we almost prepare for it, plan for it, and kind of bring it into being. Now, I don't want this to sound like just a bunch of silly self-help or just a bunch of statistical, well, if you think you're going to win, odds are you are. I want to go back to that coaching metaphor for just a moment before we really dig into verse 4. If I say to a group of athletes, you're probably not going to win this game, that's the language of statistics. But is that not synonymous with me saying, I don't believe we're going to win this, boys? And that's the language of faith. See, what you believe is about to happen based upon your experience of the past is in some respects a statement about what you believe. And what is faith in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 1? It is a conviction regarding things unseen, an assurance of hope, of things hoped for. It's looking forward an assurance of things hoped for, and it's looking upwards, a conviction of things you don't see. So what you believe about some particularly difficult challenge or obstacle in your life. Really comes down not to statistics and probability, but to faith. What do you believe is going to happen? Now I want you to think about the gnarliest relationships you've had, and I know that that is a dangerous thing to do. Let's take a moment and take the bandage off and look at the wound and see how it's healing Think about a relational situation where your husband or wife or a friend or a family member or a cousin or an employer or an employee or somebody somebody's hurt you How's it healing? You look at that situation, you look at the parties involved, the issues at stake, the investments made and lost. Or still out there somewhere. You don't know if there's going to be a return on it or not. Think about all of the uncertainty and fear and disappointment. And I want you to ask yourself this. Are you optimistic? Do you think this is going to end in a way that is glorious and beautiful, that is good and sweet? Or do we look at the things in our life, the hard things, the difficult fights, the tough games against opponents that are bigger, faster, and stronger? And do we just assume these things that involve my heart at such a deep level are going to go south in a hurry? And do we act as if we are certain to fail? And so are they? And then are we surprised when we do? At our last men's conference, I had an opportunity to speak to the men of the church, and I got to share some things I had learned about living uh as a Christian man from studying the life of the Apostle Paul. And one of the, for me, most shocking insights into the way the Christian life should be lived. As we see it reflected in the life of the Apostle Paul, whose scripture specifically urges us to imitate as he imitates Christ, is the fact that Paul is so optimistic. Now, I want you to think about a relationship, a challenge, an obstacle, an issue that Paul faced that occasioned this letter. The Apostle Paul has had this runaway slave meet him in Rome. Paul is a prisoner in Rome. This is the only letter in all of the New Testament that is uh sent by Paul who identifies himself as a prisoner. He's a prisoner in Rome. And he is sitting there and this young runaway slave somehow crosses paths with him. The young runaway slave comes to know Christ as Savior. And Paul loves this young guy. He's so excited about this guy's future. And he says that this one is like one who is his own child, he says in verse uh 10. Um He is his very heart, he says later. Paul is very invested in mentoring this young man, and it comes out that the young man's a runaway slave and that he ran away from this church in this community of Colossae, Laodicea, that basic region of the ancient world, and lo and behold it turns out he had an owner named uh Philemon, and at this point Maybe Paul's spidey sense starts kicking in. Wait a minute. I know someone named Philemon who lives in that area. who who had slaves and remember up to two-thirds of the people living in the world at that time in the Mediterranean were slaves. Did he have a wife named Apphia? Oh yeah, yeah, he had a wife named Apphea. And yeah, there was a church kind of like yours that met there. A guy named Archipus was an elder or a pastor or something. And then Paul has a dilemma. What do I do? See, according to Roman law, he was required to send them back. But the penalty for a runaway slave in that culture at that time was death. What is Paul going to do Paul sends Philemon a letter carried by none other than Onesimus himself, we read in the last chapter of Colossians. And in the letter, Paul exhorts his friend Philemon to welcome Onestimus as Philemon would welcome Paul himself. And as we're going to see in a couple weeks, he applies the gospel to that broken relationship in a way that is profound, in a way that can be transferred to each one of us and our hard relationships. It brings glory to God and life to the church. Last week we looked at three things you need to know in order to pursue reconciliation. that you are important, that you are influential, and that you are blessed. This week in looking at the Prayer that serves as a foundation for Paul's request, we're going to see that it begins with gratitude for what God has done. Paul approaches this very, very difficult, critical issue that involves his heart With gratitude, not fear. With gratitude, not suspicion And with gratitude to God, not to Philemon. With gratitude to God, not to Onesimus. Let's look at what that means. I thank my God always, and I remember you, Philemon, in my prayers, because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints. Now, when I study the Bible, sometimes it's helpful for me to write the verse down on a piece of paper sitting at my desk and then put a line through everything that's not grammatically required. And notice what's left on the paper and what's been removed. And I want you to think about how strange it is to look at this letter and say, well, Paul basically here is saying in one sense, Philemon, I'm very grateful I'm very thankful that you are a faithful loving person. But then when you notice that although grammatically this could be I th I'm thankful because I hear about your love and your faith, To whom does Paul give credit for the faith and the love that Philemon has for both God and people? He gives the credit to God. I thank God for the signs of your spiritual life. And I want you to think about this statement. I hear about your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints. And what is Paul saying here? Paul is saying that Philemon Show signs of obeying the two great commandments. Love the Lord your God with heart, soul, mind, and strength, and your neighbor as yourself. Paul is in a sense saying to Philemon, I thank my God that he called you to be a believer. That there are signs of life. And I'm grateful for that every time I think of you, Philemon. Even when I think of the fact that you now hold my very heart in your hand. And you humanly, worldly speaking, have every right and reason to crush it. I'm not afraid of you. I'm not suspicious of you. I am grateful because there's a sign of life there, and that means everything to me. Think of the Apostle Paul, how he writes to the Philippians. When the Apostle Paul writes to the Philippians, he says, and I'll read this since I haven't memorized in the NIV, I'm trying to switch over in my head. He says to the Philippians, I thank my God in all my remembrance of you. That means every time you cross my mind, I thank my God for you. Always in every prayer of mine for you, all, every one of you. Well, later on he writes in Philippians about these two people named Yodi and Syntai who are fighting and quarreling and the churches having trouble and maybe going to split. Paul is thankful every time he thinks of any one of them. Making my prayer with joy. I think of you and joy comes to my heart and my mind. Why? Because of your partnership, your fellowship, your koinonia. In the gospel from the first day until now. And I'm sure of this: that he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion Now I took a moment to read that because these ideas are so closely connected. We're going to see it again in 2 Corinthians in a moment. A participation in faith That works. You have a participation in the faith with me. You and I, we're subject to the same gospel. We put our hope in the same Savior. We are experiencing the same operations of the same Spirit. We live by the same word of God. And that mustard seed grows into the biggest tree of the forest, biggest tree in the garden. The birds of the air take shelter on it. Because you're a partner in the gospel from the first day until now. And I'm sure of this that the work will continue. And you see, Christian, God doesn't abandon projects. Jesus tells us that we shouldn't be foolish builders. We should count the cost. before we start building the tower, lest it remain half finished and people look at us and think, well, that guy wasn't very bright. God counted the cost when he decided to start a work in you. And he has everything it takes to bring it to completion. The living God is not going to run out of bricks or mortar or two by fours. He's going to finish. And when I look at other people, other Christians especially who have hurt me, with whom I disagree. I need to check myself and say, Bjerkes. I should be filled with joy and gratitude when I think of that person because I know despite The potential for this to hurt me badly and deeply, I know that they are a Christian. I've seen signs of life, however mere, God has begun something in their life. I've seen evidence that they love the Lord their God. I've seen evidence that they love their neighbor. I can with joy and gratitude look at this situation and say, they have a mansion builder who's not done with them yet, to quote the second chapter of Acts. And God's not going to run out of resources or energy to do something amazing in their life The Apostle Paul has that kind of optimism when he thinks about the people who are involved. in the most dreadful, entangled conflicts, who most desperately need a miracle to bring any kind of reconciliation, who could hurt him deeply, he's committed to gratitude to God and joy. when he addresses them. As a pastor, I find that very convict. I have over the course of decades of ministry learned how to posture my heart in a way that is far more godly. And when people come to me and they need reconciliation, and I find myself in a situation of the Apostle Paul where I have to somehow make Christ's appeal on Christ's behalf for these two to be one. I have found over the course of training my head and heart by the scriptures that it becomes easier and easier for me to identify signs of life and with joy and enthusiasm and authentic optimism say, This is going to work. Because I've seen proof that God is at work. And God never leaves a cake half-baked. Optimism. Conviction regarding things not seen. Assurance of hope for things not yet obtained. This is of the essence of faith. And it is of the essence of how we approach our need for reconciliation. There's another place where we see this. Notice that it's The prayer that follows is begins with verse 6. And I pray, so I'm grateful to God for the signs of life and the fact that you do have a temperature. You're not absolute zero. You have love for God in Christ. You have love for the saints. And I pray. This is his prayer. That the sharing of your faith may become effective. That word is the word in the Greek, anderge. What do you think that word is like in English? Energy. That your participation, that your fellowship, that the fact that we are mutually involved in the same the same faith that that is going to become a working operative influence more and more in your life. I'd mentioned earlier I was going to look at 2 Corinthians, and I want to look there at 2 Corinthians 1, verses 6 to 7. Listen as I read these verses. If we are afflicted, Paul writes, it is for your comfort and salvation. And if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer. Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share, exact same word, not in our faith, but in our sufferings, you also will share, same word, koin and eah, in our comfort. But the sharing works. Where do you see that work? In verse 6. It's a little harder to see here, but pastors have a cheat code for you kids that play video games. It's called an interlinear Bible. Well you could do the same thing if you look at you can you can click on things on the web and you can look at it in the original Greek. You can you can do so many cool things in your own personal study of the Bible. We should have a Sunday school class on that sometime. Notice what he says. If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation. And if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience. That's a translation of that same word for energy. When you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer, when you have an experience of this ongoing, operative, working participation. in what the Christian life is. You see, Paul believes that as a Christian, every one of us who has the merest, slightest love and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and even the beginnings and the first inklings of love for the saints. This prayer is full of hope and anticipation that the sharing of your faith, that your participation in the faith will work, will become effective, will begin that mustard seed growth into the largest tree of the garden. And what is it that it grows into? Oh, this is amazing. A full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. When you look at people who could potentially hurt you, who desperately need reconciliation, either with you or with others who mean a lot to you, Do you realize that the sanctifying influences of the Spirit of the living God and the truth of Scripture as God Himself applies it and teaches them? is sufficient to lead them into a full knowledge of every good thing that is ours in Christ. Sometimes we might think, well, they're a Christian, but they're just always going to be selfish. Well, they're a Christian, but they're just always gonna be mean. Well, they're a Christian, but they're always gonna be fill in the blank. And as Bible-believing, spirit-led, triune God-adoring Christians, We have no reason or right to think that, to feel it, or to act in that way. When I look out at you and when I look at myself in the mirror, yes, I see sinners, terrible sinners. But I also see people who have come to know Christ. And I see people in whom the workings of the Spirit of the living God can give a full knowledge of every good thing that we have in union with Christ. That's a lot of good things, folks. And that's why Paul was so optimistic. That's why Paul expected God to win in every church disagreement. Inter Saint quarrel, interpersonal spat, offense The prayer is that your faith will grow. And faith grows. That's what faith does. And it's not that faith becomes bigger and stronger, although the Bible does say that there is weak faith and there's strong faith, much faith and little faith. There's a sense in which your faith grows. But more to the point here is your faith grows you. You cannot be engaged in a vital, personal, living faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and not be changed from glory to glory, as the Bible puts it elsewhere. Learning more about all of the good things that you have in Jesus. It is a prayer for your faith to grow But it's also a prayer for your love to continue. Look at verse 7. Paul says, and this is kind of the grounds of his prayer again. For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you. And so Paul is again reminding this one that he has so much at stake in the outcome of this conversation with this one fellow Philemon. And he says, Philemon, this is my prayer for you. That your faith continue to grow and grow you. And that your love would continue. Because I've seen it. I've experienced it myself. I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother. See how he identifies himself so personally and deeply with the person who could hurt him so personally and deeply? And you have refreshed the hearts of the saints. You have been like a breath of fresh air to so many people. I have no reason to doubt that you will be the same. Not only to me again, but to Onesimus, the guy who hurt you so badly. brought you public shame, stole from your family, disrupted your house, made you a laughing stock. You see, your faith is going to grow you in ways where you can embrace that one and even refresh their heart and love them. Optimism is hard to come by, and it's easy to lose. One of the great temptations that we have in life is to begin to think in a way that gives more power to the world than it gives to your Savior. And let me give you a little um spoiler alert, Jesus wins. Do you expect him to win in the circumstances of your life? Do you expect him to win in your marriage, your family? Columbia Presbyterian Church in Howard County. And the church in the West with all of our strange struggles and fights. Do you expect him to win in your conversations with neighbors, especially Christians? I would encourage you to embrace optimism. And I want you to think about something that I believe is very important. Optimism isn't something that just happens. We live in a world where we have so enthroned our feelings that we think our feelings tell us who we are. Our feelings inform us about what is authentic. Our feelings are our means for discovering what reality is. And that's true all throughout culture. You know, well, how how is somebody feeling? Well that's that's what they clearly are If they feel like they're an Apache helicopter, well that's what they are. If they feel like they're an animal, well they're actually an animal. Let them dress like an animal and Accept them that way. If if they feel that such and so is this or that, well that's what such and so is. And the Bible ennobles feelings and affection in every way, but it never gives us a license to allow our feelings to be the lice the lens through which we view reality. Our feelings are just one indicator of what's going on around us. And our feelings are very, very often confused, in error, baseless. That happens time and time again, does it not? And when you are lacking optimism, think of optimism as an attitude or a feeling of Positive anticipation with respects to what's about to happen. That is a duty, not a state that arises on its own. That is in the great philosophical and psychological debate between being and becoming. That's on the becoming half. You can't just say, well, I'm a Norwegian American, and so I'm by nature pessimistic, so I get a pass on that. Optimism is something we're called to. We are called to look at life through the lens of the victory of Christ, to believe that we are more than conquerors. We are called to believe that we can do and bear and be all things to all men. This is part of what it means to be a Christian, brothers and sisters. And we are summoned by God to look with the eye of love and be very optimistic about what God is doing in the life of our brother and sister. Doesn't matter what they said to us yesterday. Doesn't matter what they did. If we see any inkling that God is at work, and let me give you a news flash, every single time I see a human being created in the image of the living God, I think God has something there that he's going to use to bring glory to himself, and I can be optimistic. I recall on one occasion in California I was working from home and I heard a bunch of cars screeching to a halt. A whole bunch of teenagers jumped out ready to start a fight right in my front yard Dropped my Bible, ran out there, put myself right in the middle of it, and started talking to the boys, and not a punch was thrown. Because I was optimistic. These are young men created in the image of the living God. They are designed for glory. And pessimism allows a fight to start, and the police to come, and lives to be ruined. You, dear friend, have opportunities every day to exercise positive optimism, confidence that God is at work Will you be hurt? Yes. I could have had my lights punched out. It might have happened. But instead, I had those twelve boys sitting on the curb. Carrie came out, gave them all bottles of water. The police did come, had an interview, they all left, nothing happened. Because of optimism. How many times in my pastoral ministry, optimism, which can be infectious, changes the way people look at those who could hurt them? And it changes it in a way that better conforms with what is real. Because I want you all to take a minute and look around this room. Why are you still looking at me? I know I have tunnel vision, but I can tell you're still looking at me. Look around the room Have you ever, ever sat and given specific, deliberate, focused thought to the fact that that person you're looking at is indwelt by the same Spirit of God that hovered over the darkness of the deep? And is calling and working in them more and more the image of Christ, your glorious Savior, in whose face we behold God and all of his perfections. And do you stop and think, I can be at peace with such a one as that Because that's what the gospel invites us to think about the children of the living God. And yes, you have to look by the crust and the dirt, the remaining stain of sin. But that amber glow of that divine spark of the Spirit's presence in the life of the believer is enough grounds for hope and optimism. That I can go into a situation that needs reconciliation, whether it involves me or I'm a mediator, and I can say, God's got this and he's going to win. And how often he does. A second question for you, dear friend, is your faith growing you? You know, we want to grow our faith. We want to read the latest books on the most esoteric details of our systematic theology We want to understand providence better. We want to have a better view on what is the proper eschatological framework. We want to know more things in our faith, but is your faith growing you? Is your faith leading you into a deeper knowledge of all the things that are yours in Jesus Christ, meaning your justification? The fact that Jesus died for all your sins, even that one. And your sanctification, God is calling you to life with Himself and putting behind even those things. Are you growing? It's easy to substitute for that the notion that, well, I'm learning more things about the Bible Well, I'm learning more things about the Trinity. Are you growing in a deeper, fuller knowledge of all that is yours in Christ? And are you changing? The last question I want to invite you to consider, dear friend, do you have faith and love for Jesus Christ? Because if you have faith and love for Jesus Christ, that is inevitably going to spill over in a love for others. Because Jesus loved even the men who nailed him to the cross. You are going to love others if you love Christ. And if you don't love Christ. And I'll never forget that. When I was in middle school, I was in Sunday school right here at this church at the time We didn't meet here. At the time we were meeting in the Oakland Mills Village Center. And Mrs. Ruth Olson was my Sunday school teacher. Her husband, Don, was one of the early elders of this church. And when I was in seventh grade, the Sunday school, we went in and it was February, the first first Sunday of February. I was in middle school, seventh grade. And there was all kind of red construction paper, pink construction paper, doilies and markers and stuff. And I was like, oh great. I made Valentine's for my parents at school. Now I gotta do it again. And uh I don't know if those two deserve another Valentine. I was a very cranky young boy. And Ruth Olson said something I'll never forget. She said, today we're going to make Valentines for God. So you're going to make a Valentine. It says, dear God, and on the inside you're going to write the reasons why you love them. And let me tell you something. I made the nicest Valentine that had ever been made because I wanted to occupy all of my time so I wouldn't have to write a single thing. Because I realized that day that I did not love God. And that was the beginning of my conversion. And so I ask you, do you love God? Do you love the God who made the heavens and the earth? Do you love the God who made you, exactly as you are? Do you love the God who in Christ has come and taken on flesh just like yours, with all of the different kinds of limitations, uncertainties, illnesses? Do you love the God who sent his son Christ not just to suffer in a human form? Taking on our nature thoroughly, but even to the point of dying to pay the penalty for your sins and enduring the wrath of a holy God. Do you love that God? Who desired to do anything but punish you for your sins? And from all eternity created this covenant amongst the triune persons of the Godhead that God Himself would be our Redeemer. Do you love the God who gave you his spirit and guided you by his word? Who surrounded you with imperfect people like this guy? To walk this pilgrim road with you? Do you love the God who has called you in the midst of this strange social, political, messy moment where Everybody is suspicious and no one's optimistic about anyone that's not of their exact socio-political tribe. Are you loving the God who's called you to be salt and light right now and to be optimistic and love others? Desperately and genuinely. If you don't love that God, keep coming, because I'm going to talk about him a lot And if you don't love that God, we have elders and members of a prayer team that will be in that back corner that would love to meet with you and tell you about the God they love because he loved them first. Almighty God, we pray that you would help us to be peacemakers, men and women who bring reconciliation with us wherever we go. Father, we acknowledge not only on behalf of our culture that we deeply need that. But Lord, even as Christians, even as churches, even as families, we deeply need that. Father, we pray that you would revive our hearts, that you would help us to see that spark of divinity, as John Calvin, the old churchman, put it. That is your image in every human being and that enables us with the perseverance and grace to be optimistic and to pray for the best rather than fear for the worst. Father, we ask that you would bless each one of us, Lord, increase our faith in a way that changes us, and help us to continue and to grow in our love for others, that we would be refreshment to the hearts of many. Bless us in all these ways. We pray boldly in Jesus' name. All God's people said.