My name is Pastor Bob, as many of you know, and it is uh wonderful to be here on this beautiful day in August. Amen. If you have your Bibles with you today, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to Paul's letter to Philemon. We're going to be looking today at the The very end of the book. There's one verse that we'll save for next week, but we're going to look at verses 21 through 24. Please bow your heads with me in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. And Lord, we are reminded again and again, as often as we open up our Bibles and read that your words are unlike any others These words are not the words of mere men. These are the words that you spoken by your Spirit through men. And Lord, we honor them, we value them, they are more precious than gold, than much pure gold, sweeter than honey Lord, they are a source of life and guidance and truth and hope. And Lord, in a world where we are surrounded by everything from spin to just outright falsehoods, Lord, we rest in the truth that what you have said, your promises, your covenant bindings, they are combined with your work in history and the person of Christ, a very anchor for our souls. And so, O God, we pray that as your word is read, it would anchor our souls in such a way that despite the fear and trembling that comes with working out our salvation, We are nonetheless able to leave here with joy and great peace. We ask these blessings on the reading of your word And Lord, in the preaching that follows. Lord, in as much as it is faithful to what you are, what you've said, what you've done, and what you will for us, Lord, may it be helpful. We pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Philemon, beginning with verse 20. Beginning with verse 21. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I am hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends greetings to you, and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. This ends the reading of God's Word. Like many of you of my age, I'm in the middle of my 50s, I'm 56 if you're keeping score. I talk with my parents. And parents, perhaps you talk with kids. And a lot of those conversations are rather formulaic in their beginning and end. I'll give you an example of my dad, and just for the record, I consider him to be one of the godliest men I've ever met, if not the godliest. And he calls me up and he says, Hey Bob, do you have a minute? Guaranteed, pretty much that's exactly the words that are going to come out of his mouth. If I call him, guaranteed he's going to say, Ah, Robert, to what do I owe the pleasure of this fine call? Guaranteed, pretty much verbatim, that's what's coming out of my dad's mouth. And the endings of the conversations are all the same. He always says, thanks so much for your time. I love you, son, and I sure am proud of you by now. Verbatim! Now, it would be easy to think that because he said it a thousand times, it's just rote. That would be a very great error. Because The beginnings and the ends of those conversations with my dad are the bookends that provide the context in which everything we talk about, whether it's the weather, how my kids are doing, vacation plans. The beginning and end of those conversations are what provides the covenantal context, the relationship, the value of whatever we have talked about. What about the Bible? We have this weird habit And I see it in my Bible commentaries that line the shelves in my office written by men who know far more about the scriptures than I do. where we tend to almost discard the beginning and the ends of Paul's conversations with churches, the Holy Spirit's conversation with us. And we forget the fact that we are addressed as saints, as the church, as beloved fellow workers. And we look at the ending when we get to things like travel plans and we think, ah, yada, yada, yada. We're done, let's move on to Hebrews. And so we miss the bookends that actually create the context or the culture within which every verse between them takes on meaning, life, and relevance. I want you to think about this wrap-up that Paul offers here. He clearly is switching gears here and going into conclusion mode when he says, I write to you, knowing that you're going to do more than I ask. And he then goes on to talk about: hey, prepare a guest room for me. I'd like to come visit travel plans. He ends a lot of letters. Most of his letters he ends with travel plans. And then fellow greetings from others. And I want to suggest to you that as we look at these verses, we see in them a Final appeal of sorts. I'm calling them three final encouragements to take everything that has happened between verses eight and verse twenty. And apply it well. What does Paul say in verses eight through twenty? Just a recap for those of you who are visiting, Paul writes this letter to Philemon, and it's really the only letter like this in the Bible explicitly personal, immensely practical, extremely focused. It's really a letter to Philemon and his wife And probably the the elder or pastor who uh who shepherds the church that meets in Philemon's house. He's a wealthy man. He and his wife have an estate that has at least multiple rooms because he says prepare a guest room for me, not the guest room, so clearly there's several rooms he could pick from. He's a man who's well-to-do, and in the culture of that day, where uh roughly a third of the people can be assumed to have been uh slaves, indentured servants, bondservants of some kind in that culture. One of them ran away and stole from him. Caused great harm. And in that culture of great scandal, deep division, upset the household, economically, socially, even emotionally, as These are people Onesimus likely grew up in that house with a name like Onesimus, which means useful. He was probably born into his slavery So in that culture, what Onestimus did is worthy of the death penalty. Onesimus runs away, meets Paul in Rome, probably, where Paul is in prison. Onestimus becomes a Christian. And Paul determines by the Spirit's leading that Onesimus should go back and be reconciled with Philemon, his old owner, who also is a Christian, who also was one to Christ by the ministry of the Apostle Paul. And so this letter is written to accompany Onesimus. And Onesimus, together with others, a small delegation, go from Rome to Colossae, the area where Philemon was. And this letter is presented, and there stands Onesimus. And Paul has said to Philemon, welcome this man as if he were me. And if he owes you anything at all, if he's done any harm, you are not to make him pay for it. I will pay for it. Charge it to me. And make my heart refreshed. Bless me the way you have blessed so many others. That is a difficult thing to ask, isn't it? Sometimes we're willing to forgive people, but we also insist upon them paying back every penny. Now the reality is that sometimes people cannot do that. It would be easy if someone stole from you and you could put a dollar price on it and say, yeah, I'll forgive you, but you owe me X, Y, and Z. I had a personal experience of this. I think I shared with you once before. My wife and I, when we were living in Ministering, California, would open our house up to any number of people. We would have uh we were known to have uh transitionally homeless people store their stuff in our garage, shower in our uh our our bathroom, eat from our fridge. We wanted our house to be a a lighthouse. Well, one time we went on vacation and one of the young teenagers that we had hosted many times robbed us. And he took my coin collection. And my coin collection is something to sneeze at. It's nothing special. It's a whole bunch of wheat leaf pennies my grandfather gave me when I was in grade school, and a collection of probably a couple hundred bicentennial quarters that I've always had a soft spot for because they just look so cool. And those are gone. Now he could have paid me back even what those are worth, according to the latest numismatics or coin collector's guide for value. But could he? Could he give me back the coins my grandfather gave me that had been in his pocket, that had passed through his hand? That he'd received it as change when he bought groceries that fed my mother. You see, there comes a point when we have to realize that there is a sense in which when people hurt us and wrong us and harm us, There's a sense in which restitution cannot be made. Not in a one-to-one, univocal, perfectly corresponding sense. How do you repay someone for the sense that their home was violated after trust was given? You see, there are a thousand ways you and I have been hurt by people in ways that can never be repaid by that person. It can't be. And how can we keep in step with the Spirit of God who commands us as early as Leviticus and as late as 1 Corinthians? that we can keep no record of wrong, that we can bear no grudge, that we may not seek vengeance. While we can take our loss. And we can chalk it up to the finished, complete, perfect work of Jesus Christ. And we can hear Jesus who prayed for people who wronged him, even as they nailed him to the cross. Father, forgive them. And we can capture that heart as sanctified Christian men and women, and we can say, I forgive that person that. I have gained far more in Christ than I lost in that burglary. And I can compare the drop that I lost here compared to the ocean that I gained here, and my heart can be set free from vengeance. From anger, from that root of bitterness that makes me miss the grace of God. And I can welcome someone back into my home who has despoiled it. Something that in fact happened. That's hard to do. And I would be the biggest liar you've ever met if I stood here and said I do that every time. Once in a while I get it right by the grace of God. Other times I struggle with fear and trembling to try to work out those gospel principles of my salvation in relationship with others. And it's hard work. It's terrifying work. It's frightening work. It's painful work. But is it ever sweet work? Because when I commit to it and engage in it, I'm reminded of the love of God for me that is in Christ, and just how much I am forgiven and loved and welcomed. Well, Paul offers a couple of encouragement, a couple of encouragements to Philemon that can be that extra help. To be goads to encourage him to do the best thing. And the first thing that he does is he indicates that he has confidence. Remember, Paul is playing the role of Jesus. Jesus is the mediator between the Heavenly Father, our God, and us. And Jesus is the one that says to God the Father, Welcome Bob Burkas, as if he's me. And whatever he owes you, whatever Bob Bierkus owes you, whatever sins he's committed, I will pay the penalty for that. Charge me, only welcome him that our hearts might rejoice together. Jesus does that for us. Paul does that for Onesimus. Paul stands in the gap, as it were, and says to the owner onesimus, welcome him as if he's Paul himself, if he's done anything to you. Whatever it is, even if he did it seven times, seventy times, whatever he's done, anything, Paul says it twice. If he owes you anything or has wronged you at all, charge it to me. Well, how in the world do we do that? Well, the mediator here expresses great confidence. Verse 21, confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. And I want you to think about that word confidence and think about your role. In whatever capacity God has called you and gifted you and installed you as a leader, a coach, a mentor, a teacher, a pastor. And I can tell you after many, many years of coaching lacrosse, which I've done avocationally since 1991, that if I go up to kids and say, I really don't expect much from you, in fact You're sort of the all-time stink. Try not to break the bench when you sit on it. Well, you know, that kid is probably not going to perform well. But if I go up to a kid and say, I gotta tell you something, John, listen, buddy, you are a diamond in the rough. All we need to do is fix this cradle. And pick your hands up when you throw. Remember, bottom hand by the ear hole. Follow through. Snap your wrist. You got this. I know you do. You're going to be dropping hat tricks by the time you're junior. Actually, he'll probably be dropping hat-tricks by the time he's a junior. Hat tricks means three goals in one game. You see, the confidence of those who are over you in your life and your relationships in the Lord, when they expressed confidence in you, when you express confidence in your kids, you've got this, Billy. Susan, I know you can do this. I've seen you do things like this. The statement and the declaration of confidence, the public statement that I believe in this person, that they are going to do the right thing and succeed. Boy, we we neglect the power of words and the reality of blessings like that. Because there's a sense in which I am blessing that kid when I declare beautiful truths over him. That's the very idea of the Hebraic blessing. And Paul does that for Philemon. Paul goes right out in public and says, I know you've got this. You're going to do even more than I asked. You are a fellow. worker, beloved in Christ. And while I will recommend to you certain things in that vein, I will do so with full confidence, knowing that God is at work in you. I want you to think about confidence Confidence has appeared in two different ways here in this letter. The first place we saw confidence was in Paul's confidence in Onesimus. Paul is confident in the runaway slave. He says, formerly he was useless to you. Remember his name was useful. So Paul's saying formerly he didn't live up to his name at all. But now he is indeed useful to you and to me. So now he's even more than you could have asked for before. When he didn't even live up to his name. Now he's going to live up to his name with respect to you, and more than that, even to me. So Paul is putting confidence In the one who has done wrong. And Paul is also putting confidence in the one who is called to do right, to do what is beautiful and good, and forgive. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. If you have named the name of Jesus Christ, I have every right and reason to be confident. That you are going to do good and beautiful and right things. Will I be disappointed once in a while? Almost certainly. But will great and blessed things happen because I have in faithfulness to the Word of God and all of the examples and the exhortations? But will I be blessed and have my heart refreshed? More often than not. Now let's flip the script. If you decide to have confidence in me as your pastor, will you ever be disappointed? Thank you. Yes, you will. Yes, you will. You will be disappointed, much to my shame and chagrin. But on par, is it not true that in a culture of mutual confidence, despite past imperfections or egregious errors, We can ordinarily expect God by His common grace, let alone special grace, to bless us with far more than we would have without it. Now think about your family. Think about how we sometimes demonstrate little confidence in our spouses. in our kids, how we declare little confidence. And we say things like, you're probably not going to agree with me, but I think Or I know you're not going to do this. You're not going to want to do this, but. You see, there are so many ways I as a pastor have been guilty of and watched with my own two eyes, well, one eye. This one doesn't work. Or heard with my ears, which both function quite well. Statements just like that. Statements that preface an exhortation to be godly and biblical with a negative statement that belies a lack of confidence. I know you're not going to do this. You're not going to want to hear this. This isn't going to work for you, I know. But all of these kinds of things that we say and do need to be removed. Once and for all, from the record of our vocabulary, and we need to learn how to speak with a grace-born confidence in a God who's powerful and powerfully at work in the lives of those who know Him. Confidence is the missing ingredient in so many of our relationships. Skepticism and doubt are the currency of the day And oh, to have confidence like this. And I would remind you that Paul's very heart is at stake here when he writes these words moved by the Holy Spirit. I am sending him back to you, he writes in verse 12, sending my very heart. And Paul is confident that his heart will not be broken. Rather, it will be refreshed, as he says in verse 16 and in verse 20. Now, the mediator's confidence is something that Jesus has in us as well. Because Jesus calls us again and again to keep in step with him by his spirit Jesus calls us again and again to radical acts of obedience, to get out of the safe boats in which we think we're going to survive the winds and the waves of rocky relationships. And he says, here I am, standing on the waves, join me. And though it be with fear and trembling, dear Saint, your Savior has confidence that if your eyes are fixed on him, You can walk on water too. You can forgive. Even the most difficult to forgive. The mediator's confidence is something that we should recognize the Bible speaks to us and over us as often as Jesus speaks and invites us to come and to follow. But we also have another fascinating grounds for being encouraged to this great work of reconciliation, and it is the mediator's return. Look at verse 22. He says, at the same time. Now he's using that kind of as an idiom. So think of it as this on the one hand, I'm super confident this is going to happen because I'm confident in you. And also, while I'm at it, prepare a guest room for me, for I'm hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you. Now, I gotta tell you, I am just a at heart a skeptical person. That's why I need Jesus so badly. And I would think if I got a letter like this, and let's say it was from my dad telling me, son, I want you to get along with your brother Doug. And uh Doug, if you're listening, I'm not picking on you for At random. I'm picking on you because you kinda have it coming. He broke my model ship. I gotta tell you something. When my Father raised us. He rotated through Saturday, spending a couple hours doing something with each of us. And with me, we built this revell USS Constitution, the the warship, and we painted it, we rigged it, we did everything. It was plastic, but it was beautiful. I loved that thing. I gloried in that ship, and it was sitting there on my bookcase in the room we shared. Well Doug said, watch this, took a tennis ball, hucked it at it, snapped all the masts, said, Now it looks like it's been through battle. Well I'm still a little worked up. So if my father says to me, Bob, it's time you buried that axe it and let go of that revell USS Constitution and got over the fact that your brother snapped the rigging and broke it. And by the way, I'm going to be visiting you later with Doug, so you're going to want to get that taken care of before I get there. You know, think about how that could be read almost as a threat or a or a hard lever. Get your house in order, I'm on my way. I don't think that's what Paul meant at all. Because he says this, for I'm hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you. Fascinating language. Paul is in a sense saying, I am yours. I'm hoping that I will be given to you as you have graciously been praying that I would be restored to you. And I would have the closest of relationships with you. And that can be a very positive encouragement to be reconciled. I want to tell you an anonymous story. It came very much to mind as I was preparing this message. I have a dear friend that I ministered with. He's older than me. And he called me up in tears once, just I should say on the verge of tears. His voice was breaking. He had wanted to visit his kids, and one of his kids had said Dad, this isn't a good time. My spouse and I are really on the outs. Broke Dad's heart. The dad with whom I labored in ministry called me and shared that with me and said, Please pray. Think about how when you are at odds with another person. It would be natural for you to think, Jesus, don't stop by my house right now Or dad and mom, this wouldn't be a good time. Think about how whenever you're engaged in sin, whether it's the sin of grudge-keeping or acting vengefully or whatever it is that you struggle with, and we all struggle with something, is that the very time you want Jesus to show up and sit down at the table with you? You see, Jesus, by his spirit, gives us this word through Paul. To underscore for us one, the fact that at heart, as Christians, what we really want is the presence of our mediator to be with us. Scrape away the barnacles on the bottom of your life that are saying, not yet, because I got uh no, this isn't a good time. And at heart you want to be with Jesus. Can you think of a better time in your life than when the Spirit of the living God is lifting your very heart right up out of your body as you're singing his praises and worship with his people? Is there anything better than knowing the fellowship of your Savior? When it's almost tangible. You want his presence in your life. And Jesus is here by this word given by his Spirit through the Apostle Paul is saying to us in effect. Be mindful of the imminence of my return and every day be preparing for it and living in light of the fact. That all of your actions of gracious obedience, even above and beyond the call of what others might think reasonable service, all of that is preparing a room for me. Even as I am preparing a mansion for you with many rooms. Paul is preparing. Philemon is preparing for Paul's return. Not simply. By rearranging the furniture in a guest room, but by getting his house in order, his life in order, and by applying the gospel to the most painful relationships. And we too can speed the coming of our Lord in a sense of preparing for his return by doing everything that it is in our power to do. To put our houses in order. To be certain that we are found not bearing a grudge or carrying a vengeful spirit towards another But there's another thing here. We have the mediator's confidence as a great encouragement. We have the mediator's return as a great encouragement. And we have the mediator's community as a great encouragement. I would not put the paragraph break the way that our translators of the ESV has put it with the final greetings. I think that starts earlier than this. But we write here, read here in verse 23, Epaphrus, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends greetings to you, as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. Have you ever stopped and pondered the fact that all of everything that we do is nested within these concentric circles of community? When we say the creed, and we're going to be saying it at the end of this sermon, we'll say things like, I believe in the Holy Catholic Church and the communion of saints. But do you? Do you believe in the connectedness that we have by virtue of our mutual union with Christ, that what we do actually has effect on others and refreshes their hearts or discourages their hearts? Builds them up or tears them down, gives them hope, or leads them to despair. And Paul, over and over and again in his letters, he makes it so clear that he is writing to you. on behalf of us. There is a deeply rooted plurality in the letters that Paul writes In fact, many of his letters that we think, oh, Paul wrote that, he indicates he co-authored. At the men's retreat, I asked who wrote 1 Corinthians. Do any of you guys remember that? Paul wrote 1 Corinthians, but did he write it by himself? No, not if you read 1 Corinthians 1, 1 through 3. Paul and Sosthenes. Who in the world is that? Do you ever think he was someone that the Holy Spirit spoke through to give you sacred scripture? Paul co-authored 1 Corinthians. He co-authored with Timothy. Paul has this mutual community sense life in which he recognizes that he is not alone. He never writes alone. He never writes to one person. Everything that we do and everything that we are is in a sense intimately connected. not only to Jesus Christ by his Spirit, but even to one another. And when we say, I believe in the communion of saints, We're not saying that we believe in this ephemeral abstract notion. We're saying that we believe that we are part of the organic, connected body of Jesus Christ. And that if I entertain a cancer in my soul, that cancer is going to spread to you. It'll metastasize straight down from the toes to the scalp. We have community. And just like if we entertain bitterness that causes us to miss the grace of God towards those who've hurt us. By experiencing the grace of God and the health and the healing that comes from forgiving, we can refresh the hearts of the community of saints. We can receive and partake in the blessings of greetings with people like Mark and Aristarchus and Demas and Luke Let me think about this text. There's one point I want to make that has come out of a couple conversations I've had over the last weeks. Because it is I'm very mindful of the fact that th th these sermons have uh really been a spin cycle for us as a church in some ways. Um a lot of feedback, more feedback on the last four sermons than I think I've received. For any other little series I've ever done. I want to observe to you that in nearly every place in the scripture where the issue of repentance and forgiveness are mentioned and dealt with, In nearly every such case, it is either one or the other, not both. And when Paul writes this letter to Philemon, there's not a single word of it that's addressed to Onesimus. When God speaks about repentance, he speaks about what has to happen in the heart of the sinner. When God talks about forgiveness, he talks about what has to happen in the heart of the person who's been sinned against. Last week I mentioned from the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 18, how even if someone sins seven times, seventy times, or seventy-seven times, whatever that sin may be. And think of a terrible one. Because there's no worse word in the Bible than sin. That one word is a placeholder for whatever you hope it doesn't mean Jesus says, forgive. And then he tells us parable about the unmerciful servant. The emphasis throughout indicates that the guilty person A is not sufficiently repentant to stop their action And B, isn't even asking for forgiveness that involves restitution, because in the parable that follows, remember the servant just says, give me mercy. Because I can't make up what I owe you. I can't fix the wrong I've caused. That's about forgiveness. Now I want you to think about this, dear friend. Why is it that God in His wisdom tends to speak to one or the other? And I want to give you something to think about. I tend to look at repentance and forgiveness as a transaction, as something of a compromise. I tend to say, well. I will forgive you this much if you repent that much. Or I will forgive you when I know you're really sorry. And then from the other hand, on the other side of it, maybe if I've committed the wrong, I'm very leery about repenting unless I know I'm going to be forgiven Or unless I know that they're going to in some way say, oh, don't worry about it. Or you know, it's partly my fault. And I'm going to look at that as a transaction. That at its heart is a compromise, that says at the end of the day, yeah, I'm I'm a sinner, you're a sinner, let's just hug and make up. And all of that minimizes Both the offensive sin and the humanly speaking irrationality of forgiveness. We are never called to act in a more radical, heavenly manner than when we are called to forgive someone who sinned against us. And the shocking thing that I've discovered in my own life and as a pastor in counseling is that forgiveness and repentance work best when they are decoupled and are unilaterally pursued by the offender and the offended. If my brother Doug and I are to sit down and have a cup of coffee and talk about that broken model ship. If I try to negotiate a reconciliation, it will be fragile and temporary. and utterly dependent upon whether one or the other of us keeps our side of the bargain that we've struck. But if I decide in my heart that irrespective of anything he does to make restitution for that broken ship, I'm going to forgive him and I'm going to love him anyway. Did you know that one of the words for forgiveness in your Greek New Testament is karitzomai? Karis means grace. And in a sense, all forgiveness means is I am going to treat you graciously. I am not going to treat you as your sins deserve. I'm going to be gracious. And if you want to apologize for breaking that ship, that's on you. And that's between you and Jesus. But as for me and mine, I'm going to forgive you for that. And you're my brother. And there'll be other ships. And when I get to heaven, maybe the enough people from the Ravel Company will be in heaven too. They'll redesign that ship, although I don't know what they'll do for cannons, because there will be no war there. But at the end of the day, there's a sense in which this is a unilateral appeal. And it is not conditioned upon something that you fallibly need to be certain of in the heart of another person. All I need as a Christian man to forgive someone that sinned against me is an understanding of the cross of Christ, the depth of my own sin, and the freeness of his love. That's all I need. Yes, sinners must be called to repentance. But God chooses to deal with that in another book In this book he says, for those of us who have been hurt or offended, we have our hearts set free to repent. Of not forgiving. And we can forgive. Will we be hurt again? Very possibly. In some cases, probably. Are there things that can be and should be done to mitigate those future occurrences? Most certainly. But this letter aims at the heart, and I trust that it has hit mine and yours as well. That because of what Jesus has done for us, and because his five bleeding wounds plead not only for me, but also for her. Also for him, I don't need to be transactionally committed to working out all of my grievances. Love covers the Hebrew word kafar, also translated atones. Love covers a multitude of sins again. Multitude is the biggest numerical number the Hebrews understood. Sins is the worst possible descriptor the ancient Hebrew could imagine. And the love that is ours in Christ is more than enough. It is enough for me. It is enough for you. And I'm confident that as you and I grow in love and grow in our understanding of the gospel, we will be increasingly a forgiven people and a forgiving people, because the two are inseparable. And so I ask a couple of questions. How can our reconciliation with those who've hurt us bless the broader church, mindful of our community? How can your kids be blessed, Dad and Mom? If you are able to reconcile, unilaterally determining that you will forgive. Focus on that half. If you will decide, I am not going to be bitter, I'm not going to hold a grudge, I'm going to love like 1 Corinthians 13 calls me to, I am not going to be vengeful. How will your parents be blessed? Your other siblings? The people in your small group? Your neighborhood, society. They will be blessed much in every way. Is our house in order for Christ's return? Is Jesus knocking on the door of your heart saying, open up, I'm here, and are you saying, oh, Lord, come back in an hour? Are you prepared for his coming and his intimate communion with you right now? Or is there something holding you back, something you need to attend to? And Paul, in his great substitution, this beautiful example, as Martin Luther, the Protestant reformer puts it, shows us Christ's action. He also shows us the Church's action in Philemon. The mediator is hoping that through your prayers he will be graciously given to you. Are you praying for Christ's return? It's the very last prayer recorded in the Bible. The Spirit and the bride say, come, Lord Jesus, come. Or would you be a little bit embarrassed if he came back and found grudges and fears that the gospel should have put to rest long ago? Come to Christ. Imitate Him. Reflect long and deep on what you've been forgiven. And be a merciful servant. And forgive her. Forgive him. Forgive them. Amen If you have not been forgiven and don't know the mercy of Jesus, the mediator who pays the penalty for sinners like me. I would plead with you today, before anything else, when my hands drop after the benediction, go to that corner of the sanctuary. There will be people there who would love to pray with you and lead you to Christ. But do not let another day go by, because you don't know when our Jesus will return. But you do know that your house needs to be put in order. And that by repentance and faith you need to be united to your Savior. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. Father, we pray that you would make us, men and women, boys and girls, more deeply and indelibly marked with the grace of the gospel. Lord, help us to understand the gospel in all of its radical power, especially in how it sets our hearts free to truly love our enemies and to bless those who curse us and to be a forgiving people. Lord, we pray that you would give us every confidence in each other as we increasingly together lean on you. And Father, we pray that by your great grace you would draw many to yourself. Lord Jesus, I pray for any who are here this morning that do not have a personal relationship with you, that are not Resting and trusting in the complete work of Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray that you would be stirring up in their heart a holy discontent And a complete fear for what an eternity would be without a mediator To pay the penalty for us. And Lord Jesus, we thank you and we praise you that you did this. You paid our penalty. You paid the ransom. You've set us free. Bless us in the name of Christ, we ask. Amen.