And we turn again this morning to the book of Hebrews as we continue. So by way of introduction want to let you know that we will be completing chapter 9 and 10 of Hebrews prior to the summer break. And then during the summer, we will go into a summer series that will prepare us for a return to Hebrews in September. And it is an opportunity for us to go deeper in the summer with some of the underlying narratives throughout Scripture that will lead us back to Hebrews 11, what is called the Hall of Faith. But last Sunday, this Sunday, and next, we've decided that we were going to take a slower approach to Hebrews chapter 9. Not because of its length, but because of its depth. The depth to which it goes into with regard to the work of Christ and his work on the cross. Last week we looked at the ways in which the Old Testament, through God's design, built a tent of the Holy of Holies. And then the most holy place. And then the outer, outside of the tent where the sacrifices were offered, and the work of the high priest and how Christ And his work on the cross, and his ascension, and his work as high priest in the most holy place that is not made by human hands, but is at the right hand of God the Father, is the one who is the perfect and forever sacrifice for his people. And so this week we go a little bit further in looking at the nature of redemption. And so there is a great book by John Murray called Redemption Accomplished and Applied. So this week is Redemption Accomplished Next week is redemption applied. Not that it won't be today, but you get the idea in terms of theme as we look at these verses. And together, Hebrews chapter 9, verses 15 to 22. But before I read it, I want to encourage you to ask you to go with me, with your imagination open, with your hearts wide open, To see in greater detail the beauty of Christ. What do I mean? The gospel of Jesus Christ and his work on the cross is irreducible. Although in recognizing its irreducibility, we oftentimes simplify the gospel in such a way, not intentionally, but that in some ways robs it of its complexity, its beauty. And therefore, we become impoverished in our nourishment from the gospel. Not because we mean to. But because in an effort to make it clear, at times we reduce it to too simple a formula. And how that in some ways distorts our understanding of who the Father is and who Christ is. And let me say at the very basis of the gospel, what is the motivation for the cross if we are not careful? We reduce the gospel in such a way that we miss the motivation for the cross. And if we miss the motivation for the cross, it robs us. Of the great nourishment of the grace of God. So I want you to see it in its multi-dimensional form. We do so by looking at these verses. And so please listen or read along as you can see it in the screens before you, or if you brought your Bible. Therefore, he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promise eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established. For a will takes effect only at the death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive. Therefore, not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, He took the blood of calves and goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people. Which is what we heard read earlier this morning. Saying, This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you. And in the same way, he sprinkled with blood both the tents and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed, under the law, almost everything is purified with blood. And without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Now, Heavenly Father, we ask that you, by the power and presence of your Holy Spirit Will open our eyes that we would see wondrous things in your word. And may it be the finest meal that we could ever feast on. May it change us as a people. May it encourage us spiritually. May it transform the way in which we understand our relationship with you. May it also transform our experience of our relationship with you. Help us to see the beauty of Christ. And the accomplishment of redemption. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. So you see in your outline we have the will and blood sacrifice Last week we looked at the the actual tent and the design of the tent, the architecture of the tent, the the importance of the tent of meeting where God had instructed Moses and the people had built in their encampment. In Gilgal, how they were to worship the Lord and the sacrifices that were offered there on the Day of Atonement Not only for intentional sins, but specifically for unintentional sins. And one of the things we looked at was though the the offering of these sacrifices were effective in being able to for the people to experience and know the forgiveness of sins, though things which could not take place Was the removal of guilt from the conscience. It could not purify the conscience. That could only happen through Christ So this week, as we look at this text, the preacher of Hebrews goes a little bit deeper to explain why that is and how that is. So we're going to look together at how this redemption is actually accomplished. We do so by looking at this word, the will. Now, in Greek it is pronounced diatheke. Now, diathe can be translated as the word covenant, which we see in this text But it also is able to be translated as another word, which we also see in this text. They are not perfectly synonymous, but rather one is under the umbrella of the other. So covenant, as we looked at last week. is not simply a legal testament, a legal document, a legal relationship. It is, in biblical understanding, it is, encapsulates God's loving relationship to say to the people of God, I will be your God and you will be my people. It is first and foremost a relationship. Now, inside this covenant relationship, it has legal details. It has a legal structure, but it never stays there alone. And the word diet, when it is translated as will here, is giving us the legal structure. And he does this in a way that we can understand, and so can his hearers. So let's look at this word, will, as you will see here, as it was written in verse 16. For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established. So what he's doing is he's going a little bit deeper into the new covenant to explain how and in what way this is particularly good news for the people of God. There's two aspects you will see in the outline. First, speaking of Christ, when it says here verse 16, for where a will is involved, that is, A document for our understanding is given, and in that document is explained all the benefits and all the blessings. That will come to those beneficiaries of the one who died. And so he uses the word will there. And so what we see here is when he says this: the death of the one who made it must be established. So we see that what he's talking about is Christ. Because we see in verse 15, therefore he is the mediator of the new covenant, that is Christ. So what he's saying here is that Christ is the testator. He is the one who has established the will. He is the one who is bringing it to bear. He is the one who is announcing it. But he is also the ratifier. What does that mean? Notice what it says. For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it, that is Christ, must be established. But for a will to take place, verse 17, it only takes effect after a death, since it is not enforced as long as the one who made it is alive. So Christ is the one who has established the will and its benefits, and the ones who will receive those benefits. He's also the one who is the ratifier. He's the one who has died. But here is important key for us to remember. Deeply embedded. Deeply embedded in the gospel is this reality. John chapter 6. All that the Father, this is Jesus speaking, all that the Father gives me will come to me. Whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of Him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. So the preacher of Hebrews is saying, the will of the one who made it, that is Christ. But what we see is that Christ then says, but guess what? I only do the will of the one who sent me. Meaning Christ's will is the Father's will. He's letting us into the Trinitarian economy. This isn't just Jesus' work, this is the Father's work. And then he also speaks of the Holy Spirit in John chapter 14, which tells us that it's not only the will of the Father, it's not only the will of Christ, it is also the will of the Holy Spirit. The Trinitarian economy means they are one God yet three persons having the same purpose. That Jesus is the one who brought about the will of the Father, made it plain, He's the one who's testified to it, but He's also its ratifier. How can I say that? He says it because Jesus says it. What do I mean by ratifier? He puts it into place. But we might think of the work of Christ. He was crucified. That's passive. He was crucified. But we recognize, if we remember from the gospel, John says in chapter 10, and I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason. The Father loves me because I lay down my life that I might take it up again. Do you hear the active voice? That's not passive. Yes, others put him on trial. Yes, others put him on the cross. Yes, others gave years to him. But they aren't the ones who took his life. He laid it down himself. Do you see the difference? Jesus is not a reluctant martyr. His life was not stolen from him. Which is why it is an abomination to ever accuse the Jews of being the guilty ones of taking Christ's life, which has been uttered throughout the centuries. Yes, they were the vehicles who were the ones who publicly accused him. Yes, it was the Romans, the Gentiles, who allowed it to happen. But we cannot point the finger. We cannot point the finger for as my favorite musician of all time, B. B. King once said, the following words, I was there when they crucified my Lord. I held the scabbard when the soldier drew his sword. I threw the dice when they pierced his side. But I seen love conquered the great divide. The reality is it is not one people group. We all in Adam and Eve were there when they held the sword that pierced his side. But it was Jesus who put that will into place. He is the one who ratified it. This is important. This is multidimensional, as I spit. I'm excited about it because as I dug deeper into it, I began to have my brain explode when I began to see how beautiful, how beautiful is the feet of Christ. Jesus is the one who came by his own will. And he is the one who laid it down. But not only is he the test vater, not only is he the one who is the ratifier, he is also the executor and its guarantee. Because we see, for the will takes place only at the death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive. Therefore, not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. And then he goes into the nature of the work of Moses. And yet the reality is embedded within this is all the teaching that the preacher of Hebrews has established. That Jesus was a sacrifice. But if he was merely a sacrifice and was not raised from the dead, then all he was was a martyr. Even if it was by his own choice. But because of the resurrection, and because of his work as high priest, which we've already established in this book, Jesus, as it has already been declared, is seated at the right hand of God the Father. How is that possible without the resurrection and without the ascension? Which means that Christ, who is seated at the right hand of God the Father, is also the executor of God's will. We've already heard it said. He says, all that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. How can that be possible if Jesus is still in the grave? But because Jesus is seated at the right hand of God the Father, all that was established because of redemption, he has brought those who the Father has given unto himself. Because Jesus Is the executor. He, by his wounds, by his blood, by his perfect sacrifice, by his purity and righteousness, is now seated at the right hand of the Father. and is also the guarantee that the benefits that come to us who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, as he says, Those who call on my name will receive all the benefits of my will. That is, receive the benefits of my redemption. And what is the will? What are the benefits? Yes, this text mentions, as we will get to in just a moment. That without blood sacrifice, there's no forgiveness of sins. So we receive forgiveness of sins. But as I said last week, we still have to deal with this thing, and I wonder if you've wrestled with it. I wonder how you handle it. Some seekers in our day. Have said publicly within evangelicalism that we must unhitch the faith from the Old Testament. But if you unhitch the Old Testament from our faith, you unhitch the New Testament too. Because the one book that quotes the Old Testament more than any other is the book of Hebrews. You can't have the gospel without the Old Testament. And what we find in the Old Testament, as we've already read, is very discomforting, this idea of blood sacrifice. It's gross. Even as we hear it read, Moses taking the blood of the sacrifice mixed with hyssop. and sprinkling it onto the people of God. I mean, we can barely enter in a room without sort of antibacterial, you know Stuff and we start hearing about this blood stuff. And we looked at last week. We think it odd, maybe insane as 21st century people how people could under do animal sacrifice. But let's look at this because within this text, verses 16 to 19, one of the things we note is, uh there actually 16 through 22, there are five different references to blood. We have to deal with it. So let's deal with it as we see it contextualized here. We've already established, but I'll repeat it again, that death is the result of sin. Death entered the world because of the disobedience of our first parents. We have sinful and broken natures. And as a result, we too die. So mortality, death, is an enemy, not a friend. It is a thief. But for there to be redemption, then mortality has to be reversed. It has to be dealt with. And in Leviticus chapter 17, verse 11, we hear the words that the life of the flesh is in the blood. So we have to first deal with Why then blood sacrifice to reverse mortality? It's because there is life in the blood What does it mean? That sacrifice of blood is a way of demonstrating that life must be given for life if mortality is to be reversed. Now, you might say, well, well, that's just what you're saying, but we actually operate on this kind of economy all the time. If I came to your house and I took your finest piece of crystal and I broke it, It's not going to be enough for me to go to Giant and bring the enough Tupperware pieces to replace what that crystal would have held. I need to replace it. I need to reverse the brokenness by seeking to replace that which was broken. So if life is in the flesh, if in our flesh, and rather if life is in the blood, and in our blood and in our flesh we commit sin, Therefore, blood must be sacrificed. Now, one of the great church fathers, Saint Anselm, set it up this way: God is infinite. Therefore, sin against the infinite carries with it infinite guilt. Infinite guilt, therefore. Cannot be purged. Infinite guilt cannot be removed by a finite sacrifice. Which is why the blood sacrifices of animals could not purge the conscience, could not clean it. It was only temporary, which is why the Day of Atonement had to be celebrated every year. So before we go any further, again we have to ask, how is it then that my sin against an infinite God therefore carries with it infinite guilt? Well again, we we actually operate on this economy all the time. Think about it. If I were your friend, and I am Sandy Sharp, I'm just going to pick you out in the audience. And you were to come to me and you were to tell me something that is very valuable to you and you say to me, Randy, I'm going to share this with you. This is important to me, but you cannot share this with anyone else. This is between you and me. And then I go out and I go over here and I broadcast it with like five or six friends. And then you find out that I did that, you would say that I have betrayed you. You would say that I am a traitor. Now that has a certain economy to it. It has this economy of scale. It's fairly local, although I can't control where all of that goes. Or if I change the story and I'm gossiping, I can't control where that goes. But again, it it has a certain level of scale to it. But if Someone is arrested because they sold secrets to a foreign enemy working for the National Security Agency just down the street. What have they done? They've done the same thing. They are a traitor, not different in kind, but different by degree. Therefore, the economy of scale of their guilt has with it a greater economy of consequence. Not because it is functionally a different sin than what I just described to you between me and one person, it's that we recognize that it carries with it greater weight. It takes on a greater corporate nature. Same is the case with regard to sin in the Bible. Because God made us, if we take the Bible on its own merit, And created us in his image and wanted us to live in perfect harmony with him. Yet we simply said, We do not want it. We want to go our own way and we sin against him, doing what he says we ought not to do. We therefore have offended infinite, an infinite God, and an infinite holiness. Therefore, our guilt has greater weight. It has a greater economy of scale. And it cannot be removed without a sacrifice on the same scale. This was Anselm's point. Number one, that sin must be paid for in the same nature. God became man. The human person must be infinite so that his work accomplishes limitless effect. I say that again. The human person Must be infinite, so that his work accomplishes a limitless effect. Therefore, God became man And dwelt among us. Christ was fully God and fully man. Therefore, he was infinite in his person. Yet he was in the flesh. And in offering his life as a sacrifice, he accomplishes limitless redemption. We are utterly saved as we call on him by name. Because sin was committed in the flesh, And the life of the flesh is in the blood, blood sacrifice is required. But thanks be to God that it is not our blood. That while I may have been there representatively when the soldiers drew the sword, I should have been the one on the cross. We deserve the death. We deserve God's wrath and penalty. But I want to stop there for just a moment before my final point. And if you have fallen asleep, let me encourage you to wake up. I want to say this to you as your pastor that if you forget everything else I've ever said, which you probably have. If you forget everything else I've ever said, I would want you to remember these words, because these are words, if these were the last words I ever preached, I would be happy In our understanding of the gospel, and even in our preaching of it, and I am guilty of it as anyone else To make the gospel understandable, we often reduce it in such a way to make it understandable. But what happens when we reduce it in that way, what begins to happen is we make it out to be simply a transaction. So, therefore, it is often inferred or often thought that when we hear the gospel, Christ went to the cross, he died on the cross, God forgave us because of the work of Christ. It makes it sound, though. As if the following is true. That the Father only loves us because Jesus died Do you hear that? We believe that the gospel teaches that the Father only loves us because Jesus died. If I told you that was an error, would you believe me? It is an error. Maybe not intentional, but it is an error. Let me explain what I mean When we see this final point under blood sacrifice, we cannot talk about the blood sacrifice of Christ without understanding its motivation. And its motivation is the provision of love. What do I mean? The cross does not cause the Father to love you and me. It is not a divine forensic legal transaction. Jesus did not die to persuade the Father to love. No, the Father in love planned and enabled the death of Christ. Is that not what our gospel teaches? 1 John chapter 4. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In this, the love of God has been made manifest among us. That God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. In this is love. Not that we have loved God, but that he has loved us and sent his son to be a propitiation. for our sins, the removal of wrath, to be an offering in our place. It is his love that sent the Son. So do you see? Jesus doesn't go to the cross as a divine way to persuade the Father to love us, rather The Father so loved the world that he sent his one and only Son. Now, why is this important to re-establish and not allow it to be reduced? It is because among many of you Dear brothers and sisters, among many of you is still a sneaking suspicion that the Father has not been persuaded to love you. That you must continue to try to persuade him. Deep within many people, those who were in the faith and those who are outside the faith. have heard the gospel and thought, well this just sounds like a like divine child abuse. That Jesus had to go to make the ogre who is God happy again. And oh what happy day God finally loves us. That doesn't sound like the gospel. And then there are others who are say That the only way the Father loves me is because he only sees me through Christ. I must tell you that that is a reduction of what the gospel is. No, God loved you. Therefore He sent His Son. God for the love of us Send his son. And for the glory of his name, yes, sin had to be paid for. Yes, his wrath had to be satisfied. Yes, the debt must be paid. But the deepest motivation is that God is love. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. So, dear friends, let us expose and rightly reflect Do we still have within us this deep, abiding suspicion that maybe the Father isn't just happy enough with us today? I declare to you in the name of Christ, because of the love that sent him, because of the love that was in the will of the one who laid down his life willingly. And because of the love that through the power of the Holy Spirit raised him from the dead, and because of the love that is the Trinitarian love that Jesus is sitting at the right hand of God the Father, your sins have been paid for. You have been made new, and your relationship is one of union and preciousness and intimacy and power and grace. It is from beginning to end the work of God's love, not one ounce. Of our trying to placate him. This is still just part of the gospel. But how great, how great is our Lord. He is the will of the Father He is our blood sacrifice. And by him and through him, established by the love of God, we can receive the cleansing of our conscience. The removal of sin as far away from us as the East is from the West. But what is in its place is the preciousness of the love of a Father for his children. This is redemption accomplished. I say to you who have not received Christ as Savior To know that it is the Father's love to you this morning that says to you, come unto me. Call on my name by my son by this sacrifice, and I will make you new. Come if you have not. But if you have, know this, dear brother and sister in Christ. What a great salvation we have. Amen? Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would now enable us to rejoice inwardly and outwardly at the beauty and power of the gospel. Lord, may you make us a people rich. Rich because we understand that this has been received as a gift of your love. But I also ask, That then we would be a people of love. A people who would live in gratitude. Who love others as we have been loved? Will you do this, O Lord, in us? For those who have not received you or believed upon you, I ask you, Father, make your love so clear to them this morning that they might receive you as Savior. Lord, that we all may rejoice together with one voice that Jesus Christ is Lord. We give you thanks and praise, and in His mighty name we pray. Amen.