Whoever curses you, I will curse, and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. Do you remember what happens coming back? So that your ways may be known on earth, God, you are so good, you are so gracious. I mean they're missing out, but you're missing out, and that's more important. He is declaring that God is going to make his name great in the blessing. It's a missionary book to declare that God is the God of all the earth, and as he blesses Daniel, and he's raised to a position of prominences, prominence that's that he might be a means of all the earth, of Nebuchadnezzar, humbled to declare him. It begins to occur to you that God has blessed me for a purpose beyond myself, you see. And so we pray for them in their forays and they talk about the hunger that there is there. And then we pass that on to the World Missions Task Force simply so they know about your interest and take that into account, things that they plan. Every area was dotted with little pins because we're going to start marking them as pastors. We have a representative for our congregation, our pastors will be here. in the cul-de-sacs, in the neighborhoods, in the streets where we live, to begin to pray that we would be a blessing to our neighbors. We move from Easter into the month of missions. This morning we heard in the middle hour from Mark Bubes right over here. The Messiah will suffer and rise again on the third day. From Numbers chapter 6. uh that peace of heart and conscience. Or whether you've been like a Mary from Magdala, we saw last week, has a shameful past, that we see the Lord declares his affection for you. He could have taken a couple of hours to do, and I could take easily an hour to open and illustrate this, but I've got just a half hour, so let's get going. And there was a famine in the land. Pharaoh takes her into his harem and is cursed. In all the ends of the earth, will fear him. Well, if you look in Isaiah chapter 55, you see that in verses 10 and 11, Isaiah makes a connection between the physical harvest as the as the seed bears To nail Jesus to the cross. And all those gathered here will know that it's not by sword or by spear that Yahweh saves, for the battle is Yahweh's, and he will give all of you into our hands. Of Cyrus and others declaring that he is God, Darius and the rest. Now don't ask me to explain it, but it is said by mystiologists, missionaries working in Islamic countries that over half of Muslims that are converted claim that they have seen some vision or dream of Jesus before their conversion. A little less than ten years ago that was changed. May the peoples praise you, O God. You heard it, we sang it, and now we're going to look at it. The Lord turn his face toward you and give you his peace. undeserved mercy that he blesses us, that he's going to turn his face toward us and not turn away from us in repulsion for our sin, but by the mercy and the grace of Jesus Christ. He is going to give us his peace, peace with him established through Jesus and his death on the cross, and also peace that is his peace that he gives us inside. Even though you be, as we've looked in the past weeks, like a Peter who's failed him, and who has been weak and not stood for what you know is true. Verse 3 to 5. Stating the purpose, praying for the purpose to be accomplished, you as a congregation then by faith declare, you pronounce that purpose fulfilled. To Abraham, leave your country, your people, your father's household, go out to the land that I'm going to show you. Personally, individually. And I thought, and now I say, so that you may be a blessing. You're blessed. Now, you see, once you've seen that, you see that principle goes all through the Old Testament. To issue and utter a prayer for that blessing. Again, the refrain: May the peoples praise you, O God. five kings, Kedali, Amar and the rest, Abraham at this point by faith becomes a blessing, rescues Lot. Did you feel any kind of pang this morning as you drove out of your neighborhood and you saw those people that just ignore God? The first one is really past tense. And so God often uses this idea of harvest as a physical picture. And Jesus in chapter, John chapter 4 and verse 35, looks around at the nations and he says, the harvest is white. Son of the Messiah has risen, and repentance and faith will be preached. And this Peter, who we had looked at a couple weeks ago, who could not bring himself to confess that he belonged to Jesus or knew him before a little servant girl. And a few other people hanging around, now boldly declares that this Jesus is Messiah who is raised from the dead. I didn't know exactly what to expect, but that was for me a very moving moment in something I hadn't expected. With a sword and spear and javelin, but I come against you in the name of Yahweh Almighty, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you've defied. In an understanding of the gospel, in our prosperity, our means of making the gospel known in the training and the discipling of other nations, as partners with them in declaring the gospel. You see Part B there, look at it in contemporary events. A few years ago, you remember the Islamic revolution in Iran. One of those Christians gave a Gospel of John to a Muslim orderly in a hospital in Afghanistan from the Tajik people, an entirely closed people to the Gospel. was perplexed, wondering what to do, went back to his home, was sitting out in a cemetery when he said he saw a vision of Jesus Christ. And this man said, I saw Jesus, and I saw him as a Savior that I needed, and I confessed my sin, and he forgave me, and he told me, Go feed my sheep. You see, when God determines that he is going to bless his people, it's as a channel for blessing. So when you read about what's happening in Serbia and Kosovo, don't read that with secular eyes. Enclave close to the gospel. And she's back there as a representative of Jesus Christ. You believe it can stay the same with that kind of prayer undergirding people determined not simply to be blessed, but to be a blessing to be available for the kingdom, to be a blessing and not simply blessings. When we obey and follow you to be a means of blessing, we thrive and are blessed. the uh teenmates, teens from our church really primarily were responsible for. But I really think God was glorified not only in what you did, but how you did it. You know, teens can never serve, self-centered, lazy, blah, blah, blah, you know. Well, take, for instance, what the Lord Jesus said at the end of Luke chapter 24, where we read in verse 45 that he opened their minds so that they could understand the scriptures and he told them, this is what is written. And, verse 47, repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And what God has put together, we shouldn't separate. He declares that you're precious to him who belonged to him by faith. And as we hear that, has it ever occurred to you how you should respond? But you know, God has written a response for you to give to that benediction. Psalm 67 is quite simply the congregational response to the ironic benediction of Numbers chapter 6. Your salvation among all the nations. May the peoples praise you, O God. Then the land will yield its harvest. The prayer for that purpose and the pronouncement of that purpose. state four ways that I believe that if we internalize and understand this psalm, that it will radically affect the way that we think and the way that we live. May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face shine upon us. Now, that is not unique to this Psalm. Do you remember when God spoke to Abraham and called him out in Genesis chapter 12? have said how God has powerfully blessed you in the last few messages, the last three, four messages where we look particularly at Peter and at Mary. And a number of you have said things like, I gone come to see my focus on Jesus' love for me and how great that is, how far beyond uh my wildest imagination his love is so is so unfathomable. That grace really isn't grace. That causes us to desire to be the blessing. May all the peoples praise you. We realize that as Piper says, missions exists because worship doesn't As God rescues him in Egypt after a difficult time and becomes a blessing to Egypt. And uh I honestly haven't read the book yet, but uh one of Piper's um most basic principles that has blessed the church is the simple statement that God is most glorified when we are most satisfied in him. There's one that's writing this for the congregation. And if, you know, as a result of that that harvest, God, our God, will bless us. harvest and fruit, so, verse 11, the word of the Lord goes forth and bears spiritual fruit. The land has yielded its harvest. Jesus kingdom, the risen Christ, will triumph. And to, with that nail, remembering both that it was my sins that nailed him to the cross and Galatians 2. And they lose it. But you realize that David gives the meaning to it in 1 Samuel chapter 17, where he says to Goliath, You come to me This day, Yahweh the Lord is going to hand you over to me, and I'll strike it down and cut off your head. ate vegetables and was blessed and made some pronouncements and then went thrown into a lion's den 'cause he had his quiet time and the wrong spot at the wrong time You look at world events differently with the eyes of Psalm 67. You see that in Acts chapter 8, where after the Lord Jesus said, You're going to be my witnesses, Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the uttermost parts of the earth. You know, like some of us, you know, we enjoy being with the Christians. And he accomplishes his purpose through the thrusting out of the disciples. The invasion of the Soviet Union back in the late seventies of Afghanistan, early eighties His name was Ulmus. And so they invited Olmus to come and give his testimony. At the end of the service, they asked, how many people would want to follow Jesus Christ? They stood as one and they said, We need Jesus Christ to forgive us our sins. Read it with all the tragedy and the things that are going on there with Psalm 67 eyes so that you see that God is determining that he will be feared by all the nations. Did it ever occur to you that ten years ago it was still a capital offense in Albania to believe in a personal God? In order to bring the gospel to people that are closed. Lord, do what you need to do, but I want to be open. And so I give you this these two sheets, green sheets, for you to respond. Be able to share the gospel. Our church is moving on in its age. Friday was his last day. But then some of us need to think in terms of Psalm 67 we plan for retirement. As being post their main career. Because you no longer think about that. Come through this month to learn more, that we might be more part of that global, exciting work that you are doing, drawing people to yourself in Jesus' name. declare to you what is called the Aaronic Benediction, so called because the high priest Aaron was the one who first gave it. As it was done in Israel, what he just said. I wish I had an hour to do this, I can identify with my brother Mark, who had about forty minutes to try and do what The purpose of the blessing, you see, in verse 1, the statement of that blessing, as I said. And you see, as Christians, we can be fairly self-absorbed, can't we? Remember Paul says in Galatians chapter three, you and I are still under that Abrahamic covenant. And that prayer then leads to a faith pronouncement. And missionaries have gone back in more recent years and have heard again and again and again throughout Iran, the greatest blessing that ever occurred to us was the Ayatollah Khamenei. And then two weeks ago, she goes back to her home. And so whether you're the one on the front line or whether you're the one behind in the support, you're part of the battle. May 4th, we're going to be having a seminar right here. And we're not nearly as enthusiastic by nature when we hear about being a channel of blessings to others that the nations would fear you. But uh there's just so much uh that we could talk about of what God is doing and uh so it's it's been a great start. that he is going to bless us, that he is going to keep us and keep our families, keep our homes, that he's going to be gracious to us. Then he goes on to a purpose. And I thought, well, I thought we had gotten a little beyond those kind of ads. Not the only purpose, but a purpose, so that your ways may be known on earth your salvation among all nations. Here we go, month of missions. The point is that as you receive God's blessing, there is a transforming work in your heart and my heart His soul shrivels. Do you see how that verse 4, Let the Nations Be Glad, that was the basis for John Piper's book, Let the Nations Be Glad, about missions. And then Jesus, who is that one sent to be the means of God's peace and blessing, goes to the cross, bears the sins of his people, rises again Pentecost. And you remember after the lights were extinguished and we had one sole candle there as a promise of Easter dawn, we invited you to come forward, just as God would lead, and there was nobody directing it, to simply come forward. As those who are redeemed, those who have the hope of heaven, those who are in a relationship with Him by grace. For instance, the Old Testament stories are not simply seen then as moral stories, people or hearers of the faith, for us to simply emulate their faith. Never is to stop with us. And what nation on earth, at what time on earth, has been given more resources than the United States at the dawn of the third millennium in technology, in wealth? And so your eyes are open to see that you're part of something much bigger than you may have thought. Churches now that are doubling and tripling, not a vast turning, but more than any other time since the seventh century Because it was punishment for their irritating faith. And all four hundred gave their lives and began a church there, planted a church in an unreached people. On purpose, this one mistake. And yet, Lord, we see that pattern so clear through our scripture that when we try to hoard your blessings, we shrivel It doesn't stop there. I identify with Mary, with Peter in various ways, and I just feel so richly blessed. Yeah, I knew it was coming. Do you remember after Genesis chapter 12? Amen. So it's a statement of the harvest as the focus of his blessing. And on the day of Pentecost, the people are gathered. So what Psalm 67 is declaring as you receive God's blessing is you by faith are saying to God, Jesus' kingdom is going to triumph. is a statement of faith that you and I not only hear declare, but that it affects the way we think and the way that we live. It radically affects the way you and I look at Scripture. It is not simply symbols and pictures that show us the person of Jesus, but that we begin to see this principle of the Abrahamic covenant. And so, for instance, when you look at the story of David and Goliath, you realize that that story is not simply a story of how by faith to kill giants. Because Khomeini showed the logical conclusion of Islam. And so Omus, in an entirely closed people, began to preach Jesus Christ to the Muslims. And this woman really gets under me. And yet I think of uh the struggle I had preparing this message this morning. Is that that statement in Psalm 67, which is an anticipation of the fact that in Revelation 5 and 7 you see all the nations gathered from every tongue, tribe, people, all the ends of the earth coming to fear him. To just simply come forward and drop your nail into the pot that was at the foot of the cross we had up here. I didn't even anticipate this, but I began to have this picture in the dim light of that one candle of the nations coming to the foot of the cross in order to receive the forgiveness of Jesus Christ. Now, what I'm saying is if you declare that in Psalm 67, it's got to affect the way you think. Give the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air, the beasts of the earth, and the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. Because God used difficulty in order to exalt the gospel. Communist China. And so who knows the people that God brings in our midst that become a means of his blessing? And so you and I, thirdly, pray differently. Who really is kind of nasty to you. You see yourself suddenly as part of a larger purpose of what God is doing throughout the world. If you really understand God has been gracious to you, therefore it was so that his ways would be known on the earth, his salvation among all nations. So Lord, work in us, that we might see and that we might joyfully with a song in our heart You see, Psalm 67 is saying that when you and I receive God's blessing, then our hearts move us to say something. But we've got to believe it. Russian Baptist Church in that area decided to hold an evangelistic meeting, and they said they would invite the Muslims. Those people become ten, maybe a hundred times more responsive to the gospel. And so what does Luke say in Acts chapter 2? Maybe in a way that is going to be difficult. And so when you and I pray, it can't be just Lord, things are tough, make them easy. Lord, we want to be a blessing. But not what he says, isn't it? Then in our satisfaction, he's glorified, and as we see those who are hungering about us They're not blessing him, they're not praising him. Uh I don't know about you, but for those of you who are at the Tenebrae service on Good Friday, you remember we sat here and for those of you who aren't here everybody received a a nail that was like a spike like the Romans would have used. Montenegro, thank you. It was a moving picture of moving forward sinners confessing their need of Jesus Christ, clink, clink, clink, and then walking back, sitting to praise him. That kind of story could be repeated hundreds of times. So you're part of that. How many of us are aware that a disproportionate number of the Soviet army at that time into Afghanistan were Christians? May the peoples praise you. Yeah, yeah. And so when you and I are satisfied in the blessing of the grace of our God so undeserved, emotionally, materially, spiritually, the relationship with Him through Jesus Christ is Father. What do you believe, God? I hope you preach the gospel with a little more zeal than you affirm it And we use that to meditate on the fact that it was our sins that nailed Jesus to the cross. May the peoples then praise you, O God. Where are they going? You remember how that goes? He says, and you will be a blessing. When they become a channel of his blessing to the nations, they thrive and are blessed in that blessing. He comes to Melchizedek and he declares that it is El Elion, the Most High God, who has delivered him, and he receives Melchizedek's blessing. It's perfect, it's completed, so more literally it would be saying, Then the land has received, has yielded, has put off, put forth its harvest. It always moves to his glory as we declare him among the nations. As a Christian, you look and you say, Man, if I move into that, God has given me investments, He has given me time. May all the peoples praise you. Why Pentecost? Man, he is celebrating. And that's a delight to hear. So that you can get busy and get out there and start working for the Lord. Now we're gonna hear how you gotta get to work. Abraham's in much of a blessing around here, so I'm headed down to Egypt. Now you don't have to do that today. May all the peoples praise you. I will make your name great. Gave the Gospel of John to him, almost read it. Could you believe that if every cul-de-sac in every neighborhood, every every row of townhomes Man, do you catch the faith in that? When you read your newspaper, you read Time Magazine, you watch the evening news, you see that same principle. Over seventy-five million Christians, it is said. Uh we aren't just trying to get rid of green paper. I just saw uh an ad, full page ad uh this week, uh said, maybe it's time that you think about number one But many to Albania through the pass. We're over 20 years old now. God our God will bless us. That God's going to give with one hand and He's going to try and pull it back or say, now here's the string that was attached. May the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you rule the peoples justly and guide the nations of the earth. That's what Jesus is telling us. Since that time, there has been sparks of revival in Albania, a deep spiritual hunger for the gospel. May the nations, starting right here, be glad, you see, in you. Our God is going to bless us. Macedonia. What I just said to you, you heard. In fact, I submit to you that that is a basic, fundamental theme of the Abrahamic covenant. Now, one year ago she could have gone back there and who'd care? Maybe the blessing is not going to be so obvious at first. In fact uh Mark, uh if you'd come on back with me at the back door at the end so people can continue. You preachers are all like that. And so instead of it being a blessing to the nations, Abram's become a curse to the nations. And God has to bring him to that place of repentance so that he can then become a blessing. But there it was. She really doesn't like you because you're a Christian. Maybe you want to take it for a week or two, but do something with it. The idea of simply training us to learn how to network with the other Bible-believing Christians in this county Think of terms of retirement. The Lord bless you and keep you. We love that. They'd send the Christians to Afghanistan. May all the peoples praise you. And we confess to you right now that we tend to be a very self-absorbed people. So, this is the keynote address for that. 400 Muslims showed up to that service. I want to be available. Actually we began yesterday with our uh missions pancake and eggs break breakfast that uh Abraham said, Praise the Lord. Some of us are looking forward to that. May all the peoples praise you. That goes right on. What was Pentecost? All the nations under heaven were gathered there for the feast. So in the back of the bulletin outline, we look at Scripture differently. You know where the largest church in the United Church in the world is at this time? Hope. Some of us are moving toward retirement. Amen. Where? We looked and we saw every every street in Howard County has a group of Christians praying. Are you restless? After stating the purpose, you then declare a prayer for the fulfillment of that purpose And it is not simply you are blessed to be a blessing, but that in being a blessing, you are blessed. You know, who wants to get out? That's a refrain you see, verse 3 and 5. Now, maybe that's because it was in Rolling Stone, but I think you'd probably see the same thing in time on US news. And that's what verses 3 to 5 do. By faith we pronounce the blessing that's accomplished. Has it ever occurred to you that she might be a Mary Magdalene pre-converted? Four times you read will, will, will, will. He says, now, be ready. And everybody was lamenting. And when you and I have the Spirit of God in us, we don't we can we can't be oblivious to that. Wait a minute, guys. We pray differently. We desire that all people will know something of your character. It's kind of like a picture of the economy. First of all, you see history differently. I mean like the opportunities that are available to us That's the blessing consists in that harvest. You see Ruzia, who worshiped with us here for four months, sitting under the gospel. This is not something that just ends there, but goes on verse 2, so that your ways may be known on earth. Uh I I must tell you it has been very encouraging to me. He was convicted by the gospel In fact, um Gail Sheehe reads he's all these books on this stuff, passages, he calls it redirectment And then he declares his blessing. It goes through Isaac, it goes through Joseph, he is blessed. Now, what I'm trying to get across to you this morning as we begin this month. And since his time, Muslims have been more open to the gospel than any other time since Muhammad. Man, it should have been there yesterday. Okay, so then you respond, may God be gracious to us and bless us, and make his face to shine upon us. He will bless us, and through us, receiving that blessing, all the ends of the earth are going to fear him. In Belgrade. Often at the end of our worship services, you will hear me Another example, you think of the um We got you got two there so that you can fill in one and keep it, check off what you want, and then the other one you check off what it is you believe God's calling you to do, put your name on it. Houses of prayer everywhere. Secondly, you look at world events differently. You don't understand. Some some to um the other one up there, um, the little one can't think of it right now. That was the particular focus last week. Now that's a little better. Listen, if that's your understanding of it, let me say first of all, I'm very sympathetic. You know how many? He's the first fruit, you know. We love to hear that, don't we? Every one of you have come to trust him. God will bless us. And so what I want to do this morning is to, as a keynote to set the tone of this month, rapidly go through this psalm and then And then as you see that, may God be gracious to us and bless us, make his face shine upon us. With one hand you hold out grace, and then with the next hand you hold out the law. And I'm so satisfied in you, and these people are so hungry and empty Now, where are the Kosovar refugees from a country, a a a place that has been entirely closed to the gospel? We pray not simply for God's blessing on me to take care of me, but we pray, God, make your name great through me. You might take a step, say, here's something I want to do. That's the shalom that God declares his full orbed peace. I don't know where I'm going to set up a home here, but you know, find someplace. On and on and on. You see, there he goes in verses six and seven. Kind of threatening out there. Maybe some people will say as high as a hundred million Christians in China at this time. And in our being blessed, we become a means of the nations fearing him. May the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you rule the peoples justly, and guide the nations of the earth. And that becomes a principle for 2,000 years. I mean there was really a good spirit serving, and I was really impressed. Amen. And I'll give to you four ways. Today I'm going to give you to the carcasses It was that same fundamental idea that he declared to him back then We're talking about discipleship here. Then let's get moving. I mean, let's admit it, right? But wait, next verse says, wait, don't go yet. And sometimes he'll rearrange things so that that happens. We just celebrated the Walgreens, George Walgrove's retirement this week. It gives you utterance of that. And once again, you say, hey, thank you, Lord. I'm ready to, you know, Luke 24. And so finally, we invest our lives differently. And so this pronouncement in its principle is still in effect for you and for me. Now, for those of you who are here, I remember that I Here's this madman, the Ayatollah Khomeini. And uh I just want to say I I think that you kids that did that did a terrific, terrific job. Because down to Egypt, you remember their point, he lies to Pharaoh about his wife, says that she's his sister, because he's afraid of what will happen to him because she's a good looking woman. Pentecost was the feast of the first fruits of the harvest, the wheat harvest, particularly. 20, I am crucified with Christ. One of those Christians in the Soviet army, Afghanistan, an entirely closed country to the gospel Maybe even you. And you look at her and you say, Mine, that is obviously one of the non-elect. You realize that the army says that for every person who's on the front lines it takes, I think, something like eleven people in support behind the front lines. You realize that with the health and what we have now, many people will look at one-third of their adult lives. That was a great time. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. You know, it'd be kind of like us saying that Dow Jones is going to wham past 10,000 and keep right on going, you know, and God will bless us, you see. So that same principle you see, you look at it, and with your eyes open from Psalm 67, you read that principle throughout Scripture. Boy, what we would have done if we had known we were sending Rusia as a missionary back, right? But God, you blessed me that the nations will know something of your name through me. The Silaw there, you know, hey, stop and think about that. You see, that's simply the song of a heart that's been set free by the gospel, isn't it? That's the song of the heart that's been set free by the gospel, the prayer. Go home. And that harvest is is given spiritual significance on Isaiah. Don't just file it. It was a nice day to be out there in our yards mowing and all that, but you know, kind of a nasty day, so they're inside reading the paper. He was harassed, he was imprisoned, but he refused to back off. He will, affirms it again, he will bless us, and connection, all the ends of the earth will fear him. Don't read it like your neighbors read it. And you're consciously part of that battle. You know, I say that, and then we're out of here. And all the ends of the earth will fear him. He says, I will make you into a great nation. He's blessed me in order that I might be a blessing. You see that God has often used persecution as a means of blessing. Maybe you're working with somebody who is an echo feminist. Here's a little asterisk. Olmus gave us testimony of faith in Jesus Christ and his forgiveness. Look at the green slits too. God's declaration of his blessing to us Then after And it's kind of like Now, when God used the Soviet army to evangelize an unreached people in Afghanistan, you know He's a sovereign God. We're bringing pastors from all over Howard County and representatives of the congregation. Let's pray. So God sends a persecution to Jerusalem, and all the disciples are scattered All 400. So yes, I know it. And she comes back as one who is an emissary of the gospel. But what happens when there's when there's breakdown within a society, when there's war? Anyway, a couple more. Because as I sat there and I heard quietly crowds of people moving forwards and the clink of the nails in the pot. We'll find out their needs and we will simply begin to pray for them. He is Lord of the nations. And we had a great start And if you have not already done it, please turn to Psalm 67. Eat a big meal and give thanks. Then you see, as you understand the gospel, in your heart there is the response to be a Book of Daniel is not simply a book of how a guy lived by faith and But uh what is the connection? And I thought of how much affirmation I've gotten in preaching that And it is Psalm 67. See that? Actually, if you look in the Hebrew I only have time for a couple of illustrations of that. A number of you See, then you say, Lord, may the peoples praise you, O God. You notice it begins by reflecting back to the high priest. Number one They explained the gospel again. And so you see God shifting nations today. But in being a curse, he is miserable. Then the land will yield its harvest, and God, our God, will bless us. We're responsible for his death. You see it again and again and again. We realize we don't deserve it by his You're precious to him. What you gotta do. It's ready for reaping. Take a look at this. God's people are blessed to be a blessing. They never have retired to keep going. We got just started. Verse 3. Okay, we'll practice. It's a basic principle. Believe that this Howard County be the same Point one. I know it was time. Amen. And who knows where and how. How do I use my life and plan for that period? Amen. Come to him. Now you move right on. So in chapter 14, when Lot's in trouble, because you have this coalition of the We drive past, we say, Oh Lord, all all this worship, this praise that you're due, that you're not getting. What do the disciples do? Why? Maybe you want to put it in a basket or on the back table now. Is there a connection between Easter and the month of missions? I will bless those that bless you. Maybe it's time for you to think about number one They're ruling. I knew I should have stayed home after Easter. Maybe we'll be able to go out and declare the gospel, see? It's the fourth point. My heart is just as self-absorbed and self-centered as yours, and I am so afraid. They said we want to follow Him You're consciously involved in learning and praying. And so what happens? And you know what he's doing there? That's what we're doing this month. Don't have time to trace it through history. There's always a string attached And three thousand respond. He was just able to give us a brief review of a little bit of what God's doing in Eritrea and Uganda. Praise God. We've been discipling her a lot more intensively. That's a blessing. In other words, that's kind of a long amen, right? So the purpose We love to hear about your blessings to us. And as we do that we will move into deeper relationships. But that's not the point. In being a blessing, he is blessed. We hear about that because of our missionaries Tom and Nancy Belma who go over to Albania. And then you remember you come into the New Testament. They take off, they're all hanging around Jerusalem. So that purpose. What? We invest our lives differently. The Spirit comes upon them when? You see? Pray that God will remove them. Two sons who have deserted the Serbian army. I mean people say that Fassers, others Many of us would like to end right there, wouldn't we? Let's eat. When they hoard the blessing, they shrivel. He continued to preach Christ, he was released. That Jesus is going to touch through your life? And you see it's one sentence in the Scripture. What are they? And I will bless you. Why is that? In verse 6 and 7. God will bless us. You got two peep sheets? But they're ignoring God. They are the first fruits of the harvest. Do you remember Genesis chapter twelve where God said Not only good cooks Historically we know us know what happens. Now what's the connection? Make me a blessing. A Muslim Amen. Um