Whether you're in a women's Bible study or an all-men's accountability group, regardless of where you are, men and women, we need to know that what God means to do. That's the shoulds of his daily schedule. So this morning we come again to the book of Ruth, the second chapter. But I think principally the two characters that rise to the surface for us that the Holy Scriptures have given to us to contemplate is look at these two lives. And she boldly asks, look, I don't even want to be where the gleaners are. They were not paid by anyone. Then she threshed the barley she had gathered, and it amounted to an epha. Don't go and glean in another field, and don't go away from here. And saying, Lord, I want to prove my masculinity to the world, but you've told me you want to do something else. He says to her in verse 14, At mealtime, Boaz said to her, Ruth, Come over here, have some bread, and dip it in the wine vinegar. He's not just giving the edge. It's what C. God's grace and love. It would seem as though he's saying, may the Lord reward you for your faithfulness, for for for what you have done, Naomi. She has found a goodness in the Lord. the the book of Ruth, I would encourage you to go back again. Because there is a lot of life in these two chapters, which is easy for us to sort of just get through. And Boaz replied, I have been told all about what you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband. So we then are given to Ruth by and large, and then her coming into contact with Boaz, and we see Boaz's life, and Naomi comes at the end. We largely have two characters in chapter two. Who was given the opportunity to go back to Moab, and certainly Orpah did so, but Ruth chose not to. So as we look at her life, let's look at verse 7 first. And behind those harvesters would be a group of women who were servant girls, paid for and paid by the the owner of the field, who would then go and take those sheaths, wrap them up together, tie them, and then carry them. And against self-centeredness and selfishness and works out an other-centeredness. and works out what biblical, male, masculine character looks like. As we've looked at before, Jehovah, Yahweh, be with you. He saw it as an opportunity to bless others. And whenever you are thirsty, go and get a drink from the water jars the men have filled. Looking out at the grain and he sees this pretty young woman, he says, Who's that? That perhaps that was common? Warrior Dash, and maybe some of you have done that. It's because we want an extreme challenge that somewhere we've learned that it's a little less masculine just to be in our cubicle and push paper Climb a ten-foot wall, get to the end bloody, bruised, and swollen, and go, now that's a man Biblical masculinity, I think, begins by getting on our knees before the ultimate masculine figure, which is Jesus Christ. And take it for yourself. He's giving it away. of God in the people of Israel. It was the other way around. than it is through Jesus Christ. Yet he gets to the end of the day, he thinks about all of his words that he has said, all the activities, and he's asked himself, did I need to say those words? That's a frightening thing. And feel, how dare you! Position. She's in mourning. Ruth, her daughter-in-law, chose not to go back, one of her two daughter-in-laws chose not to go back to her home in Moab, but rather would travel back to Bethlehem with her, committing herself to Naomi. She said, Please let me glean and gather among the shees behind the harvesters. Watch the field where the men are harvesting, and follow along with after the girls. May the Lord repay you for what you have done. But the snowstorm was supposed to happen. And then on Thursday, I took a day of vacation. And it happens in a very unlikely way. So let's look together then at this chapter. that he is doing by extension of what happened or what we heard about in chapter one. And here she is, not even belonging to the household of Boaz, not even one of his servant girls, she goes Why have I found such favor in your eyes that you notice me a foreigner? And she's at the mercy of this man that she she doesn't even know. She wanted to get the best that she could possibly get for Naomi. Is that Ruth worked from the earliest moment, took very little break, and worked till evening, after, by the way, she's already received a special meal at the hand of Boaz. He means to make us completely and utterly new from the inside out. Who has biblical faith that is working out in him the desire to bless those who work for him? Vulnerable person. So there you go. Biblical faith works in the heart of a man to see women not as something that they get something from, but as an opportunity to bless. Allows her to sit at the table. Rather pull out some stalks for her from the bundles and leave them for her to pick up. and molded by the God who is generous and gracious and loving. For a man of this time, to have been an Israelite man to be religious, faithful, righteous, and respectable, to have a field, and only allow the corners of the field to be used by those who came and had need, the gleaners. Through the covenant-keeping God to work out in us from the inside biblical character. They simply have to get to him. is something that is not meant to race through. A writer whose name is Nicholas Wolterstorff. The light dimmed. Only our death can stop the pain of his death. The God of refuge. And Ruth, the Moabitus, said to Naomi, Let me go to the fields and pick up the leftover grain behind any one in whose eyes I find favor. How you left your father and mother and your homeland and came to live with a people you did not know before The covenant God of Israel, she was convinced. After being with Naomi for ten years, certainly having seen their worship of the God of Israel, hearing about the promises of Jehovah. What it tells us is a couple of things. It's not enough that God simply tells us, okay, follow my rules. I've been struck by this from one of the authors that I read now and again, Henry Nowen, as he looked at his own life and he saw how often his character, his person, is more formed by the culture. May you be richly rewarded by the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge. And it is one that is quite different and distinct from chapter two because in many ways we learn so much about what is going on in Naomi and Ruth's life. Naomi said to her, Go ahead, my daughter. As it turned out, she found herself working in a field belonging to Boaz, who was from the clan of Elimelech. Just then Boaz arrived from Bethlehem and greeted the harvesters. Boaz asked the foreman of his harvesters, Whose young woman is that? At this she bowed down with her face to the ground. Meet us, Lord, where we are and wherever we come from, that we might see your refuge. As a Moabitus, to Israel, as an outsider, as a Gentile, as a woman, without a husband, without children. Out Jobs Job, and she sort of outdoes Naomi in that she, at least Naomi's going back to a people that she knew. men who would go along, hold stalks, and with their she take it and cut it down, and then they would take those groups of stalks in their hands and lay them on the ground. But obviously, the amount, the amount that we are given here would have been far more, multiple times more than any gleaner following behind the servant girls would have ever gathered. Many times, many commentators have talked about it. But I want to tell you, there's not a shred of evidence of that in the text. And yet, in that moment, I want every man here to see, without a shred of evidence of any romance whatsoever, this man looks at this woman and sees not some weak. But I see you. Or at their own expense? Dump into jump into dumpsters of cold ice neon green water. Is that we as men go counterculturally and instead of putting our fists up and putting our hands in our pockets, getting on the couch and watching a hockey game and giving bro hugs and braggadocious attitudes. You want to work out integrity. Where the best grain can be had. Generosity, shepherd's heart. He's doing it in the midst of Ruth and Naomi's ground zero. If you have not abandoned us, explain yourself. With a very quick pace. To Bethlehem. Well now they're back. So Boaz said to Ruth, My daughter, listen to me. Your people will be my people. Now, for us, in such a simple statement, it's easy to sort of gloss over and say, well, she's just giving a commitment. We note by way of the foreman's uh story that Ruth came to him who is the head honcho of the harvesters belonging to Boaz. And boldly asks him, can I follow along after the harvesters to pick up grain? Then and only then could gleaners, gleaners were people who could not provide for themselves, they were not wealthy enough, they did not When he promises to give her something, and even more than what she was looking for, at this verse 10 tells us, she bowed down with her face to the ground and she exclaimed, She's humbled that he even knows her story. Ruth also brought out and gave her what she had left over after she had eaten enough He said there is a testimony of what God intends to do in our lives. It would have been perfectly acceptable, considered righteous, for a man who owns a field to simply come to it and say, What do you have for me? That we see who you are when things happen in an unexpected way and how you respond. There is no doubt in my mind, were Ruth and Naomi to walk into the doors of this church, many of us would say, I know a counselor you need to meet. If I had never looked for you or looked but never found, I would not feel this pain of your absence It would be so easy to stop there. What he is saying there, it's not what Ruth has done first, it's the God who has given her refuge. And we come to Ruth chapter 2, verses 1 through 12, knowing that at the end of chapter 1, Ruth and Naomi have now returned. In a very profound commitment and a vow that she made, that if she does not fulfill it, if she is unfaithful, that the Lord would deal with her severely and harshly. This is the word of God. And how and in what ways you would take this word to form in us the very things you were forming in Ruth and in Boaz. To harvest grain was a dangerous choice to make. It would have been enough. She continues to work to make sure she's doing what? A selfless, bold, humble character. Boaz coming from Bethlehem comes out to the fields and he greets the harvesters in his field and he says, The Lord be with you. And they respond, the Lord bless you. It is there for us to tell us of the kind of faith that God had worked out in Boaz. Where's the success? He was giving her access to water that was really only meant for the harvesters, the men. So what we need to do is get out there with our headbands, crawl in cold mud under electrified wire. Go back to their office on Monday morning and they're looking around at all the schleps they work next to and go, ha ha, what'd you do this weekend? Not as an opportunity to exploit, but someone to come alongside and to work with. So he calls her over to the table, which would have only been meant for harvesters and the owner of the field, and he says, here's the bread, dip it in some wine. Only after he and his harvesters had come through to pick the best. As she got up to Blaine, Boaz gave orders to his men, even if she gathers among the sheaves, don't embarrass her. And very subtly what he begins to see in his own heart, that I think is in the heart and character of all of us by nature. And I am tempted to be formed, my character to be formed by the culture more than I am the cross. And this is what he wrote. Do you hear what he's praying? In the midst of our sin and brokenness, for which we could not actually bring reconciliation, God has walked. Because only in the Lord's name, and only in Christ, only in God of the covenant of grace is the God of refuge and strength. That they find refuge in the most unlikely of places through the most unlikely of means. Here's how it worked. Knowing that she would be vulnerable, goes up to the foreman and says, Look, I don't even want to be where the gleaners are. Yes, a Presbyterian minister is doing more than just two points. Though she is courageous and bold and wanting to provide the best that she can for Naomi, there doesn't seem to be an ounce of presumptuousness. But then quickly go on our way. That's a convicting thought. Students, boys and girls, you're gonna have people say horrible things about you at school. Under whose wings she has found faithfulness. The love. What Boaz prays for Ruth, and by extension Naomi, that in the midst of their ground zero, in the midst of their tears, may they see There is no way that someone would take this turn of events without seeing that underneath her commitment to Naomi of saying your God will be my God and seeing in that that God had done something in Ruth. shows us that what is working out in Ruth is a very courageous, bold character. With a woman who is very courageous and very bold. She worked hard to the end of the day to get the best that she could, not just for herself. Be with you. Listen, I'm not just permitting you, I want to promote you. That's what is becoming a tag for masculinity in our culture. That this is a man who's received the peace of God, who's been changed by the love of this covenant-keeping, faithful God, but has not kept it for himself. But he doesn't stop there. He says these words that are surprising. And we also know that the very fact that she asks Naomi, she says, look, I'm going to the fields to glean. It's courageous because a woman at this time, regardless of her standing, going into a field To care for Naomi. It is a humbling thing to read, but it's there for us Follow the harvesters. They go back to work, and as I've read the articles, the guys who started it, who are Wall Streeters by the way, To encourage, to promote, to build up. At all. That then works out into faithfulness, boldness, courage, humility Is that anger and pride well to the top? And there's something about ground zero that teaches us and gives us hope as well. It's here for a reason. Or is not your absence in which I dwell, but your elusive, troubling presence It's what the Lord has done that is a prayer in the midst of her ground zero. We strain to hear, but instead of hearing an answer, we catch sight of God Himself scraped and torn. Jesus Christ. Lord, help us to see that and receive it. Who gave of himself, who took the form of a servant, going to the point of death. The fruit of the Spirit. In the provision for others, but it does so without a presumptuousness and an arrogance. And he sees this woman who's told of her story. S. There's something about the character of God that they will see. Now Naomi had a relative on her husband's side from the clan of Elimelech, a man of standing, whose name was Boaz. But then also look at verse 17, which which, if you have your Bibles, you'll see it. She didn't just get enough. And that's what biblical faith works out in men. And if we as men want to know what this how do we get this kind of masculinity, it is only possible. Is to not merely make us a moral righteous people. And they don't know how the story is going to end. You see, this ground zero is an intersection between life and loss, suffering and tears, blood and sacrifice. And at the words that his son had passed away, he said, the lights around him went dim, as in the noonday sun everything seemed to go dark. And do not turn from this message and think, I need to work harder. Because in this chapter we see the ways in which God wrought, fueled, informed character comes out of these two lives of Ruth and Boaz. That gives us instruction. Notice what it says. And we use it here. You see what I see echoed in the character that God is working out in these two folks in the Old Testament is very much pointing to what Jesus wants to do in the Sermon on the Mount. Can you imagine the devastation that they might be experiencing? Come, Holy Spirit, come. He was working out biblical faith. He feeds her twice, and then he sets up a context in which she can have dignity and honor as a fellow heir of the covenant. Lewis said. But yet, this is so hopeful. Whose son at age 25 died tragically as the result of a mountaineering accident. Do you not hear my cries? And I want you to hear the prayer. May the Lord repay you for what you have done. He sees a strong, bold, courageous woman, yet who's in a situation that could be vulnerable. Bemoan you, whatever it might be. It's nevertheless, it's never necess it's so painful, never again will he be able to sit at our table and join in a meal. They were simply picking up the scraps. But what we also see here, in verse fourteen, we learn of this And I don't think it begins with something we need to do. The faith that God had worked in Ruth is now coming out in her character. Their lives are, as it were, puffed up, scarred, torn, feeling at a loss. In the midst of these questions that he asks, in the midst of the darkness, in the midst of this pain But I see in Boaz, I see in Ruth coming up against things they could not have planned. Whose name, by the way, means in his strength. It's an incredible thing if we're looking for it. So I want to say by way of apology that you don't see an outline in your bulletin. Here, Ruth, a Moabitus, courageous going into a field That she, despite her boldness and her courageousness, watch what her response is when Boaz compliments her by providing more for her. She's taken the place of humility. But the Lord is doing more even than character development from the inside out. This is the intersection where many of the psalms are written. It would have been purely living up to expectations had a gleaner simply stayed till the sun goes down. How it worked is if if you owned a field and you were growing grain, then what you would have is a group of harvesters. She's in deep pain. Biblical faith worked out in him a generosity, and he puts her in the middle of the action. He offered her some roasted grain, and she ate all she wanted and had some left over. And in this prayer and in this promise, in the midst of this ground zero, I see echoes of what is to come. I've even wanted to do it. You want to work out faithfulness. And then it says, Hallelujah. He goes on and he says, May you be richly rewarded by the Lord the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge. They don't know. Then, when she sat down with the harvesters, yet another sign of just how unusual Boaz is. As if what what Ruth has done, rather, is somehow quid pro quo for God to bless her. And Naomi's story has gone viral among those who knew her. But rather, Boaz looks out and says, Look, here's what I want you to do. Yesterday in in the wedding service, uh so many men uh who are of my generation have really gotten into these extreme challenge weekends called tough mutter and But God is giving us this story to say that biblical faith takes men and runs countercultural. And where are you in the darkness? Thanks be to God. Your God will be my God. Emails need to be sent, meetings need to be attended to, people need to be visited, and all of these things. That pace changes in chapter two. And our culture knows it. God means to make us not a nice people, but a new people. Because some of you tomorrow morning, perhaps later today, you're going to get an email from one of your bosses or your colleagues or a friend that's going to berate you, look down at you, judge you. And it's under his wings that she finds refuge. Through our tears we see the tears of God So gleaners would come along and pick up off the ground whatever shook off through the process of cutting down the stalks and then whatever was left over by those picking them up. For as the scriptures tell us, his banner over us is love. And so I gave them my text and my title on Tuesday. And I think it's because at ground zero, at the position where the intersection of our life, suffering and loss come together, You see, it's sounding a lot like the fruit of the Spirit, you see. And that character is more and more being formed by the musts, the oughts Verse 7 tells us, after she's told Naomi what she wants to do, we learn in verse 6 rather. But we know through the testimony of the foreman and through the testimony of what we learn about her in verse 17 and following, That it would have even been completely acceptable for men to touch women in the field and use them for their own expense? There is something that God means to teach Ruth and Naomi in that place that they are not going to learn in any other place. He says, You have allowed, speaking to the Lord, you have allowed the bonds of love beyond number to be painfully snapped. Just how incredibly hardworking this woman is. And I want to make sure that no one touches you. Ladies and gentlemen, men and women, boys and girls, whether you're in Pioneer Girls or CSB. So I had no outline prepared for the bulletin, so my apologies. The prayer comes from the lips of Boaz. Naomi is certainly present in the first part of the chapter. Some of you are laughing. And then off goes the email in response. She's changed her name. So let's look at it together. All they know is their husbands are dead and they have no sons. The question is now, now what? So she went out and began to glean in the fields behind the harvesters. Stay here with my servant girls. I know about the books and I've even heard sermons to the point that want to give us the impression that Boaz comes to his field, looks out there in the morning. But then it also takes us and does so in the midst of the ground zero of these women's lives. What a beautiful picture. She exclaimed, Why have I found such favor in your eyes that you notice me, a foreigner? So Boaz said to Ruth, after he's gotten this instruction from his foreman as to who she is and what she's doing, he says, My daughter, listen to me. That tells us not just of his heart of shepherding for this particular woman. Don't go and glean in another field, and don't go away from here. And so we try to be moral, good, religious people. If he had just prayed, may the Lord repay you for what you have done, may you be richly rewarded by the Lord and stop there. That's all we're doing. And he then looks at her with a shepherd's heart, shepherd's eyes, shepherd's desire, shepherd vision, and says. You want to work out a shepherd's heart that looks to give and not to get. You're gonna have one of your children speak to you as if you're just one of them, and roll their eyes, turn their backs. May you be richly rewarded by the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge. Character matters In many ways, by her simple request, her bold request, she wasn't satisfied with simply picking up the scraps. They don't know. Not for us, but for your glory. He says, Lord, noon has darkened as fast as they could say he is dead. And this man who's showing her favor, instead of saying, just, well, thank you very much. That is a man who does not see his position as something to leverage self-worth from. But the scriptures tell us that the first words out of his mouth, before he has any report of how it's going, he says, the Lord. Some yeah, I see who you are. But one final, and just know, it was completely okay It's a long name. He's speaking to Ruth and praying for her. She's not only hardworking, she's hardworking not for herself. She is blessing Naomi with the grace of her hard work to the point that Naomi's cup is full to overflowing. Please pray with me this morning Even in her boldness, she recognizes she's taking a risk. And we see what that working out of biblical faith looks like in chapter 2 So two points here they are. And it's providing an alternative. Lord, our character is broken because our natures are broken because of sin I think it begins with something we need to receive. First, Ruth. And last week we looked at chapter one together in its entirety And I'm going to make sure that you have water to drink, water to drink that would have never been used by anyone who gleaned, scarcely even the servant girls. But do you notice Boaz doesn't just give the corners? The Lord be with you. Where you live, I will live. She carried it back to town, and her mother-in-law saw how much she had gathered. Expect you to live up to their expectations, and you're gonna feel the pressure. If you didn't bring it, I'll simply read it. And we've often heard it said that you are who you really are when no one else can see. And when he says, Lord be with you, is not just a religious phrase. It's not like they look back and go, Well, look at there. Watch the field where the men are harvesting and follow along after the girls. I learned to spy you in the light. And fill our minds and our hearts and our souls with the great grace that is your refuge. Here's my life. I want to be behind the harvesters. Instead of going back to the gods of her family and of Moab, she turns to Naomi and says, She went into the field and has worked steadily from morning till now, except for a short rest in the shelter. Ruth is showing us what a selfless biblical character looks like. What there is in the text is it shows us that this man I was using this in as a sermon illustration yesterday. And that's what biblical faith looks like. Or to allow another small strip along the edge of the field to pick up their grain that they needed. And may you work out in us biblical character What does life look like? For in chapter one we hear Ruth He is feeding her This is a man who is writing about the loss of a son that is very much exactly where Ruth and Naomi are. I have told the men not to touch you, and whenever you are thirsty, go and get a drink from the water jars the men have filled. Wolterstorff. He writes that. Looks out into the field, not with romantic eyes, but with the eyes of a shepherd. You've done it. Is it any surprise then that God uses what the name Boaz means That is foreign to biblical faith. One from sweetness to now bitterness. But watch what God does through their character. He says, May the Lord repay you for what you have done. She has found courageous love. She's being a caregiver. She was willing to put herself in a situation that was precarious for what purpose? Again, it's very easy for us to pass over it. She is a foreigner to the Israelites. As we talked about last week, their lives are devastated Read slowly. Where you die, I will die. The covenant-keeping, gracious, loving God of the Israelites. Run twelve miles Two things. And it's under those wings that Boaz prays for her to be blessed. So let's turn here then to Ruth chapter 2 to see the refuge. They are Character Matters and Ground Zero. Ruth goes straight to her, doesn't ask her permission, says, look, I'm going to go work. We can look at these verses and we're going to see what God is doing. Women were vulnerable to the advances and to the attacks of men. And what we have before us is what takes place on one given day. Now again, if you're familiar with The foreman replied, She is the Moabitus who came back from Moab with Naomi. What I want to tell you is. You want to work out something very different. It's in verse 12. As if his question to his foreman is born out of romantic attraction. Okay, so why do us as so many men in my generation, why why do so many of us want to do it? Let it be. He doesn't just permit her to be in the field, he promotes her. Lord, have you turned your face away from me? Lord, explain yourself. I have an outline. That is biblical masculinity Don't rebuke her On Wednesday, we had a snow day that sort of wasn't a snow day, I guess. Now that's just in verse 6. Do you know that the mere fact, the mere presence of him saying, I've told that no man should touch you, gives us an inclination? She doesn't look anything like she used to. But let us be careful It tells us about a heart that has been grasped So I have an outline for you now. And it's remind it we're reminded in chapter two that that Ruth in some ways. But God is also doing something, not just in Ruth, he's doing something in Boaz. Where it says, So Ruth gleaned in the field until evening. That's a shepherd's heart. Only possible He intends to work out the gospel of grace It's so easy That's how it's it's not a it's not a Cinderella story. The Lord bless you, they called back. But it's so much more than that because we have to understand she's going back to a foreign land. No. And we need to be careful that we don't just try to fly through this position that they're in. I was reminded of this again by And he wrote a book called Lament for a Son But there is a prayer in the midst of this intersection. She knew Bethlehem. I want to walk behind the harvesters. She's humble to the ground. Their position and a prayer. He's a German Christian philosopher. Don't rush to chapter three and chapter four. Watch. Consecrated, Lord, to thee. Stay here with my servant girls Isn't that what Boaz and Ruth had something they'd received? Now what? Look what God is doing in these two people. It is a beautiful thing to behold. And he looks at her, who does not belong to him, and he says. Fine if you want to go do the work, it's great, do all that stuff, but don't confuse it with masculinity. That is not natural to us. Now, let's try to make sense of that request and how bold it is. As we come into contact with the living God, He actually means to make us more than moral and religious. I didn't use this in the first service. What it looks like is refuge. Then in verses eight through nine, Not for us, but for the world around us. Biblical faith works out Here in this darkness, I cannot find you Did I need to do those actions? So if you have your pens, here's the outline. She's been faithful to her mother-in-law She's wondering what God is doing. Will you come by your grace and form this in us? It's one that brings out a courageous boldness. Back to Nicholas Waltersdorff But then he answers by saying this. Stop and receive They knew her. You're gonna feel it coming on. But every word in the scriptures are not wasted. Notice in what context he's doing it in. In Jesus' name, amen. I'm providing for Naomi. We also see verse 10. Verse 4. Jesus Christ. I have told them, told the men not to touch you. All the rest of our lives we must live without him. Ruth didn't. You're gonna feel the anger or the pride rise up. Where there's a prince in the castle. Character Matters and Ground Zero. It's so easy for us to pass over it. It's only two points. Where is the Lord? You know my story. What Paul is talking about of the fruit of the Spirit. The Bible also tells us First, Where's the produce? But Ruth says. Let's pray. Let's look at Boaz.