Remember what the Pharisees did? I would spend the first part of each Advent season meditating on messianic prophecies. All three of us about the gospel. Messiah is Adonai, his sovereign lord. Jesus is higher than the angels. Psalm 110, verse 1. Notice the two words that are used. where they're the footstool for his holy feet. We're going to declare that Jesus is Lord. So you and I are called to the greatest cause on earth. Saying, Lord, help me through this day, help me with this, bless this, bring that person to yourself, help us pay our bills, help us buy Christmas presents, all this. Which speak directly, specifically, to the promise of the Messiah that God was going to send for his people. about the outcome of this conflict. That you read the Columbia Flyer any week. Crystal clear, aren't they? of Jesus our King. We remember the names of God, how we distinguish between that large capitals, O R D, and the small, the large L small, O R D too. That mean meant sovereign master, sovereign lord. To make Jesus look foolish. this song, that Jesus even is exalted above the angels. Jesus is the exact representation of divine glory. means uh the word that you would stamp a coin with to show that it's the exact representation of the mole. Majesty, after He made purification for sins. Angels if you read the Bible. the angel. Do you understand that power? And then having died for the sin, paying the penalty fully, Jesus was enabled to walk out of the tomb. For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. In our day in the 1990s. He made his sacrifice once for all. began to come upon. Plan for Moscow. For 1992 for us to have a praise and prayer march for Jesus right in the heart of Columbia. Servant. True then and it's true now. Look at the Bolden Mount while you see it. Willing truth. In your bulletin. the juices of its richness for your soul. That you put down when you're going to divide that time so that you can be realistic. Holiness and his righteousness. Commanding general's will. In defeat, as if we had no power to live for what Jesus has called us to do. Christmas time. That you and I are glorious and powerful in that conflict. And that we're glorious because of your glory. The celebration of the birth of our Savior is often a time of spiritual trial and dryness from which you have to recoup in January because it was a time of such frenzied activity. Will bring a little sanity to the holidays, at least a little bit more this year than we have gotten used to. Coaster, and in a few moments the thing's going to be out of our control, huh? holidays by meditating on texts that prepare me to think about his coming. Since 1979, beginning with Genesis chapter 3, going from beginning to the end of the Old Testament, looking at messianic prophecies. at the beginning of the Advent season. passage to help us to see Jesus. During the week, to be able to see Jesus, to worship him, to think about who it is that you're expecting during this Advent season and to gain some perspective when you're That is two statements from God. In these two things, God is stating who Messiah is. King is priest, to conquer his enemies, and to rule the nations. Weeks there have been at least three letters in every issue on moral and ideological issues, either by Christians defending a Christian position or by others attacking the Christian position. In your own life and in our own present circumstances. speaks to. At today. Conqueror. Your troops will be willing on your day of battle. Two different names for God. Telling you that I am the eternal God. For sins, dying for your sins and mine if we're trusting him in his sacrifice. I've never seen an angel. From Psalm 110, verse 1. On that time, just after Jesus rose from the dead. minister stands daily. System. Is you and I apply through prayer the victory that He's already won and our activities flowing out of our prayers. His people. uh the um union of Soviet Socialist Republics or other parts of Eastern Europe, or whether it is the fact that even in Western Europe Jesus is transforming culture. now from Zion, from his capital. That amount of time, that's the blanket, it refers to an amount of time. imagination. next Sunday and what do you do? Myself. Majesty. The pious old-fashioned nods to gods, but even in any kind of form is there an acknowledgement of Jesus at this time. Jesus Christ. View of ourselves. that it draws us away from the Lord. like on December the first, you're getting onto a roller coaster. This year I'm going to cut back. In its declaration of who Jesus is, who Messiah is, and what he has come to do. Escalation of spiritual conflict, aren't they? able to see the relevance of this psalm as it applies to our own current situation and gain perspective and gain comfort and to see Jesus. Before the coming, the birth of Jesus. Us through this whole thing. He will drink from a brook beside the way. who this Son of God is and it describes him as the one who is the exact coinage image, representation of the glory of God. Verse 1 to show that he is greater than David. I am absolutely in his control. In fact, Ephesians chapter 1 makes it clear that to say that Jesus is higher than the angels is to say that he is higher than any created power, any power that exists in all the universe. You know how Ephesians 1 goes when it speaks of his great power in his position, that which we take as our purpose as a church. All power and dominion, every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. War. over the resistance, but the war had turned irrevocably. Yeah, let's see if you all show up. There. That's the word it's used. ideas. Of that. translation. With all his troops about him, an innumerable host who have been cleansed, who are refreshing, we are arrayed in majesty. We come as a glorious band to march in Jesus' name, cleansed and willing in the day of his battle. Our view of Jesus. This morning, in a rush of desire for the Lord, as the Spirit speaks to you, or sometime today, that you put down a number of minutes or hours that you would like to commit yourself to spend. how great those resources are. imagine. high-rise complex among kids and said that four out of five of the kids didn't know why we celebrated Christmas. my series yet. Because if there's anything true of us in our time now in the West, in America, and in Howard County, it is that we are seeing an intensification and Freedom of religion and the question of value, free schools, and all the rest of this, we see a spiritual battle taking place. The Pharisees, and they were talking together. To describe, quoting a number of Old Testament passages, how Messiah, Jesus, will be greater than the angels. And so it speaks of a number of Old Testament texts. Is that in terms of world history, that was D-Day. Declared that Jesus is Lord in a praise and prayer march. On secular humanism. He said, Now I urge you, in light of the mercies of God, that you present yourself, your body, a what? On who he is and what he's come to do. So we see the three ways that Jesus is going to be exalted as king, and this declares the first way. First of all, we'll see that he is exalted above David, the one who wrote this psalm. And he said, Now, you know that um Messiah is called the son of David. The most powerful of all creation. Do you understand what he's saying? The Lord will extend your mighty scepter from Zion, and you will rule in the midst of your enemies. And we're going to discuss that more in the third message as we talk about Jesus the conqueror and what he's doing in conquering the world through us. who was created in Albania. will be willing on your day of battle. He has exerted this power which is at work in us who believe. And their kingdoms and their ideologies and all that they stand for being worked out in our society, some of us at times can get discouraged. Jesus, born of Mary, in a stable, would be exalted in three ways. So the implication here directly is that Jesus is greater than the angel. is exalted in that power, as Ephesians 1 verse 20 says, because that power was displayed when Jesus uniquely walked out of the grave. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see. At the cross and at the empty tomb, Jesus finished his work. That were not commanded by God, but were given voluntarily, simply given by love to God in response to his mercy for deliverance. And so this King Jesus has a conquering army. You just turn around, throw away the Thanksgiving turkey. And so since the second year that we have been at church, we have been going through what may be the longest series on record. To the frenetic activity that you'll be tempted to be caught up in, that there will be that opportunity for you to take these meditations and use them And the kingdom of that evil usurper locked in mortal combat, as we see Jesus versus the evil one The Lord Yahweh will extend your mighty scepter from Zion. The Lord Adonai is at your right hand. Not only in his position as above David, as above the angels, as above every power and dominion, but also in his power, in that position, he is exalted. Sit. We see this also in the Soviet Union. He's not running around in a frenzy gathering an administration in order to quell his enemies. And that's in verse 2. To believe in God. First of all, they're willing. What it's saying is, it's likening us to dew. I'm serving in his army. So that the people would turn against him and he would lose his popularity. is above that of the exalted King David. That position of his is exerted in the rule of Jesus in every area of your life and in my life. So his position is closely connected with a second way that he is exalted, and that is he is exalted in his hour. He's received this power, exalted to the right hand. In verse 3, your troops will be willing. It's the most quoted messianic prophecy in the New Testament. Right in our own time. The Lord Yahweh says to my Adonai, sit at my right hand. Okay, give you a little preview. Have your outlined? That we might live in victory and in praise. Interesting thing about December is that for many of us as Christians, we find that that time which is the And I found it very helpful to focus my attention on the Lord Jesus that I'm supposed to be looking for. That's who this Messiah is. That's what verse 1, beginning of that verse, speaks of. The only human being who ever conquered death by his power. is speaking of this power. And everyone who looks back on that understands that after that the decision had been made, after that it was simply a matter of completion Jesus is ruling in history. Literally, that's saying, from the womb of the dawn to you, and certi is, is to you the do of your youth. That you are glorious. I gotta hang on a little longer. Hebrews 1 for 13 says, To which of the angels did God ever say, Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? And you might not have seen it unless you were a close observer, but there was a point where all things began to unravel and to crumble. So what I'm going to suggest that you do is that you s make a commitment. We view ourselves often as weak and defeated with no resources. Speaks directly to this. The Lord Yahweh has sworn and will not change his mind. How come David speaking by the Holy Spirit, he says in Matthew 22? Now what could be a more majestic picture of power? And you will rule in the midst of your enemies. But the first thing he's got to say is, oh wait a minute, fear not. But suffice it now to notice that Jesus is actively ruling, in turning the course of history. And it's eminently worth every possible sacrifice. Now that idea there uh is one of the most difficult in the Psalm to translate. December again, the shortest month of the year. The Lord, Yahweh, says to my Lord, my Adonai, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Jesus is ruling. We're those who are his servants to do that. Notice in the secular press, in any media whatsoever, how much reference there is to Jesus in any way anymore. Next week we'll look at the compassionate face of Jesus our priest. Others? You just you just groan in guilt rather than groan in your view of Jesus because now you had three more hours of stuff you promised that you were going to do for the Lord and you had no clue when you were going to do it. Or who would dare to call those hurried little zips between Thanksgiving and New Year's real days? Memorize verses one to three, perhaps, of this psalm. Let him grow in your imagination. I have his robes of righteousness. And we're in a deeper swamp than we've imagined. Jesus says, how come it is that Jesus, that uh David, speaking by the Holy Spirit, calls Messiah The very appearance of an angel strikes such terror in the heart of a person who turns around and sees the It was just then a matter of quelling the resistance that would not give up Passively, he sits in power. To serve Jesus, to be in his army, to be a volunteer, serving him in his ruling and reigning and capturing this world for his kingdom. Myself. Willing, because they love you. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. Romans chapter 12, verse 1. You notice that the alternate rendering, their little note I, says, Your young men will come to you like the dew. Hey ma'am. Then the second thing, and by the way, if you mean business for that, I suggest you put down when. I'm not going to get into that madness. He never can sit down as long as he makes the sacrifices because his work is never finished. Jesus isn't going to march through Columbia and Howard County and up 29 and down past them all. We're going to pray for Howard County and this whole region. Not only are you willing, but this verse goes on to say that you are glorious. But I'll tell you, if you and I had seen an angel, I think that that statement would be a lot more meaningful to us. Now there's still the resistance, there's still the hatred, there's still the evil, there's still the suffering. You and I are free will offerings. It's exciting if you understand the issues that are involved. That's the key word there. And answer them. So in Acts in chapter two, beginning in verse uh thirty-two, uh when Peter And that power is described in two ways in order for us to see the majesty of it. And so you and I, when we are serving Jesus, have all his resources at our disposal. Every time an angel appears to a human being, what's the first thing he's got to say? Finally, the last thing is that Jesus is exalted through the persons whose And I suggest in conclusion that you do two things. I'm glorious because of Jesus. As I said, Psalm 110 is an excellent, excellent text to help us to see Jesus. What's it going on to say? In verse 1, how is it that he describes Jesus' power? And this year we're up to number 14. Mysterious. Not even the God of the Bible necessarily. Jesus is ruling here, and you know that the churches in Howard County now, through the coalition, are beginning, just beginning now, to plan. So there's a spiritual conflict going on at the end of the 20th century. So we say theoretically we know that Jesus is going to win, but sometimes you get a little discouraged, don't you, wondering why is it that you don't see more evidence of that victory He had exposed their unbelief. This Jesus has all power today. Not only is he seated in power, but verse 2 goes on to say, The Lord will extend your mighty scepter from Zion. He's a unique person. The power that Jesus, the position that Jesus gained when he ascended from the grave into heaven. That's our purpose as we look at these. And so what we're saying, seeing here is that the covenant faithful God, the covenant-keeping God, Yahweh, says to my Adonai, remember this And you understand that any soldier who serves in an army has all the resources of the commanding general at his disposal when he does the command. We're not a drafted army. More glorious than we have imagined. Psalm 110 speaks to us about the three faces of Messiah. You see in this that Jesus is the one who is named King of Kings. But you know that his cost is the greatest cost that you can give your life to We need to see this Christmas season that Jesus is far more glorious than we have imagined. Verse 1, God says, the Lord says to my Lord, and then in verse 4, the Lord has sworn. You remember on the day of Pentecost? He says, God has raised this Jesus to life. You will rule in the midst of your enemies. That Hebrew is literally, will be free will offerings. Far more than any other power in all the universe. The first face is the wriggle face of Jesus our King. Christians are beginning to wake up there. The Pharisees were trying to trap Jesus. Do you know that in Albania, up until a couple of years ago, well up till perhaps more recently than that, it was a capital of And so I hope that this week and the next couple of weeks as we look at this that you will be Let's then read Psalm 110 and let's see Jesus in it as we read it. Enigmatic. It's a difficult time. Paul picks up on that same idea, and after eleven chapters of talking about the mercy of God to you and to me through Jesus Christ. Because he's not created in his essential being. I'm arrayed in his majesty. It describes what he means by that. Sat down. We had a little monitor, you see some high-tech stuff recorded by voice print, all those that said amen there. See that I am more glorious than I had imagined because of Jesus. I'm not going to be alienated from the Lord and find this to be a time of dryness. Psalm 110 is what we're looking at this year. Arrayed in holy majesty, from the womb of the dawn, you will receive the dew of your youth. And after having quoted a number of Old Testament passages, it finishes up in verse 13, quoting Psalm 110, this verse this exact verse. Array in holy majesty from the womb of the dawn, you will receive the due of your youth. And you say that that can't be true because Messiah is the son of David. The Bible says that as powerful as angels are, the most powerful of all created beings. He's received the Holy Spirit. Help us to see that. Uh over the past month I have listed and found that over the past four weeks He's a king. Do you know that next year, nineteen ninety-two, Albania is planning a praise and prayer march for Jesus? There's nothing left to be done in accomplishing the victory. No creature more powerful than an angel. And that conquering army is characterized in two ways in this verse. And so it tells us when this verse is speaking of. But then think about what does that mean for your own priorities, your own activities this week. He will crush kings on the day of his wrath. There was a turning point just sometime in the last couple of years, and after that turning point, communism was doomed within that. They're arrayed in holy majesty. Think about Jesus. They knew he had them. And he hasn't overlooked Howard County. Thinking only about Jesus' glory this week and worshiping. Some of us aren't even all that aware that there's a conflict going on. Therefore he will lift up his head. Two different persons here. That Jesus, Messiah, is going to be exalted in his position. In Hebrews chapter one, Hebrews begins speaking about Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a twitchstool for your feet. The Psalm tells us who he is and what he's come to do. He's going to be a priest. Some of us, as we see that pitched battle between the kingdom of Messiah, Because until he says that, they're not he's not going to have their attention on anything else that he says, because they think this thing's going to strike him dead. That was the turning point of history. There's a Christmas tree to be trimmed. It's a difficult thing for us to to cope with as Christians. Many more being planned in this next year in various other capitals in Paris and Berlin. Look at verse two and three. It's most directly prophetic of all the Psalms, in the opinion of most. And it goes on then, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. That's what it means to magnify him. The spiritual conflict is far greater. Let's see what we can understand of this as the Lord opens it up to us. He was finished. That was the turning point. We'll see who's there at the stand and say, I believe Jesus is good. It may require a great deal of sacrifice. We're innumerable, we're refreshing, we're cleansed, we're glorious as glistening morning dew. Need I believe this means that you and I need to revise our view of two persons. Unto Jesus, who is seated at the right hand of Majesty, until your enemies are made the footstool for your feet. Not only that, the Bible makes clear in another place where it quotes As glorious as was the throne of David and the reign of David in Israel, he's saying, My reign, my throne, my position. Remember where the New Testament picks up in that concept? Take each one verse a day and just meditate on that verse and and suck from that verse. The second thing to do is to grow and revise your view of yourself. It can be dreadful if we're not really sure who the Lord is and the control that He has. When Peter wants to describe the power of Jesus. He's poured out that Spirit in His power to you. We're those who have given ourselves willingly to serve Jesus. Help us, Lord, to see that this week. That we'll see Jesus and that in the temptation to the frenetic act, we're gonna Nothing less than that. God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord, Adonai, and Christ, Messiah. Both in the Civil War after Gettysburg or in World War II When I finish the series, then you can call another pastor, but you know, until I finish it, I'll always say to you that I haven't finished But specific conflict of ideology, whether it's over gay rights or over freedom of speech. Verse 3. Tell me, explain that. And Jesus does it by quoting Psalm 110. Two hundred thousand march in England to And even though every year you say, this year it's going to be different, And that you think about it, maybe you won't want to write it right now, but that you write sometime this afternoon, sometime right now Secondly, that I am more powerful than I imagine. And just think about him and just worship him and just focus on him and give to him your worship and your adoration. And so this is a beautiful statement to us about the work of Jesus Christ, and it's startlingly relevant for the 1990s. You are a priest forever, in the order of Melchizedek. They were trying to make him say something that would be unpopular with the crowd. And after this foolishness had gone on for some time, finally Jesus turned the tables on the Pharisees. Now that may not make your pulse race your heart beat faster, but there's one reason for that, the same reason for me. He's a priest who is king. You will rule in the midst of your enemies. He's seated at his right hand in the heavenly realm, far above all rule and authority. Because he is so worth it. And then finally, you and I need to see that we are also in more conflict. The key word there is rule. And then your troops. Read the news. Lord, we want to come to acknowledge to you right now No argument will be accepted by anyone who points to February. They knew that they could not explain that messianic prophecy in a way that would suit their ends. There was the death penalty for declaring that you believe in a supreme And to change our thinking this week about who you are and who we are. Yahweh, the covenant-keeping God, says to the sovereign master, my sovereign master, sit at my right hand. The work had been done. The Bible says he is seated until his enemies finally come to that place. You and I are more powerful than we've imagined. Who it was that Israel was expecting, who it is that God is sending as the Messiah. And it's largely because of that kind of thinking that many years ago I decided that I No question of who has ultimate power. That was Gettysburg in terms of the Civil War The Lord will extend your mighty rule, speaking of Jesus. You have said here that if we're joined with you and your army, we have your resources. You trim that, flurry up a few more activities, and bang, it's New Year's, right? In fact, this is recorded, so important recorded Matthew, Mark, and Luke. That's the Hebrews 1 goes on then He is God, man, joined together. Psalm a hundred and ten of David, a psalm. And God placed all things under his feet But there's another side to that, and that's the active side that's giving Do you remember that shortly before Jesus was crucified, he was engaged First way is that he will be exalted in his position. Hebrews chapter 10 says that every high priest, when he It means to let him grow in your imagination. Because of his death on the cross, he's given to me. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, when? But Jesus, Hebrews says, when If he's supposed to be greater than Messiah, why does he call Messiah his Lord? And so I've given you the literal word-for-word Hebrew translation. And Psalm 110 is an excellent It's described, first of all, passively, and then secondly, actively. The analogy that's often used. That's the word that's used to show that you And then it speaks of his having sat down at the right hand of man. From the womb of the dawn, you will receive the dew of your A lot of people follow you up some three hours, you know. And understand that Jesus has already told us about this. Those are Old Testament texts which And you fellows have a real problem with the fact that I declare myself to be God in the flesh, that I'm Hebrews goes on to say that Jesus is in his position greater than the angels. But the victory's been won There are two oracles in Psalm 110. But Jesus is seated The word used of the Old Testament sacrifice You know that Psalm 110 is the most quoted Psalm in the New Testament. We're all witnesses of this fact He's going to declare his rule through us And you'll see it this Christmas And then the third week, we will look at the fierce face of Jesus our priest. To declare to Columbia and to Howard County that Jesus is rolling in this county too. You don't know where your master, your commanding general You and I have that power. There isn't any asterisk that says that Howard County has a unique monopoly. Because even though you and I have never seen angels, there's one thing we understand about angels. Romans chapter 12, verse 1. I'm arrayed in his He will judge the nations, heaping up the dead, and crushing the rulers of the whole earth. Whether it is transforming A free will offering. That's what we're going to look at. Fear not. The power of having died for our sins. This is the theme that was picked up. And so you see, in one sense, Jesus' work has been completed Heard of one fellow who is doing a ministry and a Let me ask you something. And the two statements about who he is tell us of his two offices, that he is the king priest. There it is, to know his power. And then it also speaks to us about what he has come to do as Now, angels are the most exalted. I'm going to live with more sanity. Made no connection between that and Sometimes you feel So, Psalm 110, verse 1 says We see the degrees of his exaltation. That's an active notion, Lord, we also need to change our minds What is it that he uses? He's ruling. But nevertheless, we still feel like we're getting on this roller. Some statements there are absolutely correct. But Lord, just want to think that And at the cross and at the empty tomb, Satan's kingdom. In fact, that Hebrew word You're his Not even in Remember that this Psalm was written nearly a thousand years. Amen. Lord says to my Lord, what's the word that he uses? It speaks of him in three ways to give us three perspectives. First of all, then let's look at this regal face. Look at verse one. And to be able to bring some perspective into the Now so what? When's the last time you've done that? Now it's a matter of working out that victory. His majesty. And we've just read If just one thing could happen in this Christmas season in terms of the season, But if you want to be reminded of that, let me just suggest Ephesians 1 20 says He reveals Now maybe the tightening of the economy. And when we talk next May about, okay, and we're gonna march on the streets and we're gonna We need to stop living First of all Even one That third purpose Paul describes by saying that. That's what Psalm 110 says. Your troops will be willing on your day. We're in deeper weeds than we have After you have completed your work of purification for sins. I believe this refers to the truths of Jesus. There, second blanket What just mean? So if you want to do that then I'd suggest It's the word that's used there. The Lord Yahweh says to my Adonite Or you can look at the if you have an NIV. That power he exerted. And as we are arrayed in his majesty, Not just ask him for things, not just come say. And this is exactly what Psalm 110 says. Take a look at the back Jesus is a rain. You understand Don't miss the distinction. Amen?