Let's begin by reading together a passage from Ephesians. Ephesians chapter four, verses one to sixteen. Ephesians chapter four, verses one to sixteen. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit. Just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all But to each one of us grace has been given as Christ has apportioned it. That is why it says when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. It was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare God's people for works of service. so that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves and blown here and there by every wind of teaching, by the cunning and craftiness of men and their deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is, Christ. From him, the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. At four o'clock this afternoon, something very important is going to happen. I'd like to spend the next few minutes trying to convince you just how important that event is Our experience in Taiwan shows us how important it is. The church in Taiwan as the church in this country is split up into many different denominations, many different groups. But in Taiwan, the uh folly of that is seen even more clearly, perhaps, than we can see it here Because what you've got, uh you've got many Chinese believers uh who are split up into uh you know Presbyterian churches and Baptist churches and Methodist churches and many other kinds of churches And yet they have only the foggiest notion, in some cases uh virtually no notion, what it is about their particular group that makes them different from the other groups. Many of us uh don't have a real clear notion exactly what the differences are, but when you uh transplant uh these differences uh uh into Chinese culture uh it becomes even much more foggy and much more uh foolish. The foolishness of it becomes even much more evident. Uh also uh the re response of unbelievers in Taiwan uh shows us the importance of what is going to happen this afternoon at four at the pavilion. Uh believers have or unbelievers have said to us Why uh so many different groups? Uh why uh uh you know, why this and that and the other kind of church It's very confusing to uh unbelievers in in Taiwan, and many have raised this point. It's a stumbling block for unbelievers I think your own experience right here, as well as our experience in Taiwan, shows you the importance of what is going to happen this afternoon at the pavilion. God is concerned about unity, not just at the level of the regional church. You know, the Bible talks about the church of Ephesus, the church of Corinth. the Church of Galatia. What that means is that all the believers who live in Ephesus or who live in Corinth or who live in Galatia, they make up the Church of Galatia or the Church of Ephesus. And so uh you who are believers living in Howard County make up the church of Howard County. And for perhaps the first time ever Uh the church, not just the churches of Howard County, but the church of Howard County will be meeting this afternoon to praise the Lord together as the church of Howard County at the pavilion. But God is concerned about unity not simply at the level of the regional church. Let's come closer to home. He's concerned about unity at the level of Congregation at the level of cell groups, at the level of families, at the level of marriages And this all of us know about. These things all of us are convinced are critically important. We have perhaps experienced the pain of disunity in our marriages. Perhaps we've experienced the pain of divorce. Uh we all struggle to be one as husbands and wives in the way that God uh calls us to be. Uh We have we are now engaged in a fairly have been engaged in a fairly large uh uh project trying to relocate our lar our our family in in Pennsylvania after having living lived overseas for many, many years. And throughout the the the the the the struggles and the agonies of searching for the right place to live and now trying to we still have no kitchen, we have no heat in our house, we we still have some fairly major projects facing us and we are struggling with those. And throughout the struggles and the difficulties, it has uh been impressed upon me very vividly the tremendous importance of Fay and and and and me working together Faye and I working together to do what we do together, to experience unity throughout the struggles and the trials of what it is we're we're we're trying to do right now. All of you understand this. We have friends in the area, uh in in the uh Pennsylvania area who whose unity at the marriage level has not been all that it should be. And they too, their house burned down last year and they have been faced with a massive uh project. Should they buy, should they build, uh uh tremendous difficult choices to make. And because of a lack of unity in their marriage, perhaps some of the choices they've made haven't been the best choices and they are struggling with some of those difficulties now. And so I think all of you can understand the importance, the critical importance of unity in your marriages, in your families You all know what it's like to have a family, kids that are rebellious, to have a family that's split up, a family that is not one in Jesus Christ. uh our little uh daughter, fifteen month year old uh fifteen month old Liesl, uh recently she's gotten into this thing uh we call super hugs And she raises or she spreads her arms out wide and she uh wants us to run toward her or she runs toward us to give her this big super hug. And uh our our next oldest child, Luke, a four-year-old. Um, Liesel and Luke haven't always gotten along real well, or at least had a lot in common. But uh recently they've taken to giving each other super hugs and you can imagine the gratification in our hearts when we see Liesel throw her arms open wide and Luke run over and they give each other a big hug You know, we know the importance, the critical importance of unity in our marriages, in our families, in our uh small groups or cell groups, uh in our uh churches at the congregational uh level It's just as important that we be unified at the regional level, that the Church of Howard County strive together to reach Howard County for Jesus Christ. History also shows us the critical importance of what is happening this afternoon. I'll describe this as an his as a historic occasion, and it really is. Very briefly. God's purpose from the very beginning was that his church be one. Go all the way back to Genesis chapter 1, the garden. God established one man, one woman, one family. That was the church. unified from the very beginning. We come up through Noah again, the church is one family. We come up to Abraham and Isaac and the patriarchs again, the church at that point is one family. uh one unified family. Uh as we get uh come along a little bit later on in Old Testament history, we see the first major division take place. Uh under uh Saul and David and Solomon, the great golden age of uh i i Israelite history. Uh the church is one, uh Israel is one, one nation under God But uh after the death of uh Solomon, uh the split between Israel and Judah takes place and for the rest of their experience there's that split that's never really healed. The ten northern tribes uh in a sense uh sort of disappear from redemptive history. Coming down to the time of Christ, again, we have one church, one Lord, one faith, one baptism established on the foundation of the twelve apostles And the early church remained unified, remarkably unified, throughout uh the first several hundred years of its life. Tremendous growth, tremendous outreach, tremendous expansion. tremendous development, tremendous persecution and suffering and pain and tears. And yet through it all, the church, to a remarkable extent, was one throughout the world. The uh ancient Catholic Church, if you will, the early church. But then we had the first major split, the Eastern and the Western churches. Okay, the Eastern churches being more Greek became what we know today the Greek Orthodox Church. throughout Russia and Eastern Europe, uh and then the Western Church, which we know what we know of today as the Roman Catholic Church, uh Latin. And uh that that rift in the body has never really been healed to this day. Then of course in our experience, the the Protestant Reformation, we had the great split between the Reformers, the Protestants, and the Roman Catholic Church And then uh beyond that the ch the the Protestant church split into uh almost hundreds of uh uh different groups, and that's pretty much the situation that we have uh uh inherited and that we find ourselves in today. Uh the church is uh split up uh into many, many, many different groups which uh perhaps have little understanding of each other, perhaps have little desire to really work together. This I submit, dear brothers and sisters, is tragic. History shows us clearly the importance, the critical importance of unity at every level in our lives as Christians. Uh one day it will not be. Uh in heaven, we have a beautiful picture, and I'll uh take you to that in a few moments, of the church one again in eternity. Started out as one, in the end it will be one again. God calls us even now to work toward and pray for that oneness Most importantly, we've talked about our experience in Taiwan, your experience right here, talked about history. Most importantly, The Bible convinces us, I think, of the importance of what is going to happen this afternoon at 4 p. m. And I have particularly in mind the book of Ephesians I understood just recently that you have been looking at the book of Ephesians. I didn't know that, okay? This is God's providence. But I think that Paul's Deepest concern in the book, one of his basic purposes in writing the book of Ephesians, is to convince us of the importance of unity. I think that this is one of the deepest themes. In uh chapters one through three, Paul basically develops the idea that we are one. God has made us one as his people. And chapters four through six. He uh explores what it means to be one. He challenges us to be what we are. Uh he has made us, he has planned and purposed that we be one. He has suffered and died that we might be be one And he commands us and encourages us to work out the implications of that oneness. Paul's specific focus in the book is oneness between Jew and Gentile. And I think that this uh to us can be a kind of uh dramatic uh example. Uh if God can unify Jew and Gentile God can unify anybody, okay? Uh the Jews and the Gentiles, as we know, had a long, long history of bitter conflict, just inconceived Today we we don't think that much about it. You know, the the unity between Jew and Gentile today is not that big an issue for us. But put yourself for a moment in in the place of the early church It's inconceivable that Jew and Gentile could be one. And yet this is the great message of the book of Ephesians. If God can unify Jew and Gentile in Jesus Christ, God can unify any of us. Anybody in Jesus Christ. So God the Father has planned and purposed from all eternity that we will be one God the Son has suffered and died to make the two one. And God, the Holy Spirit, commands us to make every effort to preserve his unity, the Spirit's unity in the bond of peace. Let's look first at uh the ways in which God the Father, God our Father, has planned and purposed from all eternity. that we, his people, might be one. Uh very briefly, uh take you back to chapter one in Ephesians, Some weeks back when I was studying this passage, this tremendous uh verses three through uh three through ten uh tremendous uh catalog of our blessings, our spiritual blessings in Jesus Christ as as God's people. How God has lavished, uh poured out upon us blessings in Jesus Christ. As I was studying through this some weeks ago, it it struck me with almost volcanic force. the last chapter of this passage. And this is the the purpose of it all, the culmination of it all, the climax of it all. Let me read down through these blessings to that that explosive last verse. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will To the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace. that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding, and he made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment. To bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. All of these blessings lavished on us have one focus, one purpose, and that is To bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. God has planned and purposed, He has blessed us, He has poured out His grace upon us. He has done all these things for us with one thing in mind to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head Even Jesus Christ. If God is this concern about unity, if God has this cosmic concern about unity, God help us if we don't share this concern. This concern for unity at every level of our lives. Think back to marriage for just a moment. Unity in your marriages. What's the price? What kind of a price are you willing to pay for unity in your marriages? If you're married, you know it's not an easy thing when two sinful people are are joined together that intimately. It's a desperately difficult thing, often. What price are you willing to pay to have unity at that level, that most basic level in your lives Jesus Christ paid the ultimate price. The price of humility, the price of suffering, the price of sacrificial love That's the price that God calls us to pay, the price that He has paid for unity. That's how much He cares about unity. Look just for a moment, uh verses twelve and thirteen in Ephesians one. God works out everything. Verse 11, in conformity with the purpose of his will, in order that we, uh, the Jews, and you also, verse 13, the Gentiles might experience these blessings. God works out everything to bring Jew and Gentile together, to bring his people together. Verse 15 For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. Paul was Deeply concerned about the early Christians' love for all the saints, that the church in Ephesus We can't be selective in our love. We can't pick and choose. We'll love just certain saints, you know, our type, our brand, okay? We have to love all the saints. Paul is desperately concerned. Verses 15 through 23, Paul's prayer for the saints. Not stop giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. His incomparably great power for us who believe. That power, like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead, seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. Far above all, rule and authority, power and dominion, every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. God placed all things under his feet appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. God has given us the strongest possible foundation for unity. He has given us uh power and privilege Blessing in Jesus Christ, the strongest possible reason, uh, strongest possible foundation for unity. Not only has God the Father planned and purposed unity from all eternity, but he has revealed this plan to us. Turn with me to chapter 3 of Ephesians. Again, this dramatic revelation of unity between Jew and Gentile might not hit us today with the same force. that that it hit these early believers in Ephesus. But again try to imagine that the tremendous impact Of this revelation, this mystery revealed at last, God's plan to bring Jew and Gentile together in Jesus Christ. Paul delays in the early chapters of Ephesians 3. He delays the revelation of the mystery, even as God the Father delayed over uh many centuries of Old Testament history, the the the final and full revelation of this mystery. Uh but then it comes in the end of the passage in verse six with with explosive force, this wonderful revelation, tried it to catch the drama as I read through these early verses in chapter three. For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of you Gentiles Surely you have heard about the administration of God's grace that was given to me for you. That is, the mystery made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly. In reading this then you will be able to understand my insight into this mystery of Christ. It's almost the the the the the the the the the suspense is building when he's talking about this mystery, but he's not telling us what it is. uh which was not made known to men in other generations at as as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God's holy apostles and prophets. And then the the the revelation comes in verse 6 This mystery that is through this mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, sharers together in the promise. In Christ Jesus. Jew and Gentile have one future, heirs together. They are members of one body, and they are given one great promise. in Christ Jesus of salvation. This mystery finally revealed, this astonishing mystery is one of unity. God's intention that Jew and Gentile, that all of his people, no matter how uh culturally or or racially or economically or or Uh no matter what it is that might divide them or split them up, that they are to be one in Jesus Christ. Shocking revelation. Paul was a Pharisee. Paul was the strictest of all the Jews. The Pharisees were the most fanatically concerned. about separation from Gentiles. Uh the the the the the great unwashed. They were not to to to even speak to or or eat with or have anything to do with the Gentiles. And now Paul, the the the Pharisee of the Pharisees, the arch Pharisee, Paul, the Christian apostle, is the apostle to the Gentiles. He is suffering. He will lay down his life to bring the gospel to the Gentiles. Just think thousands of years of history, thousands of years of conflict between Jew and Gentile. This is an astonishing revelation. If God can do this, God can do anything to bring us together in his Son. Verses uh seven to thirteen, uh we see another aspect of this tremendous uh concern that God has for unity. I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. Although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created all things. Listen to this, dear brothers and sisters. His intent was that now, through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. according to his eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. In him and through faith in him we may approach God with freedom and confidence. I ask you therefore not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you, which are your glory. It is God's purpose that through his church This great plan and purpose bringing Jew and Gentile together, this unity that God is so concerned about, that it be demonstrated not simply to the world But to the angels and to the demons, to the principles and powers of the air, to the whole universe. What does the world see? What do the angels see when they look at the church on earth as it is today? The church here in Howard County So they see the tremendous grace and and and and plan and purpose of God displayed, his manifold wisdom. That is what we are called to do. That is my prayer this afternoon, that that the church in Howard County will begin to display more clearly perhaps than ever before the manifold wisdom of God. Even the angels and demons Cosmic level, looking down, will see this displayed. This, dear friends, is God's purpose, God's will. Finally in verses fourteen through nineteen, uh Paul's uh prayer again For this reason I kneel before the Father, from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power. through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may have power together with all the saints to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of the To a very great extent, the Christian life, the whole purpose of the Christian life is to find out the riches and the depth of God's love, to explore uh the wonders of God's love. But Paul tells us this can only be done. We can't do it by ourselves. Presbyterians can't do it without the Baptists, and Baptists can't do it without Presbyterians. We need each other at every level. This is God's plan. This is God's design. Together with all the saints. says uh to grasp together with all the saints how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ. That together with all the saints is critically important, dear friends. It's my prayer that in your marriages, you can't do it as a husband by yourself or a wife by yourself, as parents or children by yourselves. in your cell groups. You can't do it just one or two. It's got to be together with all the saints. At the congregational level, at the at the level of the the the the regional level, the Church of Howard County. You will never be able to find out the riches and the height and the depth and the breadth of God's love unless you do it together with all the saints. It's my prayer that this afternoon you begin to in a greater way than you've ever done before find out the riches and the height and the depth of God's love. Moving on, backing up to chapter two of Ephesians, Christ's purpose in coming to this earth was to live and die and rise again. that he might create in himself one new man out of the two, thus making peace. We can be a little bit more brief here, but it's no less important. A major purpose of the atonement and one that we often don't uh emphasize very much is to bring, make the two one, to unify us. on a on a horizontal level as Christians on this earth. Verses 1 through 13, perhaps the clearest statement in all of Scripture of the utter sinfulness of our own hearts. and the wonderful grace of God for salvation leads into one of the great passages in Ephesians emphasizing the importance of our oneness, verses 11 to 22. Therefore, remember that formerly you who are Gentiles by birth and called uncircumcised by those who call themselves the circumcision, that done in the body by the hands of men Remember that at that time you were separate from Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel, foreigners to the covenants of the promise. without hope and without God in the world. Now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far away have been brought near through the blood of Christ. For He Himself is our peace. who has made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and regulations, his purpose was to create in himself one new man out of the two, thus making peace. And in this one body, to reconcile both of them to God through the cross, by which he put to death their hostility, he came and preached peace to you who are far away, and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens But fellow citizens with God's people, members of God's household, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus Himself as the chief cornerstone. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. In him, you two are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit We can see very clearly here what Christ did. Verse 14, he destroyed the dividing wall. How he did it? By abolishing in his own flesh the commandments. and why he did it to create unity and peace, uh to reconcile both of them to God through the cross. The final passage that we read in the end of chapter 2 expands on unity and peace idea. We have a wonderful climax. One new building, God's house. God's home in which he dwells. So we can see that a major purpose of the atonement, it's not just reconciliation on a on a hor a vertical level. between us and God. That's of course true and it's very wonderful and that's what we normally talk about when we talk about the atonement. But it's also reconciliation on a horizontal level, that the two might be brought together. Uh this is why Christ Died. Finally, uh the Holy Spirit commands us, He desires, He wants us to make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit to keep his unity through the bond of peace. Let's look briefly at chapter 4, the passage that we have already read, and I won't reread it We can see in this passage, chapter 4, it begins with unity, it moves through diversity, and it moves back to unity. Again, the beginning We can see here again Paul, the Jew, the Pharisee suffering for Gentiles. Suffering for the very ones that he hated, suffering for the very ones that he avoided, suffering for the very ones that he wanted nothing to do with. He is now bringing the gospel to them, laying down his life for them, a prisoner for the Lord. I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling You have received a life worthy of this great call to unity. He spells out in these verses in chapter 4. uh exactly what it will take for us to work out this unity that God has planned and purposed and that Christ has died to bring about Look at chapter at verse 2. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Dear folks, you and I both know that this is what it takes to be one. This is what it takes for husbands and wives, for parents and children, for brothers and sisters in the local congregation. As well as brothers and sisters in the regional church. If we're to be one, Paul says, we have got to be completely humble and gentle, to be patient, bearing with one another in love. Verse three, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. And then we have this tremendous uh climax in these next few verses, seven times the word one is used, three times the word all, the greatest possible emphasis on God's concern for oneness One body, one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all, through all, and in all. We then move into the passage that uh speaks of diversity. One body with many gifts, uh one body but many people in that body, and the people are all different, and they have different abilities and different gifts and different Diversity, dear friends, in God's plan doesn't mean divisiveness. Diversity doesn't mean that we split up and we all go our separate ways Diversity is God's gift which also serves the purpose of unity. God has given gifts in the body. a diversity of gifts, a tremendous profusion, a tremendous abundance of different uh types of people and different types of gifts. Why that all of those people might serve the body for the common good to build the body up in unity. Columbia Church has a lot of gifts A great diversity of gifts, but Columbia Church needs the other churches here in Howard County. You have a lot of gifts, you don't have all the gifts. Other churches also have many gifts that you need, and these other churches need the gifts that you have. That's God's plan. That's the way He has set things up. Diversity is a tremendous blessing that comes to us from God. Men and women are different. God has not created one sex, He's created two sexes, and this is God's wonderful plan and wonderful purpose. It's a great idea. It's God's idea. But the purpose, again, is not a battle between the sexes. It's not a war between the sexes. They complement each other. They they cooperate. They work together. Together a man and a woman can make a tremendous uh team. They can do things like uh Make babies that would be impossible apart. And this is God's plan and God's purpose. This is the the the the beauty of God's wisdom. And we see it at every level in his church We need each other. We uh we don't have all the gifts, all the graces, all that that we need. We have been given things that our brothers and sisters need, and uh our brothers and sisters have been given things that we need. Uh I love Reform theology. Uh I'm I'm uh that's why I'm a Presbyterian minister. I have a deep appreciation for the great theological heritage that we enjoy. But I know that we reformed people need our brothers and sisters in other churches, and they need us. You know, there's a great tragedy. Uh different uh denominational groups have different strengths and weaknesses. And apart from each other, we sort of languish. in those uh we have a great theological heritage by God's grace, and yet we are sort of sitting on it. Uh we are not putting ourselves in a position to share it fruitfully and helpfully with our brothers and sisters who need it. Other uh branches of the church have other great heritages. I think of the Mennonites, tremendous heritage of uh social service and sacrificial love Uh and we need that. We can learn that from them. Uh, and yet we're not really in a position to learn that from our brothers and sisters in the Mennonite church Uh other churches are very strong in outreach, are very strong in this, or very strong in that, and weak in other areas. We need each other as the body of Christ. If we are to reach Howard County for Jesus Christ If we are to reach Montgomery County for Jesus Christ, we can't do it by ourselves. God hasn't set it up that way. We've got to work together. as the church of Howard County. We've got to pray together. We've got to serve together or it won't happen. The whole in this case is greater than the sum of the parts. Together, I honestly believe I think this is God's plan and purpose. Together we can be more than we could ever be. by ourselves. Or even if we we are all working at the task uh separate from each other, I don't think it will happen. T It's when we come together uh and work at it together. that God will truly unleash his blessings and we'll see uh tremendous things happen here in Howard County and here in Columbia And then the last part of our passage, uh verses four uh fourteen to sixteen, we again we come back to unity Uh, then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there, by every wind of teaching, by the cunning and craftiness of men and their deceitful scheming, instead speaking the truth in love. We will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is, Christ. From him the whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament. grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. Growth and maturity also lead to unity As we grow, as we build each other up, as we become more like Christ, we grow also in unity. And it's uh even from a logical standpoint, if we're all aiming towards the same apex, as it were, of the triangle, if if Christ is the goal of all of us together We are striving to become more like Christ and to achieve maturity in Christ. All of us as God's people will be coming closer to each other as we do that. What we need is not less Bible study, but more here in Howard County. What we need is not less growth, but more. Not less maturity, but greater maturity. you know, the old phrase, uh doctrine divides but service unites. I don't think that's true. Uh w what we need to do is is not just study the Bible with knowledge that puffs up Okay, that's maybe been the been the the the reason why people have talked about doctrine divides. What we need is the love that builds up We've got to understand, we've got to obey, we've got to live these things out in our lives and achieve, by God's grace, greater levels of Christian maturity. This will then enable us as husbands and wives, as parents and children, as brothers and sisters at the local level, at the regional level, to more truly be one in Jesus Christ. This last part of, I won't read it, but we have a prescription for unity in these last verses in Ephesians chapter 4. and I'd like to read just one part, um oh, this is all so important. Uh Verse 20, I'll pick it up at verse 25. Therefore each of you must put off falsehood, speak truthfully to his neighbor, for we are all members of one body. In your anger do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry. Do not give the devil a foothold. Dear friends, this is why we struggle with unity in our marriages. We by our unresolved anger by our unresolved bitterness, by our conflicts, have given the devil a foothold. Some cases we have thrown the door wide for the devil to rush in and destroy our marriages, destroy our families, destroy our churches. This is what I think has happened historically, why the church is so split up today, because we have failed to communicate, we have failed to speak the truth in love, we have failed to resolve uh controversies and conflicts and and and anger. Uh we have uh built up in our hearts this bitterness. We have given the devil a foothold and he has come in and he has split us up. By God's grace. We're seeing this process reversed. May God bless the church in Howard County. May God bless all of you, dear brothers and sisters here in your marriages, in your families, at every level. to uh do these things, to communicate, speak the truth in love, to uh uh drive the devil out of these relationships Give him no foothold, give him no place to come together again in Jesus Christ. What does making every effort To preserve the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace involved. I'd like to just uh in conclusion suggest uh two or three things grow As all of us are growing, as we're studying our Bibles, as we're meditating on the Scripture, as we're growing more like Jesus Christ, we will become more unified in our marriages, our families, our churches. Practice unity in your most intimate relationships. I honestly believe that marriage and family is the great a testing ground, the great school house, as it were, for Learning what unity is all about, for learning what speaking the truth and love, uh dealing with with anger uh dealing with bitterness, learning to forgive, learning to humble ourselves, learning to love sacrificially. If we can't love each other as husbands