Advent this year we're studying Isaiah 53, 21st messianic prophecy we've looked at through the years to Look at the hope of the coming Messiah. And uh we started this last year. Let's see the overview here, Michael. Thanks And we've seen that this section, one of the most uh quoted and beloved sections of all of Scripture, is uh 15 verses. Five stanzas of three verses each. You could sum each one by one word about Messiah. Messiah will be unique. That's what we looked at last year 52 verses 13 and 15. He will be despised, he will be punished, even though he is innocent, and yet he will be entirely successful in what he set out to do. This last week and today we're looking at that second stanza, he was despised. And you remember that last week We looked at verse one of Isaiah 53, who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? And I suggested two things that were amazing. One, that even with all these prophecies and hundreds of years of longing and expectation of Messiah Isaiah says relatively few Jews will believe him. Who among the Jews has believed our report? We see how the scripture uh develops that to mean that uh relatively few. And what an accurate prophecy that the nations will come in much more of a response than his own people. And then secondly, we saw that uh the amazing thing that salvation reveals the arm of God. The arm of God is revealed through Messiah. And I was making the point that when the Bible talks about creation, it generally speaks of that as being done by the hand or the word of God. But the Often the idea of hand. God's hand made the heavens and the earth and us in his image. But salvation shows the arm of God. And after I went home and I was talking about that as sometimes I do with my wife. I never talked to her about my sermons before, only afterwards. That's for her benefit. And uh she said, So what was your point again? And I said, well, you know, I guess in one sentence it's simply that it was a more dramatic display of power to redeem you than to create you. And she said, Well, so why didn't you just say that? All right, so now I just said it. That's what I'm trying to say. In other words, creation is by the word of God. He simply speaks and a galaxy spins off into space. Redemption is not that way He doesn't just speak redemption. In redemption, God himself had to become something he had never been. He had to go through a process and reveal his power and his grace through that process in a way that had never been revealed before. So that when you look at creation and you see God saying, I'm going to display my arm, you think, well, now what is more powerful and dramatic than anything we've seen? Is it going to be he's going to reveal quasars to us? You know what a quasar is? That's that's a celestial explosion that is, you can believe, that is, you can't fathom it, a hundred times brighter than our entire galaxy put together. Take that whole galaxy, hundred to ten hundred billion stars, multiply that by a hundred times brightness. That's a quasar. That's not the arm of his power. Or maybe it's a black hole. Black holes that are so dense they suck in light so it doesn't can't escape. One teaspoon of a black hole would weigh equivalent to two hundred million elephants That's heavy. That the arm of his power? No. Is it explosions of stars they're seeing on the fringe of the universe now that far Demonstrate far greater power than anything ever seen before? No. God says you want to see the arm of my power You look at a little baby in a manger in a stable in Bethlehem. Now why is that the arm of his power? Because God says, at that point, I contained myself in a body so that you could come up to me and touch me. That's power. And what Isaiah goes on to say here now in verses 2 and 3 is that when we went there and we looked, we said Tell you the truth, it's a little disappointing. It's rather anticlimactic, because I don't see something very special here. In fact, what I see here doesn't look very majestic at all. In fact, he says, he grew up before him like a tender shoot, like a root out of dry ground. He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him. nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and familiar with suffering. Like one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised. and we esteemed him not. He violated every expectation of what a Messiah would be like That's what I want to look at with you this morning. Verses 2 and 3. I want to look at it in two points. First of all, I want to see, I want you to see the nature of Messiah and how he did not fit Israel's ideas of a leader. How Messiah violated every expectation. And then secondly, I want to look at the nature of the rejection that he experienced First of all, then the nature of Messiah, he did not fit Israel's ideas of a leader or a messiah, and the question That you and I have to ask is does he fit your ideas of the one that you want to follow? Jesus contradicts all of our expectations culturally. as well as theirs. And that raises some difficult questions for us. But first of all, look at how he violated their expectations. Four things just want to call attention to from these verses. The first is his origins. Notice in verse 2, he grew up before him like a tender shoot, like a root out of dry ground. The picture is of when you cut down a tree, you know, that some trees produce little shoots. We had a willow tree. in Syracuse that was in a pot spot in our backyard that, you know, willow trees are a nice tree for the forest and the woods and forest streams and rivers, but they're not a very good tree by your house. Don't ever plant a willow by your house messy trees, dirty trees, all. Well this thing was a it was a nuisance, so I cut it down, and as a result, instead of a willow tree, I got a willow bush. I had 50 willow trees that grew up all around. You know, it's just this mass of willow trees all over. All these shoots that just took off. Now what's a hundred times worse than willow trees are sycamore trees. My wife has a passion to eradicate the world of sycamore trees. When we bought our current house, it had a sycamore tree right there, smack dab in the front of the yard. She says, First thing that's gotta go in this house if we get it is that sycamore tree And uh it was kind of like high to the neighbors, first thing I did was cut down the sycamore tree. And uh so I thought, okay, well that takes care of that. And it was a chute that grew up out of the stump. Okay, cut down the stump, another shoot grew up out of the stump. Cut down that chute, another shoot. Finally I decided you know I'll just eradicate this whole thing and I just level it to the ground and next year more shoots. So I had a guy come in with a stump grinder, he ground up the whole stump, you know, about a two feet down into the ground. shoots were growing out of the sawdust. I mean you you know finally it took me three years. I thought I was gonna have to put a land mine into the your front yard, you know, and blow the whole thing up. Well the picture here is more like that. See we read it, we say like a tender shoot, like it's something sort of cute, you know, like a little tender shoot, a little green. The idea is of that kind of shoot that just grows up. It's a nuisance. You just want to chop it off. And then he continues like a root out of dry ground. You look at the ground, it's all parched, it's arid, and there's nothing there. But then there's some life that appears. Now this is the idea that Isaiah has been developing from the beginning. Do you remember when he gave was given his commission, which wasn't a very encouraging commission, after he was forgiven, and Isaiah says, now Lord, I'm so thankful that you have purged money from my sin. You've cleansed me. And and the Lord says, Well, I have a job to be done. Somebody has to be a messenger to my people who will go. Isaiah says, Here I am, send me And God said, look, before you go, let me just tell you what's going to happen. Nobody's going to listen to you. They're not going to like what you say. Their hearts are going to be hardened against this. And uh that's what you have to look forward to. Well, thanks a lot, Lord. You know, I was really looking for an upwardly mobile career. Um but then the Lord goes on and he says, I am going to take Israel like a forest of trees. And I'm going to cut them all down like stumps right at the level of the ground. Continues that image that's at the end of chapter six in chapter ten. It says again, it's like a whole forest And I'm going to level them. They're going to be like oak trees, all leveled, just nothing left but stumps. Then chapter 11, verse 1, the very next verse, no chapter divisions there, picks up the one that we're familiar with. And that is, remember Like a stump, like a root out of dry ground, the the the new growth out of the stump of Jesse comes the Messiah. So Isaiah is picking up this idea once again, and he says Messiah is like this little shoot out of a dead stump, like this root that comes out of dry, lifeless ground. And when you think of the fulfillment of that, Jesus was born to Joseph and Mary, who were of the line of David. We know there he was from the royal line because that's why they were in Bethlehem. because they were from David's line for the taxation. But what had happened to this royal line of David? What had happened to the reality and the majesty Well, of course, we remember that that line had been taken into exile. The ten tribes of the north had been utterly scattered Through the Assyrian Empire. They came back at this time, Israel, only Judah left, was simply a small oppressed province of the Roman government ruled by a puppet governor who was a madman called Herod the Great, great because he had so many building projects. But a madman, and it was a time when godliness seemed utterly impotent. The high priest bought the office with money Corruption and assassinations were so rampant that they occurred more rapidly than the news could be carried. And it's in this kind of a scene that Jesus is born. The origins, despicable. And beyond that, he goes on, he had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him. The second thing I want you to notice is his physical appearance. Uh not only was he uh from a what seemed like a forsaken dynasty, uh, but you look at his physical appearance No beauty or majesty to attract us to him, nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. It's interesting that that phrase there, he had no beauty. The word beauty there is the same word that's used in 1 Samuel chapter 16 in verse 18 to describe David as a young man. The NIV translates that. He was fine-looking. The word means handsome. What Isaiah is saying here, if you can receive this, is Messiah was not handsome. He was not good looking. Uh what does that do to all your pictures of Jesus with either effeminate or rugged good looking, you know? Um Whenever we see pictures, he's always good looking. You ever see a picture of a homely Jesus? But that's what Isaiah says. You've probably heard of the Shroud of Turin. You know, it's the Catholic Church says that this was probably the shroud that Jesus was actually buried in and they've done these images and all that. And I don't put a whole lot of stock into the authenticity of it. But what intrigues me is if you look at the images that they have gotten from that shroud, the person that they say is Jesus is not very good looking. It's a real long face and it's just not there's nothing distinctive in the features about it. And to me that's one of the most authentic things about the claim, you see, that Isaiah says Jesus was not handsome. He was not fine looking. Isaiah shakes all our notions of Jesus in his appearance. New Testament doesn't tell us anything about the physical appearance of Jesus But you remember back in verse 14 of chapter 52, he had said that in his suffering, his appearance was so disfigured that he was inhuman looking. We don't have pictures that display that. Now he goes on to say, even before that, just the way he grew up, naturally, he was not good looking. Boy, I'll tell you, how like the gospel, isn't it? You know, I mean, Isaiah's saying here that attractiveness or unattractiveness has nothing to do with godliness. Or even perfect humanness. That's good news for those of us who wish we were better looking, isn't it? I mean, you know, is there something about you that you think that God was in a bad mood when he designed you? You look in the mirror and you say, How can he give me that new nose and tell me he loves me? You know, or my hair, or my skin, or whatever it is. Because we idolize beauty We think beauty has more value. And Isaiah is contradicting that notion. I I still remember when I was a kid, I don't know, seven, eight years old, going to this movie that I totally forget, could never tell you the title of it, the plot of it, anything. All I remember is there's one little snippet in this one scene where there's this older lady who is talking to this plain looking girl who's weeping her heart out and Whatever is the girl's weeping about, I just remember the woman saying to her, that's okay, honey. Don't cry. I have seen more tears on pretty faces than plain ones. And I remember thinking as a kid, yeah, right. Yeah, because no, it's the it's the pretty girls that have all the fun. It's the good-looking guys that live better lives And as I've grown, I've thought of that so many times, how true it is. So often it's been the beautiful girls who had suffered sexual abuse or temptations they couldn't resist. The temptation to idolize their beauty or to obsess about flaws or guise with the same problem. You see how Isaiah is undercutting that whole value system? Messiah was not fine looking. There was nothing about him that we looked that said, movie star looks, he's just what we would picture. He contradicted what we would picture. And he says, he goes on to say, no majesty to attract us. And I I put that down. That's your C, the I. He did not have influence. It was not that cultural influence. He was an uneducated peasant. He didn't get orthodoncy. He had no degrees, no designer labels. His jeans and flannel shirts were from Walmart. He was a carpenter's apprentice. He hung out with prostitutes and drunkards. Definitely not very Messiah-like. Nothing majestic about him. Nothing that would naturally inclined him to make, to be influential He was among those who were on the outside of the circles of power looking in. And yet no one has altered the course of this world more than Jesus, the Messiah. How do you account for that other than by deity? He had no beauty, no Good looking, no handsome appearance, no majesty, no influence as this world sees it And then finally, no charisma. That's the C. Matthew says he didn't call attention to himself. He was not a great orator. That is, he was not eloquent. He didn't use humor to impress the crowds. His words were very simple, often hard to understand. Not because of eloquence, but because simply of the radical truth that they were conveying that was difficult for us to imagine. The power of his message was simply in the raw, naked, radical truth that was conveyed. And the only thing that was of any influence and charisma in him was the sheer force of his character, of his person, and of his miracles. He was so different from what they expected, so unmessiah-like from all that they had hoped. Notice, secondly, then the nature of his rejection In verse 3, Isaiah uses seven derogatory words. Count them. Seven derogatory words to describe him and how he was responded to. He was first despised. He was rejected by men. Man of sorrows and familiar with suffering. Fifthly, he was like somebody from whom we hide our faces. Again, he was despised, and we esteemed him not Can you imagine you ever think of Jesus as a young teenager studying the scriptures and comes across this passage And it begins to dawn on him that he is God's Messiah. He's a growing awakening. The Bible doesn't tell us how it developed, but there's this growing awakening of his understanding of who he is and his calling. And he reads this verse. And he says, that's me. I'm going to be despised, rejected. My life will be characterized by sorrow and suffering. People will hide their faces when they see me. I'll be despised and not esteemed. No one in all of eternity Had more inherent right to be praised and worshipped, and he won't even get common decency. Yesterday, Presbyterian Peter Lee preached a message from Hosea 1 that some of you had heard, in which he described Israel. as that adulterous wife, and how God called Hosea to marry a wife who would despise him and reject him, be unfaithful to him for other men. And as you look at Hosea's life and you think how sad, how tragic, God says, Hosea, do you understand? That's how I feel I was despised and rejected. My people turned against me, were unfaithful to me. Have you ever been despised? Have you ever experienced rejection from people that matter to you? I've been despised. I know that feeling. I know the deep loneliness, the the self examination of why do they despise me? U do is it true what they think of me and you try to justify yourself and examine and on and on and It's so painful, isn't it? Well the next time you're experiencing that, read Isaiah 53 and realize That Jesus, the very Son of God, not only sympathizes with you, he can empathize He can gather you close to himself and put his arm around you and say, Yes, I understand that. I too was despised and rejected. People turned away from me and would not respect or listen to me. I understand that, hurt. Have you ever realized, have you ever thought about that was part of what Jesus suffered for you? In coming to take your place to receive the curse that you and I deserve from God Not only the trial and the execution by crucifixion, but years of the rejection, the despising, the misunderstanding. We so live in an age of image. We look at a Jesus in his weakness, and we find him unappealing. We live in an age when I've told you before that the guy whose picture is on the box of cereal gets many times more than the farmers who raised the oats or the wheat that went into the cereal. We live in a time when, as U. S. News and World Report this week reported, of the CEO celebrity. The CEOs who have been the achievers on the covers of magazines, but have now shamed themselves by their behavior, and have resigned and disgraced some serving prison terms. And so what does a corporation like WorldCom do that has built its investors of not millions, but billions of dollars? What kind of a person do they raise up to restore their image? And so they look on the list of most admired people and they come across the name of Rudy Giuliani. one of the most admired men in America today. Forget, of course, how he dumped his wife and treated her, but he's a very respected man because of his behavior in nine eleven And so they asked Brudy Giuliani to be the CEO for WorldCom. The thought is, if your CEOs lose their celebrity status, hire a celebrity to be a CEO. So on the short list of other corporations are people like Julia Roberts and Madonna. That's the age in which we live. It's an age that Andy Worrell described before his death as a time when everybody would get 15 minutes of fame. But not Messiah. He doesn't fit the image. And so these seven words are summed up in the three words. He was not a we were not attracted to him. We rejected him. And we despised him. That raises some important questions for you and for me into what kind of a person we look for as a Messiah. What kind of a God do you want to serve and worship? Our tendency is so to make God into our own image, isn't it? Rather than for us to subject our minds to what He is like. What kind of a person are you drawn to? What kind of a person do you find influential in your life? The person that you want to be like, or the image that you want to project. There was a book written just recently in the last year That uh kind of caught my eye. It's called Sex and Real Estate, Why We Love Houses. A very interesting book. She says is much less to do with living than image. Now, this is apart from the whole idea of investment today, real estate versus stock market, but what she's describing is that we get houses today that are Several hundred square feet larger than ten twenty years ago, even though family sizes are smaller. Larger kitchens for people that don't cook, workout rooms for people that sit and veg, and porches to relax on for people that never have five minutes to sit down. And this is my favorite quote. We once lived in houses and worshipped in cathedrals. Now we want to live in cathedrals. That's a profound quote when you think about it. We fall into the trap of what we think is important, and it's not character. Especially that is so much of a tendency for you teenagers. I'm not picking on you, I'm just saying the reality is that when you, if by God's grace you get to be 36, You will probably be very glad you didn't marry the person who was your heart's flame when you were 16. Kathy data the guy who had a Corvette. And he was the catch from everybody. Wasn't very big on conversation. Sort of punched her in the shoulder and said, Hey, cat hey, cat too. But let's go in the Corvette and run around the block a few times, you know. Well, God was gracious. You know, I call peaches the sneaky fruit. And the reason, you know, peaches really are sneaky. You know, could you can take an apple or you know most other fruit and you can kind of feel it and you'll know if it's any good You can't do that with peaches. You get a peach that looks nice and solid, you know, and you say, okay. Then you bite into it, yuck. You know, it's all soft and mushy inside, you know, and you spit the thing out, you know. And that's so much like the way of people. You know, you can't tell just by looking It's what's inside, you see, and Isaiah is saying, you don't understand, you guys want the image, but Messiah comes who is the character of God. And when you look at the insides of Messiah, he's pure gold. He's radiant. He's majestic. But you don't see that. All you see is the weakness. All you see is that which so shame the image of this world. And of course, Paul tells us that when he suffered the thorn in the flesh, that's exactly what God spoke to him. Your power is brought to an end in your weakness, so that my power, the power of Messiah, would tabernacle upon you. So brothers and sisters, I invite you to Jesus, the Messiah, this morning, who is the Messiah for losers. The evangelical church is so prone to want to present a success image. Come to CPC, we're winners. And then you come to our Healing Path class and you find out we're a bunch of losers, you know. And you come in and you say, you know, I'm in this class and boy, you know, my life is so full of shame and disappointment and failure and what does the gospel have to say to me? You hang around for a little while and you find out, oh, the gospel is for you, because the gospel is the gospel of Jesus, the Messiah for losers. The one who came for those who are full of failure and shame, who like that peach, look okay on the outside, but we know our hearts that were rotten through and through. We know all the failure and the disgrace. And so I invite you to Jesus this morning, who's able to take that. Because you see him as Isaiah presents him, you know he is safe to come to. He won't reject you and cast you out and say, you don't fit my My kind of kingdom, but his kingdom is for just the likes of you and me. When I was studying this passage, it wasn't until A couple of days ago that I finally figured out one little phrase here that I had kind of dismissed as probably irrelevant. Verse two says he grew up before him like a tender shoot. I don't know by the comments on the before him. What's the before him? Why does he say he grew up before him like a tender shoot? Who's the Him? Well, obviously it's the Father. It's God. And then I realized what he's saying is that when you look at all the opinions of everybody else, When Jesus saw that and said, this is how they will treat me, I imagine his mind locking in on that phrase, but Father, I will grow up before you. That's what matters. Not what everybody else thinks. Who cares what everybody else's opinion, all the influential, cool people That you so much want their adulation and to be like them and to fit in with them. Who cares what they think a hundred years from now? The important thing is you're growing up before Him. You and I are all growing up before Him. He alone knows your heart thoroughly He alone knows the true values and is able to forgive you of all the rottenness and say, Come to my son, come, because you're safe with him. Safe with the Jesus, the Messiah, for losers. Amen. First service, somebody shout it out. Amen at that point. Amen. Let's pray. Father. We come as people who are so caught up in the image of success and the image of majesty that is so superficial in our day. And you, Lord God, have sent a Messiah who so contradicts those expectations. A messiah for stinky shepherds and losers like us. A messiah who has come to take sin and brokenness and weariness. And oh Lord Jesus, how we worship you, how we recognize that that day when we see you, whatever your face physically looks like We will be transfixed by the beauty of your character and who you are, as no one we have ever looked upon. And we will worship and adore you. Ah, Lord Jesus, change our values and our hearts that we might fix our hearts on you now. And in that find security and safety and life and peace in Jesus' name. Amen.