Looking through Psalm 116, these three weeks, remember Psalm 116 says, I love the Lord. Because he heard my voice. He heard my cry for mercy. Because he turns his ear to me, I will call on him as long as I live Then the psalmist you remember describes an overwhelming situation of trouble and sorrow, so that he despaired even of life. And cried out to the Lord, called on his name as he's revealed himself in Scripture, and said, I know you, I know your promises, you've said you would hear me. Save me, O Lord. And the Lord heard him. The Lord answered his prayer. And so Psalms 116 is really a testimony. Now this person had made a vow, apparently, Lord, if you answer this impossible situation, deliver me from this impossible, overwhelming trouble. Then I will offer a sacrifice in the temple and I will publicly testify to your faithfulness. And that's what the psalm is. It's a public Poetic statement of a testimony. And we've seen that this psalm where he is focusing on this idea of calling on the Lord. Takes this basic theme that the Lord uses afflictions in our lives to draw our hearts to him. When we begin to drift off and we begin to take him for granted and our souls feel Rather independent, we're carrying on on our own. God brings something into our life sometimes that will be overwhelming to us. We see that we are not able to handle it. And then we are humbled before him. He answers, and we say, Lord, I'd almost forgotten how precious you were to me. I love you. And as I said, he focuses on that with this This idea of calling on his name, and we see that three times through this psalm. First of all, the idea of calling on his name as we're driven to him in prayer Verse 3 and 4, the cords of death entangled me, the anguish of the grave came upon me, I was overcome by trouble and sorrow. And then I called on the name of the Lord. Oh Lord Yahweh, save me. Simple Straight to the point. Sometimes you and I can't even say much more than that. We can't elaborate. It's just Lord help me. And he did. And so he secondly calls on the name of the Lord in terms of praise, thanksgiving, verses twelve and thirteen. How can I repay the Lord for all his goodness to me? I will lift up the cup of life. Salvation and I will call on the name of the Lord, this time not in terms of prayer, but in terms of praise. And then you have the third idea, which is the basis of the Psalm That this is a proclamation, so that others hear and are encouraged, encouraged. If they're unbelievers, to put their faith in him, if they're believers, to trust him more. And you see that in verses 17 and 18. I will, therefore, sacrifice a thank offering to you, and I will call on the name of the Lord. I will fulfill my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people, particularly focusing on the Believers. But it's the proclamation that's in view there in calling on his name. Well, this week I want to focus on the second idea of the psalmist in calling on his name in praise. It's been said that prayer is the occupation of the soul with its needs, and praise is the occupation of the soul with its benefits. benefits received from the Lord. This psalm is full of praise. In fact, the interesting thing about this psalm is it's almost impossible to divide it. And that's demonstrated by the fact that I checked out about ten commentaries on this psalm and no two of them had the same divisions. And so the idea probably is that there really isn't any division. The themes just flow throughout. But in order to consider it, last week we looked at the first six verses. And this week I want to focus on verses 7 to 13, because there's where you have the focus of this idea of the praise, which is climaxed by the statement in verse 13. And so you had that idea, how can I repay the Lord for all his goodness to me? I will lift up the cup of salvation and I will call on the name of the Lord. That's what I want to say. to focus on. Now you notice that what he's saying here really is when I think of God's goodness, I am compelled to speak. I just can't sit in silence when I think about how good the Lord is to me. I'm I must call on his name. I must say something. I must respond. I must react. Some people, you know, say that uh heaven sounds like a pretty boring place. Because all we're going to do all eternity is to praise God. And if all we're going to do is just tell God how great He is, you know, Revelation 4:8 says that day and night, never ceasing, they just say, holy, holy, holy. How wonderful you are and all the rest of this. Yeah, that that doesn't sound like it's uh awfully attractive, you know, and no wonder I'd like to live a little longer on the earth. At least I have some distractions and other things I can enjoy. Who wants to do that all the time? Well What we miss, you see, in that statement is that we don't see the Lord as he really is. But when we see him as he is, we are compelled to respond. We're not just commanding. See, it's not like God says, now look, when you get to heaven, I want you to know one of the rules coming through this gate is you've got to praise me all the time. You can enjoy everything. You'll never be hungry, you'll never be sick. There's just one little catch. You've got to just praise me all the time. And that's what some of us think. Now I got a glimpse of how distorted that is. One time when we were at Cape Cod. Now uh you know we were at Cape Cod there's this place called Sunset Point on Cape Cod, right at the base. Just a couple of minutes from where our cottage that we rented. And I wore my cape top tie so I could show you here, you see. if you want to later. But, you know, right there, it overlooks the bay. You come straight out this road, Chipussetneck Road, and you come right to the end of that. And there's this cliff. that's spectacular, overlooks Cape Cod Bay. It's one of the few places in the whole eastern uh seaboard that you can see the sun set uh from the east, you know, because you're over a bay and it sets right over Cape Cod Bay there. There's a tradition that people have uh that they used to do they don't do it so much anymore. Trees have grown up and so you can't see it quite as well. But it used to be in the old days when things weren't so grown up right now. You could look right out over the bay with an unobstructed view. And there was a little clearing that the people had made there so that people would all come every every evening, particularly if it was clear. To see the sunset. The first time we did that, we went out there and it was a spectacular sunset, many years ago, I remember. And it was one of those, you know, with just enough clouds to give some character to it, but it came Down in a brilliant gold and purple and pink and all the rest of this. And people just stood in absolute silence while I watched The sun in the last few um you know degrees there upon the horizon go down into the sea. What I was unprepared for was that when the sun finally dipped into the sea, The sea. All these people who had nothing in common except the fact that they had gathered for a few minutes to watch the sunset immediately, spontaneously burst into applause And here's all these people that stand there and they're applauding the ocean or the sea or something. I don't know what they were applauding. But you know, it was what it said to me is: when you see something so glorious, you must respond. You can't just observe it. You can't just say, well, it's kinda interesting, you know, some dip down. You know, we all know it's just a bunch of rays and you know, it's all this and that. You know. But you know, it kind of, you know, has these pleasant sensations upon my retina and my brain. I'm just an animal, it doesn't really mean anything. No, there's something in the spirit that says that is beautiful, and I've got to praise. A fellow by the name of Paul Thigpin teaches the Bible in a secular institution. Religion is literature. And he was teaching on this verse, Revelation 4:8. And uh one of the students there said uh the same kind of thing I voiced earlier, you know, uh day and night they never stop praising. I mean that you know what's God must have an awful big ego that he compels people to praise him on. And in order to answer that question, Pigpin said, Now let me ask you something. Have you ever been in love? And fell in knob. Yeah. He said, Do you remember the first time that you fell in love with her? And the smile kind of broadens, you know. He says, Do you remember how beautiful she was? Yes. Yeah. Did you ever tell her that? He says, Oh yeah, I couldn't stop telling her that. He says, Yeah. Was it enjoyable to tell her that? Oh yeah, give me a lot It's okay now. Take that experience. Take the pleasure that you felt in talking to her about her dream. Take the beauty that inspired that, multiply it by infinity. Take the words of admiration that you express to her, and multiply those by eternity. And that's the feeling of heaven. And at that point, his whole class spontaneously burst into applause. Maybe we weren't even believers. You see, there's something in us. That when we see glory, when we see beauty, we are compelled to respond. Now that says something to you and to me as believers. No, it doesn't It says that if you and I understand the goodness of the Lord, verse 12, and if we understand the cup of salvation, Then we are compelled to call on his name in praise. We just can't keep quiet in that. We must worship and we must tell him. When's the last time you felt compelled to tell the Lord? Lord, I love you. You are wonderful. How can I repay your goodness to me? All I can do is call on your name and tell you as he does back there in verse um five and six. You're gracious, you're righteous, you protect the simple hearted, you're full of Lord, let me just tell you the things that I see about you. What is it then that He sees? There's three things I want us to notice about this cup of salvation that compassion When we see it and understand it, we're compelled to worship. Verse 13, then the picture of praise is that we lift the cup of salvation and call on Yahweh. What then is the first of the reasons? Now he's given reasons, as I say, throughout. He gave reasons in the first six verses, but now in verses seven to thirteen he broadens those reasons. And they focus on this cup of salvation. That's the key idea. So three things to notice about the cup of salvation. First of all, it's free. That's the first th See what he says? How can I repay the Lord? It's gotta cost something. It cost him so much. How can I repay the Lord for all his goodness to me? How can I do it? You see the answer? Strange answer, isn't it? Kind of curious. I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on his name. That's all I can do. There's no payment, there's only praise for this. You're trying to be good enough to make God like you. You're saying, Well, Lord, you've done so much for me, there's something I need to do to repay you for your goodness. And God says to you, all you can do is take hold of that cup of salvation and call on my name in praise. Now, calling on my name and praise involves the giving of your life to me in that praise, but it's not a repayment, you see. It's simply the response that says, I take hold of that cup By the way, that Hebrew there which says I will lift up also could be translated, I will take hold of And it's the idea of grasping, of saying to God, when He's provided such a rich, full, free salvation for you in the work of Jesus Christ, when He's shown you your selfish, evil heart. When he's shown you that you are full of petty grievances and concerns and are self-absorbed in your life about making yourself the center of all your concerns, and he's I've come and I've shown you the ugliness, the distortedness of that. And now my son has come to take that penalty. that you and I deserved and he has paid the penalty we deserve to pay before God of death. Then he says, Now what can you do? You say, I don't I don't look at that and admire that. I don't say, well, I'll take a whole apart of it, but I've got to add my own. All I can do is grasp the couple of Salvation. That's how I thank him. I acknowledge to him that it's my only hope. That Jesus and his blood on the cross and his resurrection is my only hope. Of being right before God. And there is no repayment that I can make. It's absolutely free. See, you and I need to come to that realization that he describes back there in verse 3. Interesting picture you have there. It says, the cords of death entangled me, the anguish of the grave came upon me. That phrase in the Hebrew came upon me. Describes the closing in of walls. You picture yourself in a cave, and you're exploring, and you're going further, and it's getting Darker and darker, and now it's pitch dark, and you notice that the cave is getting narrower, the walls are coming in from the sides, and the ceiling is getting lower. And as you do that, you keep on going because you don't know how to get out, and so you've got to keep on going and hope you're going to hit something else. But as you do that, you find that now you're to the point where you can't even turn around. And so you keep moving, and the walls are closing in as you go further and further. Now it's down to where the ceiling is just a few inches above your head, and you're sort of pushing yourself along on your Your stomach and your hands and dragging yourself along and it's closing in and closing in on you. And now you find that there's only just an inch above your head and you're you're just about stuck in that thing. You feel that suffocating, claustrophobic feeling that comes? That's what verse 3 is describing. I'm stuck. The walls are closing in. I'm strangled. And I cried out, oh Lord, save me. I see what I'm like. I see that I'm absolutely helpless to get out of here. And God says that spiritually you and I are in that situation. And that He's rescued us. He had compassion on us. His goodness extended to us. He's given to us the cup of salvation. Freely. The way we might be rescued out of that and escape. And so what can I do but to praise him? I have been delivered from that hole. I was about to suffocate in there, and God brought me out. What can I do but lift up that cup and praise him, calling on his name? Not only is that cup free, but that cup is very free. Good. It's a good cup. You notice how he describes twice there. He says, the Lord is good. Verse 7, be at rest once. More on my soul, for the Lord has been good to you. Verse 12, how can I repay the Lord for his goodness to me? You know, it's Very instructive, uh, that verse seven. Do you notice that he's talking not to the Lord there or to the people? Who's he talking to? Talking to himself. Talking to his soul. Sometimes you and I need to do that, don't we? Sometimes we need to say, here I am in this situation. And God has shown that His hand is in my life to protect me, to deliver me. But I'm still anxious. I'm still not able to rest. Sometimes I've got to take my soul in my hands, and I've I've got to say, be at rest once more, Alan. Quiet yourself. You ever talk to yourself? A lot of us mumble to ourselves Give her talk to yourself spiritually. It's a very profitable exercise. Say to yourself, why are you anxious? Come on, soul. Why y'all uptight? Here's the Lord's promises. Be at rest. But you've got to give yourself a reason. You see, your soul doesn't just say, oh, okay, well, you told me to quiet now. Sure, I'll quiet now. Go to sleep then. You gotta have a reason. Say you say, Well, soul, come on. The Lord has been good to you. And then you begin to recount it. You begin to take that cup of salvation, you begin to call them, you say, Let me see how have you been good to me, Lord. You begin to describe those ways to yourself. Now that leads us to the third point, because that's where we we see that. The third point is that the cup of salvation that he's given us Given to us is very practical. His goodness is very practical. The cup of salvation is very practical to us. You see, he shows us here that God meets us. with this cup of salvation meets our deepest real needs, not simply our superficial health needs. And what is the Need that this cup of salvation meets. What is it that this cup of salvation holds? I made a mistake here. That should be verse verse eight, not verse seven. In verse 8, we see that this cup releases us from three things. You see there first, O Lord, you have delivered my soul from death. That's the first thing. He's delivered us, released us from death. You've delivered my soul from death. You notice the emphasis on that. Verse 3: the cords of death entangled me. The anguish of the grave came upon me, closed in upon me. I was overcome, overwhelmed by trouble and sorrow. I called on the Lord and he saved me. Verse 15: Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. That verse is often read at funerals, and I think even though it's appropriate, that's not exactly what that means. I was thinking about that. What does this mean? Well, if you think about it, this psalm is a person who's been delivered from death. So he's not saying I died, and it's nice to know that my death was precious to the Lord. That's not what he's saying. What he's really saying there is, God does not take the death of his people lightly. The death of his people, their life, is very precious to him So he's really saying that our life is precious. Precious to the Lord is the life of his saints, and therefore death is a very, very important matter to him. He lets none of us die. Without him being intimately involved in that process to take us. And as I've almost worn you out by describing in the last weeks how we experienced that in the life of Moses. My mom. As far as I know, she was not one of his saints. But her death was a precious event in our family. And God was very much involved in that. And so our death is something that is very precious. To God. But beyond that, we know that the New Testament tells us that it's not just a matter of physical life and death that God is ultimately concerned with. But it is spiritual life and death. That I may walk before the Lord in the land of the living. Now apparently, from the psalmist's perspective, what he was saying was, I, you know, I was almost at death's door. I was overcome. It seemed like I was going to die. I made a vow, Lord, if you deliver me, sickness or whatever it was, if you deliver me, I will make a vow, I will make a thank offering in the temple, and I will testify to your goodness. When that happened, he brought me back into the land of the living when I thought I would never see another birthday. Oh, we know from the New Testament's perspective, because Jesus has come, God has come. Has delivered us from death that we may walk before him not only in the land of the living, but in the land of no death. In the land where death has been abolished. In the land where his beauty compels us for all eternity to worship him for the life. And brothers and sisters, when we get to heaven, we will feel like one design earth we never knew life. The land of the living is where Jesus is. And we we go to be with him there we'll say what we had here our fullest measure was simply hunger. In comparison with the feast there, he's delivered us from death into the land of the living. He's delivered us, secondly, from tears. He's delivered us from tears. Verse 8 Lord, you've delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears. Tears both from circumstances as well as from people. From circumstances, whether it's Accidents or health problems. It's whatever reversals and affliction. But also the tears that come from disappointment with people. Look what he says in verse 10 and 11. Now, this is a very difficult verse, but I think I can help you understand it rather simply. The translation here is: I believe, therefore I said I'm greatly afflicted. That's kind of a curious translation. I believe, therefore, I'm afflicted. In my dismay, I said all men are liars. Well, if you notice, uh, for instance, in the NIV, there is a uh note T for an alternate translation, and I think that's the one One that makes more sense in this, and the Hebrew justifies either one, so it can be either way. I think really it is the idea that I believed even when I said That is, I held on to my faith even when I was tempted to become cynical in my affliction and my disappointment with people who I thought in my affliction would be of help. And they let me Me down. In fact, they did more than let me down. They were liars. The word liar means more than just unreliable. It means they were faithless. They were deceptive to me. There was a man in the service just last week, who when I read this mentioned to me afterwards, he said, you know, I said, I've just verses 10 and 11 leaped out at me. Because recently I've been in job interviews. And there was one job interview I was at in a place where I had worked and uh They said, uh we'll be able to give you a permanent job here and no problem. It's gonna work out. Piece of cake, you know, just hang in there. Uh you're highly qualified, we'll have a position for you, so don't sweat it. You don't even have to look anywhere else. Well, wisely, he, until he got that job, he did look somewhere else. And in this other place, he found in another state not only the person who interviewed him was a Christian, the person had attended CPC. And so uh he had said found some things in common. He said, This is great, you might have a Christian boss and all this, and the guy said, No problem, we'll have a job for you here. No, it's gonna work out just a matter of the details, what place, but no no problem. You don't have to look any further. In the last month or two, both of those situations they've backpedaled, they've stuck Stepped off what job? Who said we didn't promise you a job? Now, you know, it's it's bad enough when it was the one person who was just a typical corporate, you know, although he had worked there and they were so promising. So disappointing. But when someone who he had prayed with and interviewed became defensive when he said, I thought you said we could meet to talk about a job, and he said, Hey, buddy, back off. I didn't promise you anything. That hurts. And we're driven in situations like that to the Lord, aren't we? Lord, only you are faithful. People are going to let me down. People are going to disappoint you and disappoint me, and I'm going to disappoint you. We'll disappoint each other. We can't turn from each other and say, Well, that's it, I'm having nothing What we say is, I believed. Even when I was tempted in my affliction to become cynical, and said, All men are liars. Can't trust anyone ultimately. And the Lord says, Yes. I told you that. The heart's deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. You should have known that. Jesus knew what was in men, and so he didn't give himself to them. But it's in that circumstance that you and I then see in contrast the faithfulness of the Lord and his goodness to us, and we please him. And then the third thing that he says that he delivers us from, he releases us from the Jesus is from here is stumbling. Stumbling. You've released me from stumbling. Lord, you've delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from Stumbling. Stumbling in the Old Testament is a picture of our life falling apart. Remember some uh years ago, Dean and I were hiking in Shenandoah Park. As we were going along this wide, easy trail, all of a sudden we spotted a deer off in the distance. And Dean was rather young then, and he took off after the deer. catch a thing or something, you know. Right straight through the woods, no trails. Well it wasn't very long before he hit a rock and a root. And he came back a couple minutes later, his knee all bloody and no deer. His hand, you know. There it was. All he got for his troubles was a bloody knee. But the Lord says, Follow me. I will protect you. From stumbling. I will protect you as you see that figure in your life from tripping off the roots of life and the rocks of temptation, so that you will be able to walk before I will keep your life from falling apart. Why? Because I've given to you the cup of salvation. And that cup of salvation, which is our release from death, from tears, and from stumbling, why is it that I get that cup? Notice finally the last thing on the back. Why do I get that cup? I take that cup, that's the blank, I take the cup of salvation, that cup which is so full that in Psalm 23, 5 we're told that My cup overflows. You set a table before me in the presence of enemies and my enemies. My cup, cup of salvation, overflows with your goodness. Why? Because Jesus took willingly the cup of God's wrath. You see, this idea of cup in the Bible is a multifaceted idea, and if you want some Interesting studies in your quiet time, just take a concordance and look up cup. You find it, for instance, in Psalm 75:8, God speaks of a cup. Cup foaming with his wrath against sin. In Isaiah chapter 51, verse 17, he says, That cup of his wrath is so potent that it makes nations stagger. Under the judgment of it. Jeremiah chapter 25, he goes on at some length to describe that cup, and he says it not only makes the nations to stagger, they go mad with the contents of it. Drives them to insanity to drink it to its dregs. Revelation 14. God begins to unfold what this cup means. About the cup of the fury of his wrath against sin, against those who have worship the beast in this world. The Bible's absolutely clear: you and I are destined to Drink that cup. Every one of us who have gone our own way and have not worshipped Jesus and lifted him up in our lives and obeyed God's word and his law deserve the cup of his wrath. But then Jesus comes. The Bible describes in Matthew twenty that Jesus has a cup waiting for him. Do you remember the mother of the sons of Zebedee, James and John? She says, Lord, can you give these two worthy boys of cup? mind, a couple choice places in the kingdom. You know how good they are. They'll they'll handle it well. And Jesus turns and he says, Are you fellas able to drink the cup? I'm going to drink? What is that cup? It's not long after that that he assembles them around a table. And in the Passover feast, he takes the third cup and he says, This cup. is the new covenant in my blood. This cup, this cup of God's wrath, is going to be a cup that's going to hold my blood. God's going to charge to my life. My blood is in this cup. And my blood is the payment under God's wrath for you. your sin. So in Gethsemane the Lord Jesus prays, Oh Father, if it's possible, take this cup from me. There's no Other way. But that Jesus drinks that cup to the very dregs. And he drank it. So that you and I would have the cup of blessing. And so when we take the Lord's Supper, we lift up the cup. Cup of salvation. That third cup is the cup of blessing in the Passover. And when we take that cup, we are lifting the cup of salvation. Every month when we take that. That cup is to us. The cup of salvation in which we remember Jesus drank the cup of wrath, so I would receive the overflowing cup of his goodness. I take that cup of salvation and I call on his name. In praise, in admiration. Now, how do I respond? Not only is it that a matter of my taking it and worshiping Him With my lips. But one last picture of that cup that you need to understand, and it's the last point there on the back. How do I respond? I poured The cup of salvation in token of giving myself to the Lord in gratitude. You've got to get the picture here. See, the thank offering involved the offering of a lamb or a bull. And that lamb was offered up, and you remember in the thank offering, God got the fat, the aroma of that wafting to heaven, and then you got to eat the rest of the lamb with all your friends who gathered around to hear your testimony. But there was another part to that, and it's told to us in Numbers 15, 5. He also took a quart of wine. And it wasn't cheap stuff. This was good wine. You took that quart of wine and you poured it into a cup and you poured that wine out before the Lord. The pouring out of that wine before the Lord was the symbolizing of the pouring out of your life in praise and worship to God for his You see that idea in in uh Genesis uh thirty-five, for instance, when Jacob, when he goes back to Bethel where God had met him and spoke to him, uh Jacob took a drink offering, the Bible said, And he poured it out before the Lord, in symbol of his giving himself in gratitude to the Lord for protecting him from Laban and all the things that God had done. Where you see that same idea in 2 Samuel. You remember when David was there sitting away from home? He was homesick and he he just Burst out one night and before his mighty man, all that I had a drink from the well of Bethlehem. Remember when I was a kid there with the sheep. Those were the days. Happy, pick up his spirit. We're going to give them a cup of water from the well of Bethlehem. So at the risk of their lives, they break through the Philistine lines, get to Bethlehem, take this water in their bag, go all the way back to where David is, several miles away. And they give it to him and they say, Here, David, drink from the well of Bethlehem. Remember what David did? Didn't drink a drop of it. He said, Oh, I'm sorry that I put you guys at risk. I can't drink this. It's too sacred. It's too precious. And he poured it out before the Lord, a symbol of his giving himself to God. Service. The Apostle Paul, when he was suffering in prison for the faithfulness to the gospel of Christ, said in Philippians chapter 2 and verse 17. He said, even though I am being poured out like a drink offering, from the sacrifice and service coming from your faith, I am glad and I rejoice with all of you. I have become the embodiment of the cup of salvation, and my life is poured out before Jesus. You remember how he said at the end of his life, in 2 Timothy chapter 4. In verse 14, excuse me, in verse 6, he said, For I'm already being poured out like a drink offering. The time has come for my departure. I fought the fight. I've finished the race. I've kept the faith. And now there is in store for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge will award me on that day. Not only to me, all who have loved us of purity. My suggestion to you in response to this message is that you go out sometime this afternoon And if you take a cup of something that's precious to you, you know, not just some diet right coli got for 77 cents for a three-liter jug, you know. Something that is some cup of something that's worth something to you. And that you go out before the Lord. Now it's supposed to go up a little warm. Tomorrow is supposed to be fairly warm. You figure out how you're going to do it. But don't do it inside. Do it outside. I'll tell you Go outside. Think of the Lord's goodness for you. Verbally recount it. Speak to him of the goodness of what that cup of salvation is made. And then say to him, Lord, I call on your name now in thanksgiving for that. And here is my life. And take that cup and pour it out onto the ground. So you don't want it going down a drainage. That really doesn't catch the symbol. You want it sinking into the ground so you can see it and say, there I am, Lord. I am poured out before For you. Those ver physical pictures of the Bible help us in our worship. Let's now, though, since we don't have the cups, simply speak to them. In closing. Lord, we want to just recount before you have been so good to us. And we, Lord, want to take hold and grasp that cup of salvation so freely given to us. us by your goodness. The fact that Jesus drank that cup of wrath so that we could have the cup of salvation. We want Lord to call upon your name and with calling upon your name we want want to pour ourselves out as a drink offering before you. Because you are so worthy of the expenditure of our lives. Lord, help us that we might do this in a way that will be very meaningful in our giving ourselves to you. Because we love you, for you've heard our voice. In Jesus name. Amen.