It's going to be with you again. We're going to be in Genesis chapter 18 this morning. But I want to kind of set the scene for you a little bit and let me tell you why that's important. My oldest son recently said, Dad! Have you seen Andor? I'm like, Andor? And he goes, um, you haven't been keeping up And I'm like, no. And he says, you need to get into the Star Wars universe. Okay, great. I can do that. We grew up with the movies with them, and so he said, uh, so I said, okay, so well where do I start? And he goes, uh he says, well, let me tell you where you are in the story. And then here's where to start. And so he did that for me. Don't we always need to know where we are in the story? I mean, like really. Where are we in the story? Genesis 18 happened a long time ago. People dispute how long ago. It was a long time ago. I'm sticking with that. But where are we in the story and how does this story intersect with us, with life in 2023 in Columbia, Maryland? Well, at least in Genesis 18, let me tell you where we are in the story, and let me set the scene, and then I'll read and pray. So where we are, Genesis begins with the creation of the world. God from nothing made everything by just the word of his power. We've looked at that in the past. The section of Genesis that we find ourselves in is the section that people call patriarchal history, right? In the first 11 chapters, You cover um many generations. Uh, but in the patriarchal history, which is the rest of Genesis, you just go through four generations. And it takes you 39 chapters. Starts with Abraham, and it goes on to Isaac and Isaac's son, Jacob and Esau, and then finally Joseph, one of Jacob's sons. The section that we're in deals with the descendants of Terah. Terah, you might remember as the grandson of Noah through Shem. And the particular section that we're in in that telling of Terra's descendants is the section chapters 18 and 19 make a pair, a unique unit uh that is soberly titled, at least in the ESV study bible, The Destruction of Sodom And so we're going to be looking this morning at the justice of God. Some of you know I stay with uh Kennan Dot Plants when I'm here, and last night we were talking after I got in, and um I said Yeah, I have the uh the privilege, I guess, of talking about the justice of God. This is a hard topic, friends. It is hard for me It ought to be hard because it impinges on every single one of our hearts and challenges us. Not just what's out there, but what's in here. And how much we really need Jesus. So Genesis 18, starting uh at verse 16, you'll remember perhaps in This is uh reading these two chapters this afternoon would be helpful to you. Chapter 18 begins, uh starts with a visit uh by the Lord in the form of uh three men who come to visit uh Abraham. The manner that God appeared to them is through these three visitors. These three visitors, you'll recall earlier in chapter 18, perhaps, give the promise of a child. And Abraham's wife goes, ha ha ha hace good one And of course, because nothing is impossible for God, is anything too hard for the Lord? That's where this quote comes from, this chapter. Is anything too hard for the Lord? And so the three men have come, they've come to give the promise, they've come also because there's a problem. There's an outcry because of injustice. So verse 16, chapter 18. Then the men set out from there, these three visitors, and they looked down toward Sodom. And Abraham went with them to set them on their way. The Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do? Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. God's sort of saying, Is this relevant to him? Is it relevant to us? Relevant to us today. For I've chosen him that he may command his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord by doing righteousness and justice. So that the Lord may bring to Abraham what he has promised him. Then the Lord said, Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and their sin is very grave, I will go down to see what they have done altogether, according to the outcry that has come to me. And if not, I will know. So the men turned from there and went toward Sodom, but Abraham still stood before the Lord. Then Abraham drew near and said, Will you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked? Suppose there are 50 righteous within the city. Will you then sweep away the place and not spare it for the 50 righteous who are in it? Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the righteous to death with the wicked, so that the righteous fare as the wicked. Far be that from you. Shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? And the Lord said, If I find at Sodom fifty righteous in the city, I will spare the whole place. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, if we are honest, there are attributes of you, facets of your character. That we we cling to, we really enjoy. And there are others, again if we're honest, that that are really hard for us And this is one of them. Would you enlarge our sense of who you are? And that it is really good that you're just And it's really good, Father, that you've sent your son Jesus for us. Convince us, Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. As you look out, as you survey the world, what is the most unjust thing that you see? What is the most unjust thing you see out in the world? Why do you why do you judge that thing to be unjust? What standard are you using? What's your measuring stick? I'm not doubting it's a good measuring stick. Just asking. What's the measuring stick? Why is it unjust? Do you think God feels the same way about that thing as you do? Is his heart inflamed at the injustice that you see Why do we have any sense of justice at all? We do. Particularly when we're sinned against. That's our most acute sense of injustice. Is that when we are sinned against, we're like, that is wrong. That shouldn't have happened. Why do we have any sense of justice at all? The reason that we do is it flows from the fact that we are made in the image of God. The just God, us made in his image, we have a sense of justice. Now let's think about God and his justice a bit. God always acts according to his own pure hearts. Always, invariably. He can do no other. His inherent righteousness he acts from, and he does act with full knowledge, complete knowledge, lacking nothing, and great wisdom. Though that's the case, there's a problem though when it comes to us, as we think about God and his justice and the way that he acts in the world. We, in our unwise, inflated pride, we tend to kick against some of the implications of God's justice. And we do it in lots of different ways, and we'll think of some of them as we go. But for some, at least for now, let's think about one. One of the ways that people kick against God's justice is they can't fathom a justice that includes the existence of hell. A topic that Jesus mentions with some frequency. An uncomfortable topic, I agree. But one that Jesus doesn't shy away from That's one way people are challenged about God's justice. Others are challenged that the hard times in our own lives They seem to prove that God is actually unjust because I deserve different than this, and so God is acting unjustly against me Don't you feel that way sometimes? If you're honest? What I would like the Holy Spirit answers my prayers. Is that we see the goodness of having a just God. Friends, you want a just God. You don't want a capricious God. You want a just God. You want evil punishment You want evildoers to receive their just desserts. One of those, and I've hinted at this already, one of the sticky implications about God's justice, however, involves your evil and my evil. And the relationship of a just God to it. And we will come to consider that in due course. But first, let's consider carefully who our just God has revealed Himself to be. Let's learn who the just God is. Why is why have these visitors come? They've come for the promise. They've come um to see what's happened with Sodom. Why? Because there's look verse 20 because the outcry God is going down to check the facts so that he is just. Where does the outcry come from? It's come from the people themselves. They have cried out about the injustice that they're experiencing. Like Abel's blood, it screams from the grounds. This is encouraging, friends. That when you feel as though you are being dealt with unjustly by those around you, by even by the culture at large. That you can cry out to the Lord and He hears. God hears when you cry out, when treated unjustly. Psalm 73 is your model for this. Okay. God hears. So God comes down. Sodom's very wicked And Abraham begins to intercede. So go to verse 25. Well, as we go through, uh Abraham's talking about the righteous and the wicked, what if there are 50? You wouldn't spare it if there were 50 righteous. And so as Abraham intercedes with God, go down to verse 25 He says, far be it from you to do such a thing. He's appealing to God's own character, to put the righteous to death with the wicked, so the righteous fare as the wicked. And so here's, notice the the um the equation here, and this equation gets very, very important later. So here are the equation. The equation is got a whole city of very wicked people. What if there's 50? And of course, if you go on in this passage beyond where we did, we get all the way down to ten. There's ten righteous people. Would you spare the city, Lord? And he says, yeah. Yeah, I'll spare the city if there's ten. Well only three are spared. Lot and two of his gibbs. There wasn't even ten. But Abraham appeals to God's own character. The end of verse 25, and this is exceedingly important. I cannot tell you how many times I have prayed to quiet my own heart in the face of injustice that I have faced personally, or when I see injustice in the world. And sometimes in particular, when people die and I don't know their spiritual state, people that I care about. I appeal to the Lord. Shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just And the expected answer is, say it with me, shall the judge of the earth do it is just? Yes. He will every time. You can bank on it. And you want to bank on it The judge of all the earth will do what is just The just God is the independent creator. We looked at this last time, with existence and life all within himself. And because he made everything and knows everything, he is rightly the judge of all the earth. He has all of the rights. They all belong to him because he made all. Full stop. That's the place you must start. God has all rights as judge because he made everything. He not only knows all, he has the wisdom to put his knowledge in play on the field of the world. He uses his knowledge perfectly, and so he is in the best position, actually, to judge. Now, this is very different than us, friends. God is quite different than us, and so we need to be really careful to avoid a couple of mistakes. First mistake. As rather limited creatures, we see very, very small pictures. Many, many pictures. We see very little. But the way that we act sometimes is: well, I see and know everything and know exactly how this should go. And so we end up very big when we're actually very small. We have to be very careful That we don't end up with an attitude or use with our words or act with our lives as though we know better than God. Because we don't, friends. That's one mistake, is to be proud. Second mistake, it's also important for us to realize that justice is not some sort of third entity that exists outside of God. It's not as though there is God, the world that He made, and justice over here. It's not as though there's a threism in the in the universe and that somehow God is judged by a justice that's external that we know that we judge God by. I realize that's what happens all the time by people in our culture. They're busy judging God. Thinking that their sense of justice is what they should apply to God, as though justice were some entity that existed out here. This apart from us or God. And so we're judging God by our sense of justice. No friends, that's a big, big mistake. Justice is not a third entity that exists outside of God. Justice is inherent to who God is. And so he always acts righteously. He does no evil, and he judges perfectly, including judging sin. With his wrath that's appropriate. A couple of catechism questions this morning from New City Catechism, because it puts it so very well. Here's question 18 from the New City Catechism. Will God allow our disobedience and idolatry to go unpunished? Answer? No. Every sin is against the sovereignty, holiness, and goodness of God and against his righteous law And God is righteously angry with our sins and will punish them in his just judgment, both in this life and in the life to come. Friends, we cannot avoid this sticky wicket. In fact, I'd like to try and convince you that you don't want to avoid it. You don't want to. Because understanding this gospel dynamic is our only hope in the face of God's justice. A caution though. When we come up against things like the fact that it's just for God to send sinners to hell away from himself forever. We need to be very careful to remember who we are. See, sometimes we can look at it and we can go, two, two reactions. One is, oh, I'm very happy if that person goes to hell. In fact, sometimes we're rashly will say to people, go to hell. Gotta be careful with that one. So some of those were very happy to send somebody else that way But we don't think that actually I deserve that. That's the problem. The second is we sort of look at it and we go, mmm, boy, I'm gonna I'm gonna judge God's justice there. No one deserves that. Friends, we need to remember that we are not God's judge. Maybe you remember Romans 2. I'm sorry, Romans 9, verses 20 to 24. I'll read it for you. But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is molded say to its molder, Why have you made me like this? Has the powder no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use? What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience? Vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory. Even us whom he has called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles We need to be very careful that we don't put ourselves in a place where we think it's our job, our prerogative, our right to judge God. We are these little pieces of molded clay. And we need to remember our place in the universe. That we're not God. As we learn who the just God is, we also need to remember that God isn't simply justice, merely justice. Remember that the attributes of God, although we sort of extract them out and we look at them one at a time, you need to think about them as though they were facets of a diamond. Right, it's one diamond that's in the ring. Even if you look at the different facets, it's one diamond. It's one God, even if he has different facets. Justice is one facet, and they're facets that are in harmony. We're going to begin the next time I'm with you. We're going to begin to think about how God is also gracious and merciful. And this is why you see it in this passage, it's why not just do we need to understand God and who he is and that he is the just God, right? Not just learn who he is, but we also we also need to think about him being sparing, that he's a sparing God So let's admire the sparing heart of God. Look at me, verse 26. The Lord said If I find at Sodom 50 righteous in the city, I will spare the whole place for their sake. So that the point that's here is that the righteous can stand in the place of the wicked and keep them from being judged. So this dynamic is super important because you might see where this is going. You see, by the time we get to Jesus and him coming to earth, And being subject to horrible injustice from men. And then terrible justice from God. Subject of some of the meditation tonight. You have just one righteous. Just one. Standing in the place of a multitude of sinners. But you see the principle begun here. If I find a thought I'm fifty ration, actually you get all the way down to ten. But there weren't ten. God spares where righteousness is found. God spares where righteousness is found. And this is why the work of Jesus is so critical for us. We read Romans chapter 3. Pete didn't know that I was going to use the passage that was between these, but here we go. But now the this is Romans 3, starting at verse 21. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith. In Jesus Christ for all who believe, for there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood. We've looked at that word before, if you remember, to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time. So that you might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. This last verse is super important. If you know yourself to be a sinner and worthy of the wrath of God, God would be just to send me to hell. That is actually what I deserve. So, sidebar. The most dangerous word for a Christian to bring out on their lips, in their heart, in their mind is the D word. Sometimes we will say something like, well, that's not what I deserve, or I deserve, and then we fill in the blank. Friends, the D-word is exceptionally dangerous. Because the reality is, no matter what hardship, no matter what injustice you face, From friends or neighbors or enemies. It is all vastly, vastly better than what you deserve than what I deserve. So let us be very careful with the D word. Romans 3. 26 is absolutely crucial because it shows us how God, in light of the fact that we justly deserve his wrath, how can God justify? How can he declare righteous? Those like us who are not and still be just. How does he get that done? How does he end up righteous and we end up forgiven? It goes right through the cross. That road goes right through the cross. How can God justify those who are not and still be just? It's only we get a new word today. It is only, I heard a rumor that sayity was on people's lips. That's really good. It's a good thing to think about. Today there's a new word. The word for today is imputation. Don't know if you've ever heard that word before or used it. It's an exceedingly important word. Only by imputation can God be just. God, what the scriptures teach us amazingly and wonderfully Is that God credits our sin to Jesus and his righteousness to us? This is maybe you remember 2 Corinthians 5, 21. For our sake. He God made him Jesus to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness. Of God. In Christ, we become the righteousness of God. So in New City, Connecticut 19. Is there any way to escape punishment and be brought back into God's favor? Yes. Thankfully. To satisfy his justice going on, God Himself, out of mere mercy, reconciles us to Himself and delivers us from sin and from the punishment for sin. By a redeemer. Now that crediting of our sin to Jesus had big implications actually for both of us. For Jesus and for us. You see, friends, this is how the sparing heart of God becomes sparing toward us. By faith, through God's grace. But it came at tremendous cost. God, since He's just and righteous, must have wrath towards sin. Sin must be punished. Isn't that the way you feel when you're sinned against? How much more for the holy God. But the sparing heart of God made it so his wrath fell on his own, his own son. Instead of us. And that is how we can be spared. The Romans 3 passage talks about faith. And that the just sentence that you and I deserve falls upon Jesus for those who have faith in Jesus. What does that involve? What does it involve to have faith in Jesus? When you hear the call of the gospel that calls you to faith in Jesus, here's what the gospel says to you. It says, God says, repent and believe. The Creator who made everything Who gives up his son for sinners says, repent and believe. What does that mean, to repent and believe? Well, to repent. Is basically for me to say, I've been trying to live life under my own authority. I've been the judge. I've been the one who's marked out the path. I'm the one who's tried to handle things by myself. You do know that's what sin is, right? You're trying to figure out how to live life on your own, and you say this is the path. So repentance says, okay, I'm um I'm giving that up. In fact, I'm giving it up every day. Because I go back to it really easy. And repentance says, I have given that up. I've given up idolatry, worshiping things that aren't God, which mostly is me worshiping myself. That's a story for another time. But I'm I'm repenting. I'm turning from that. And instead, I'm coming to God and I'm saying, You're the one who made me. You're the one that I have made for. I will only find satisfaction if I come to you. And so, Jesus, I need you. I need you living for me righteously. I need you dying for me because it's what I deserve. I need you rising for me because I'd have had no hope otherwise And I need you ascending for me because there you are at your Father's right hand and you pray for me. I need you, Jesus Repentance, faith. That's the call of the gospel. When you're embracing the gospel every day, and I pray that you are, if you're not, please do. If you've got questions, please come up to me. Ask me, ask PD, please stop us. And let's talk. If you're one whose just sentence has fallen on Jesus, the response that you ought to have is that a wonderful man, my congregation of West Seattle, actually now lives near me, near Cordelaine. It's fascinating. But I ask him, how are you doing today? An older man, lots of aches and pains, fistful of pills every morning I'd say, how are you doing today? He'd say, way better than I deserved. Is that you? That just like a trite Christian slogan, yeah, yeah, yeah. Was that like deep heartfelt? You get grace and your need for it. And if you are, if you can say that with truth, you're in a good position then to rejoice in God's justice. So we try and bring this to a close. Let me give you a couple more thoughts of application that we would rejoice in God, actually rejoice in God's justice. I'll just put up with it. I'll be like, okay, Bible's pretty clear. Yeah. But actually rejoice in it. We ought to rejoice in God's justice because of all the unjust things in the world And the promise that the evil that is perpetrated by sinners will be punished It is not missed. God is way more upset about the unjust things in the world than you would ever be. He hears the outcry. I was listening to a sermon this week. I like to listen to sermons and texts that I'm working on. And one guy describes it that it is that it is a groundswell, a waterfall of outcry. That God He can't miss it. And we should rejoice that the evil that is perpetrated by sinners will be punished. And that injustice will be wiped away. And that we will live in a place in the new heavens and new earth where no injustice will ever occur again. You know the sad story of what happens after this passage in Genesis, right? There's not ten righteous. And the scene is a very sad scene. I don't know if you saw the pictures from the train derailment that happened in Ohio. It's a decent picture. I suspect it looked an awful lot. Like Sodom and Gomorrah. In the end, only Lot and Tubas' kids escape, and the rest of the people, because of the unjustness, because of their sin, are judged by the just judge of all the earth. Silvering. It's meant to be. Sin destroys And so it's a big deal to the just judge, our father. Evil is going to be taken care of. Second, let's bring this very personally home. What about my evil? What about my evil? My depravity, the things that I've done, the things that I've said, things that I've thought. The twistedness of my own heart. What about my evil? What about yours? As you trust in Jesus, as you walk that lifestyle of repentance and faith, your evil has already been punished The justice of God was exhausted on his own son, so what you receive instead is forgiveness. First John 1 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and Had you thought of that word before? In this way? If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just. To forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. This is where the justice of God is we're trusting in Jesus is good news to us He had one more implication here that may feel like a wrinkle, but it's important Incredibly, the just God also promises to reward his own. To reward his own when we depend upon Holy Spirit to live the missionary calling he calls us to. When you go through the Gospels, time and time again, Jesus talks about rewards And time and time again, as I listen through the Bible year after year, I get to those and I'm like, those make me really uncomfortable If you've never read uh Randy Alcorn's little book, The Law of Rewards, you should. It will help you The just God says he will reward his own who live for his glory. God rewards his own work. Justly he does that. Why? Why does God tell us this? Well, that truth, that aspect of God being just is meant to motivate us to righteousness. And to living a life that's given over to God's missionary purpose for us in the world. It's part of the way he acts justly to reward his own as they live for him. Well, I agree. This is a hard attribute to try and grasp and own. But I'm also not sure that I would want it any other way. I wouldn't want evil to go unpunished, as I'm sure you wouldn't either. As you wrestle with this truth about God, I do hope you'll take the opportunity to come to the evening gathering tonight, where the Lord's Supper will be celebrated. And perhaps you'll celebrate it a little bit different. The Lord's Supper helps bring together what can seem like disparate facets of God's revealed nature. On the table, what do you see displayed in those elements of bread and wine? You see both God's love and his righteousness. At his grace and his righteousness, our sinfulness, our wrathworthiness. They're all on display And what they show us is if the sparing God was willing to solve our conundrum. That our sinfulness deserved his wrath by sending his own son to be broken, for his own son's blood to be poured out, so we could be forgiven. So that God's righteous justice would not be met out on us, but it would be met out on his own son. So that God would be just and the justifier of the ungodly. Let's pray together Father, please help us To not turn away From what we consider the more difficult aspects, character, traits that you have, attributes, facets. Help us not to. But instead to move toward you. For you're worthy of worship You're worthy of being worshipped for your justice. Sometimes that's easy for us when we have received injustice or when we see it out in the world, we want you to be just. But when it comes to us, we uh we hesitate Show us your grace in Jesus, that we might be in awe of you. That you are willing to give up your own son for us. Work this in us, work this in us, Holy Spirit. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.