Your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 1, and it would really help if you have your outline in front of you as we go through the message this morning. As we begin, I want to underscore the fact that I understand there's a lot of distractions. There's always a lot of distractions, but there's there's difficulties and trials That's what this message is all about. Peter wrote this, and it applies to us. So let's go to prayer. Father, we thank you for your grace. We thank you for how it is the focus of our hope. And we thank you, Lord, that you have given us that hope. Speak to us this morning. Draw us close to yourself. Teach us more of you. That we might love you more fully. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let me read to you chapter 1, verses 1 through 9. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to God's elect, strangers in the world scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ and sprinkling by his blood. Grace and peace be yours in abundance. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In His great mercy, He has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice. Though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. These have come so that your faith, of greater worth than gold which perishes, even though refined by fire, may be proved genuine. It may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. Though you have not seen him, you love him. And even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy. For you are receiving the goal of your faith, the salvation of your souls. The setting of this passage is really the source of our rejoicing You recall that the previous two sermons I've preached have been on verses one and two and on three through five. And in one and two we read that we're chosen. That's not simply a happenstance event. God has chosen us, we read in Ephesians, from before the foundation of the world. And that choosing isn't simply an unemotional selection. Listen to what Paul says of the emotion that God has for us from chapter one of Ephesians is he talks about the blessings, much like Peter does, that God has given to us in love. In love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons, in accordance with his pleasure and will He has freely given us grace, in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us. He made known to us his mystery, the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure. That choice It's because God likes you. It's because he wants you. It's because he will do what is necessary to bring you into intimate community with him. Not only does he choose us, but he sanctifies us by the Holy Spirit. It says in verse 1, I'm sorry, in verse 2, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit. It is God who has chosen you. It is God who transforms you. He doesn't leave you with a calling that you have to fulfill in your own power. And that calling itself is obedience, to which he has called us for the purpose not so much to see how poorly we measure up, but because that's what we were created to be. And so he chooses us for that. He sanctifies and transforms us to become that, and he gives us the freedom to be what we were created to be. We're also told in chapter 1, verses 3 through 5, in his great mercy, verse 3. He has given us new birth into a living hope. And that hope is the inheritance which cannot perish, spoil, or fade. And it's kept for you. And by the way, you too are kept for it by the power of God. And so as Peter goes into the beginning of verse 6, he says, in this In what? In what he's just shared. In the glory of the gospel, we rejoice. Now many of you coming in this morning may be a bit distracted from the gospel. You may have issues that have kept you from thinking about how wonderful it is that God has chosen you. You may have a lot of pain. You may have confusion. You may have deep sorrow. And as a human being, that will focus you on that pain. It will focus you on that sorrow. It will focus you on that confusion until that's resolved. You get an impasse. And Peter is speaking to you. Now see, we'd really like the passage to end now so that the sorrow, the pain, the confusion, the grief doesn't exist. We'd like to leave it with the glory of being chosen and being sanctified and being completely able to obey. But Peter doesn't stop there. Peter continues to where we meet the brick wall. And we stop. Peter carries us on, and today what he's talking about is the tension of real suffering. And yet the experience of joy inexpressible and glorious. We're called to rejoice. Now I don't know if any of you guys are like me, but when I read a passage like this and it says, In this you greatly rejoice. I read it in this, you greatly rejoice. Anybody else read it like that? Sort of a thundering imperative Where I'm told that the issue here isn't so much that there's a reason to rejoice, but that I'm compelled, not by an internal drive, but by external authority to rejoice And that makes a roadblock for me. As I read it that way, all of a sudden my defenses are up. And I'm not interested in much that follows. Because I already am busy making the defenses for why I can't rejoice. But God, don't you understand my life? I hate it when I hear myself whine like that But I do. I want this morning for you to recognize what Peter's saying and how Peter's saying it. Because this is not an imperative. The grammar is clear that this is an indicative. He's saying, in this you do rejoice. It is descriptive. He's writing to the believers in an area of the world under persecution. And that's clear through the rest of his letter. These believers have faced difficult times. But he's writing to them because he knows of them and he wants to encourage them, and he's encouraging them because in their focus on the gospel they rejoice. Listen to it as he says it. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. He is describing a reality. He's describing a reality that existed in the first century church. under persecution where they knew there was a likelihood they would lose everything. Getting a foretaste of the suffering and sorrow here. These believers rejoice. And so my natural question is, do I have a reason to join them in this rejoicing? Is this something for which I can rejoice? The answer to the question is simple. If the first verses are true of you, if you have that relationship with the Lord, yes. You have reason to rejoice. Now it may seem a little distant at times, and it may seem somewhat hard to get your emotions wrapped around, but you have the gospel. If you have that relationship with the Lord through Jesus completed work, yes, absolutely yes, you have reason to rejoice. Even in your trials. My natural inclination, if I begin to look at those trials, is I want to find a way to say why it's easy to write those off. If you listen to the passage, you can read it a number of different ways. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. Then I diminish the grief. I diminish the sorrow. I diminish the suffering, and I don't really value the trials. Or you can read it, though now for a little while, you have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. The term that's used there, the place where the suffering comes into this passage, is the grief. And the NIV does a good job because it doesn't diminish It doesn't diminish the reality of that pain. The word has the sense of pain, grief, and sorrow. These are not unemotional trials that happen to just be objective tests of your faith. Peter isn't writing to those who can simply say, well, gee, I guess God's going to have an opportunity to measure up. This is not something external. This is a very real threat of death. This is a very real thought of imprisonment or of losing loved ones. Losing everything you possess, being taken into slavery. The trials are overwhelming And so if you're suffering some sort of trial or many sorts of trials this morning, whether it's health, whether it's family related, whether it's employment, whether it's self-esteem, whether it's whether it's The sense of of anything Peter speaking to you. Your trials are not beyond the scope of what he's addressing here. They're not beyond the scope of what the Christians to whom Peter wrote felt. You're with them. But something, something was so big. that it overcame the suffering, because they were described as rejoicing. Let's look at that suffering. Verse six. Though for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. As we said, that means serious, deep suffering. It is grieving. It is significant. What are the sources of that suffering? Well, there are really three categories that you can come up with that describe why you'll suffer If we're dealing with the problem of pain, the problem of evil in the world, really there's three major categories that you're going to have to recognize, one of which is your own personal sin. Later in this letter, Peter's writing to the church saying, if you suffer on account of your own sin and bear it well, so what? You deserve it. You get what everybody gets. The Gentiles do the same thing So we think of, or I think of, I don't know if you're like me, but I I I imagine you are somewhat, as as you come into an occasion of suffering, the first thing that you probably ask yourself is, what have I done To experience this. And there's a sense of fairness if you can trace it back. If there's a cause and effect of your behavior to your suffering, then you can sort of deal emotionally with it It's okay because it's fair. God hasn't broken justice to nail me. You ever feel that way? Nobody's nodding. I guess I'm unique and different The second source of our suffering is the fact that we live in a fallen creation. The world itself is warped. It is broken and it awaits redemption. Because sin has warped the world, we will experience the sorrow of that warpedness. We're not created to be in a warped world. We're created to be in fellowship with God. Sin exists, suffering exists because the world has been warped. Now that's not That's not personally me and so there's not a sense of unfairness in that, in that everybody has to go through this. So even though it's not necessarily fair that this is a direct result of my own actions that leads to my own suffering It's not unique to me. And so there's still some sense of justice and fairness as I look at this. But the third source of my suffering is what Peter is describing here. It is the tests and the trials that come for the proving of my faith. And see When I look at that, then springs the question: Why me, Lord? Why in the world have you done this to me? There's nothing that I've done to incur this. It's like Job facing the test. As God says to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? Look at him, he's wonderful, he obeys me, he loves me. You know, you have no hold on him. Well, of course, God. Look at all you've done for him. Look at how wonderfully you take care of him. Why in the world would he have any reason to wander away from you And then Satan strikes. And Job says, Why me? Why? This is unfair. This is cruel How can a loving God allow this to happen to me? And Job finally comes to the point where he says, I understand it all. God simply doesn't know. He doesn't understand what I'm going through. Lord, if you'd come down, I'd make my case and you'd change all this. And what happens? The Lord comes down. Job makes. No case. The Lord explains that he is sovereign and he has purposes beyond the canon of Job's understanding. But God does show himself So we struggle, and in our struggling with the unfairness of these trials, we read for a little while. Now I don't know if you guys are as cynical as I am. I have developed it to a fine art. My first question as I read this is a little while? Whose definition are we operating with here for a little while? Is this my definition of a little while, Lord? My definition of a little while can almost be measured in nanoseconds. I don't need these long lessons. I don't want these long lessons. What do you mean, a little while? And the Lord will respond, a little while is as long as I say Were you there when I laid the foundation of the world, Steve? Job wasn't. No, I wasn't. The little while can be lifelong. And Peter's not saying that to torment. Peter's not saying that to tweak us Though it may feel like that. A little while is drawing the distinction between this life and eternity. Between the fact that this life will pass and end, and whatever sufferings, whether they're chronic pain, physical or emotional. Whether it's the loss of a loved one, whether it is not necessarily the loss by death of a loved one, but the loss by distance of a loved one. Whatever that pain is, and however long it lasts, it is a little while. In the scope of eternity. And if my focus is so narrowly limited to this life, and I can't recognize that that is a little while Then God is graciously showing me that my focus is centered in the wrong place. My next cynical question comes in with, is it really necessary in the Greek? The way that this is phrased is, although for a little while if necessary, you're suffering various trials. Here it's sort of clouded by saying, for a little while you may have had to suffer. I want you to understand the force of this is that it is saying it is necessary when these trials hit you. The question why is a good question. We may not get the answer while we're going through the trial. We may not know. Job didn't know until he faced God and learned. But he learned. My question comes in, okay, Lord, is it really necessary? Do I have to go through this? Why Why do you put me in this case? I want to know the reasons, not simply that it is necessary, but I want to know why. And the root question for me, when I really boil it down comes to do I trust God. If he has said it is necessary, and that's what he says here And I go to him and have him have to explain to me why it's necessary, then I'm saying, okay, Lord, so far but no further. I don't trust you. I can't see why it's necessary. I can't concur with its necessity. I don't believe it's a little little while. And I don't like this. And so now I'm coming into an antagonistic experience with the Lord. I don't mean by that to say that you ought not battle him this way, because this is what will be necessary for intimacy. Work these things out. Struggle with these things. But the truth of the matter is, the root question, if I question the necessity of my trials, is do I trust God? Is he in control? And that may even be a root question as well. Is he in control and am I willing to accept his control? Even if I don't agree with it? You see, we need to lay the the boundaries clear. What I'm doing here in my struggle with the Lord in this trial is telling him where I am. And it's telling him what I want from him. And it's beginning to work that conflict out Is it really necessary? Let me share with you some reasons why I believe trials are necessary. Number one, to answer that question: can I trust God? If I don't trust him in this trial, why in the world would I fool myself into believing that I trust him for salvation? If I'm trusting him for something huge and immense that I can't do, why can't I trust him for something much smaller that I may feel that I have an ability to take care of and that he's not doing it well enough? Do I really trust him for those huge things then? Or is it simply that I fool myself into thinking that I do because I have no option to take care of it myself? I cannot enter heaven in my own power. But I might be able to deal with a nagging relationship in my own power. I might be able to deal with some sorrow in my own power. And if I won't trust him to show me how and to get me through, why should I trust him for heaven? When he takes me through these trials, and he takes me through them. He gives me a basis for trust and confidence. He gives me a basis for confidence that I can face the future with him. I can think back on major trials that I've experienced in my life. And as I come up on the next one, even if it's not the same type. I have monuments to his power. The previous trials that he has brought me through are evidence to me that he will continue to take care of me in this and in this. And it deepens my faith in Him. It helps me to deal with the reality of fallen creation because I will have to deal with all sorts of experiences of sin in this life, mine and others. I will have to deal with the reality of evil in this life. And if I have that proven faith coming from the trials God has brought me through. Then I can face them much, much better than I could with an unproven faith. Let's look at what that proven faith is on the back of your page, verse 7. These have come so that your faith, of greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by fire, may be proved genuine. It may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. What is proven faith? Proven faith is the faith God has given to me and has used to take me through the trials. Think of it for a moment as a as an untested repair. You've had something break. Let's say let's say a belt You've got this belt and you're going out on this very fancy day, and it's the only fancy belt that you've got, but it's got this break in the back. And so you've repaired it. And your pants are a little bit loose, thank goodness. Better than the other problem. And if the belt gives, you may have a really embarrassing moment, but you've never tested this belt, you're in a rush so you simply put it on and you go. And and now you've got the lack of confidence. At this important event, wearing your nice clothes with a belt that you're fearful may snap. An unproven face has no source of confidence. You have no confidence that it will take you through the trials and temptations. Let's look at this a little bit differently Let's say now that you're a child, adolescent, young adolescent, old enough to know the crises of life. Young enough not to have to have any part in fixing them. You're driving with your mother. Say mother because that's a little bit more of a challenge. And I'll explain why in a moment. It's not a success comment. And you're driving through the wild mountains of Kentucky. And all of a sudden the car that you're in decides to act up. You're between towns, you're in the mountains, you're in Kentucky, and you have a lot of reason to be nervous. But you know what? Because you're the adolescent and you have a parent. You're not panicked. Because when the crisis hits and the car stops and you don't know whether you're going to get there or not, you go, Mom, what are we going to do? Now mom's the one who's really panicked because she's not a mechanic, and because she doesn't have a cell phone, and she's not sure whether she's going to get any help anytime soon or not. Do you see the difference? In the trust that you can have because you know your mom. I really was stranded in Kentucky. I should have been in Ohio, but we won't get into that. It was in a 56 Chevy that was uh going downhill because there was a hill to go down and not because the engine was working and we hit the bottom there was no way to go uphill. And I just sat there and had great time because I thought, can we do that again? That was fun to cruise down that hill that way. Mom finally got us home. But I could rest in that relationship Because I knew my mom. Proven faith is like that. It is knowing the one who has taken care of you. who is currently taking care of you and who yet will take care of you. And isn't that what Peter's saying about rejoicing? He's saying to these people in in in Persecuted times, in persecuted places. In this you do rejoice because you know the gospel. He's not diminishing the suffering that they're facing He's exalting the Lord. He's exalting the power of God to both keep that inheritance and to shield them. They can turn to the Lord in those crises as the Roman soldiers came to them and took them out of the house and said, Okay, Lord, what now? Hold me. You see, God is the object of my faith. This is not Peter saying, because you have faith, you can rejoice. He's saying, because you have God, you can rejoice. Because God has given you faith that is the connection with Him. And because that faith is being proven in all the trials that you face, you can rejoice. Even when the next trial comes, he is trustworthy Go back and look at your life. Look at the issues, the trials, the circumstances through which God has already brought you. He is the same God who is with you in the trials and the difficulties you face now. He is adequate. He is sufficient. He will hold you. That's what you have to hold to in the painful process of going through the times of proving your faith. That's the only hope you have for rejoicing. It is not because you're strong enough, it is not because your faith is strong enough, it is not because the circumstances are so small. It is because God is big enough. Peter goes on to speak of the value of this proven faith. He says, of greater worth than gold, which perishes, even though refined by fire. Your proven faith is worth more than anything else to you in this life. Gold isn't eternal. Gold is purified by fire to be proven imperishable in this life. Gold is a unique metal that doesn't rust or corrode. When you remove the impurities, it stays as it is. It doesn't bond with other elements. It doesn't disappear It stays, but it's perishable because it only is permanent in this life, in this world. We go beyond that. Your faith and the object of its Jesus, the Redeemer, are eternal. Your soul is eternal Life doesn't end when you die physically here. You have eternity with God. Demonstrated faith will also be the source of your strength to face anything in the future. It will carry you through anything. Your gold can't. Your possessions can't. Human relationships can't. They may be an assistance, but they're not they're not going to carry you through whatever else comes But there's also something here in verse 8, or in the end of verse 7, which is of tremendous, tremendous value. Your proven faith will result in the praise, glory, and honor when Jesus is revealed. That's now, as well as in the future. He will come again and be revealed and you will be able to give the glory to him for what he has done. But if you look in 1 Peter chapter 3 Peter has now in mind as well because he's speaking to those believers under persecution and facing trial, and he says to them, Sanctify the Lord Jesus as Lord in your heart, always being ready to give a defense. To those who ask you about the hope that is in you. What is that hope? That hope is your demonstrated faith. You have the freedom to give Jesus glory and honor and praise in this life as people see your lives and see how it is that God holds you firm. Whatever the trial may be You have the privilege of giving him glory. The God of all glory gives you the opportunity to glorify him. Do you see how valuable that demonstrated faith is Do you see that that itself may be why James tells the believers in the first chapter of his letter, in an imperative, consider it all joy when you encounter various trials. Because today we're looking more at the suffering brought about by those trials. But there are trials that are not going to cause you tremendous suffering. There are those trials that simply you respond to with, okay Lord, what now? And in those cases, you're free to see the value, the tremendous worth Of the result of that trial, which is your demonstrated faith, and you can rejoice even in that. Your faith is incredibly valuable for this life and the next. But lastly, I want us to return to what we began with, which is the object of that faith. Peter begins by saying, In this, the gospel, you greatly rejoice. He goes then, after talking about the value of that proven faith, to say That Jesus through th though you have not seen him, you love him Even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy. For you are receiving the goal of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Jesus is the object of that faith. As you see Jesus, as you see his love for you, that led him to lay aside The deity that he experienced in heaven, and take upon himself the humanity forever, becoming God and man in one person, that he might suffer for you. That he might face those trials on your behalf to give you the faith and the strength and the confidence to face them, because he is with you. As you see his love and you see his power. You recognize the wondrous gift he gives you of himself We see the work that he's accomplished in the gospel, and next week we're going to look at what a tremendous gift, even knowing what he has done is. We also see the work that he continues to do on us here and now And we also know the promise that He will return in glory to take us home. But I want you to recognize a couple of really brief points. Number one, the operative verbs in this passage are two verbs three times. There are a number of participles that go on, but the thing that Peter is focusing his his readers upon is number one, in this you greatly rejoice. That's an indicative. He's describing what they do. Everything up until verse 8. Following rejoice is a participle that is describing either the action or or the events. And you get then into verse 8 where it says, though you have not seen him, you love. That's another key verb. That's another thing that we do. That too is an indicative. It describes our relationship as we look at Jesus. As we know who he is, we love him. And then again, in the end of that verse, he says, you rejoice with a joy inexpressible and glorious. That rejoicing is again a key verb. So what Peter's telling us in this passage is that in spite of the fact that there are sufferings and trials Both the glory of God and His love for you and the benefit of the proven faith that God intends to take you through all your trials leads you to rejoice, leads you to love. And so if if you are overwhelmed this morning by the trials that you face I don't want to diminish the trials. I don't want to tell you that they're not horrible. I don't want to tell you that you ought to just suck it up and get over it because the trials are real. Your pain is real. Do you believe Jesus is? Do you know Him? Does he love you and has he demonstrated that love? Is he greater? And is his experience with you greater than the suffering that you face? When you look at Jesus, the only answer you can give to that question is yes, he is greater. And so this is not a command that tells you to diminish the reality of your suffering. It's not a command that tells you to suck it up and get through life with a smile on your face, whether your heart is broken. It's telling you: look to Jesus. Look to the salvation He is now giving you and cling to Him. Let's pray. Jesus, we completely, totally, without question and without defense, need you. Give us yourself. Fill us with your love. Fill us with a knowledge of you. Show us how you are greater than our trials, our struggles, our pain, and our sorrows. Meet our needs. Amen.