Uh a couple years ago I was walking down the streets of Istanbul, a very cosmopolitan city, and there are many Iranians in that city And I met one on the street and began to talk to him in his own language. He was so intrigued that an American would be talking to him in his own language. that he insisted on taking me into a restaurant and buying me lunch. And while we were talking together, I began to tell him a little bit about Christ. And his heart was somewhat moved by that, and he asked me if I had anything in writing that I could give to him about Christ, and I had a track in his own language and gave it to him. And I wasn't quite aware what he did for a living, but apparently he was a merchant and he was coming to Istanbul to to do uh purchasing of goods for his store in Iran And uh since it's a cash society, uh he opened up his shirt and he revealed a money bag. And he opened his money bag And I had never seen so many hundred dollar bills in my life. There must have been about ten thousand dollars in cash around his neck And and he took that little track about Jesus and he laid it right between all those hundred dollar bills and put it back into his little money back. I I was excited about that because I knew that he was putting the word of God where his heart really was. And the question I have for you today is, where are you really putting the Word of God? Where is your heart? Jesus said so amazing things that your heart is where your treasure is. I trust that your treasure is in heaven. I trust that your heart is in following Jesus Christ. Would you open your Bibles with me this morning to Romans 15? Romans 15 is when the great apostle is coming down to the conclusion of his epistle, and in a very, very real way, and sometimes I think we miss it. He summarizes the whole purpose of God throughout history in this passage. It's there and it's so simply sometimes we probably just pass it over. But but sometimes you know you need to stop and get the big picture. You need to pull back and say, you know, what's God really doing besides just my little world and my life and my personal needs? What's God doing on planet Earth? Listen to the Word of God as I read it to you. And may its truth penetrate your mind and heart, and may it stretch you and challenge you. May the God, beginning of verse 15, may the God who gives endurance and encouragement give you a spirit of unity among yourselves as you follow Christ Jesus So that with one heart and mouth you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Accept one another, then just as Christ accepted you. in order to bring praise to God. For I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews on behalf of God's truth to confirm the promises made to the patriarchs. So that the Gentiles, or you could put in there, the nations may glorify God for his mercy In other words, the whole purpose of the coming of all of the great saints of the Old Testament all was to confirm God's promises so that the glory of God could be revealed to all the nations. Therefore I will praise you among the nations. I will sing hymns to your name. And again it says, rejoice, O nations. with his people. And again, praise the Lord, all you nations, and sing praises to him, all you peoples. And again Isaiah said, the root of Jesse will spring up. One who will arise to rule over the nations, and the Gentiles will hope in him. May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in him. so that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. Our hope is in just this. That all the nations will one day understand and see who Christ is, that every knee will bow and every tongue confess. Would you pray with me, Father? What a joy it is to gather together with your people, to worship you, just to get a taste of what it's going to be like to gather around that throne in heaven. And to worship you with men and women and boys and girls from every tribe and nation and every tongue. Oh God, give us that vision and passion to understand what you're doing in the big picture Lord, pour out your spirit upon my lips and upon me that I might be faithful to your truth and your word and speak, O Lord God, under the anointing of your spirit. And I pray for those who hear and listen that they might have ears to hear and hearts to believe. And oh God, put us all to work for your great and holy purposes. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I'm a Mishkid. A Mishkid is someone whose parents were missionaries, in case you didn't know. And I grew up in the country of Iran, and I grew up very specifically in the city of Tabriz. which is the capital of Azerbaijan, a province where they speak a form of Turkish. And one of the things I used to like to do as a boy was to take a magnifying glass and go outside in that hot Middle Eastern sun and bring together some papers or leaves and see if I could start a fire with a magnifying glass. I don't know how many of you have ever done that. But it's kind of fun to be able to take that light and get it all intense in one place at a focal point and it springs into flame. What I want to talk to you about today is how to gather the light of God in such a way upon your heart that it might burst into flame for Him. You see, I'm I'm convinced that that many of us who are Christians today in the world have lost our passion and our hearts in some way is like a pile of dry leaves or a pile of newspapers that has not been ignited for the Lord Jesus Christ. That a vast majority of the Christian church in our country has no real focus or passion for vision. for missions. You you see that by just looking at church budgets everywhere. You know, only five percent of all the churches in America even have a missions budget. Most of us Christians in America put most of our energy upon ourselves. I have this thesis to share with you that some of us need to be rekindled for missions. Some of us have to get our passion back in order. We have forgotten the instructions of Jesus Christ who said, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth I want to begin by asking you and sharing with you, if you do not agree with me, that the church needs to be rekindled, and I want to share four reasons, and you if you don't have your outline in front of you, you'll find it there somewhere in that bulletin. And you can follow along with me. Why does the church need to be rekindled in the United States of America? The first reason is the church has been captured by its culture. Rather than the church capturing the culture. Our American culture has very subtly affected us as followers of Jesus Christ. Believe it or not, our culture teaches us from the very beginning to order our universes around ourselves, to pay more attention to our personal needs, in a sense, to be infatuated with ourselves. Dr. James Boyce, the pastor of 10th Presbyterian Church, I heard him say that if you go into a Christian bookstore, you'll find the vast majority of books. for Christians to read today is how Jesus Christ can make you happy, how he can order your life, how he can make you have a better family, how you can be a better parent, and all those things which are very important. But there's little understanding in the Christian community that Christianity is far greater than just a journey for personal happiness. Our culture says that we need to get a piece of the rock here today and that the American dream is to really have a life of prosperity and ease. And too often in the church we have followed the American dream in terms of trying to have a lifestyle of ease and prosperity rather than the biblical dream. of the kingdom of God, a life of sacrifice, a life of giving of ourselves to to carry on the purposes of God. So we need to be rekindled. We need to learn how to stand in this culture as we live it today and not become molded by it, but let the Word of God prophetically speak to our hearts about who we are as God's people. The second reason I think the church needs to be rekindled is that too often we are being driven by our own needs. I was talking to a mission executive who goes to many, many churches across the country. And I said, the churches that are really mission-minded, what do you really find as a basic ingredient in those churches? He said, I find churches in America are either driven by truth or driven by need. And what he means by need is that we define our church life by what simply meets our needs. Or do we define our church life by what is truth? My mother and father sat under the preaching of Dr. Barnhouse at the historic 10th Presbyterian Church. He wasn't particularly a man who was mission-minded, but he faithfully faithfully exposited the Word of God. And as the Word of God was faithfully exposited and there's all this emphasis of the nations, my mother and father heard the call to missions. It's important that we understand that the church today in America will often spend incredible amounts of money on itself. In fact, 96% of all the dollars spent in America is upon its own self in the church. Another reason I think we need to be rekindled, because the church has misunderstood the Great Commission. In Acts 1. 8 that I read, where the Spirit of God comes upon us, that we're to be witnesses in Jerusalem, we're to be witnesses in Samaria and Judea and to the ends of the earth. I have a feeling that some of us said we'd like to choose. We'd like to be Jerusalem churches. You know. We'd like to specialize in Jerusalem and kind of forget the whole command there to be witnesses everywhere. Uh I remember coming back from the mission field when I was about sixteen years old and my parents were dragging us around Rome. Well one of the, you know, one of the difficulties of being a Mich kid is you get to go through Europe every once in a while. And we were in this little plaza. And there was this amazing fountain there. I'll never forget it. It was a beautiful water sprouting up. And the water filled one bowl, and then it overflowed from that dish or that bowl into another tier, and then into another tier. And it was just intriguing how this water ran down these three tiers. I was meditating on Acts 1. 8, many years after that experience, and all of a sudden it hit me. The church is like a three-tiered fountain. If the life of Christ is bubbling up in the hearts of people and people's lives are being transformed by Jesus Christ, it is filling that first sphere of our lives, our families, our church, and Christ is making a difference. But if Christ is making a difference there, it cannot be contained. It spills over into our state and our county. and our country, and if it's making an impact there, it spills over to the whole world. And blessed is the church that understands that what goes on here on Sunday morning can indeed Touch the six continents of the earth with the redeeming life of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's not misunderstand the Great Commission. Let's not say we're specializing in winning our community for Christ. Let's hear what the Savior is saying. Go into all the earth. The church, fourthly, has lost a sense of passion for God's glory. You know, the word glory is very simply the Lord's self-revelation, the unveiling of his character. It is the Lord's presence, his invasion of the natural order. It is his presence in the person of Jesus Christ. We are to be passionate that the name of Christ should be known in all the earth. Let us not lose that. Well, let's go on and make the case then, well, how can we get rekindled? Okay, Pat, you've laid out some of the problems and maybe you agree with me, maybe you disagree with me on some of those problems. Those are my observations. as I have wandered around the church in America. But how do we get rekindled? Go back to that picture of that magnifying glass. And I want to share with you that there are three rays of light. that must come through the magnifying glass of your thinking, of your mind, of your heart, so that it can come to a focal point in your heart and set your heart ablaze. And the first is you must live your life. Your mind must be open and exposed. to the whole word of God, the whole scriptures. And I take you back to the text of the morning, Romans 15, 8. For I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews. On behalf of God's truth to confirm the promises made to the Patriarchs, so that the Gentiles, May glorify God for his mercy. The purpose of the whole span of biblical history. The whole purpose of redemptive history and the selection of Abraham and the establishment of the Jewish people and the coming of Christ is that God's glory might be known and declared and his mercy experienced by all nations and all peoples. My grandfather lived in Philadelphia and he had a sundial in the back in his backyard. And we kids were intrigued by that. We'd go out and of course in the daytime and we could tell what time it was. But what we really loved to do is go out at night with flashlights and make the sundial tell different times. What we're doing today in America, rather than living in the light of Jesus Christ and getting the correct reading on the times We're allowing the light of humanism, the light of our own efforts, the light of our own thoughts, and we're reading the times the way we want them to read. Are we willing as Christians to stand against that and read the times? Read the times as they really are. When did missions really begin? Well you could say, well, it must have begun with Abraham Well, and maybe if you could argue, well, no, no, maybe it really began with Adam and Eve when God came searching for them after they had sinned. But you can even push it back further. Missions begins in the very heart of God as He loved us and loved the human race. But if we just quickly take a quick overview of the scriptures, and I know this is this is scary to you to think that we're going to cover all these verses so fast But let me just touch them real briefly with you. Abraham is called and chosen and promised what? That through his seed all the nations of the earth will be blessed. When we come to the Psalms, we find an amazing array of hopes and expectations and instructions from God. God instructs Israel to be a missionary nation. In Psalm 96. 3, declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples. God will make Israel the center of worship. People will come and worship God in Israel. All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord, and shall glorify thy name. The earth will bow before God. Think about this. The whole earth will bow before God. May all the kings fall down before him. All nations serve him. Psalm 72, 11. Israel will rejoice in the day that all the nations worship God. For this I will extol thee, O Lord, among the nations, and sing praises to thy name. Isaiah had this passion. It it was just uh pulsating through him in Isaiah. We read Isaiah 11 9, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Let me ask you, do you really believe that day is coming? Do you really believe that God really has this plan that there's going to be representation in every nation, every tribe, every tongue, every people group, there are going to be those who call upon his name. This is what the scriptures teach. Jesus instructs us in Matthew 28, 19, therefore go and make disciples of all nations. Baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Now when you get to Matthew 24, 14, this is something that I think we need to hear in evangelicalism today in America, because Jesus tells us He is not returning until the gospel has been taken to every people group. Here's your answer to those that believe Jesus is coming today and tomorrow. We must expect him any minute. But look what Jesus says, and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. I don't believe Christ's coming is quite as near as some people do because I have a burden for one fifth of humanity. who worship Allah, who do not know the truth, and who are lost and dark, and have not had an opportunity yet to even hear of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And then the scriptures come to a grand crescendo and a grand climax when we get to the book of Revelation. And there we are allowed to see through the vision of Apostle John What it's like is around the throne of God. And with your blood you purchased men for God from every tribe and every language and every people and every nation. What's the conclusion of all this? The conclusion is this: God is not going to save the whole world, but God's purpose and plan is. that there will be some who are saved from every people group, from every nation, from every tribe, from every tongue. It is his purpose. that there will be those representing the whole human race. The purpose of the church is not to dream and think that you're going to win everybody in Holland County to Jesus Christ. But the purpose of the church is to make sure that the gospel of Jesus Christ is taken to every people group on the face of the earth. There are 11,000 people groups in the world today who do not have access to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I'll go so far as to say we prolong the return of Christ as long as we live and think that all there is is this life here and all there is is our own personal adventure in Christianity without understanding that the mandate upon us is to get the word of God to these 11,000 people groups who do not know yet about Jesus Christ. So the first light that must come through that great magnifying glass of your understanding and of your thinking is the light of Scripture. The second light is the light of awareness of the world beyond, the world of this globe, the events and circumstances around us. Jesus was moved to compassion when he saw the crowds. Have you seen the multitudes? Have you allowed your eye to take it in, the fellow citizens of planet Earth There are three things that are important to understand about this thing. We're living in a time of incredible increased population. The traffic you think may be bad in Howard County. It's worse in Montgomery County. But the traffic in New Delhi and the traffic in Istanbul is unbelievable. The world is filling up. By the year 2000, the population of the world is estimated to be 6 billion. By the year 2020, it is estimated to be 8 billion. Every ten seconds, twenty six people die. One, two, three Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Ten. Twenty-six people just died on the face of the earth. And we know that two of them were Buddhists, four of them were Hindus, six of them were Moslems, seven of them were in name Christian. Seven of them were atheists and materialists. And of that 26, 21 of them went to hell, and five went to heaven. Now, it seems to me that a Christian would find it difficult to live a lifestyle that ignored this reality, but were insulated from it. We're insulated from it. But there's good news as well. In this world, the church and Christianity is the fastest growing movement on planet Earth Every single day, every single day, 364,000 new people hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. Isn't that wonderful? And every day, 70,000 new brothers and sisters in Christ are added to the church. And every year, 44 44,000 new churches are opened on planet Earth. In the first century, for every believer, there were 360 non-believers. That's a pretty rough ratio. You know what the ratio is today? For every one of us, there's only six in the world who doesn't know Jesus Christ. We are narrowing the gap at an incredible rate. But it's not time to become sleepy and lethargic. It's time to follow the warrior king, our savior, and move ahead. There's also increased participation. What I mean by that is that more and more we're we're understanding how everybody can get involved. More and more we're seeing third world nations establishing mission groups. People from Latin America are going as missionaries to the Muslim world. We're no longer the leader in missions as American Christians. But the Koreans and uh and African Christians and many others, and there's a new sense of global partnering, a new sense of global prayer movement. There's a whole movement out there to get a part of Let's not retreat into our personal Christian lives. Let's lock arms and take hold of this increased participation and get involved. There's also increased persecution. It seems as we're moving closer to the end of world history, the intensity between the forces of Islam and the forces of the devil upon the face of the earth are increasing. Christians are being persecuted and suffering. A 14-year-old boy was put in jail in Pakistan just this couple months ago because supposedly he had blasphemed the name of Muhammad I told you last night about how there was those who were martyred in Iran. In the middle hour, I'm going to give you a open up to you what's going on in Iran as Christians are being persecuted there. Christians are being persecuted in our own society, in our own country. The battle lines are being drawn. It's not time to retreat. It's time to get your heart rekindled, become a prayer warrior, and get involved. And so the second great beam of light that must flow through, you must become a world Christian. You must get a hold of Operation World and think and be aware of what God's doing and become a man and woman of prayer. But there's one final ray of light that must strike your heart. And that is the ray of light of your own personal commitment, your own involvement. The scriptures say, and he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised again. I find that when people talk to me about missions when I was a young Christian, I just kind of got overwhelmed. Where do I begin? And I would think, you know, those missionaries that come and those pastors come, they have so many gifts and they know languages. How in the world could God ever use me? And the thing that helped me the most is one day I was reading through Moses' call. And I really identified with Moses. God had an incredibly big job for Moses. He said, Moses You go down there to Egypt and you tell that Pharaoh to let my people go. And Moses had a stuttering problem. He'd been tending sheep for forty years. He had he was afraid about going into Pharaoh's court. And he said, Lord, I you got the wrong man. I don't have these abilities. What did God say? He said, Moses, what's in your hand? And he said, This the staff. He said, throw it down at my feet. And Moses threw it down at his feet, and it became a serpent. So pick it up. And you know the story how God worked through Moses' staff, how it became a symbol of the power of God in the whole story of the Exodus. Here is what God is saying to you. God is saying, I really am not too concerned about what your abilities are What I'm concerned about is that you would make yourself simply available to me. He's saying, what's in your hand? You have time, you can pray. You may have treasures you can give. You have you have a hand, you can work. All God is saying is, will you take and look what's in your hand? What is in your authority? What do you have control over? Will you throw that down at my feet? Will you throw it down at my feet? Sometimes people don't believe that that I have a bad case of dyslexia and and barely made it to college. I was not a good student. And I I had a very I had a very low self-esteem. I thought that I had nothing to offer. And so it was the best news that anyone offered to me. that God used me and my self-esteem and my my worth as a person was not based on how I competed with others and how I did on test scores. But that God would simply say to me, Tat, make yourself available to me, and I'll shock and surprise all those teachers that wrote on those uh on those report cards, Tat has no chance of going to college I'll surprise them and I'll do something to your life that will be surprising and unexpected. And that's what God did for me. That's what he did for me. He can do that for you. It's not a question of what how high your IQ is, how much abilities you have. It's a question. Are you available to the task and willing to plug in? And I just want to close with doing sort of a passion check. You know, where your passion is, is the place of your greatest influence. If your passion is to have the best possible golf game, that's what you'll be remembered for. If your passion is to be the best possible gardener, that's what you'll be remembered for. I want to be remembered for a guy who had a passion for the glory of God and for the advancement of the kingdom of God. What do you want to be remembered for? The Apostle Paul is remembered for his passion. I make myself a slave to everyone to win as many as possible, he writes. Now that's a pretty incredible passion. I have become all things to all men, so that by all possible means I might save some, he says. I just simply ask you, what's your passion? What gets you up in the morning? What moves you? What motivates you? Is it to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ? Let the light of Scripture penetrate your heart. Let your eyes go and see the multitudes of this earth and let it break your heart. And then offer yourself as you are what you have unto him. Dr. Christie Wilson Jr. , the man who began the tent-making model for ministry in Afghanistan, tells the story and I close here. He tells the story of how one day he got on a little plane in Kabul, Afghanistan. It was uh Afghan Airways And the store just closed the door and every all the passengers were buckled in. And the plane just sat there for some time. And then there was a knock on the door And the stewardess went and opened the door, and there stood the captain. He hadn't gotten on yet. Now I think some of us are all strapped in We got all the resources. We got all the language. We know everything we're supposed to do. There's just one problem. We haven't invited the captain to take over and fly the ship. That's where passion for missions begins, in your own heart. Who's Lord there? What are you living for? Let's pray. Heavenly Father We confess to you that our hearts need to be rekindled. We need the burning, bright, brilliant light. Of a holy God through Jesus Christ and the scriptures to shine upon our hearts and burn away the chaff, purify us, and renew our passion for you. Oh God, rekindle our hearts. Oh God, we make our lives available to you. In Jesus' name, amen.