One of our major themes this month in missions is reaching the Muslim world. And uh one of the major components of that are those who speak the Persian language. Ninety million people in the world speak Persian. the language of Iran. Tad Stewart grew up in Iran, the son of medical missionaries there. Tad and his wife Patty were missionaries in Iran until they had to leave because of the political situation. While they were here in the eighties, they he they planted a Iranian church in the Silver Spring area. And uh in fact uh Tant is going to need to leave right after the service So, you know, we'd love to have you greet him and talk to him, but you're probably going to have about, you know, 60 seconds to do that, because he will actually be having to leave to go to minister at the Iranian church while he is here. Um in fact uh there are a few people that have come this morning uh from that church just because of the relationships they've had. So uh anybody here that's from the Iranian church worshiping this morning, I met a couple ladies, a couple in the back there. We're delighted that you're here worshiping with us. Welcome. And uh Kat is now the director of Persian Ministries for the Associate Reform Presbyterian Church. Speaks all over the world at Iranian conferences as well as conferences to reach Iranian people with the gospel, has a number of thrilling stories about what God is doing in that But particularly this morning, I want to commend him to you as God's messenger. He is a man of the word and he is a man of passion. Come, bring us the word again, Pat. Good morning. It's good to be with you this morning. It was a number of years ago that I was walking down the street of Istanbul, Turkey. and uh was sharing with a an Iranian man and uh we got to talking and he asked me, Do you have uh this stuff about Jesus in writing? And I said, Yeah I happen to have a copy of the Gospel of John in Persia and Would you like it? And he said, Oh yeah, I'd like to have that. And what he did with it really uh stung me in a way. He opened up his shirt and he had a money bag around his neck. A money bag is very common in that part of the world because you don't use your credit card, you don't use checkbooks, you don't use travelers' checks, you use cash. But what amazed me about his money bag was that there was nearly ten thousand dollars in US greenbacks in his money bag. It was a hundred stack of hundred dollars about that big. And uh I gave him the scripture. He took it and he put it between the hundred dollar bills inside his little money bag and tucked it back in and buttoned his shirt And he sent a thrill through my heart. You know why? Because he put the word of God where I knew his heart really was, right on that money And today I'm going to ask you, where is your heart really? Because where your treasure is, that's where your heart is. And where your treasure is, that's where your passion is. And I'm asking you today to think, what is your passion? What is it that really drives you? What is it that we really live for? What is it that really excites you? If you'd open your Bibles with me to Psalm 22nd, you might want to find the little insert in the bulletin that has an outline of the message. I always used to do outlines in my former church. And people appreciate them because they said it gives us hope that there's an end, uh, when there's an outline. And uh and so I want to give you hope that there is an end. But uh the beginning is this, then we want to look at God's word, don't we? And I want you to read with me, or I'll read these two verses from Psalm 42, which is really, in a nutshell, a definition of what passion is. Hear the word of God. As the deer pants for streams of water, so my soul pants for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When can I go and meet with God? And then if you flip over to the New Testament, and we have a little New Testament reading from Paul's epistle to the Corinthians, and there you will find in the ninth chapter uh a glimpse into the apostle Paul's passion. He was a man of passion. In fact, all of us are men and women of passion. The question is, what is our passion? That's more to the point. Everyone has a passion, but what's yours? Let's look what Paul's is. But I have not used any of these rights, Paul writes And I am not writing this in the hope that you will do such things for me. I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of this boast. Yet when I preach the gospel, I cannot boast, for I am compelled to preach. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel! If I preach voluntarily, I have a reward, but if not voluntarily, I'm simply discharging the trust committed to me. What then is my reward? Just this, that in preaching the gospel I may offer it free of charge, and so not make use of my rights in preaching it. Though I am free, I belong to no man. I make myself a slave to everyone, to win as many as possible. To the Jews, I become like a Jew to win Jews. To those under the law, I become like one under the law, though I myself am not under the law. So as to win those under the law To those not having the law, I become like one not having the law, though I'm not free from God's law, but under Christ's law, so as to win those not having the law. To the weak, I become weak to win the weak. I have become all things to all men, so that by all possible means I might save some. I do all of this for the sake of the gospel. that I might share in its blessings. Did you sense Paul's passion? Let's pray together. Father, we just wait in your presence that you might speak to us through your word that has been read. We would ask that you would apply it to our hearts You who are the great God of glory and might, and who all knowing all things, you know our hearts today. You know our needs today. But I would pray that today you would open the windows of heaven and send your Spirit upon us in a fresh and mighty way and apply the truth of your word to our hearts. Lord, I would ask you that you would anoint my lips with your spirit, that I might speak under the authority and under the passion of my Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray, Lord, today that all of us might hear your voice and we might not harden our hearts against it, but that we might embrace you, Lord Jesus, and embrace your word. For even as Paul said, that's where the blessing and the joy and the power of our lives come in embracing your truth. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. What are you really thirsty for? What are you really excited about? I remember when I was a a young boy, my passion was basketball, and every night before I went to sleep, I envisioned myself throwing that last basket in and winning the tournament. What are you passionate for? What do you think about? What is your passion? Well what is passion? Sometimes the word passion gets thrown around today and we think what it means is somehow sexual passion and and sexual desire. But the word passion is a far deeper and greater meaning. It means what is that that heartfelt drive and call in your life. It's like the compass of the heart. No matter what happens and which way you turn and what happens, the compass of your heart brings you back to what is your passion What are you hungry for? What are you living for? Well before you give your final answer to that question, because it's a it's a penetrating question, it's hard just to to answer it right up front because there's layers of feelings and thoughts in us and you might say, Pat, let me think about that a little bit. And that's just what I want you to do. Think about a little bit. I don't want you just to throw out an easy answer But let's go to Psalm 42 and see if we can dissect these few verses and break open for us what exactly passion means. And in doing this, maybe you'll get a better handle on what your passion really is. David is writing about a s uh a deer. And it's very obvious that this deer is very thirsty. This deer, this deer hasn't had fresh water for some time and it is pursuing the scent. It is pursuing water with all of its heart. That's what it's longing for. There's a sense it's being chased by hunters. There's a sense that the whole direction of the steer is to find that water. And that's where we get our first understanding about what passion is. Passion is directly tied to what you really feel you need. What you really feel you need. You see, do you really feel in your heart that you need God? Now, sometimes we don't really feel we need God until a lot of the pillars of life are knocked out from under us. Or something is taken away from us because we have many things that we depend upon. But the question of true passion is what do you really feel you need in the bottom of your heart? Now I have to confess to you that I'm a coffee addict. I love coffee. And a couple of years ago, my son and I, we took a trip to uh to Yellowstone National Park for a couple of days of father and son bonding. I have a 30-year-old son. We got his pickup and we drove out there. And the coffee in Wyoming is terrible. It's just just brown water. And at the first day, you know, I found myself kind of getting a little edgy and and and the and the the trip just wasn't going so well. But by the second day, Tim and I would have given our right arms for a Starbucks You know, I mean we were just craving coffee. And the last day of our trip, we drove an extra hundred miles just to find a place had real coffee. Because what we felt we needed became our passion. And what you think you need becomes your passion. What is your passion for? Do you feel like you really need God in your life? Do you depend upon him? Do you love him with all your heart? Now there's a second thing I gather out of this here. See, he's really thirsty. He's really zeroed in. on uh uh on finding this water. That's what his need is. But that need and that passion to find that need becomes the total controlling preeminent force in his life. He is not distracted by other things. He's got that scent of the water, and he is following his scent till he gets there. And this is the second thing about passion, isn't it? That when you put your finger on your passion, you really put your finger on what is the Lord and controlling preeminent. factor in your life. That's why passion is so important. That's why it's so important to be able to say, Pat, I know what my passion is. My passion is to love Christ. My passion is to live for Him. Because whatever is your passion, it really, in a sense, is helping you understand who is the Lord and God of your life. Now, Brother Edvard is a Pentecostal pastor in Tehran. He has a wife that just loves to witness. She'll go out into the streets of Tehran and hand out eight hundred to a thousand Christian tracts in that terrorism capital that you know as Tehran. And she will find receptivity and give these tracts out. And one day her husband and her coming home from a long day of ministry and they pull into a seven eleven and they need to go in and buy some milk and bread. And Brother Edvard sees this very stern looking Moslem guy standing by the door. He's got one of those skull caps on, he's got a little short crop beard, you know, the baggy pants and so on. And Brother Edward looks at his wife and says, Honey Could you not witness today? I've I'm really not into this today. She says, Well, honey, if you say so. So they go in, they make their purchase, they come out. And they start home and she nudges her husband on the way home. You know, wives do that sometimes. They nudge you as if there's something quite not right here. And she said, honey, I just want you to know that when I stand before Jesus, I'm going to say to Jesus that I didn't witness to that man because my husband wouldn't let me Well, Brother Edvard didn't handle that too well. Hit the brakes. Turn that car around. Grab some tracks, and I'm not sure he was doing this in the power of the Holy Spirit, but he grabbed those tracks. And he went up to that man, he said, Sir, I have a gift from God. Here's the word of God for you. And that stern, harsh man's face lit up, big smile came, and he said, Where have you been? I've been waiting for you. He said, I have been seeking the living God, and God keeps telling me, stand here, and somebody will bring the word of God. And Brother Edward hung his head in shame. He had let other passions get in the way And those other passions had kept him from the opportunities that God had already prepared for him. He would have missed that opportunity to share if he had followed his wrong passions. I wonder how many opportunities that are out there for you to be the Lord's witness and the Lord's bearer of truth, but because your passion has taken you off track You're missing the opportunities that God, before the foundations of the earth, has already prepared to use your life. And Brother Edward drove home with a new sense of urgency. Follow the passion of Christ. It becomes a clear signal to what controls your life, who's Lord. I think too when we think of that deer, he knows his need. He knows that need is preeminent But don't you think if you are other another deer and you see one deer who's got the scent And is running for the spring and running for the water? Don't you think that his clear sense of direction perhaps would bring other deer to follow? It's true that your passion is the greatest point of your influence on other people. And that's the third point about passion. People are tuned in to your passion more than to your words. Oh, we hear all this, you have to be act like a Christian. Yes, you have to act like a Christian. But you know what? It's not just acting like a Christian. It's not just behaving like a Christian. People have little antennas, and they're really watching to see what your true passion is. That's what they're looking for. Their true passion. And the Iranian people that I work with, and the way I see God working in their lives, I see incredible passion, and I see their passion that God is using it to bring others into the kingdom. I was in Zurich, Switzerland a couple years ago at some meetings and I got a call from an Iranian family. Somehow they knew I was in town. I went to their home and I found that this whole family had become Christians through telephone evangelism from Canada. Some Iranians who become Christians in Canada began to call all their relatives in the world and tell them about Jesus over the telephone and they had led this whole family to Christ because of their passion, because of what Christ had done in their lives. They could not Bear not to share it with others. Your influence on planet Earth is directly tied to the passion of your heart. That's why this question is perhaps the most basic and fundamental question you will ever answer to God or to anyone else. What is your passion? What have you sold your heart out to or to whom? Now, passion also Helps clarify your purpose. Because you see, what happens is that your passion begins to define how you live, how you use your resources, how you use your time. And so as you begin to understand what your passion is, it will shape your lifestyle. It will shape your plans. It will shape your decisions. That's why It is so important. Dr. Light came from Tehran many years ago, and he was very upset when he got to this city when he found out that I had baptized his daughter And he wanted to to sort of, you know, he thought some cult had taken her, and he wanted to deprogram her and get her back out of Christianity So he came to our little Persian church in Silver Spring and he sat on the front row. I'll never forget he had long white hair and a ponytail. He was a teacher of world literature, University of Tehran. And he announced to me that he was there to find the mistakes in my preaching. I said, well, that won't take long. There's lots of mistakes in my preaching, but I don't think you'll find any mistakes. in God's word. So he got a Bible from me and he began to read it. Six months later, after sitting in church every Sunday, never saying a word, he calls me up and he says he wants to be baptized. And I said, Dr. Light, um what happened? He said, Well, in the course of trying to disprove Christianity, I read the New Testament eighty times in six months. Now what do you think would happen to you if you read the New Testament eighty times in six months? You might take some major big steps in your sanctification if you did, I think. Well what happened to him is he became saturated with the word of God. And he said, I had a dream one day after church where Jesus appeared to me. And the essence of that dream was, is you've read my book. Now it's time to believe in me And his heart was touched, as what he had read from the Word of God was sealed from heaven by the Holy Spirit in his heart. Faith comes by hearing of the Word of God. And faith came to his heart. And he began to preach to me. I I love new converts, you know, they they start taking you through the catechism as if you've never heard it before, you know, it's kind of fun. They start talking to me about uh the substitutionary work of Jesus and how Jesus was really the Son of God And I was sitting there thinking, this guy doesn't even need to be discipled. He's had his discipleship before he became a Christian. He's read the Bible. He knows it backward and forward. So his day for baptism came. He g he wrote a testimony weaving together all of his knowledge of world literature, quotes from Camul and Sartre and Shakespeare and And he kind of built this incredible case that all of world literature and all of world thought can lead us to one conclusion that Jesus Christ is the truth. And he is the way, the life, and the truth, and no one comes to the Father but by him. And Jesus had revealed himself to him, and he was there that day to get baptized. People were lining up to get written copies of his testimony. It was so powerful. We baptized him. As soon as he was baptized, he said, I have an announcement to make Well, you don't tell a brand new candidate who's been baptized that he can't say anything in church. And so he said, I'm announcing that I want to go to Iran as a missionary His wife was still a Moslem sitting in the service. She almost fainted. She screamed. She said, honey, if you go to Iran, they'll kill you. No, no, no, no, don't do that. And he said to his wife, it would be an honor for me to be martyred for Jesus Christ. He went off to Iran. Three or four months later I got a letter from him. He said, You don't believe what a wonderful mission field Iran is. I've located all my former colleagues at the University of Tehran, and six of them have already become Christians as we're having Bible study together. You see, his passion shaped his purpose, and his purpose fed his passion. And you see there's there's a frustration in life when your passion is not fitting the purpose, and the purpose is not fitting the passion. And it causes what the Bible calls being in two minds and being stalled out in life. And a lot of us are stalled because we haven't come to grips with the call of Jesus Christ to take up his cross and follow him and to give our lives to him and for him to be the passion of our hearts and lives and him to be the Lord of the purpose. So I want to ask you what your passion is. It's a very profound question. Please don't take it lightly. Please meditate on it and think about it. because it is the most important question that you will ever be asked in my opinion. Now the question now comes is what do we do? What can we do to feed this passion? You might be sitting there saying I feel like I'm sort of a passionless Christian. I feel like I don't have that energy, that passion for Christ. So what do you do? This is not in the outline. You can add it in. Passion is the result of prayer. You can ask God for that passion. I believe it is the work of the Holy Spirit that gives that passion. You may have to say, God, I'm passionless. You may have to say to God, I've become very laxadaisical. I've become very lukewarm in my faith. And you say, God, I don't want to be that way. Please send your spirit upon my heart. spirit upon my life and give me passion and pray for your children and pray for your church that the passion of God will be at work. This was my mother's prayer. She had six children, and she prayed that all six of them would serve the Lord on a different continent. And we wondered why she didn't like us. You know, why she was praying us so far away. Some mothers say, Lord, may my children marry and live right next door and fill my backyard with grandchildren And my mother was saying, Lord, take these kids and take them as far away as you can. And one day I got a little perturbed with my mother. And I said, Mom, you know, what's the deal here? I mean, have we broken your heart that much that you want to get rid of us? She said, oh no. She said, I want you to know that the sweetest and most exciting and most fulfilling part of my life was to be a missionary, to leave my little comfortable home in Trenton, New Jersey, and get on a a boat after World War II and go all the way to Iran? and go to a place that was uh living in uh centuries behind the times and to live there and to learn to depend upon God And to see God at work. It was the best thing that I ever did with my life. And I longed that my children also will learn how to have a passion for God and be available to Him that they might go anywhere that He calls. And to this day, the six of us have served the Lord on four different continents. And we get a little scared which one has to go to the next one But who knows what God has for us. It's prayer. Pray for it if you don't have it. Pray for your children if they don't have it. The second thing that brings passion is really God's Word. If you are a man or woman in the Word, and you get close to God's heart, you will see his heart for the nations. My mom and dad sat under the preaching of Dr. Barnhouse at 10th Presbyterian Church. The man wasn't particularly a mission-minded pastor, but he preached the word of God faithfully. And as he preached that word, my mom and dad came under great conviction to go to the mission field and to live their lives for Christ. As you open the word of God and you see that the whole theme of Scripture is God's heart for the nations. Christianity is not just a process by which I get personal peace and God patches my home and patches my marriage and fills my garage with a new car. That's how Christianity is. Christianity is far greater and bigger where God calls us to a whole new agenda for life. to be a part of the spread of his kingdom. We see it in the promise given to Abraham, fulfilled in the coming of Jesus. We see it in the prophecy of the end in the book of Revelation, and all the nations will be represented around the throne of God. We see this whole magnificent story in the Bible, and God is saying He's at work on planet Earth. He's writing the pages of history. He is moving his kingdom. And he's inviting you to have the privilege to be a part of it. And that will cause passion if you're a man or woman of the Word of God. But also, passion comes, it's caught, isn't it, from other people. Whenever you see someone's passionate about God, you can be sure they caught it from somebody. Passion is very often caught from other people. I I thought about who were some of the people that Stirred my passion. One of those persons was a man by the name of Dr. William Miller. He was a Presbyterian missionary in Iran for nearly forty years. He was a pioneer. He lived a simple life. He led hundreds and hundreds of Iranians to Christ. He wrote commentaries. He wrote books. Even his books today are still being read But when I was sixteen years old, my parents made a an agreement with Dr. Miller that I should travel with him from the city of Mashad, which is On the uh eastern side of Iran, it's the it's the capital of Shiite Muslims, it's a holy place where one of their Imams is buried. My parents are missionaries there. And so the the the arrangement was made to go by train with Dr. Miller. And you have to know the trains in Iran have three classes, first class, second class, and third class. First class, four to a compartment, seats make beds, air conditioning, only $10 for a 500-mile trip Compartment two or second class, six to eight compartment, padded seats, but no beds. Third class, eight to a compartment, wooden benches, and who knows how many people pack in. When Dr. Miller and I got together to plan our trip, he said, we're not going first class. And I went, oh gee, 16-year-old kid, we're not going first class. That's going to be really rough. He said, and by the way, we're not going second class either. And I said, what? Are you crazy? We're going to go in third class and sit on a wooden bench for 18 hours with a whole bunch of people and goats and chickens? What are you talking about? He said, that's what we're going to do So we got on that pla on that train. I sat there and this this very well-endowed Iranian lady with a big chador, you know those bales? And I know she had a kid under each arm, sneaking them on, and she came and plopped right down to me. And that kid kept kicking me from under the thing and I was sitting there and it was hot and the place was smelly and the place was packed and And I was just, every hour that went by, I was just more miserable and said, I should have never traveled with this man. I could be in first class now. I could really be having a good time. And Dr. Miller's having the time of his life He's sitting there talking to people. They bring out their sandwiches. They're sharing their food. He finds out what everybody's name is. He's talking about Jesus. He's telling stories and laughing and praying and talking. By the time the trip is over They're all weeping and saying goodbye. They're giving him phone numbers and and inviting him to his house for dinner. And I get off that train and I'm the most unhappy, miserable guy you'd ever seen. But I learned something. Not then, but later. When you travel first class through life, you miss the people. And you miss The ministry opportunities. If your idea of life is to never come out of your comfort zone. Never come out of the comfort of your culture, never come out of the comfort of your socioeconomical class, never come out of the comfort of your neighborhood, out of the comfort of your relationships, then you miss the whole world that God wants to use you in. For his glory. And Dr. Miller was elated and he was happy because his passion was connecting to his purpose, and his purpose was fitting his passion. And I was miserable I don't know about you, but I've learned that sometimes there's greater rewards in coming out of your comfort zone Last summer I was invited to Baku, Azerbaijan, 105 degrees along the Caspian. No air conditioning, to teach 35 brand new Muslim converts how to walk with Jesus Christ. It was physically one of the most harsh experiences. Of just survival. We didn't have water to take showers sometimes, but spiritually, it was so rich. And I'm glad I went. And that's what people experience in missions. When they go, it seems from the perspective of the human eye that it's harsh and it's tough. But the rewards are so wonderful and great. You see, passion is caught from others. And finally, passion is caught from the work itself. It's the work. It's when you find someone that's actually rolled up their sleeves and gotten involved in taking the gospel to other places that are excited about it. It's people that have really done it that are excited. I know if you if your experiencing Christianity is to just come and sit in a pew and be an observer and sing the songs and hear a sermon and go, your level of passion for Christianity can be very, very low But if you have taken that step of faith and you've moved out and you've gotten involved in the ministries of this church or in the ministries in this city or in the ministries that take you out of your comfort zone, to take you to people that look differently and smell differently, you're going to see. Your excitement and your passion rise. God took Patty and me in 1979, July of 1979, into Islamic Iran Five months had gone by since the Shah had been ousted. Five months had gone by since Ayatollah Rahullah Khomeini had come into power. Fifty five thousand Americans had left Iran and we found that there were plenty of seats of planes going into Iran and we went to Iran against the advice of many. Many people said it was co it was a vocational suicide. It was irresponsible to take your wife and children. to Iran, but we knew God had called us and we went there and it transformed our lives. Iran changed me much more than I changed Iran. Because I had a front row seat in something, something that was changing in the heavenlies, that God was somehow changing the the spiritual environment to be run as the Shah went aside as Islam came and the darkening clouds came over that country. The church came under great stress and persecution. The church was purified. And as Christians were fleeing the country and leaving their vacant seats in the church, Moslems were pouring into the church and they wanted to know about Jesus. Every single Christian who had a Bible and knew how to read his Bible had a waiting list of people who wanted to be discipled and taught about Jesus Christ. What I would preach to the young people for 20 minutes, they would say, is that all? When I preached for two hours, they say, we're just getting warmed up. Keep going. We want to know about Jesus. If there is a passion in my heart, it's because I am filled with excitement and preaching constantly to people who sit for hours and say, Teach me more, teach me more, teach me more, I want to know more, I want to know more about Jesus Christ. And that brings it out of you when you meet people who are hungry for God. And that's what changed my life. It's the work that changed my life It's the ministry. My youth group in Iran, 97 young people I gathered together for a conference the last summer I was there. One of those ninety-seven has been martyred for Christ. The rest, 96, are in full-time Christian ministry somewhere in Iran or around the world. That's my former youth group that is now my ministry today. I've had a relationship with them for 25 years. And that's the privilege that God has given to me. And that's why I'm excited. Because I see God is Lord of history. God is Lord of our lives. God is calling us to put our hands in his hands and watch what he will do. I close simply. With this invitation. It's the invitation that God gave Moses. Moses was 80 years old. I'm sure he had this feeling like, you know, I've put my time in. I was a deacon for a while. Maybe I was an elder for a while. I've taught Sunday school. It's time for me to sit down and rest. And God comes to this 80-year-old man and says, I have an incredible job for you. You've got to go back to Egypt and tell Pharaoh to let my people go. And Moses begins to have excuses. I haven't been able to prepare a sermon or talk for 40 years. God, I can't do this. I I don't even know how to talk. And he began to come up with excuses, and God said, hold it. I don't want any excuses. I just have one question. Moses, what is in your hand? Moses looked at that old muddy, dirty, sweaty staff that he'd kicked sheep with and fought uh bears with and all kinds of things and And he said, well, there's this old statute, throw it at my feet. And he threw it at his feet. Pick it up. When he threw it down, of course, he became a servant. Pick it up And with that old muddy, sweaty staff, Moses led the children of Israel out of bondage and to the brink of the promised land And all God asked of Moses was, what is in your hand and throw it at my feet. And that is all that God is asking of you today. Are you his child? Are you redeemed by the blood of Christ Are you filled with the power of the Holy Spirit? Have you given your life to Christ? Is he the Lord of your life? And he's asking you one simple question. What is in your hand? Time, talents, treasures, connections, networks, opportunities that are yours and only yours And he's saying, throw that at my feet. And he's saying, if you throw that at my feet, I have a vision and a plan for your life that's beyond what you could ever think or dream of. You have plans for your life? They're limiting. They're not the potential that I have for you. I want you to know that I graduate from high school with a D minus average. That my counselors told me to forget going to college. And when I finally graduated from college and seminary, my high school teachers showed up because they didn't believe it. They wanted to see it with their own eyes. And I don't say that because I'm proud, but I say that because I was a person that the world said, forget. But Jesus said, if you throw it at my feet, I will do more with your life than you can ever imagine or dream. When I go see my mother now, she just shakes her head. She says, I I I just can't believe this. You're that little boy that got to sixth grade and could never read. You're that kid that almost clumped out of high school. She just continues just as she says, I can't believe what God has done with your life. And I said, that's it God took twelve disciples. They weren't the who's who of Jerusalem. They were very ordinary, in some cases, very sinful people. God does not need so much your abilities as he needs your availability. What is your passion? Please think about it. Because what your passion is will help you understand who your God is. We'll help you understand your own understanding of yourself, what your needs are. Understand your passion and you understand the heritage that you will leave on planet Earth in the lives of others. It's important. But God is asking you what's in your hand. Cast it at his feet. Let's pray. Father in heaven, what a great God. Help us to see you and to understand your majesty and your glory and what you're doing on planet Earth. Oh Lord, break us and mold us and bring us to that place so we can say, Lord, here's what's in my hand. And I cast it at your feet. Use me for your glory and honor forever and ever. Amen