If you have a Bible with you, and if you have a Bible in the English Standard Version, It may even be even more rewarding for you as I read aloud from the English Standard Version in a moment. It's going to be projected on the screen, uh, we trust as well. Let's look at God's Word. The Apostle Peter writing under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. To a group of men and women, young and old, in exile, scattered throughout. And they had believed the gospel And they were under persecution, and they were in need of an encouragement in their faith. And 1 Peter and 2 Peter. uh both serve in that regard. God's word uh can do that for us as well today, we who live in Essentially a different kind of exile, but a land that is hostile to God's will and God's word and God's way. So let's hear from Peter. 1 Peter chapter 1 beginning in verse 17. God's word for us. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. Like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for your sake. Who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope Are in God. God's word for us. I'll probably hear about this when I get home, but my introduction includes my two sons. And I gave their sisters a warning of that. We have a couple of baseball players in our house. I would include myself, but if you were at the softball game Friday night, you You wouldn't do that. We have at least two baseball players, however. One's eighteen years old and he's been playing for probably, I don't know, fourteen or fifteen years. And the other one has just turned nine. And they both I I guess they're doing this because they love it, not because I forced them into it and I love baseball. But they both love baseball. They both are on teams. Um nothing about the championship where the Royals um edged the Rays out and Aaron Small I wouldn't do it. But it's been really a father joy for me to see the older brother Pour that kind of knowledge that he's gained over the years into the younger brother, and to call him to those that knowledge that's already acquired to act out of that knowledge. And I was at a game recently where Kyle was on deck. That's the guy who's getting ready to hit And Kevin like spontaneously jumped up, went to the backstop, said, Kyle, Kyle, remember, remember, hands like this, don't swing at the high pitches. Kow, cow, remember, good eye now swing all the way through it. And then he sat back down. Like some reflexive action. And I sat there and I saw, if you will, this. Here's older brother Peter speaking to us and he's saying, listen, listen Remember, remember these things about the salvation that you've been given. This is a grace gift. Remember these things. It's not the it's not the kind of remembering we do at Christmas time where we sit around and with fondness we look back on the the big wheel that we got in nineteen seventy four or something. It's not that kind of remembering. It's an active remembering. It's bringing in that apprehended truth into an active way of living. That's what older brother was saying to younger brother. Swing, swing through all the way through that pitch. Because in doing so, you'll probably be more effective. Now, and you'll probably also. Be able to enjoy both losing and winning in this game of baseball. That's what Peter is saying to us. In the in the second letter that Peter wrote, he actually says this. In 2 Peter 3, verse 1, he says Now this is the second letter that I'm writing to you, beloved. In both of them, in both my letters, I want to stir up in you a sincere mind by way of reminder. You see, Peter's whole goal is what we looked at last week, and that is to call you and me to a clear mind. A sober mind, not a fuzzy mind, not a mind that's all distracted and drawn away. A clear mind, clear minds that are continually prepared for action, setting our hope fully on the grace of Jesus Christ. And then actively Resisting being conformed to the world and actively pursuing holy living in all our conduct, right? With the confidence That the Holy One who called you is the one who says, I will complete this. It is written, You shall be holy, even as I am holy. So, Peter, the older brother here in our setting today, he gives us four things to remember. He gives us reminders so that we can actively live lives worthy of the name of Christ. You see it in the outline before you, right? So it's a overkill, it's a pendulum swing. Last week it was blank. This week you've got the entire manuscript. Sorry, I'll get it right someday in the future, but not today. The four things that Peter reminds us of to remember that the same one that you call Father is also the impartial judge. And it's that judge to whom we must all give an account. Peter says, remember that your redemption from slavery to sin is only accomplished, only through the precious blood of Jesus Christ. Peter says, remember that the revelation of Jesus Christ is something to be studied and savored. And Peter says, remember that any strength that we have for enduring faith or for our living hope is found in the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. We worship the risen Lamb. Saw in the message last week, at least I hope we did, that God is making those of us who are in Christ into effective reflectors of God's character. Effective reflectors. That's the work that He's doing. Be holy in all your conduct. Effectively reflect God in this world. We see Peter bringing to mind, to our minds Clear minds, minds prepared for action. He says, remember this. I want to stir up your mind. I want to shake you so that you're clear. You're clear on this. The one you call Father is a judge who impartially judges, and he'll give each according to his deeds. You see verse 14 there. I mean, sorry, excuse me, verse 17. If you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, then conduct yourselves with fear. Throughout the time of your exile. It just keeps calling us to a holy life. Peter, ease up, please. We don't do holy living very well. Peter says, I know you don't. Because I don't either. I'm Peter, remember? I'm the one that Alan Harris used to always talk about. Isn't it good that Peter messed up the way he did? So that we can feel a little bit better about our mess ups, because to see Peter restored is to enter into that restoration that Christ has for sinners as well. Essentially, Peter is saying, listen, our lives should display conduct becoming children of God. You've no doubt heard the opposite, right? In the military, we hear of this. Sadly, if if our soldiers are are performing behaviors that are unbecoming a Marine or unbecoming a naval officer or unbecoming an army personnel. But Peter says our lives should be those lives which are becoming of a child of God. And I don't believe the judging that is in view here, in fact I think the Greek language that Peter uses to write, it's not referring to a long, far-off in the distant judging. We do believe that the scriptures teach that there will be this day of accounting. Romans 12, verses 10 through 14, the Apostle Paul says this. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Why do you despise your brother? We will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee will bow to me, every tongue will confess. to God. And Paul says, so then each of us will give an account of himself to God. There is a time of accounting, and there is a time when all things done in this life will be laid bare. I believe that what Peter is writing about in verse 17 is to live as if that accounting is taking place. Right now. Why? Because it is. God knows. And Peter says: with that knowledge, the knowledge of this God, live out your life With a reverent fear of him during this brief time. Remember, Peter has already said, it's just for a little while, this brief time of your exile. The Father has accomplished the great work of salvation, and Peter says, so there's a second thing to remind you of, a second thing to stir up your mind with. Remember Remember, your redemption from slavery to sin is only accomplished by the precious blood of Christ. The blood of God, the book of Acts says. And we don't have to do some theological debate. We just have to sit and marvel at that phrase. That the God who took on flesh would lay down his life in the body so that you and I could have salvation. The Father has accomplished that great work of salvation, and Peter says, so there's a second thing to remind you of, a second thing to stir up your mind with. Remember. Remember, your redemption from slavery to sin is only accomplished by the precious blood of Christ. The blood of God, the book of Acts says. And we don't have to do some theological debate. We just have to sit and marvel at that phrase. That the God who took on flesh would lay down his life in the body so that you and I could have salvation. Read verse 18 and 19, my notes say. So let me read verse 18 and 19. Peter says, Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. Not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb, without blemish or spot. You see the juxtaposition there? You see the negative aspect and the positive aspect? Peter just lays it out again. If your hope is in the world, he even uses two things that our minds would kind of draw to. What did he say? Silver and gold? Yes, silver and gold. If our hope is in the world, Peter's saying to say, listen, that's going to be a futile hope. It's going to be a hope that will not last. Because even silver and gold is perishable by way of comparison here. I think I've mentioned before, maybe you know this about us, we're avid purveyors of uh we like crime dramas. We like TV shows. We like movies where there's a really bad guy and a really smart detective and and there's some kind of thing. But in a lot of these things you'll see somebody will be taken hostage Or there'll be a kidnapping. And in that kidnapping, in that hostage situation, you know what's coming, right? There's always a demand for a ransom. There's a demand for a payment in order for an exchange to be made. And Peter's calling to mind that which we know from Scripture all throughout: that we are born In Adam, in bondage to sin. We're enslaved to sin. We're hopeless and we're powerless to do anything about that. And Peter says, listen, the second thing I want to remind you of is you need to remember that you've been ransomed, but not with something like Silver, gold, some imperishable, flighty, you know, temporary thing. You've been redeemed by the precious blood of Christ. Like that pure, spotless blood of the Lamb that was required in the sacrificial system. That's the image that Peter's drawing to mind when the children of Israel were in the just getting ready to be called out of slavery. And that last plague was coming on Egypt. They were instructed to do various things with a spotless lamb, but one of the primary things was to shed its blood. and to place it at the door jam at the top and the side jams of the door. So when the angel of death came, it would pass over the homes where it saw the blood The blood was the protection. Peter knows that, and he says, listen, this one that we speak of, this one that I walked with, Jesus Christ, he is the Lamb of God. He shed his precious blood. Never forget that you were redeemed by that kind of precious blood. We've heard scripture just a few months ago, Mark 10, Jesus said, The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to what? Give his life as a ransom. For the many. The Apostle Paul told Timothy in his first letter: there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself As a ransom for all men, all types of men, Paul was saying to Timothy. Preach the gospel to everyone. Let the Holy Spirit draw in God's people Paul used the same kind of language when he described salvation to the church in Corinth. He said twice in that letter that you've been bought with a price. Bought, ransomed, redeemed. And Peter says, Don't forget that you were ransomed. What were you ransomed from, Peter? Ransomed from the futile ways Inherited from your forefathers. Now when Peter's readers are are reading this letter, I'm sure the Jewish believers in that crowd, their minds should and probably did go to the way their forefathers elevated the traditions of man equal with the commandments of God. seeking to live under that sense of their own righteousness, self-righteousness. And when the Gentile believers hearing what Peter says about the futile ways of their forefathers, Maybe the Gentile believers, they probably would have gone to the way their forefathers were described, as those who continually suppress God's truth through wickedness. Believe themselves to be right or okay or even in the midst of succumbing to the pressure, the human heart tendency to worship the creation rather than the creator. And Peter says, listen, remember, you were redeemed from that. You were redeemed from that kind of futile way of thinking. That's what you've been rescued from. And the question comes to us in this setting. If we think about what God in Christ has ransomed us from, Then what are those futile ways of thinking that try to hang on, that try to cling to, that Peter says, listen. Beloved, remember that you were ransomed, you were redeemed from those futile ways of thinking. You were purchased with the blood of Christ and receive that. Peter he presents the negative and the positive. He says, Don't hope in the things of the world, mere silver or gold, but hope and Place your trust and feel confident, in fact, feel very, very confident in the fact that if the blood has Washed you clean, then you are clean. And you are secure. And death has no hold on you. I'll show my age again. I was running this uh illustration past my mother in law yesterday at a cookout we had Anybody remember the Green S and H Green Stamps Redemption Center? Okay, everyone who's under 35, look at those people. You can ask them about it later. All right Dana said, What wait nobody why would you do that? Because it's a perfect illustration. The S and H green stay, I even looked it up, Sperry and Hutchinson. That's what the S and H were for. And what you would do was the uh it was a promotional deal. The SNH Green Stamps Redemption Center would would uh provide these uh green stamps And you would purchase, it was to to get customer loyalty at particular stores, and the amount of stuff that you bought, you'd get a certain amount of stamps, and those things for us became like lickable gold. Because we could man, we would build them up and our books would get fat and and I know that I can't remember anything about it because somebody's gonna come to me after the service and meet me in the hallway and they say, Man, reality check, Flora Everything there was a piece of junk. You were purchasing it with stamps. And that's the point, right? The value of that thing which is purchased by that which is used to purchase it. Follow me now. Indicates how very valuable it is. And that's what Peter's saying. He's saying, God, throw away your notion that this world has anything to rescue you. And place your hope in the fact of this, what? Remember, you were ransomed by the precious blood of Christ. You're not junk. You're a holy child of God. You're the one that God has set his favor on. If that is you, believer. He set his favor on you, and he said, I'm going to complete you. You will be that one in that day That brings me glory, because I'm making you into that which I find great delight in, the image of my Son. Amen. So you've been bought with a precious blood. But how do you know that you've been bought? How do you know you've been ransomed? How do you know you've been redeemed? Let me just pause here in the middle of this message and say, you need to know whether or not you have been. You can know with some level of assurance that you have been. I need that assurance. You need that assurance You get the sense of your need. You see Christ as your only hope for rescue from sin and slavery to sin. You call upon the name and the only name that was given by which men can be saved. You trust the scripture where it says, all who call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, and you commit to live in the power of God By his enabling grace, and you surround yourself with people who are also and like so committed. And God does that work, which only God can do, and He produces the assurance of your salvation. That same spirit. That speaks the world into existence. The Romans heard in their letter, Paul says, that same spirit is the same spirit by which you and I, believer, cry out, Abba Father. And that's what Peter's saying. You who call on him as Father, this is what you need in order to be reassured of that. You were bought with a price. And remember then, he says the third thing, remember That the revelation of Jesus Christ is something special and it's to be studied, it's to be savored. Right here in this verse, let me read from verse 20, Peter makes an astounding claim. He says that the self-existent God took on flesh and lived a life like us in the flesh. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but he was made manifest in the last time for your sake. The way that this sentence is constructed, and I'm no Greek scholar by any stretch of the imagination, but the way this sentence is constructed, you can't walk away with any other option but to see that the one who is being described is the pre existent Christ. He's the one that existed before time began. Look at what it says. He was foreknown. Here's a phrase that you can meditate on this week. Before the foundation of the world. Before the foundation of the world. I looked that up this week. For some sermon help. And first, in uh in John 17, when Jesus is praying in the garden, that high priestly prayer, he says, Father, I desire that they also those whom you have given to me, that they may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world. See, Jesus is the second person of the Godhead. Perfect love, perfect unity, perfect community, perfect relationship. Before the foundation of the world. And then in 1 Peter 1. 20 we see this. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but made manifest at these last times for the sake of his Beloved. In Ephesians 1 and verse 4, Paul says to that church in Ephesus, that we have been chosen in him, what? Before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and blameless in his sight. That in love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will. In Revelation thirteen and verse eight, we read that the Lamb's Book of Life and those names that are written in the Lamb's Book of Life were written there before what? The foundation of the world. You see, God is sovereign over all. He is bringing a people to completion, that people that have been chosen from before the foundation of the world. Looked at John Calvin this week, great reformer. He says this about this truth. Herein shines forth more fully the unspeakable goodness of God. that he anticipated our disease by the remedy of his grace, and he provided a restoration to life before the first man had even fallen into death. Do you see how Almighty and Sovereign God is? Peter wants us to see that. That's why he says: this one who is pre-existent, the pre-incarnate one. Was made manifest don't miss this phrase for the sake of you. We have the general revelation of God, the general revelation we can we know that there's a Some type of being. We see this planets and the stars and we see, you know, the wonder of the human body and all these other things. So we have a a sense of the general Revelation of who God is. But in Christ, and in Christ's work, we have the special revelation of God. The special revelation, Peter says, that he was made manifest. He was clearly clearly demonstrated, clearly visible in the last times For your sake, so that you would know this God who lays down his life for your sin and for mine. How is that even possible? A special revelation of God to be studied, to be savored, to be reflected on. I want to take just a moment and I want to say this: What is your intake of God's word like? This is where the turn off the air conditioning is supposed to get really hot. You're supposed to feel really guilty. I can't do that to you. Because I asked the same question of myself. But can I free you up from the notion that says That if your intake of God's word has not been regular to this day, then why not make it start tomorrow? A regular part of your day, a regular part of your week, a regular part of your conversation. God's Word. And if you do have a regular part of regular intake of God's word, then let me ask this question of you Do you mull it over? Do you meditate on it? Do you reflect on God's word? Do you pray the words of Scripture back to God? Do you allow God's word to do what we believe it can do? And that is. Cause us to see exactly who God is. That's what he wants to do. That's the way he's going to make us holy people. It's not going to happen apart from this word. And I have got to have that reminder come to me from you, if you wouldn't mind. And I'll try to graciously bring it to you as well. But that's what we need: God's word, a regular intake, resting in the promises of God's word. Reflecting on that. And that's what Peter says. The fourth thing to remember is this. Peter says, listen, remember that any strength that you have Any hope that you have, any faith that you have, is because God has given it to you. Recognize that, but also recognize that that is through and by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. So out here, don't go there now But after the benediction, if you go into the lobby, you'll see this huge poster. And I think it says, what does it say, Robbie, every single day, right? That's the whole point. This whole series was constructed around the concept that we live in the resurrection every single day. When Paul started his letter to the Romans, he said, This same one who was Jesus descended from David according to the flesh, talking about Christ's humanity. Is declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of Holiness. What? By the resurrection of his dead. Everything about Jesus' identity Hinges on that resurrection from the dead is true. And everything about you and me, believer Everything about all of those who have placed their faith in Christ is found in 1 Corinthians 15. If Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. In fact, you're pathetic. And you're to be pitied, most of all. The world is right, you're wrong. Give it up, set it down, and go eat, drink, and be merry. Because that's all there is But Paul told the Corinthians, and I encourage you, and you need to encourage me with this. But Christ has been raised from the dead. The resurrection from the dead. News flash though, I didn't see it with my own eyes, and neither did you. I didn't witness it in person, but we believe we are those, like Peter says, who have not seen and yet love him. Though we do not now see him, we believe in him. Where did this come from? Where did the motivation to go to Mexico come from for these three that we prayed for today? Where does the motivation come from to go across the street to that neighbor who's done nothing but ill to us? It comes from the resurrection power of Christ at work in us. I shared a conversation with a sister in Christ yesterday, and we got to discussing several friends of ours Friends who are sadly suffering through the effects of living in a fallen world, the effects of cancer, the effects of corruption. The effects of care that is oppressive. The effects of death. I'd mention something, and that would prompt her to think of something else, and what she said prompted me to think of something else. It was as if Uh that pig pen character from the Charles Schultz Peanuts comics was standing right. We had clouds just hanging over us. It was depressing. And as we parted company, her parting statement to me was, Oh, well, come quickly, Lord Jesus. And with trying to give a second thought some theological pastoral retort in response, I said, Amen. And I quickly recognize, but Lord, please make us ready for your return. I think too oftentimes we talk about the return of Christ, but maybe we're not ready for that day to come. Are you resting in the resurrection power of Christ? Do you believe it? Do you live it out? God secured our justification that we're we're okay, we're right with Him. through the death and resurrection of Christ from the dead. I tried to find this quote, and so if you see it on the Twitter world or something like that I stole it from a guy that I couldn't I couldn't retrace my steps enough and find it. But it said something like this On the cross, Christ made the payment for our sin. That's our ransom, that's our redemption. And on the third day when he rose victorious over the grave, the check cleared the bank Paul said it to the Romans in chapter 4. He was delivered up for our trespasses, and he was raised for our justification. On that third day, victorious over the grave. Everything about who God is was validated. And everything about who you and I are becoming was set complete. In raising Jesus from the dead, God has defeated death forever. Romans 6. 9, Acts 13. In raising Jesus from the dead, God has given us a perfect mediator, Romans 8, 34. In raising Jesus from the dead, God has guaranteed our bodily resurrection and the bodily resurrection of all who believe in him. Philippians 3, 2 Corinthians 4, 1 Corinthians 15 In raising Jesus from the dead, God has made us secure in Christ. You're sealed, Ephesians 2, Colossians 3. You've been raised with him. You're seated at the right hand of God In raising Jesus from the dead, God has shown us that Jesus' word is trustworthy. Jesus keeps his promises. He told his disciples. I'm going to go to Jerusalem. I'm going to be crucified, dead, buried, but on the third day I will rise again. The resurrection proves that Jesus keeps his word. Trust his word. In raising Jesus from the dead, God has demonstrated that the scriptures are trustworthy. They should be studied and savored and believed. 1 Corinthians 15, he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures. Acts 13. We bring you the good news that what God promised to the fathers through the prophets, the scriptures, has been fulfilled by raising Jesus. In raising Jesus from the dead, God has made us alive in Christ, born again to a living hope. 1 Peter 1. In raising Jesus from the dead, God has given the gift of repentance The gift of repentance to your heart to turn away from sin and granting the full and free forgiveness from sin so that you don't have to try to make up and self-atone and languish in all this wallowing. Yeah. You can say, listen, what you say to me in correction, you're right. I did that. I own that. I committed that sin. I'm ashamed of that I've been forgiven that. And I ask for your forgiveness because Christ has forgiven me. In raising Jesus from the dead, God has. Made us people who are now able to bear fruit for him. Romans 7, in raising Jesus from the dead. Let's pray. God has set his purpose in motion that ultimately you and me, believer. We'll be able to see God. We'll glorify Him even as He has the glory of God on Him. That's what He prayed for us, and when Jesus prays something it comes to pass. Let's pray to him. Lord, I pray that you would uh help us Oh, Lord, help us to live this out so that we could be effective reflectors of Almighty Holy God. Lord, so that people would see our good deeds and they would give praise to the Father in heaven. We ask, Lord, that you'd make our hearts now those that are filled with praise. And that we would continually, in this moment of worship, yes, but as we go even, that we would sing of our Redeemer. The one who, with your precious blood, rescued us. Lord, we pray in the powerful name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.