One of Satan's favorite strategies in my life, and I suspect possibly in your life too, is at times to make me feel like I'm forgotten by God. as the first outline blank there to fill in. To feel that I'm forgotten by God. That I'm abandoned. That nobody really cares about the situation that I'm in. I need to fend for myself. We just uh had a situation in our own family last night where we were really tempted to feel like God could have done a very simple thing. He decided not to. As if it was just simply up to us as a family to fend for ourselves. And it's tempting, isn't it, to feel like God doesn't care. So easy to feel his goodness when you have a physical blessing, when there's some success, when there's something that you see and you experience and you say, it's obvious that God cares for me. Because things are going well. But if they don't, isn't it very easy to feel like, God is really off the scene. He's forgotten me. He's abandoned me. Satan wants us to think that. Or maybe to think that God has said, once too many times you've come and you've whined for mercy. And this time I'm going to let you stew for a little bit. One too many times you've come with that same excuse of your weakness, and you've sinned that same thing one too many times. Or maybe we feel like God is saying, I'm going to let you sit in this situation because I told you not to go that way. When you're honest with yourself, you look back and you say, I really had some reservations about that decision. But I went ahead because that's what I wanted to do, and now I'm stuck. And God's saying, I'm going to let you sit there stuck for a while. And you whimper to him, I'm sorry, God, and I really have learned. And you feel like the door has been slammed shut in your face. And you're shut out from his mercy. I've got good news for you this morning. God's not like that. You know how I know? Because the Bible tells me so. Sometimes we experience it. Sometimes for a while we have to take it by faith. But since our faith is in the living Word of God, that faith can rest secure. For instance, God tells us that in Mary's song, in Luke chapter 1, verses 54 and 55, look what he says. Look what she says and what God says through her. He has helped his servant Israel, remembering to be merciful. To Abraham and his descendants forever, even as he said to our fathers. One last time I want to read this scripture from Mary's song and look at one last message of this song. Which was composed and sung by Mary just a few weeks after, as a virgin, she conceived the Lord Jesus in her womb by the power of the Holy Spirit. Let's look at that song again from Luke chapter 1, beginning at verse 46. And Mary said, My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. For he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed. For the mighty one has done great things for me. Holy is his name. His mercy extends to those who fear him from generation to generation. He has performed mighty deeds with his arm. He has scattered those who are proud in their inmost thoughts. He has brought down rulers from their thrones. But he has lifted up the humble. He has filled the hungry with good things, but he has sent the rich away empty. He has helped his servant Israel. Remembering to be merciful to Abraham and his descendants forever, even as he said to our fathers. Now you remember those who were here last week, that uh last week we looked at the seventh message on this song. In which we saw, meditated on that one little phrase in verse 54, his servant Israel. And we saw how God, by his grace, has constituted us. to be his servants, the servant of the chief servant, so that he would transform us by realizing how Jesus came. in the flesh to serve us, that we might have new hearts to desire to serve Him. And so tonight, as you think about the Christmas program that's coming, When we think about enjoying that together as a congregation, I encourage you from what Mary says here, that we are as servants to not simply think about ourselves and how we'll enjoy that. But is there some neighbor, some friend that you could invite and could bring who would be drawn closer to Jesus? would understand a little bit more about what the real message of Christmas is and who Jesus Christ is that they so desperately need, even without knowing it. And God might use this program in their lives. Will you and I think it's just easier to come by myself and enjoy it tonight? Or will we as servants seek to invite And pray that God would bring a positive response to pick up and to bring some friend or some neighbor tonight. That's the attitude of a servant. At least we can try, right? Maybe they'll turn us down, but we can try. But now back to Mary's song. She says there he's helped his servant, Israel, remembering to be merciful. To be merciful to whom? To Abraham and his descendants forever, even as he said to our fathers. And so you can see and fill in uh for yourself that second blank now. Uh God has what? Remembered, good, to be merciful. Now, to Abraham's descendants, who does that refer to? Well, of course, it refers to Israel as Abraham's descendants. But as Galatians chapter 3 tells us, Abraham's descendants, true descendants, are spiritual descendants. And so if you and I are his spiritual descendants this morning by faith in Jesus Christ as our Savior and our Master, then we are Abraham's descendants, and God's mercy is to us. And he has remembered to be merciful. He never forgets to be merciful to you or to me. And so when you and I are tempted to feel that we're abandoned by God, that we're forgotten by God, that there's no more mercy left, Turn your attention. Go back to Luke chapter 1, verse 54 and 55. God has remembered to be merciful to Abraham and to his descendants forever. He never forgets to be merciful to his people. Now, particularly when they don't deserve it. And that's the message, because you see what Mary's doing is she's calling to our attention the Old Testament. She's saying God has been has helped his servant Israel. He's remembered to be merciful to Abraham and to his descendants. And so our minds go back. To Abraham and descendants and the themes of the Old Testament. And we see that one of the main themes that runs through the Old Testament is that God remembers his covenant of mercy to his people. When they don't deserve it. And when he seems to have totally forgotten them. It's at that time that God shows that he remembers his covenant of mercy with his people, and that's the next blank there. And I want first to look at some examples of this. Some examples of God remembering his covenant of mercy with his people. Now it just so happens we'll look at seven examples because that'll make us feel complete after we have finished looking at them. But uh I think there are seven significant examples that we can look at to see how God has remembered his mercy through the Old Testament and in each case to remind ourselves that we fit into that same pattern. The first one is at the flood. At the flood. You remember after the fall of Adam and Eve into sin that God had promised that he would send a Messiah to rescue the human race in Genesis 3. 15. But by the time we get to Genesis chapter 6, God seems to have forgotten about that promise. Because he says in Genesis chapter 6, In verse five, that God saw how great man's wickedness on the earth had become, and that every inclination of his thoughts of his heart was only evil all the time. That's pretty bad. The Lord was grieved that he had made man on the earth, and his heart was filled with pain. And so the Lord said, I will wipe mankind whom I have created from the face of the earth, men and animals, and creatures that move along the ground, and birds of the air, for I am grieved that I have made them. Pretty strong statement. God. What about the promise in Genesis 3? Have you forgotten to be merciful? Have you run out of mercy? Have you run out of patience? It's all over? But then you look at the next verse and what's it say? But Noah. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. In fact, he says then in chapter 8, in verse 1, but God remembered Noah. And all the wild animals and the livestock that were with them in the ark. God remembered Noah. He remembered to be merciful, just as Mary says in Luke 1. 54. He remembered to be merciful. In fact, you know that to this very day, every time you and I see a rainbow, We remember that's a sign to us, just like baptism is a sign to Marcy, to Bill and to Marcy. uh to be able to know that Christie has that sign for her. It's a sign, something to see. And the rainbow is a sign that God will remember To be merciful and never again destroy the world by flood. Even though it rains through your whole vacation and all the plans that you've made, and it seems like it's never going to stop, you know it will. Because God will remember to be merciful, as he says in Genesis chapter 9. When you see the rainbow, I will remember my covenant between me and you and all the living creatures. of every kind. Never again will the waters become a flood to destroy all life. For when the rainbow appears in the clouds I will see it and remember the everlasting covenant between me and all living creatures of every kind. Secondly, we see an example of this to Abraham. To Abraham. Mary says specifically, God has helped the servant Israel, remembering to be merciful to Abraham and to his descendants. And you recall that when God called out Abraham to go to a new land that was totally foreign to him, He called him to be the father of many people, in fact the father of nations. And most particularly to be the father of a new nation of faith in covenant with him. And that promise was given in Genesis 12. That God would be, that Abraham would be a father of multitudes. There's one problem, and that is, of course, that Abraham and Sarah are too old to have children. And so how's God going to pull that off? God says, trust me, Abraham. I made you. I can take care of it. Twenty-four years go by, and God seems to have forgotten his promise. God seems to have forgotten to be merciful to Abraham and to Sarah, and the promise mocks them and simply taunts them with the loss. the lack of any children that they have that they so dearly long for. And they are just like you and me. They try on their own. To work out that promise. To help God out a little bit. But some things can only be done God's way. And God will not allow them to work this out on their own. And sure enough, after 25 years, wrinkled old Sarah is pregnant. And I love how God says it in Genesis chapter 21. Notice what he says when he announces this in verse 1. Now the Lord was gracious to Sarah as he had said. He remembered to be merciful. He hadn't forgotten her. Just as he said, I'm going to give you a child, and he gave her a child. God can't go back on his promises. And the Lord did for Sarah what he had promised. Sarah became pregnant and bore a son to Abraham and his old age at the very time God had promised him. And Abram gave him the name Isaac to the son that Sarah bore him. You know what Isaac means? It means laughter. And I love the way that Michael Card puts it in his new album in a song that he has, which is called, They Called Him, Laughter. Listen to what he says. A barren land and a barren wife made Abraham laugh at his wandering life. A cruel joke it seemed then to call him the father of nations. A heavenly prank? A celestial joke? Because gray hair and babies leave no room for hope. But hoping was something this hopeless old man learned to do. They called him laughter, for he came after the father had made an impossible promise come true, the birth of a baby to a hopeless old lady. So they called him laughter. Because no other name would do. God perhaps has something in your life and in my life where it seems like his promises have been forgotten But he wants for us to come to that place where we'll call that promise laughter. Because the joke was on our unbelief when God remembered his mercy. And then we come to Egypt. And by the way, thanks, Mary Ryan, for that tape. We've been enjoying it this week, and the words are precious. In Egypt, third example, Abraham had Isaac, and Isaac had Jacob, and Jacob had twelve sons, the twelve sons of Israel, because Jacob's name was changed to Israel, called forever after the children of Israel. One of those twelve sons' children was Joseph, and Joseph was sold by his brothers into slavery and taken down to Egypt. For God in his providence raised Joseph up to be second only to Pharaoh so that he might during a time of famine be the means of deliverance for his own family, so that they could come and live in Egypt through that famine. And do you remember how that on his deathbed, when his brothers came to him, Joseph, that man of faith, made his brothers promise that they would take his bones back up to Canaan? And twice he says on his deathbed there, For God will come to your aid, and he will deliver you here from Egypt. I can imagine that scene. And when I picture it, I imagine the brothers sort of elbowing each other and chuckling. And saying, you know, Joseph always was a guy of strange ideas. Who in the world would want to go back to Canaan? God will come to our aid? Get serious. We never had it so good. We're never going to leave Egypt. This is great down here. Who wants Canaan? The promise is irrelevant. The times have a way of changing. And Pharaoh succeeded Pharaoh until hostile pharaohs rose up and they enslaved Israel. And Israel in their bondage saw what was before an irrelevant promise, a promise that came to mock them in their bondage. And so in Exodus chapter 2 and verse 23 we read that the Israelites groaned in their slavery and they cried out, and their cry for help because of their slavery, their cry went up to God. And here they are, crying out to him, God, you've forgotten to be merciful. You've abandoned us. You don't care anymore. You've just left us here in Egypt. Mary says, God has remembered to be merciful to Abraham and his descendants. And so you look back at Exodus chapter 2 and you read the very next verse. After their crying out to God reads in Exodus 2. 24, God heard their groaning, and he remembered his covenant with Abraham and with Isaac and with Jacob. And so God looked on the Israelites and was concerned about them. Do you believe this morning that as you look to God and you're groaning, that he remembers his covenant and that he's concerned about you? The God who made all the heavens and the earth, the God who rules all the stars and galaxies, is concerned about you because he's remembered his covenant with you. Mary says he's remembered to be merciful. So God raises up Moses. And Moses comes to Israel. And he comes with a message of Exodus 6. Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I have remembered my covenant. And therefore say to the Israelites, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. And I will take you as my own people, and I will be your God. For God can never forget his people, but he remembers to be merciful. There we see in the fourth example in the land that God brings them to. He brings them out of Egypt. And he brings them into the land. It may be that there's a bondage that you're in now that God just wants to get your attention. He wants you to cry out to him so that you're not trying to work it out on your own. And he's saying, Come to me so that I can show you my mercy. For mercy can only be shown to those who seek mercy. But he brings them into that land. The book of Judges tells us that seven times over the whole nation forgot him. They went their own ways. They got caught up in making their lives comfortable and secure, the way you and I are inclined to do also. And so God delivered them into the hands of their enemies. Psalm 106 documents this and Looks at a lot of Old Testament history with an overview, a kind of a sweep and an interpretation. And you read there in Psalm 106 and verse 40 that therefore the Lord was angry with his people And he abhorred his inheritance. He handed them over to the nations, and their foes ruled over them. Their enemies oppressed them and subjected them to their power. Many times he delivered them, but they were bent on rebellion. Get that picture? Nothing could turn them around. And they wasted away in their sin. Has God forgotten to be merciful altogether? And surely now it's one too many times and he's abandoned them utterly. But you go on to the next verse, verse 44, and you read, but all the butts of Scripture that are our hope. But He took note of their distress when he heard their cry. For their sake, he remembered his covenant of mercy. And out of his great love. He relented. For God will always remember his covenant of mercy with his people. Mary says, he remembered to be merciful to Abraham and to his descendants. And he delivered them again. But then we come fifthly to the time of the exile, where too often Israel had utterly, arrogantly forsaken the Lord. And so finally, they come to that place where God places them in bondage. And he raises up the Babylonians. In fulfillment of what he'd said in Ezekiel chapter 16, he said, you will bear the consequences of your lewdness and your detestable practices, declares the Lord This is what the sovereign Lord says, I will deal with you as you deserve, because you have despised my oath by breaking the covenant. So God raises up the Babylonians to come in and to destroy them, to destroy their houses, to burn and to rape and to pillage, to sack Jerusalem and the temple. And to be able to then bring back the survivors of all the destruction into bondage back in Babylonia. Surely God has utterly abandoned his people, and he has forgotten to be merciful. Now they've had it. Yet, Ezekiel writes, during that bondage, the message that I just read about how God is going to let you suffer the consequences, your lewdness and your detestable practices. But then he goes right on to the next verse, and what does he say? Yet, here it is again, yet I will remember my covenant. That I made with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish an everlasting covenant with you. Verse 63. Then I will make atonement for you for all that you have done. I will take your sin, he's saying, on myself. And you will remember and be ashamed and never again open your mouth because of your humiliation, declares the sovereign Lord. You'll remember that you're a needy people, and that you need mercy, and you'll never again be arrogant and self-sufficient. That's the work of God in our hearts. Because he remembers to be merciful to us. And so 70 years later God arranged a change in the administration, and just as he's worked in Eastern Europe today, so he changes history and he raises up Osiris who says that the captives of Israel can go free. And they're liberated because God's remembered to be merciful. And only a small minority of them go back, the most of them, the rest of them stay in Babylonia. But they all prosper And as they prosper, they grow rich. And now it's about 300 years later. We're down to 200 BC now in Palestine. Palestine's come under Syrian rule. And in the year 175 B. C. , a madman by the name of Antioch Epiphanes, which means something like God manifest. Kind of a humble fellow. Rose up as king over Syria, wanted to conquer all of Palestine and Egypt. And in a rage he decided to obliterate Judaism in its biblical pure form. Forced the Jews to eat pork. One old man by the name of Eleazar, his soldiers came in and stuffed pork down his throat. The old man choked and spat it out because it was forbidden by God's law to eat pork. And so they beat him to death on the spot. Antioch Epiphanes came into Jerusalem, and in three days he killed forty thousand citizens, cut them down left and right. Went into the very temple, into the Holy of Holies, and offered a pig on God's holy altar and dedicated it to the god Zeus, whose image was remarkably like Antiochus Epiphanes. rededicated. Daniel tells us about this in Daniel chapter 11, verse 31. He says, his, speaking of Antiochus Epiphanes. Armed forces will rise up to desecrate the temple fortress and will abolish the daily sacrifice, and they will set up the abomination that causes desolation. That's referring to that pig sacrifice. And the dedication to Zeus. Surely God has forgotten his people. Surely now God has forgotten to be merciful, and all hope is lost. It doesn't matter that you can look back in the past and say, God has remembered here and here and here. What about now? And this is the sixth item in the Syrian persecution. That's what I'm describing to you, the Syrian persecution. Surely now God has forgotten to be merciful. But read the rest of Daniel 11. And you read in the end of verse 32, right after the verse that I read, but the people who know their God will firmly resist him. And so God raises up an old man, Mattathias, and his sons of the Maccabean household. And they establish a guerrilla resistance. And against incredible odds, they have overwhelming victories against the Syrians. The temple was dedicated to Zeus in 167 BC. Within a space of three years, they were able to mount such successful army resistance against the Syrian army. That on that same day in 164 BC, the temple was rededicated back to the Lord. For God remembered to be merciful to his people. And that's to this very day, celebrated by the festival of Hanukkah, by our Jewish neighbors and friends, who celebrated just this past Wednesday. For God had remembered to be merciful to Abraham and to his descendants forever. Even as he said. Finally we come down to the last point to Mary. Number seven to Mary. After the Maccabeans had fought against the Syrian army and they had. Been so successful. If you read the story from 1 Maccabees and other accounts from Josephus and others, it stirs your heart. The overwhelming odds that those people were successful, and you cannot help but believe that God was doing a supernatural work as like unto the days of Joshua. But the Maccabeans established themselves as the rulers of Judea. And the Maccabean household went to seed in an incredibly rapid succession. The corruption of its rulers was beyond belief. And so things have gone downhill and the days of glory have utterly vanished. So much so that in 63 BC, Rome stepped in with all this foolishness and they put an end to it and conquered Judea for themselves. So now Palestine is once again under oppression in the time of Mary. Herod, that insane Tyrant on the throne, a capricious madman is ruling God's people. Mary says in that context that it was in this hour, God said that in the fullness of time he sent forth his son. Had God forgotten to be merciful? Was all hope lost? Mary says in verse 49, the mighty one has done great things for me. Holy is his name. His mercy extends to those who fear him from generation to generation. He has helped his servant Israel, remembering to be merciful to Abraham and his descendants forever, even as he said to our fathers. That applies to you, if you're trusting Jesus as your Savior and your master now. Because the mercy that God showed through Mary was to send his own son, come in the flesh. To be an eligible lamb, that he might bear the sin, the guilt that you and I deserve to bear at God's hand. We don't deserve his mercy. We deserve to be cursed for our arrogance and pride pictured by the people of Israel and fulfilled in our own lives. But God is remembered to be merciful. To those of us who cry out for mercy Who don't cry out, God, give me what I deserve. Just give me a fair shake and I'll be okay. God, even if you mark on a curve, I'll be okay. But God, I deserve nothing but your wrath And I'm sure to get it if you're a just God. But you've remembered to be merciful by sending your own son. And so look what Isaiah chapter 44 says. And the promise that God has given. In Isaiah chapter 44 we read Remember these things, O Jacob, for you are my servant, O Israel. I have made you. You are my servant, O Israel. I will not forget you. And what does that mean that God will not forget you? The next verse, I have swept away your offenses like a clown. Your sins, like the morning mist, return to me, for I have redeemed you. You see, the most important thing God can do in showing us mercy is not to make our lives comfortable and secure, to pay all our bills, and to provide the experiences and the things that we'd like to have. The most important thing is that he shows mercy on our sin and that he wipes it away so that we have a clear conscience to be able to enjoy anything. For he's remembered to be merciful to you if you've looked to Jesus for mercy. And will he ever forget you, whatever your need? Look what he says in Isaiah chapter 49, verses 15 and 16. God says, Can a mother forget the baby at her breast and have no compassion on the child that she has born? Yeah, he says, it's possible. Yeah, we think, it's not possible. How can a mother ever forget her own baby How could she forget that baby at her breast and and say, oh, I forgot my kid. You know, left it somewhere. Um saw it last Thursday, but you know, I don't know what's happened to it. Could a mother forget her baby? God says that's conceivable, it's possible, it happens, but I will not forget you. You're more precious to me than a baby to its mother. See, he says, I have engraved you. On the palms of my hands. God says, every time I look at myself. Metaphor, of course, of God is spirit, but he says, every time I look at myself There you are before me. I can never get you out of my sight. That's what he says in the end of that. You are ever before me. So there's sometimes that you're going to be tempted like I am to think that God's forgotten you. You're going to feel like God's forgotten to be merciful. You slipped out of his mind, and you're on your own. Mary says, never believe it. Because in Jesus Christ, you are ever before God's face. He will never forget you. And so because he has shown such mercy to you and to me, Let's remember at this time of the year to be merciful to others, others who have wronged us, who need our forgiveness and mercy, and others who are needy in their own right. For God, our God, is a merciful God. Let's pray. Lord our God, we come to praise and thank you for your mercy to us. You will never forget us. May we rest in that whatever our need at this moment. Teach us to be merciful. In Jesus name. Amen.