You know, the more you study the resurrection narratives in the Bible, the more you discover little gems of spiritual truth and revelations of the character of Jesus in those Titanic events Last year, as I was meditating on the resurrection accounts, I was run to something I had never noticed or thought about before. And that is how much Jesus prophesied about his resurrection before his death And that's particularly intriguing when you realize that as you read the resurrection accounts, not only did none of the disciples believe he was going to rise from the dead, none of them even remembered that he said he was going to rise from the dead. Then I began to think about the difference that that made to them, that they neither remembered or believed the words that he had said. Luke seems to call attention to this. The passage that you heard us read, heard Tom read just a few minutes ago. You notice in Luke 24, verse 8, those simple words, then they remembered his words. Then they remembered his words. Now remember the context of that is that you have a group of women Sunday morning after Jesus' crucifixion. And you've got this group of women, at least four of them are named, and they're headed to the tomb in order to anoint Jesus' body with spices. And uh they're fretting and they're wondering, you know, how are we gonna get in the tomb because there's this big stone that the Romans have putting there and how are we gonna get to do the job and all these things they're wondering about. When they get to the tomb it turns out that the stone's gone. And there's no Roman guard, they're gone, in fact, the body's gone. And in its place, there's two men And they're actually angels, but these two men say what you read there in verse six, they say, you know, why why are you looking for the living one among the dead? And then notice what after that, verse 6, he's not here. He has risen. Remember how he told you. Probably still with you in Galilee. The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, be crucified, and on the third day be raised again. Remember that And then verse eight. Then they remembered his words. I love that, you know. Oh, oh Oh those words. Oh yeah, you know, like oh you you like he really meant that, huh? You know, I mean that's kind of amazing because it's not like he said that in some cryptic parable where he kind of sneaked in, you know. Oh He said it over and over. And that's what I had never really noticed. Have you ever noticed that? Now, for instance, in Luke chapter 9, in verse 22, early in his ministry, Jesus said, The Son of Man must suffer many things, be rejected by the elders, chief priests. Teachers of the law, he must be killed, and on the third day be raised to life. That was a couple years ago. I mean you can't get much more specific than that, you know. I mean it's not you know some vague third day be raised to life. You know, or you take Luke chapter 18 A different occasion where Jesus talking to the disciples takes them aside, told them we're going up to Jerusalem Everything that's written by the prophets about the Son of Man will be fulfilled. He'll be handed over to the Gentiles. They will mock him, insult him, spit on him, flog him. I mean that's really specific, isn't it? You know, right down to flogging, spitting. And kill him. On the third day he will rise again. I mean, what can be clearer? But then look at verse 34. The disciples didn't understand any of this. You relate to that, you know? His meaning was hidden from them. They didn't know what he was talking about. I mean, you know He can't really mean what that sounds like, so we don't understand what he means. Now besides Luke, then uh Matthew gives us a couple of other instances. These are not parallel accounts, these are different instances, different circumstances. Such as in Matthew 17 in verse 9, after Jesus has been transfigured. And he takes Peter, James, and John down from the mountain. He says, Don't tell anybody about this until I have risen from the dead. Then in verse 22, when they came together in Galilee, remember the angel says in Luke, said to you while he was still in Galilee. So they're up in Galilee, he says to them, the Son of Man is going to be betrayed into the hands of men. They will kill him, and on the third day he will be raised to life. And the disciples say, wow, no, you're filled with grief. All they hear is he's going to die. The rest of it just doesn't compute. Now I mean, this is not like this was way back, you know. The night of the Lord's Supper, the last supper, Thursday night, this is Sunday morning, Thursday night, four days ago Do you remember when Jesus told them this very night, you will all fall away on account of me, for it's written, I will strike the shepherd, the sheep of the flock will be scattered. But after I have risen, I'll go ahead of you into Galilee. That was just four days ago. And nobody remembered it. Well, it's it's not even like those are the only times. There are a number of other times that Jesus said this in implicit ways. It just runs through his ministry. Like, you know, for instance, remember Matthew chapter 12, verse 40? He's talking about comparison of Old Testament in him. He says, you know, as in Jonah, as Jonah was three days in the belly of the fish, so the Son of Man will be three days in the heart of the earth. Hmm, what's that about? You know, remember John 2 when he's cleansing the temple and he says, go ahead, destroy this temple. Pointing to his body, John says he was indicating his body. Destroy this temple, and in three days I'll raise it up. That wasn't just to his disciples. That's to the crowd. That was to his enemies. You know, or or you take again on that night, right in those last discourses before Jesus goes off to pray in Gethsemane, remember He's telling them John 16, verses 16 to 23, again and again, again, I'm going to go away, and you're going to be sad, but I'm going to come back. And you're going to be rejoiced. I'm going to see you in just a little bit. You know, take heart. I'm going away for now, but it's just going to be for a little bit. It doesn't say three days, but just a little short time, and I'll be right back. And with all of that, all of those words They didn't believe. And they didn't remember. None of it was in their minds. Now we can look at that and you know I I dare say that most, if not all, of you in this room are pretty familiar with those accounts, that is, the resurrection and Jesus had uh said something like that. Maybe didn't realize how many times he said it, how explicitly he said it, but you know, we're aware that Jesus said it and he rose And it can lose some of its impact. And that'd be very unfortunate. Because this morning you need to try to get with your imagination back there and realize nobody had ever said that before. Nobody ever said, uh, after I die, I'm going to come back. You'll see me. In fact, I began to think about that, and I was thinking, did anybody ever say that? Any religious leader ever. Muhammad never said that. Buddha never said that. Did anybody ever say that? And um did any leader Anywhere who wasn't a flake ever say that. I mean I I don't know of anybody. It's recorded of them. Um thought of a couple possibilities I'd heard that uh Rabbi Lubovich, you know, that uh small sect of very orthodox Jews, and I had heard that uh he had said that he would come back from the dead So my faithful research assistant, Pat Mitzel, you know, Pat's kind of person, I ask her a question before I walk out of the room, she's got the answer, you know, she's on the answer. She she checked this all out. Look all And uh turns out that Rabbi Lubovich apparently never said he was gonna come back from the dead. He didn't, in fact, explicitly claim to be Messiah, said that others called him Messiah. He didn't deny it or he didn't affirm it, but Never said he'd come back from the dead. The other person I thought about was Harry Houdini. Did you ever hear Harry Houdini said that's that'll be my final escape You know, the great escape artist, you know, tie him all up with locks and everything, throw them in a safe, throw it down in a river, and up he comes, you know. Wow. You know. So I had heard that Harry De Houdini said, My final escape is I'm gonna escape from the grave So we checked out Harry Houdini. Turns out he never said that. Now he did have a lot of interest in whether you could communicate from beyond the grave. In fact, he spent a lot of his time and energy in his career Exposing fake mediums. And it turns out that uh he and his beloved wife Beth Bess made a secret compact that um if when one of them died uh they established a secret code to know if they in fact were communicating from beyond the grave The code would spell the word believe through the means of ten random unassociated words plus the name of the song she sang the night that they met that only they knew Harry Houdini died on Halloween, October 31, 1926. For the next ten years, every Halloween best conducted a seance. To see if Harry would communicate through that secret code the word believe. And you know what? On Halloween night, October 1936 Nothing happened. After ten years she gave up. He never communicated Now, let that sink in a little bit. Here is this man, Jesus, and through his career, a number of times he says Here's how I'm going to die, and three days later I am going to rise from the dead. He's not only the only person who ever said that, he's the only person who ever did it. Amen? Jesus is absolutely unique. Now, why did he do that? But he's just trying to say, I just went, you know, I told you so. When you see it happened, you know, you heard it first from me. No, I don't think that's why at all. I think the reason that Jesus did that Was because he knew that when he was taken, arrested, when he was beaten around, when he was tormented, he would appear to be absolutely powerless It would appear at that point that all of God's promises, all that they had hoped for through Jesus was crumbling, that he in fact wasn't who he said he was that he was going to be shamed, disgraced, killed, and all of their hopes would be dashed. And so because Jesus cared about their faith, because Jesus in his tenderness wanted to prepare them, he says, I want you to know. That when that happens, I'm still in control. It's still part of the plan, and I'm going to come back. You see, Jesus wants to encourage your faith. You may be going through difficult circumstances. You may be going through times when you're worried, anxious about something. Things aren't going the way you would think that God, if he was your heavenly father, would have them to go. And sometimes we look at Jesus as if he's always just trying to test our faith. Lord, you're trying to see how hard you can make it for me to believe you. See that sometimes? But you see from these accounts, Jesus actually always wants to give you hope. He wants to show you that he knows what's going on, that his words are true, and he wants to encourage you, but you need to remember his words, you think? You need to know those words. You need to study those words. You need to, in your regular time through the day, every day, every week, you need to be treasuring up those words so you know what Jesus claims to do, what his promises are. So that when the times come when it seems like your world's falling apart like it was with them, you remember his words. And he gives you hope At this point I noticed a very interesting irony in this story, in fact, two ironies The first is that his disciples uniformly did not remember what he had promised. But his enemies did. Isn't that interesting? None of his disciples remembered But his enemies did. Do you remember if we looked last week in Matthew 26 after Jesus was crucified, the Jewish leaders come to Pilate and what do they say? We remember what that deceiver said, how He was going to rise from the dead after three days. The enemies remember that. Wasn't lost on them. And so they say, okay. Establish a Roman guard, seal the tomb, so that his disciples don't come and steal the body, and the last deception will be worse than the first. Sure would be His enemies remembered. But the women forgot Then they remembered his words. See, they're fretting all the way to the tomb. How are we going to get in? What's going to happen? Then They don't even believe it after they're told by the women that the grave's empty. They still don't believe it. Nobody even at that point says, oh well remember, he did say. Nobody says that. Nobody remembered Second irony is even more striking, and that is that their intent in remembering his words was to discredit him. The intent was, Pilate, we don't just make sure that there's no rumor that gets around about how Jesus rose from the dead because the disciples are going to steal his body. So make sure you seal it and guard it so nobody can do that. And it's the very act of their seeking to discredit him that becomes one of the most weighty evidences for the resurrection. See, if they hadn't said that, there wouldn't have been any guard or seal. And you said, well, who knows what happened? But the enemies ensured that the tomb was sealed and guarded. So what they intended to discredit him actually exalts him And causes the resurrection to be much more credible. And that reminds you of Psalm 2. Remember last week when we read from Acts 4 in the prayer of the disciples, and they say Uh Lord, you you hear you, sovereign God, who made heaven and earth. And they quote from Psalm 2, Why do the nations rage and the people imagine a vain thing? They shake their fists and they refuse to have you rule over them. And the God of heaven laughs them to scorn, remember? There it is right there. You see, you see, you imagine the Lord, you know, there they are down there. We're going to guard this too. Make sure there's no rumor about his resurrection. And God says, I'm going to use that exactly to accomplish the opposite, so that it will glorify me. Isn't that wonderful? I mean, isn't that amazing The sovereignty and the wisdom, the precision of the God that you and I serve. You know that means that what Satan intends for your harm God uses exactly that for your good and for his glory. Isn't that amazing? You see right there in the resurrection accounts. There's so many things to learn of the heart of God in these accounts. Amazing. Also, I noticed in this a couple kind of by the way small evidences of the truth of the New Testament accounts. The first is the uh fact that uh the four resurrection accounts, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, uh, are clearly independent accounts because they have what on the surface look like some contradictions, which if you Look at them and take them from their different perspectives, you can easily reconcile them. So they weren't built on each other. Uh and yet here's one example of how they are perfectly consistent. Lo All four of them say that none of the disciples or the women, that none of them remembered Jesus' words. And along with that, I find the second evidence psychologically even more persuasive, and that is it's a very unflattering thing for them to say. Now, you know, I can imagine if I was writing something like that, because the only alternative to the resurrection accounts being true is that they were made up you know, they're deceived or something. So let's suppose you're writing it and you know, you know, it's not really true, but you're you're writing it. You want to put this in, you know, to make this thing really seem like it's true. Well, you know, psychologically you're going to say something about, well, you know, we were struggling with our faith. We didn't know, you know, would he really do it? Because they've taken the trouble to record how You know, again and again and again, eight ten times that he had said he would rise from the dead. So, you know, what do we do with that? Well they don't. What they say is, nobody even remembered. So they're not heroically struggling. They're obtuse Like you and me, you know, it'd be just kinda like, oh yeah, oh well, that nobody remembered that. You wouldn't do that if you were gonna write the account, would you? I mean just especially in those days, they wouldn't have done that There's just no parallel to that in ancient literature. Amazing. Really amazing. I don't know if you can Wrap your mind around all that. But you know, it's just so true. The foolishness of our unbelief. We don't believe because we don't remember. We dismiss what he says. Another detail to notice in this is that there's probably five appearances of Jesus on the first day of the resurrection. Luke records only two of them. And the two that he records are notable in this regard, about this, because they both deal with this idea of remembering. And uh in and they're in contrast, The first time uh you have the account Jesus uh talking to the two disciples, remember on their way back to Emmaus. And in that case he rebukes them. If you look at verse twenty-five after they've given all this hang-dong You know, uh how have you been the only one doesn't know we thought he was gonna be Messiah and we were wrong and this all the world's gonna pot and everything, you know Jesus says in verse 25, How foolish you are and how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, besides what I said. Did not the Messiah, the Christ, have to suffer these things and then enter into his glory? Didn't you know this was going to happen? You know, it was there for you to see. Did you see that? What's interesting to me is that that's how he responds to them, but then you take the the inner ten, the ones that have heard it again and again and again and again And it's rather different. You look in verse 36, and this is the evening now. The disciples have gone back and they've told us, you know, we've seen the Lord, you know, and all this, but they haven't seen, so they're still not believing. They're just still there wringing their hands behind the doors. While they were still talking about this, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. That's a gentle greeting, isn't it? He didn't say, what is with you guys? Well you're sitting here on peace with you. Then they were startled and frightened, thinking they saw a ghost, and he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts rise in your minds? Look at my hands and my feet. It is I myself. Touch me and see. A ghost doesn't have flesh and bones, as you see that I have. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet, and while they stood and believed, because of joy and amazement, he asked him, Would you have anything to eat? So they gave him a piece of broiled fish. And he took it and he ate it in their presence. That's a precious verse to a lot of Christians that love to think that the resurrected body will still eat. Good news. And then he said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. See, remember, remember what I told you Well, I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that's written about me and the law and the prophets, the Psalms, and he opened their minds so they could understand the scriptures. Remember this by telling you, I told you, according to the scriptures, the Son of Man would be betrayed, he would be flogged, spit on, crucified, three days later I'd rise. Now, if that was me, you know how different my heart is from Jesus. You know, I probably would have said something like Hey guys, remember? I mean like what ten times I told you this before I went to the cross and You know, and then I would I would point out all the different times. Remember when we were on that road? Remember when I said it? Oh yeah, yeah. Remember when I'm coming down to Jerusalem and I said it You know, remember and remember when I was in the temple, remember I was talking about Jonah, remember saying, you know, well until you know they're getting smaller and smaller and saying, all right, all right, all right, you're stupid. All right, all right, all right, you know You know, because you just you just mmm I told you this and you didn't listen. You know, any of your parents identify with that? You know, or or you know, maybe I put some sarcasm in it. You know, I kind of like, you know, the last couple of days would have been a little nicer if you just believed me rather than just sitting here forgetting what I was talking about, you know. But he doesn't do that. He's so gentle. This is what I told you while I was still with you. That everything must be fulfilled, as it was written. And then he opens their minds and he says, Let me help you to see more. Here's what I was talking about. The heart of our Lord Jesus is so tender, isn't it? That's the Jesus that you and I serve. That's what he's like. He's so worth getting to know him. It's so worth getting to know his words, to memorize them, so that you remember them. Because you see, that's the same thing today. The uh way to peace is to remember for you and for me You know, the the women's fretting, all their wasted effort getting all those several pounds of spices together was because they didn't remember You know, a custom of those days was you'd take several pounds of spices and then you would anoint the body and embalm it so that um there wouldn't be a stench when the body's decomposing because they weren't buried underground, they were buried in caves and it wasn't like they put a caulk around them, you know, it was just there they were and So uh they would leave the bodies there to um decompose and after about two years then they would go in, they'd get the bones out and they would stick them in an ossuary box and they would inscribe it and put it somewhere, and then they'd recycle the cave. They just reuse the tomb again. And so uh, you know, that's recycling. Uh And that's why the Bible says that uh Joseph of Arimathea put him in a new tomb that hadn't been used. It was unusual. See, most tombs had been used. You know, there had been 10, 15 people rotten away in there before you got in there. But Jesus was in a new tomb. Now they go to all this trouble, and they get there, and he's gone. All that grief, all that work, because they didn't remember his words. And the men are even worse. I mean, you know, not only um are they not doing anything, so they're idle. Women at least have something to do to occupy 'em. They're just sitting there moaning and And all their grief and besides that their grief is doubly bad because they're thinking of how they failed him, they abandoned him, so they got their grief mixed with guilt. And they're just miserable, absolutely miserable. Imagine if one of them had thought, one of them said, Hey guys, you remember when Jesus said, I'm going to rise from the dead three days? I mean, you know. Do you remember him saying anything he didn't do? What would it have been like if that third day, that Sunday morning, you as one of his disciples, you wake up and you say, you know, this is the day Lord, how are you gonna do it? What are you gonna look like? How's it gonna happen? Shall I go to the tomb to see, see him come out, or w what should I do? But breathless anticipation, waiting, but instead the misery of our unbelief. You know, what really determines your frame of mind and your emotions is not what's happening to you. It's what you believe about the nature of reality. It's what you believe. And if you don't remember his word, you're stuck in your circumstances. But if you remember the words of Jesus, there's always hope. For he who died and rose from you, conquered death, walked out of that tomb. Then there's always hope, whatever your circumstances. And Jesus intends for you to live in that hope, not in despair. Not in hopelessness. The fruit of the Spirit is hope. Hope for you, hope for me. And it's in this circumstance, right here in Luke 24, that Jesus gives three other promises That you and I live by or forget every day. The first is that he said this gospel is going to go to all the nations. Verse 47, repentance and forgiveness of sins are going to be preached in his name to all the nations, beginning in Jerusalem. This word's going to go out. It's going to go. It's going to transform lives, not just here in Jerusalem, but in Judea and Samaria and all over the earth. That's just as unlikely as I'm gonna rise again from the dead at that point, isn't it? I mean here's just this little Jewish sect of dozen guys, you know, reduced to eleven and And he's saying, uh, this is going to be a world movement. People all over the world are going to respond to this message to believe in me and have their lives changed. And they say, well, um You know, I guess somebody that says I'll rise from the dead and did that could do this too, and 2,000 years later we look back and we say, he did it. And he's still doing it. And we're still seeing it. Whether it's a project in Sandtown where we're bringing the gospel into Baltimore to say we want you to know to why we're coming in here to build this house, or whether it's going to mission work in Japan this summer Where we say, we want you to know why we're here, it's because of Jesus. The risen Jesus can change lives. We're here to share that And if this morning you're here and you're saying, I don't understand that and I don't have that hope, I've got an offer and a challenge for you. And it's that you read one gospel, there's four of them, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Read one a week. We can give you two weeks to get started. Because we want to have a discussion of each of those gospels. And we can't meet next week because next week we're going to have the middle hour for the kickoff for the facility. And we hope every one of you will be able to be here to begin that celebration, that great time that we're going to be uh kicking this whole thing off a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and so um come here for that so that means we're not gonna have regular classes So on April the 10th, you read the Gospel of Matthew, meet over in the lounge over there in the house, and an elder will lead a discussion on Matthew. Get to know Jesus, get to know his words, get to know what he's like. And then on April 17th, they discussed the Gospel of Mark, on the 24th, the Gospel of Luke, and May the 1st discuss the Gospel of John. You see it right there in your bullet, so you don't have to. Forget. You won't forget. And we've offered this before, and we have people that always take us up on it. I hope you do if you if you think, you know, I don't know this Jesus, and I I would like to know him better. This this um discussion assumes no knowledge of the Bible And if you don't have a Bible, just take one out of the rack in the back. Borrow it and use that. First four books of the New Testament, just Matthew this next two weeks. Get to know him. Get to know him who alone can change your life and give you peace and hope. And then you notice the second thing he says is that he's going to give you unique power, the power of the Spirit, verse 49. I'm going to send you what my Father has promised, but stay in the city until you've been clothed with power from on high. You remember how we've looked at the book of Acts, how Jesus picks up on that, and you'll receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. In Pentecost, the Spirit came in power. And so Paul says in Ephesians 1, I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you might know the power that is at work in you. What is that power? The power that raised Jesus from the dead. That's the power that he says is at work in Orthodox Presbyterians in 2005. Us Not just special super Christians of other ages. You believe that's for you? And as Jesus said, I'm going to rise from the dead, said, I'm giving you this Spirit with that same power. Do you believe that? If you remember his words, it'll make all the difference in your life this week. Right. And then finally notice that he said, I'm gonna come back Because Acts picks up on that same conversation and develops and remember how Jesus had said In John 14, I'm going to prepare a place for you, and I'm going to come back and receive you to myself. And so in Acts 1, which is just the second volume of Luke Luke tells us how after he said that, they watched, and Jesus ascended into the heavens, went up into the clouds. And they're all kind of looking, you know, and there he goes. He's gone. They don't know what to do, they just keep looking. A couple of angels come in and say, why are you guys to stare up into heaven? That same Jesus that you've seen go. He's gonna come back in the same way. That same Jesus someday. What if uh you knew somehow, which you can't? That Jesus would be back before the end of 2005. How would that affect how you live, how you think? Make any difference He knew he was coming back before the end of this year. My point is, even though we don't know that, we are called to live in the light of that hope. Because he who said, I will rise, said, I will return. The fact that he made good on rising means he'll make good on returning. And you and I are called to remember his words, so that when he comes, and we're caught up with him in the air They don't write of us. Oh, then they remembered his words. Oh, you meant really return, huh? So you and I are called to live What I call flying by the instruments. You've probably heard that old illustration, you know Sometimes it seems like your life is like flying a plane in a storm at night and you don't know which way is up and which way is down, whether the plane's ascending or descending or whether it's in a turn or what it's doing And you cannot, they say, if you're in that situation, you're a pilot, you cannot go by your feelings. They'll always lie. The only thing you can do is trust the instruments. You trust the gyros and you trust the altimeter. You remember that the instruments are true And this morning Jesus is calling you to remember his words. And in whatever's going on in your life, you remember his words are true. And he who rose will return. And he wants you to live in that hope. Let's pray. So our God, make us aware of that hope and the treasure of the gospel that you give to us Lord, we want to always revert to our feelings, to stew and to fret. But you, Lord Jesus, have risen from the dead just as you said you would. We want to be a people this day that believe that and remember your words and study this word and read this word and get familiar with this word so that In those tough times in our lives when things seem to be falling apart for us, we remember your words and find hope and peace. And that we can live in the light of the hope of your return. For you who rose will return, and you who were faithful to your promise will be faithful to all your promises to us. Lord, give us your spirit to believe and to walk in them. In Jesus' name. Amen.