What this verse teaches us is that there is a cost to being a disciple of Jesus Christ. That's not popular to discuss today, but it's true. Do you remember in that verse, Paul, in one of the most basic verses, basic commitments, call to commitments, I believe, in the entire New Testament, very strategically placed Paul begins that call for you and for me to bring our living into equilibrium with our calling He begins that with, as a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life in equilibrium to the calling that you've received. Paul is saying here, to live as a Christian is likely going to cost you something. I appeal to you as a prisoner. Do you remember chapter 3, verse 1? Just as he was about to begin the prayer that finally comes in verse 14, he began that for this reason I, Paul, the prisoner. of Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles. And then he goes on to speak of his calling to bring the gospel to the Gentiles. And if you read in Acts chapter 21 to 28 you find that Paul suffered in prison from one prison to another, beaten and mistreated because of his commitment to bring the gospel to the Gentiles. And so we see in those chapters, Paul paid a price that eventually led to his execution in a Roman prison. And so in verse 13, he says, I ask you therefore not to be discouraged, because of my sufferings for you, which are your glory. And you and I tend to look back at that and we say, yeah, Paul was one of those victims of Roman persecution. Those were rough days to be a Christian. People were thrown to the lions, burned at stakes, and we hear of all those stories, and most of us are familiar with the Roman persecutions, and we say it was a good thing. That God turned the tide of history with Constantine. And then Christians were free. What a relief. And we realize that there has been persecution since then From time to time, there have been the Inquisitions, for instance, or during the time of the Reformation, there were the Huguenots that suffered some massacres. There were the Covenanters who were tortured in Scotland. There have been those times throughout the period of the last 2,000 years. We realize, as Richard Wormbrandt and Brother Andrew and others have reminded us, that the communists tortured Christians and the church behind the Iron Curtain. There have been those kinds of situations. But praise God, the communist monolith has fallen. Christians are free now in Eastern Europe. We see the church making great strides around the world. And we see Christianity on the move, we see Christianity gaining immense popularity in every continent of the world. And so we're in a new day now. Persecution is largely a thing of the past. And then Every once in a while, there'll be a little article that will break through. For instance, a couple weeks ago, you would have gotten this in your bulletin. And you read the second headline. Muslim mobs in Indonesia destroy ten churches. Muslim mobs recently attacked and destroyed ten churches in southern Indonesia city of Surabaya as Christians gathered for Sunday worship. Now you need to understand that Indonesia is one of the places where the gospel is making some of the greatest inroads and is growing more rapidly than almost any other nation on the earth. And it was there in Indonesia that more than 5,000 Muslims took part in the riots, storming buildings, destroying church equipment and furnishings, and beating anyone who offered resistance. Many church members were hurt and hospitalized in the attacks. Indonesia is a predominantly Muslim nation with more than 83% of the 200 million population claiming the Islamic faith. Can you imagine sitting here Sunday morning, just as in we're in our third or our fourth praise song, a group of Muslims come storming through the two back doors? With Uzi's and they begin to shoot and they begin to destroy the building and then they set it on fire and some are beaten, some are killed as they seek to escape in the panic. It's very hard for us to even imagine that that would go on today, isn't it? But it is. Before you take a look at current thoughts and trends, the August 1996 issue, your attention is caught by the headline, Revival Wind Blows Across Latin America. Your heart thrills to read that during the last decade the population of Latin American Protestants has increased by 220%. From 18. 6 million to 59. 4 million in 10 years. Secular researchers report that 400 Latin Americans convert to Christianity every hour. In Peru, a new Protestant church is begun every eight hours. A new church in Peru every eight hours. Rio de Janeiro, one new congregation planted every single day. You say, praise God, that's great. It's really good to know what God's doing. But you tend to skip the next article. So the next article talks about Sudan. In Sudan, radical Muslims have been accused of attempting genocide of Christians in the South. Jacobson says that the CSI Christian Solidarity International, which tracks some of these things, estimates That over the past six years, 1. 5 million Sudanese Christians have been killed, and over 5 million have become refugees. Children are the special targets of the Muslim extremists desiring to destroy all traces of Christianity from the Islamic Republic. Can that statistic begin to sink in? Do you realize what that means? How long have we heard of the terrible persecution of the Holocaust? A terrible blot upon Western civilization. Six million Jews. But in the last six years, one quarter of the Holocaust has taken place in Sudan. How much have you heard about that? A quarter as much? Or in Iran, Christians have been kidnapped, imprisoned, tortured. In Vietnam, the police used the lure of legal Bibles to register Christians for later persecution. China has been extremely active in persecuting Christians since the renewal of the most favored nation trading status with the United States in 1994. Or to sum it up, think of this. More Christians have been martyred in the twentieth century. Than in all the nineteen previous centuries since Christ More Christians have lost their lives for the faith in this century than all the previous nineteen centuries since Christ. More Christians have been martyred, killed in this century than all the people who have lost their lives in all the wars of this century. The best estimate is about a hundred million Christians have been killed in the twentieth century for their faith. That's 150,000 Christians a year, 411 Christians every single day. In this century. And it's increasing. Not much attention has been brought to this. It's the kind of thing that most people don't want to think about. And particularly in the light of what we've been looking at in Ephesians, it can bring a real tension. When you read Paul's prayer, which we've looked at in the last weeks. Where he says that, he prays that you and I will know the dimensionless love of Christ and the fathomless power of Christ. And you say, how in the world can I swear that? A God who loves me infinitely and who has infinite power With rotting away in a prison, with having my teeth knocked out, being beaten, in one case, some rebels beat, brutalized, dismembered Christians, and then had kids take the body parts on sticks and parade them through the village. You and I can't begin to think. How do you square that with the love and the power of Christ? But one thing is absolutely clear. It doesn't contradict Scripture. Remember that we said when we looked at that prayer, there is no chapter divisions in the Bible. Immediately after Paul says, Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all that we ask or even imagine, According to the power that is at work within us, to him be power in the church and in Jesus Christ throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. As a prisoner of the Lord, I then urge you. You see, no break. In Paul's mind, there was no disconnect. Jesus, who gave his life for you and suffered on the cross, calls you to share in his sufferings. That, brothers and sisters, is the norm, not the exception. In some way, subtle or obvious You and I are called to share in the sufferings of Christ. But most of us don't realize the kind of violation of human rights. the kind of atrocities that are being carried out systematically against Christians in our day. You know the most shocking thing about this is that this has been going on and increasing for years. For time from time to time I've had little bits of information has come through and made me aware of this. But there has been no call to any kind of response among Christians in the United States. until a Jewish man sounded the alarm. That amazing? Reason we are thinking about this today. is because a Jewish man that you will see on a videotape in the middle hour that we're going to show, canceling all classes to have this special video and a time together in the middle hour to consider this And there you'll see that man speak. And what caught his attention was as one who had been a researcher of the Holocaust. He said he saw some chilling parallels with what was now being done to Christians. And so he felt that he, as a Jewish man needed to call attention to this out of the basic sense of human solidarity. And so at the beginning of this last year, January 1996, National Association of Evangelicals, a number of groups called together over a hundred Christian leaders for the first time. And they considered this problem. National Association of Evangelicals drew up a statement of conscience. And that will be available. We'll consider that later. But they've called on Christians to break the silence as part of the most powerful nation in the world to begin to exercise righteous pressure. And we'll be considering that more in the middle hour. But the result of all of that was that a number of Christian leaders called September the 29th of this fall a day of persecution, a day of prayer for the persecuted church. For a number of reasons. We didn't celebrate it then. We're celebrating it or recognizing it, observing it today. And so there will be the opportunity to come together and to pray this afternoon for the persecuted church. Now what is it that we're called actually to do in the light of this information? Do we have some responsibility for it, or is it the kind of thing you just kind of feel bad? You know, it's Puts a dent in your day and you say that's too bad I'll try to remember to pray certain times and what else can I do? Well when I first heard about this, I didn't have any of the materials that we have now that will be available for this afternoon as we pray together very specifically, country by country, for the kind of things you heard about up here just before I came up. And I began to look at Scripture to see, well, what does the Scripture say about this? And I came across a verse, Hebrews chapter 13, verse 3, that absolutely stunned me. When I saw this verse, I had never noticed it in this context before. I had never realized that there was a verse that spoke so precisely to our situation. Hebrews chapter 13, after all of the statement about the superiority of Messiah. The author of Hebrews brings some concluding remarks to Christians about love for one another. Verse 1, keep on loving each other as brothers. Do not forget to entertain stranger, for by so doing, some people have entertained angels without knowing it. And then this verse, this is God's word to you and to me. Remember those in prison, as if you were their fellow prisoners. And those who are mistreated as if you yourselves were suffering. How do you feel when you read that verse? You ever realize that was in the Bible? Remember those in prison as if you were their fellow prisoners, and those who are mistreated as if you yourselves were suffering. What are we called to do? Five points very quickly in preparation for what we'll see in the middle hour. Number one, what we are called to do in this text, we are called to remember. That's the first point. We are called to remember. It's a one-word command. The only thing you're told to do in this verse, remember them. Bring them to mind. Do not ignore them. We haven't known about this, have we? You say, well, you know, I couldn't remember him, I wasn't aware of it. Well, there are people now who are making us aware of this. We thought that because communism fell in many ways, many places, that meant that things for Christianity were better. Do you know it's actually worse? Since the fall of communism in Eastern Europe? You say, how could it be worse? The reason it's worse is because in the countries where communism is still the dominant and the monolithic policy, China Vietnam, North Korea, Cuba, places like that, those governments recognize as our secular press has never recognized that it was the Christian church that brought the fall of communism. Therefore, they see the Christian church as the greatest threat to their staying in power, and they are determined to crush it. So the hostility in places where the Christian church still exists under communist rule is now much more repressed than it was before. They're determined that's not going to happen to them. The bigger threat than communism is militant Islam. For militant Islam has recently declared a holy war on Christianity in a number of places. Iran's militant Islamic president delivered recently a fiery sermon declaring, quote, There is no longer validity to any other religion than Islam. And that Iran and the entire Muslim world must adopt the Prophet and Jihad holy war as a model. Two weeks later, Reverend Hike Hosepin Mayer, leader of the Iranian Assemblies of God Church, was kidnapped, tortured, and murdered by unknown assailants. We have his picture in this book. His successor and head of the Iranian Protestant Council, Presbyterian minister Tateus McGillian, vanished. And was found brutally murdered a few months later. A third prominent and beloved Iranian pastor, Mahidi Dibaj, was martyred at the same time. Or you take Sudan that I mentioned earlier. The government of Sudan is Muslim It is the Muslim faith that is motivating not only the murder and the uh pushing the Christians out of their homes and selling many into slavery. Interesting thing as an example of what I was talking about. This has been well documented, the sale of Christians as slaves in uh Sudan in Sudan. Sometimes for just manual labor, sometimes as sex slaves. There's also been reports of uh crucifixions of Christians in the mountains These things are all going on. And in the Columbia Flyer this week, I don't know how many of you saw it, there was a fellow who reported having been an eyewitness of the slaves, but no mention of it being part of Christian persecution. So occasionally this creeps into the secular press, but not in terms of the spiritual element of what's going on, but more just a cultural kind of thing. And so the information is there. Or you take um in Kuwait, five years ago our nation spent millions of dollars and risked a number of American lives to free Kuwait. Kuwait, in Kuwait it is now punishable by death to become a Christian You may have heard the case of a fellow by the name of Hussain Kambar Ali, became a Christian, studying at Temple University in Philadelphia, went back to Kuwait. Took on the name Robert in adopting his Christian faith, putting aside his his Islamic name And there was placed in a court, his name was placed there and put under the death sentence. Anyone in Kuwait could kill him with immunity Simply because he'd become a Christian. He's now fled out of Kuwait. And so the United States is silent Absolutely silent on this. We hear very little about it. Hebrews 13, 3 says, remember them. Don't forget them. Seek the information. Christianity today has in the last few months done two major issues. This one on July 15th. Persecuted. Special news report on a crisis of the contemporary church August 12th, Faith Unto Death, another major article several pages long on persecution around the world of Christians. We need to bring this to mind. Who is it that we bring to mind? The second point. Those who we are called to remember, first of all, are those in prison. Those who are in prison. Remember those in prison. So many, thousands, millions of our brothers and sisters this morning who are in prison. Because of their faith in Christ. Five Chinese Protestant evangelical women are arrested and imprisoned in Western Xingchiang province following a vicious government raid on a house church. Police severely beat members of the congregation, knocking out the teeth of one woman, pouring scalding water on those resisting orders. The women now joined thousands of others in China's religious gulag. Chinese police are currently circulating an arrest warrant with the names of 3,000 evangelical preachers on it. Of course, it's the preachers that are under the most attack in most of these places. How are you and I called to remember them? As their fellow prisoners. You see that? Remember those in prison as if you were their fellow prisoners. The NIV says as if you are their fellow prisoners, but the Greek is actually stronger. Literally, what the Greek says there is Remember those in prison as fellow prisoners with them. You see, the idea here is that what happens to them affects you. There is a solidarity of the Christian body. of Christ. We are joined together with them, as 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 26 says, if one member suffers Then every member, every part of the body suffers with it. And if one part of the body is honored, every part rejoices with it. Paul exemplified that in in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, where he's talking about the church and his care for the churches. And he says in verse 29, who is weak? And I do not feel weak. And who is led into sin? And I do not inwardly burn. And I think Under this situation, Paul would write, and who is in prison, but I don't feel his chains and bonds You see, because you and I share in the spiritual body of Christ, what happens to our brothers and sisters affects us. We cannot continue to go on and simply ignore what is happening to the rest of the church in the world. Hebrews speaks of how the Christians that the writer is addressing here practice that. If you look back in Hebrews chapter 10 You see what they were doing. In Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 32, the same word, remember, he says, those earlier days after you had received the light of the gospel. When you stood your ground in great contest in the face of suffering, sometimes you were publicly exposed to insult and persecution. At other times you stood side by side with those who were so treated. You sympathized with those imprisoned and joyfully accepted the confiscation of your property because you knew that you yourselves. Had better and lasting possessions. You and I have a joint vested interest with the rest of the body of Christ. Imagine how you would feel if you were in prison for your faith and thought that there was another Group of Christians, millions of them, in the most powerful nation on earth, that had the political power to bring about release and a measure of safety. And they simply didn't bother to exercise it. How would you feel about your fellowship with those brothers and sisters? Brothers and sisters, we have to recognize we've been given the privilege of our freedom, not simply to indulge it for ourselves. But to remember our brothers and sisters who are prisoners as fellow prisoners with them. In Clement's early letter to the churches back in the first century, he wrote to pray, release our fellow prisoners. The sense that these people belong to us. They're not part of our congregation, but they're sister congregations. They belong to us. Notice that we're called to remember a second group of people in this verse. Who's the second group? Those who are mistreated. Remember those in prison as if or as their fellow prisoners, and those who are mistreated. Remember those who are mistreated. It's not restricted, you see, simply to those who are prisoners, but those who are being mistreated. Very general, broad word. Those whose simple human citizen rights are being violated. In Hebrews chapter 11, you had that catalogue of the heroes of the faith, of those who stood against uh pressures and temptations. Abraham and Moses and David and on and on through those who stood for the gospel. You have those who heroically stood and were delivered in times of persecution. We have in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 34, for instance. Those who quenched the fury of flames and escaped the edge of the sword. Whose weakness was turned to strength and who became powerful in battle and routed foreign armies. Women received back their dead, raised to life again. And then right in the middle of that verse, you have the word others. There are others, Hebrew says, that weren't delivered. Others were tortured and refused to be released by compromising their faith. They refused so that they might gain a better resurrection Some faced years and flogging, while still others were chained and put in prison. They were stoned. They were sawed in two. They were put to death by the sword. They went about in sheepskins and goatskins, destitute, persecuted. And there it is again. That same word, mistreated. It's the same word you have in chapter 13, verse 3. The world was not worthy of them. He wandered in deserts and mountains and caves and holes of the ground. I'll tell you when I read the stories of some of these brothers and sisters and what they're doing. And I say the world's not worthy of them, and I'm not sure I'm worthy to even be called their brother and be considered part of the same body, some of the things they go through People who aren't even literate, who have a courage that I look at and I admire, and I say, what could I, what would I have ever done in that kind of situation? Verse thirteen, verse three of our chapter thirteen says, Remember those who are mistreated. Remember them Don't forget these people and what's happening to them. And how are you and I called to remember them? We're to remember them as also being in a body. Remember that you also are liable by your frailties to sufferings And that phrase there, uh, as also being in a body, I don't believe, I I spent some time looking at this, I don't think that's saying as also being in the body, as the body of Christ There's no article there. It's as also being in a body. It's the same kind of construction used in Second Corinthians chapter five, where Paul talks about his being in the body, as opposed to after he dies, uh being separated from his body. So it probably is referring to the fact that you remember them, remembering that you too Have a body that suffers and experiences pain. And you and I are not immune to that kind of thing And so there's a parallel, I think, here he's saying, have sympathy for your fellow prisoners because you are in a spiritual body with them. And have also sympathy for those who are mistreated because you are in the same kind of physical body as them Some of the tortures that are being carried out today, I wouldn't even describe, I particularly wouldn't describe it here with a congregation of all kinds of ages. And in the video that you will see in the next hour, there will be nothing there that you will think, you know, this is just uh too much for my stomach to even take. It's just Some very brief and quick, fleeting pictures and ideas of some of the things that are going on. But some of the descriptions I have read of the kind of brutality is simply nothing less than a satanic, demonic maliciousness unleashed in a hatred upon these people. And this is not the right-wing alarmist press. I'm talking about Chuck Colson, the fellow that narrates this thing, the video coming up, is Max Likato. It's people that we all recognize who have reputations. Jack Hayford and a number of others that are well known. It's the whole National Association of Evangelicals that is saying this is going on. So let's none of us think, well, this is just some alarmist stuff, and who knows if it's really true. There's too many reports of it from too many people who we respect. Remember, you who are also in a body, what's going on with them. So what are we to do? Very briefly, and we'll go over this more in the middle hour and then this afternoon. Three things. Remember to pray for them Use the enclosed weekly schedule. You might want to use it on a monthly schedule. Don't use it every week. You'll kind of get worn out and then just put it aside after a couple of weeks and forget it. Use it on some periodic basis to keep up with it. Update what's going on by watching in the news. We will try to report a little bit more to you what we see. Notice things that are in the church around the world. That's one of the sources, and other things that we'll put, whether in sessional prayer requests or other ways to let you know. But pray for them. I'll read to you from a writing from a woman who was imprisoned in the gulag under the communist rule in Russia. In a middle hour, what the prayers of her brothers and sisters in the West meant to her when she was in solitary confinement. And by the way, she was released in nineteen eighty-six before the fall of communism simply because of the pressure of the Western of the United States government, because Christians uh got involved and petitioned for her release. Uh her name was Irana Ratushinas Gaya and uh Dick would uh probably be probably cringing back there at my But anyway, you know, you pronounce that name for us in the middle hour. Irana uh was the person um released. Colossians chapter 4 will talk about what to pray. But secondly, let me then just bring to your attention, remember to protest. Protest has shown to made a diff make a difference. A number of people have been released. This fellow I mentioned under Kuwait was released uh was uh gained uh asylum here, he's in hiding somewhere, uh, but the pressure upon the Kuwaiti government caused them to back down and say, Oh, we're really not trying to kill him. And when there is public attention broad, generally it makes a great difference. to nations who care what the United States thinks of them. Even Muslim nations will tend to back down some because of the pressure of the United States. It's a righteous pressure We're not talking about a worldly secular means. When Paul was being persecuted, he appealed to his Roman citizenship as a righteous way for him to be preserved in that. And there's nothing wrong with us protesting for this. And then finally remember that all of us who refuse to compromise our principles will suffer persecution. 1 Timothy 3, verse 12 says, all who live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution, no exceptions. In Philippians 1. 29, you're told, for to you it is given, graciously given, the word is the root from grace. It is graciously given to you not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. In Romans chapter 8, when we're told about our sonship with Christ, we read that we have an inheritance with him, so that we who suffer with him will also be glorified with him. The scripture has much to say about the fact that you and I, in subtle ways where we are, will suffer for our faith. Cal Thomas The fellow recognized and certainly not suffering persecution in any obvious sense was called to be on a television program. And when he made it known that in one particular issue he might quote scripture, He was simply eliminated from the program. That was the end of it. He was scrubbed. A number of Christians are losing the places where their uh articles and editorials and columns appear because of Christian positions. Subtle here, but nevertheless it's just as real. You remember those of you who were around what happened to us in 1984 when we were unanimously and unceremoniously expelled from the meeting house For a position that said that you need Jesus Christ in order to be right with God and to avoid his judgment. Because of that, we were out. Fifteen to zero. We were gone So, brothers and sisters, enjoy your freedom. But let's not indulge it. Let's talk about how we can pray and how we can act on behalf of our brothers and sisters. You want to pray now? Well, we're not going to pray now, not just because I'm out of time. But because I say that so that you'll feel the need to pray, come back in the middle hour and then this afternoon to pray for them. Amen.