Many of you who were present uh last Sunday evening heard me ask for a prayer request, and that was a prayer for some time away. As a birthday gift, my wife told me that it would be best that I put my bicycle in my car and travel 10 hours to visit with my best friend from high school and ride my bicycle around the mountains of North Georgia and southern Tennessee And visit and rekindle relationships that were important for me. I was able to spend time with the man who led me to the Lord Jesus 29 years ago. I was able to spend some brief moments with the first senior pastor that I was able to serve under, and uh it was A wonderful week, so I want to say thank you for those of you who knew that I had asked for that and were praying for that. And some of you perhaps saw my post on Facebook. It was deeply needed. And I look forward to in a couple of weeks actually then spending some time with my family away as well, and not just my family sending me away. So But my family was very gracious and generous and I'm very grateful. So I had a lot of time to think about renewal. And it was the fact that we finished the book of Acts. And I I apologize if you're visiting with us. This is going to seem like a non sequitur to you and uh somewhat strange, but Here you go. So uh we finished the book of Acts two weeks ago at the end of May, and it was going to mean uh a few weeks uh of some travel and some doing some different things. And then beginning in July after the July 4th weekend, after the 5th, so the next weekend after that, we'll begin a new series for the remainder of the summer. And that meant that I had a couple of weeks here to do some different things than what would normally do. And because I was thinking about renewal, my own spiritual and physical renewal. I also wanted to think about our renewal as a congregation. So I wanted to take this Sunday morning to think about who we are as a church and our vision. Grounding that in Scripture. Talking about it again, because that's what I get to do. Some of you wish perhaps I would do it more. This will mark my fourth summer with you. I arrived in July 1, 2011. And as I was telling my friends as they were asking me how is it going, they knew I was coming to a church that was 33 years old at the time. Had only had one senior minister, what could go wrong? I communicate differently than my predecessor, though we have the same core values, we're very different people. How would I be received? How would it go? All of us as ministers know it's never a guarantee. But I want to tell you how delightful it is to be back in your midst. I was not wishing to be away from you. I was wishing to be away with the Lord. And it was good. But it gave me also the opportunity to think about what I wanted to communicate this morning. Because it's always important to renew what we're doing, where we're going. This is not where we're going in all of the definitive details, but it is a reminder of the vision that we have. And what makes us who we are as Columbia Presbyterian Church. So let's look at God's word together. It is Galatians chapter 2, verse 16. Know that a man is not justified by observing the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by observing the law Because by observing the law, no one will be justified. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together Heavenly Father, we ask that you, now through your eternal word, would lay upon our hearts the glory of Christ that is ours in the gospel. But Lord, we are prone to forget it. We are prone to displace it and fill its space with false gospels. We can go from trusting in you in one moment, but just a few moments later, living on the fuel of self-dependence. So we need you to come again, to renew us in the gospel, to remind us of our core priorities, our core values as a church. Not because they are unique to us, but because you have worked them in particular ways in us. And so we would pray, work, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. You see there in your outline page under renewal our vision statement as a church to experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to Colombia, the region, and the world. This passage gives us the grounding for this vision statement. We could find many, but this is a good one. And so before I get to the outline, what you see there is worship, discipleship, and mission, which we believe And are called to as our core priorities as a church, I want to, and if you have your pen, because I have preacherly license, take your pen. I'm going to give you three quick points before we get to those. And I'm going to do it very succinctly. And I draw and am very dependent on the work of Dr. John Stott, who is no longer with us, but whose preaching has greatly influenced me and his commentaries have been It's tremendously helpful over the years. I can find no way to improve on his outline as he looks at this verse. So as we look at this verse, we find what it means to experience. The grace. You can't do a very good job of extending it if you yourself have not experienced it. So, what does it mean to experience the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ? This verse tells us in three quick ways. First, there's a general, there's a specific, and there's a universal. First, the general. I must tell you that Paul's letter to the Galatians was a polemical letter. It was not warm and fuzzy. He was writing it to contradict the things that were being said about him and about the gospel that he was preaching. So he was writing it in defense. It opens up with a beautiful statement. But then it quickly goes, What happened to you that you were taken off course of the gospel? And it followed false gospels. So it's polemical in nature, and this passage is in itself polemical. It is, it cuts to the heart, and it does so when it says generally, notice Part A of this verse, it says that a man is not justified. So here it is generally talking about all people, not any particular person. No one is justified by observing the law. That word justified means having peace with God. Having a settled union and relationship with him. Of being able to bridge the gap that is caused by our sin. Not God's separation from us, but by our separation from us. That man in his sinful nature was asserting kingdomship as opposed to living under the assertion of the king of heaven. So, therefore, there is a separation because of our sin from God. Therefore, no one is justified. No man is justified In other words, brought back to, bridging the gap, brought to one, satisfying the justice of God that is raised up because of sin. No one can satisfy that justice. By their own work, which is what it means there by observing the law. Paul here meant not just the Ten Commandments, y'all. Generally, when Westerners think about the law of God, they think about those those pesky little Ten Commandments. But if you've read it all in the book of, well, let's just say. Lamentations. Lamentations? The Psalms? Yes, the Psalms. Deuteronomy? Yes. All over the Old Testament, you'll find that three distinct things are referred to as the law: ceremonial, judicial. And moral, all three encompass a great portion of the Old Testament. The first five books are dedicated largely to explaining them to the people of God. So when Paul says the law of God, he means all of it. No one can be made right with God by following the law of God as if following it gets us back into right relationship with God. But you know what? A lot of people these days aren't concerned about the law of God. Be it moral, be it judicial, be it ceremonial, Christians included, by the way. So the works of the law can be the very specific law of the Old Testament. But there is another way in which we substitute our own law. When we try to work our way back to God by trying to be really good people, by trying to be really obedient to attending church. Or giving to the church. Or being active in the church. Or trying not to say mean things to your spouse or to your children or to your co-workers We can try all kinds of ways to justify ourselves that we are good, that we are righteous. Paul is saying, no one, generally, nobody. Can be justified before God by following his law or the law you substitute for his Secondly, there's something very specific here. So Paul moves from the general to specific When he says, so we, referring to him and to Peter, most likely, so we too have put our faith. Now here is where English is sometimes not always the most helpful. But when it says, so we too have put our faith in Christ, he means into Christ. And what's the difference? One can mean simply that we put our faith or we put our intellectual assessment onto who Christ is. We can assert certain doctrines or certain theologies about who Jesus Christ is, and yet not be into Jesus. We can know a whole lot about Christ. We can sit in church. For 10, 20, 30 years, and know a whole host of things about Jesus, and yet not actually know him. Paul was an example of that very reality. Christ had to appear to him and blind him, to awaken him to his blindness. He was a Pharisee of Pharisees, the righteous of the righteous, the churchiness of the churchy And yet, his faith was not into Christ He had not received the gift. He had not placed His heart. He had not submitted his agenda to Christ's agenda He had not submitted his definitions of who he thought God was to who Christ is And so now, writing to these Galatians, who are all mixed up about whose law and what we should follow, he says, so we too have put our faith into Christ Jesus. That we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by observing the law, using a metaphor. The apple does not produce the tree. The tree produces the apple. Walking in obedience to Christ is the fruit of the tree. You can't have the fruit without the tree. And if you try to observe the law or observe obedience and work your way to Christ, it's like the apple saying, I produced the tree. It's absurd. Christ is saying, Paul is saying here, that to put his faith into Christ means he had to put everything he was and is into Christ, who is The true vine, who is the tree of righteousness. And out of that produces the fruit of righteousness And so therefore it's not that Paul is saying we shouldn't obey or shouldn't care about the law of God, very much so, except that it shouldn't come out of order. That his obedience comes from what Christ has done, not the other way around. And so Paul says: we, we specifically have placed our faith into Christ. But then he finishes not just saying something general, not just saying something specific, but something universal. When he says, because by observing the law, no one will be justified. Now here he is saying, if you today are seeking to work your way towards God By your own sense of self-righteousness and goodness, or what you believe should be deserving of grace, and that that will somehow get you a ticket into the salvation of Christ. Be careful because you're on a path to death. No one, not Paul, not me. Nor any of you will be justified before the throne and the bar of the justice of the living God. But the gospel is Christ came down in his incarnation, in his life. And came into the courtroom of God's universe. And that courtroom, the guilty stood before of all humanity, the Lord Jesus came. And when he came, he came to that which was his own, and his own rejected him. But he came, and the Lord would give him a people, and those people, he came into the courtroom, and everybody was sitting there deserving to receive all of God's Heavy justice and wrath. And Christ came into the courtroom as it were, pressing through the back doors of the courtroom, and God in the judgment seat, and he said, But I will tell you, remove these, I will go in their place. I will sit in their place of the accused. Christ became a sinner, yet was without sin. Christ would obey the law, yet he was perfectly righteous as the Son of the living God. This is what Christ did in his life. And then in his resurrection, his life got him to be in our place in the courtroom. But then, even more than that. Even more than that, that wasn't enough. Somebody had to receive the wrath and justice of God. And Christ not only obeyed in all of his life, he then said, But you know what? Even though I have obeyed, I will take your wrath. That should be poured out on them to be poured out on me. And his blood was shed, and his body was pierced for our transgressions. So that we can now say no one will be justified apart from Christ. This is what it means to experience grace, to come to that place, and to lay aside your deadly doing. Though it might be good, though it might seem righteous to you, if your hope is in anything other than Jesus Christ. It will never justify you before Him. And to come to that place where you can say, I cannot do it. I am undone. Lord Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner. And only you know What you may have been trusting in, and what you may feel so easy to trust in, other than the righteousness of Christ in this life. As Christians, we're constantly given to the temptation to go back to our own self-assertion, our own self-dependence. our own energies to keep up with Christ, but we run ourselves ragged and we realize, and sometimes the Lord allows us to see it in helpful ways and sometimes hurtful ways that I've been running under my own strength. I need to be renewed in the only thing that can retain me, the only thing that can strengthen me, the only thing that can keep me, and that is the grace of Christ. I share this story with you before I go to our three priorities. Friend of mine from middle school and high school Recently lost her father this past week. He'd been struggling with cancer and a battle with cancer. It's a long battle. But he went to be with the Lord. She wrote this week of how grateful she was for her father. How grateful she was for his love and grace and how she can say at his passing, she did not leave him, she did he did not leave her with a bunch of baggage, of unresolved issues. She was grateful for that. But the next day, this was a man that I knew. I became a Christian in the church where he served as a leader in the church. And this is what she wrote. Yesterday I posted a list of things that my father did not leave behind for me when he passed away. But the reality is that if he had died 20 to 25 years ago, I could not have posted a single item from that list. I do not want to belabor the details. But the main story is that for many years my father was far from the Lord and far from his family. This included a six-year separation from my mother. I'm sharing this because it is his story, it is their story, it is our story, and it is one of redemption and reconciliation. Dad spent his last 19 years drawing near to the Lord and nearer to his family. Had we not been willing to forgive him, we would have been denied the blessing of knowing who he would become through his remarkable faith in Jesus. Had he not been willing to swallow his pride, ask for forgiveness, and come back, he would have missed 19 years of love from his family and relationship with his grandchildren If you have wandered from the Lord or have never known him, there is nothing you have done that is not forgivable If someone you know has wondered, keep praying and leave the door open. Do not wait This gospel of what my friend Emily speaks is the gospel which Paul preaches here in Galatians 2, verse 16. I knew her father to be a godly man. He had attended church for years. And yet he was far from the Lord. He perhaps was trying to work his way back to God or uphold his relationship with God by his righteousness, by his law, and yet nothing would justify him. And yet he came to that place where he was able to experience and know that the grace of Jesus Christ can be so deeply experienced that it will strip us of all self-dependence. All self-righteousness, and give us a freedom and sweetness of the glory of His bountiful grace that can redeem, renew, and beautify any life. He experienced it. We want you to experience the renewing power of his grace. And this is the basis of our vision statement when we say to experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because when you experience it, it will work its way out of you, and you will seek to extend it to those around you. Because you know you need forgiveness, as others will seek it from you This is a vertical gospel that works its way out horizontally. If we are not experiencing the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ vertically, And horizontally, we're not going to be a church that's very welcoming and hospitable to the world that needs the grace of Jesus. If we believe as a church of everything I just said and believe that the grace of Jesus is only needed for those who are in the world, we will have been way too short-sighted. It is we who need the gospel. It is my heart that needs the gospel most, because I am responsible for me. We as a church must drink deeply of this grace, so that our extension of this grace of Jesus Christ is not done with condescension. Or judgment, but with the open hands as those who've received a massively beautiful, free, wonderful gift This is the gospel, which is why then Our three priorities as a church. How am I doing on time? There we are. Our three priorities as a church is worship, discipleship, and mission. Why? Because this gospel is what fuels, is what animates Is what is the subject and the object of our worship. Because the gospel is not reducible to bare doctrines, because it is a person. Therefore, in our worship, we believe that Christ is the center of our worship, but not the only one that we worship. God the Father, God the Spirit, the triune God. Will be the object and glory of our worship because this is what we are created to do. In fact, to be a human being means that we finally recognize that we all will worship something. And so, as such, we see in Psalm 95 when the psalmist writes these words. Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord. Let us shout aloud to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before him with thanksgiving and extol him with music and song. And then listen to what he says. For the Lord is the great King, the great God, and the great King of all gods. In his hand are the depths of the earth, and the mountain peaks belong to him. The sea is his, for he made it And his hands form the dry land. Come, let us bow down and worship, let us kneel before the Lord our maker, for he is our God, and we are his people of his pasture, the flock of the under his care. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as you did at Mirabah, as you did at the day at Masa in the desert, where your fathers tested and tried me, though they had seen what I did. For forty years I was angry with that generation, and I said, They are a people whose hearts go astray, and they have not known my ways. So I declared on oath in my anger, they shall never enter my rest. It's an odd way to end a psalm that begins with worship, isn't it? But there's something intricate about the nature of worship. For this, I'm grateful for the writings of Dr. John Frame, who reminds us that worship isn't just what happens on Sunday morning. We believe that the worship as a priority is worship is all of life because God is the God of the peaks and of the dry land and of the deepest oceans, and it matters what we do not only on Sunday but on Monday through Saturday. All of life is worship. And we do our work, regardless of what that work may be. We all have work that we will do tomorrow. And we do that work not as a platform to share the gospel, though we may do that. Our work is an expression of our worship because we ought to do it with excellence and care. Why? Because God God owns even our work because he owns everything. So everything we do, we do in the name of our Heavenly Father. And we do accounting and art and nursing and doctors and engineers and mothers and fathers and educators of all kinds. We do all of this. As an expression of worship. Therefore, we worship the Lord because His grace Has led us to worship him as the source of all of life. And therefore, because Our worship is fueled by his grace. Therefore, in our worship we extend grace. Our worship will always be evangelistic. Because there are those here this morning who do not know the Lord Jesus Christ, and there are those who do, and there's people who've known him for a long time and who've known him for a short time. People who don't like God and wish I would be quiet, and those who are learning something from what I'm saying. The whole spectrum, and every time we gather for worship, everything we do ought to be deeply evangelistic, of extending the grace of Christ. We worship because He is. Secondly, discipleship. What is discipleship? Discipleship is Learning what it means to walk and follow Jesus and obey what he taught us But it is never done alone. It is always done in community. And we want to commit ourselves to ministries and to a culture of a church. That is a church of small groups recognizing that seven days is greater than one day. In other words, what we do as a church is not defined solely in what we do on Sunday. But rather we're a church that literally never closes its doors because the church, the body of Christ, is meeting throughout the week, applying, learning, rejoicing, worshiping, serving one another. Discipling one another, meaning walking with each other, mentoring, serving, encouraging, building up one another as we learn Though we stumble, yet by his grace we get up as we learn to follow Jesus and what he taught us to do. Discipleship is always life on life. I would not be standing here were it not for Craig Schwartz, who committed to simply teaching me the most basic nature of the scriptures. For two years. And he let me serve with him. He let me eat with him and his family. He let me watch him This is what discipleship is. And this is going to be happening in small ways and in large ways. What happens here on Sundays and what happens in our fellowship groups. This is what we want to be the culture of CPC. Why? Because we can't do it alone, and it can't just be on Sunday. It must be together in life, in small groups, one-on-one, iron sharpening iron The grace of Christ being extended with life-on-life emphasis of what it means to follow Jesus. Our final priority is mission. As we learn from the book of Acts, Jesus would send out his disciples to make disciples, and he would equip them with the Holy Spirit, with the calling, to go and to make disciples, begin at Jerusalem. Judea and Samaria is in the uttermost parts of the world. That means our mission is going to be particular. It's going to be specific works of mission extending the grace of Jesus Christ in ministries both locally in our basketball ministry, which has its camp this week. Or through our various mission work of do of uh church planting around the world with our missionaries and supporting other mission works around the world, sending from one of our own, serving the Lord afar afield. It means that we have a particular purpose and will be very specific in the way in which we steward the gifts and resources that God has given us. So that we might be a part of the rapidly expanding nature of the kingdom of God around the world. The kingdom of God is growing faster in other parts of the world than it is in the United States. Our expression of mission, both locally and around the world, is asking the Lord this central question: How can we as a congregation, Lord, be involved? And get on board with where you're working. Where is that? Open that door that we might prayerfully and wisely, with good stewardship, invest in the rapidly expanding nature of the kingdom of God through the preached word indeed and in specific preaching. And so it's going to look like mercy ministry here in Howard County in the greater Baltimore, Washington area. It's going to look like serving each other along with other ministries for crisis pregnancy centers in the region. It's going to look like a whole host of things. But these three priorities of worship, discipleship, and mission are not unique. We didn't suddenly dream them up and say, oh, look at us. It's that we believe that God has equipped us with the gifts and the passion for these three things. And we want our ministries to reflect that these are our priorities. The reality is this, we are better on paper than we are in reality. We have not arrived. We're still learning what it means to experience. We're still learning what it means to extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. But I pray, as I know many of you are, that the Lord would so renew us in the gospel of Jesus Christ that this vision would become more reality in everything that we do. Why? Because this is the nature of our God, who redeems, who renews, who strengthens, who sends out This is what we are about. This is where we are going. And it will mean that we change. It will mean different shifts here and there. It will mean different things we might do in worship. It might mean new ministries like mopp's ministry this fall It might mean different strategies in our mission work. But as God renews, we will change. But our desire is to be more and more changed in the image of Jesus Christ and who He wants us to be. May the Lord do this. And may he do it in you. May he do it through you. For you, you are the body of Christ, that he is called together to glorify his name, in whom he is working and renewing the gospel. May the Lord bless you. May the Lord strengthen you. But may He give you the deep richness of His grace. I thank you for the pleasure of serving you and of serving along with these elders. May the Lord enable our deacons and our elders to serve you, to lead for his glory, that we might be a church that experiences. And extends the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for what you are doing. I thank you for calling me and my family here to be able to serve this congregation. I thank you for the richness of the gifts, of the lives. of the story of what you're doing in the lives of those who sit before me and those who aren't able to be here. But Lord, we are all Recipients of grace. It's a gift. Nothing we have done in ourselves. For we cannot justify ourselves before you. We can only be recipients of your gift. Jesus Christ. Lord, help us to know Him, to worship Him. To be discipled in the eternal word, and to be sparked and fired up for the mission of Christ and the extension of your kingdom, Lord, do this we pray and renew us for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.