For you. If you are someone who is in need of prayer, it is an opportunity for for the pastoral staff and for the elders and for the church where it's appropriate for the church to know how we can be praying with you and for you. That God may be meeting you in your daily life. Now at this time, if you have your Bibles, please turn to Jeremiah chapter 31. This is a most beautiful passage for this first Sunday after Christmas. It's a great reminder. It's a message of comfort to a nation whose whole existence hangs in the balance. It's a message of hope for people who are trying to make sense of their bleak world. And in this message we see a foretaste, a embedded message of hope. Of God's never failing pursuit that will revive and renew people in the darkest of times and give them the most joyous of songs. Some examples of what we've already sang today. So as we look at this passage Let's pray. Let's ask God to meet us, to meet us in his word, to meet us in this time, that we would be reminded of his good grace. Let's pray. Father, we are indeed thankful for your gift, the gift of your son Jesus, to celebrate his birth. It's to give you praise of your mystery, to give you thanks that you have made it possible for salvation. You have allowed your people. Redemption. You hear our cries and you meet us. You save us. You know us, you forgive us, you renew us. So by your spirit today, grow our faith May we see your beauty, may we see your grace, and may we believe. In Jesus' name, amen. Follow along in your own Bibles or on the screens as I read the passage. Jeremiah chapter 31, verses 31 through 34. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them. I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God. And they will be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. The word of God Always winter, but never Christmas Do you remember where that's from? It's from the author C. S. Lewis in his book The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. Always winter, but never Christmas. It's a perfect example of why I love C. S. Lewis. He has the most profound ability to paint these broad pictures. with vivid colors, very deep truths of the experience of our lives, in just the fewest words possible. Snow can be fun, but then you get tired of it after a while. A perpetual freeze and ongoing cold with no warmth of Christmas light is indeed a hopeless situation. And if you're familiar with this story, the lion, the witch, and the wardrobe, the snow queen, the witch, has brought a dreary iced spell upon Narnia. A never-ending winter. But but there are whispers. There are whispers of change on the horizon. Rumors that Aslan Is returning. And those rumors revive all hope. You see, hope is powerful. Hope is a source of strength and encouragement as we endure the worst of circumstances. Hope is what we find in this passage that I just read from Jeremiah. These verses are part of a larger section in the book of Jeremiah from Chapters 30 to 33, what some theologians call the book of consolation. Others call it the book of comfort. And indeed, consolation and comfort was needed. You see, the people of God had broken the covenant. Jerusalem itself was besieged, the temple was destroyed, and the people were removed from the land. So the the first audience here in Jeremiah's context, and also our audience as we read it today, should be asking, how can this be? Isn't the Lord the God of Israel? Didn't He deliver them from bondage out of Egypt? Didn't he make a covenant with them, giving them the law through Moses, making them a nation, giving them a king who would rule righteously and justly? Judah, who Jeremiah is speaking to here, the southern kingdom, is asking, how did this all happen? How far we have fallen. And what do we do? Where do we go from here If the covenant has been broken, can it be mended? If the people have no temple, how can the Lord dwell among them? And if the people have no land, can their nation remain the Lord's chosen people? Can life be restored or is all lost? You see, what they needed is what we say a lot in our household, they needed a fresh start. And the text this morning reminds us that not all is lost and that broken things can be restored. The covenant can truly be embraced from the heart. And the reason why that is so true and so glorious and so comforting is because God is faithful. That is the message here of Jeremiah. God is faithful. And because of that, our stories are not over. Because God is faithful, we are going to be able to see this fully realized of what it looks like to be embracing the covenant fully in our hearts. And so this morning we're going to discuss kind of in three sections. We're going to look how the Lord graciously makes covenants with his people. Number two, the people unfaithfully broke the old covenant with the Lord. And number three, the Lord faithfully makes a new covenant with his people. So first, let's discuss how the Lord graciously makes covenants with his people. Now, I use that word covenants on purpose, plural, because we see many examples of covenants in Scripture. The word covenant is used four times in this passage alone. And the concept of covenants is one way, and it's a great way of seeing the unifying thread. of scripture from Genesis to Revelation, what is the story that God is telling? And so it's very important that we ask, well, what does that word mean? The word covenant simply means to cut. Think of it as a way of cutting an animal sacrifice and dividing it into two parts. That is the image that is embedded in the word to make a covenant. We see it from as an example in Genesis 15, where It is told that on that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying to your offspring, I give this land, where God gives a pledge by saying to Abram, Bring me a hei three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, and a turtle dove and a young pigeon. And he, Abram brought all these, cut them in half and laid each half over against the other But he did not cut the birds in half. So we see this ceremony happening between Abram and the Lord. This covenant is being made. And it involves cutting. The scripture speaks of the concept of covenant more often than just merely stating the word. We see this relationship being forged from the very beginning. A covenant made with Adam. Now, Genesis doesn't explicitly say it's a covenant with Adam, but we can deduce that because of the relational components. Between God the Creator and Adam his created, we see that there is a positive command in the garden to make the garden thrive. To make it flourish, to take care of the resources, be a steward of God's creation. And then likewise there's a negative command. Don't eat the fruit of the knowledge of the tr of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And we know from the prophet Hosea that he actually compares the covenant that the northern kingdom has broken. to the transgression of Adam. We see the first explicit description of covenant with Noah. Genesis nine verse eight. Then God said to Noah and to his sons with them, Behold, I establish my covenant with you and your offspring after you, and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the livestock, and every beast of the earth with you. As many as came out of the ark, it is for every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. Verse 17 goes on to show us that sign of the covenant, the rainbow. As a sign that God has established his covenant between him and all flesh. Whereas the covenant with Noah was made in a very general way. We see God making a covenant in a very particular way with a particular person and for a particular purpose, and that is with Abraham. I've already mentioned a little bit about him, if you remember from Genesis 12, 1 and 2. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you, and I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great. So that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you. And him who dishonors you I will curse. And in you, all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Later in chapter 17, the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you and may multiply you greatly. Verse 4 of that chapter, Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham. For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful and will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you And I will give to you and to your offspring the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And the sign of this covenant was. That of circumcision, marking out who are the people of God. And with this covenant, it was externally and physically Performed, but even then it was also to be internally realized for them to have congruence between their trust in the Lord and how they live their lives. Going on, going forward in the story that God is telling, the covenant of Abraham was made with a particular person, and we see now with Moses that God is making a covenant with a particular nation. Exodus 19 begins to frame this covenantal relationship this way. The Lord said to Moses, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, And tell the people of Israel, you yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. The Lord himself reminds the people of his saving work. Because you have to see the story. You have to remember that actually they were in bondage first, deliverance happened, and then the covenant was made. The covenant between God and his people was made in the context of his redemption. It happened before he gave the law to them. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. That's the verse that we so easily forget that happens before the giving of the Ten Commandments. It's embedded in what God has done for them. This covenant, too, was to be embraced and enjoyed from the heart by all the people of Israel. Moving along in history, the covenant of David was made to forever tie together this particular nation with a particular representative. of the Lord to the people. The prophet Nathan in 2 Samuel 716 said this of David And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. See, the king of Israel was to rule righteously and justly. And in the land with the people under the sovereignty of the king, the whole nation was to thrive and to experience peace and prosperity. That there would be a sense of their own flourishing, but even then there is this progression, there's this double purpose, if you will. You see, the world was supposed to look upon this nation and say, how great is their God? Do you see what he is doing in their midst? Do you see how this people are flourishing? They were to see the people of Israel and be amazed of how good and how kind and how gracious their God was. So why am I telling you all that? We just covered thousands of years of history. We covered multiple books of the Bible, or rather we just skimmed the surface. But as you can see, the Lord works in covenant. It's the thread that He is tying together for the whole story to make sense. So what we need to understand, even before we dive into more from this passage, is that God has entered into history And God cares for his people, and God provides a way for their redemption. And all the while he has remained faithful, true to his character, and true to his promises. Because the Lord is faithful, we can embrace his grace and peace by embracing this covenant in our hearts by faith. But as our passage today reveals, this isn't what happened. And if we actually went back to every one of those passages that I've already read about each and every one of those covenants, which I'm not. We would see how quickly things unravel. How quickly people fail. How quickly people Neglect to obey God's word. How quickly they neglect to embrace the covenant by the heart. For them to love the Lord God with all their might and all their heart and all their strength. How quickly things go astray. And so we see in this passage there in verse 32, Jeremiah is summarizing what's happening. You're in exile, Judah. Well, technically, you're not even in exile yet, but I'm telling you, you're about to be in exile because of your breaking of the covenant. So though the word here covenant simply means to cut, those concepts represent something far more complex. Most scholars see parallels between the book of Deuteronomy, for instance. With other ancient Near Eastern treaties, where a ruler initiates a relationship with those under him. Now that's not exclusively how the ancient Near Eastern treaties worked. It's not exclusive how covenant in the Bible works. But it is a very powerful way of understanding God's dealing with his people. We see how there is an introduction to the sovereign. ruler, there is a sense of um exposition, if you will, or a prologue describing what the relationships between the sovereign and his subjects were before the covenant. Where were they before entering into this agreement? Were they just cordial? Were they friendly acquaintances? Were they neighbors? Were they enemies? Where did they stand in relationship to each other before the covenant? We see the terms of the covenant. We see that there is a call, an exhortation to the regular rereading of the covenant. as a reminder, as a point of reference, as a point of renewal for the covenant. Because the point of the covenant is not just to have something on paper. The point of the covenant is for it to be lived, to be experienced. And the discussion of the covenant is embedded with also blessings and curses. Whether you're keeping the covenant or whether you're breaking the covenant. And that is what Israel is familiar with all too well. The covenant serves as a place marker to remind them that who they are in relationship to the Lord God, not only who created them but has redeemed them time and time again. It is a binding oath that is meant to be kept faithfully. And so if you remember in our discussions as we've been preaching through Jeremiah these past few weeks, and even Ezekiel prior to that. with Pastor Randy Lovelace. The northern kingdom of Israel was destroyed a little over a century before where we are in Jeremiah. But the Southern Kingdom, although they did not fall into as great of a sin as the Northern Kingdom, though they kept outside nations uh from conquering them a little bit longer, they too were about to experience the same fate. If you have time today or this week, I would invite you to look at Jeremiah 11. That's where Jeremiah goes into more detail of what actually he means by they broke my covenant. The Lord judges them as covenant breakers, and he sends them into exile from the land So I hope you're hearing the gravity of what they're experiencing, the questions they are asking. And I wonder if there are questions that you're asking of yourself. How can we be the people of God when we're no longer in the land of our God? We're no longer near the temple where we experience His grace, where we experience forgiveness, where we know ourselves in a community. Now we are sojourners in another foreign land. Is God going to be faithful again? And not only that, they're not no longer in the land, but there's no longer a Davidic king sitting on the throne. We've had prior kings deposed by warring armies. Josiah's rightful heir, his son was deposed by Egypt, and they put in Jehoiakim Eleven years later, Babylon besieged Judah the first time, and they took, I'm sorry, and during that time Jehoiakim died. And after him Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon put in Jehoiakim as king. That's not correct. He took Jehoiakim into exile and placed Zedekiah upon the throne. But he too was deposed by Nebuchadnezzar, and then he put Gadalia upon the throne, who wasn't even a Davidic king. He was just uh perhaps a commoner. He just was a he was put placed as governor on the throne. Their condition is bleak. Their unfaithfulness Is completely warranted. Or rather, the judgment of God is completely warranted because of their faithfulness. But, but as I began with this sermon, there is embedded a message of hope. Even in the coming judgment that they would be exiled and taken from their land. God provides a way. He provides an opportunity to return to Him. There is never any length of time, nor any circumstance too bleak, nor any sin so grievous that it disqualifies someone. From never hearing the message of that hope. The Lord is calling us back to Him. Because God is faithful, and despite our unfaithfulness, we can return to Him. That is by His grace. That is by His mercy I'm so thankful this story doesn't end there. Because if you if those questions that we've been asking just fall short and they fall on deaf ears and there's no response And there's no hope? That that's despair But as we've been saying and what we've been reading is that there is hope. See in Jeremiah there in verse 31 he says, Behold, the days are coming when I will make a new covenant. What's so great about that phrase? Jeremiah uses that phrase 15 times in the entire book. Five times in this chapter alone, and then three times in this section. I'm sorry, in the in the immediate surrounding context. There is focus on this point in the scriptures. Behold, the days are coming. Something is coming that's going to change our circumstances. Something new is coming. So what is so special about this new covenant? Well, for starters, this is the only place in all of the Hebrew scriptures which so often call the Old Testament. That the new covenant is even mentioned. Now we read from Jeremiah chapter 32 and Ezekiel 36, those passages flesh it out more, but this is the only place where it is specifically mentioned. More than that, this passage is quoted in the New Testament. Actually, it's the longest quoted passage of the Old Testament in Hebrews chapter 8. So we seriously have to ask the question, what is going on here? What's new about it? And what does it have to do with Jesus? That's what the New Testament authors are doing. We first see Jesus referring to the new covenant even with his own self. We see the night before he was betrayed. He's sharing a meal with his closest friends, his disciples. And before his betrayal, before he's arrested, before he's put on trial, before he's executed. He says these words over food and drink, and likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, This cup. Is poured out for you. It is the new covenant in my blood. Jesus is making allusion to this passage in Jeremiah. It has utmost significance for our ears today. Jesus is telling and showing that there is a connection between this new covenant promised here in Jeremiah and fulfilled in his redemptive work on the cross. Paul quotes Jesus in his passage in 1 Corinthians 11 about the Lord's Supper. He's admonishing the Corinthians about their abuses on how they were even practicing the meal, he was quoting Jesus to call their attention to it. The writer of Hebrews, as I've mentioned, directly quotes this passage. And there's something going on there. There's something that he is making sense for us, the New Testament community, of who Jesus is as this new covenant mediator. This person that is our representative, this person that stands before us and God in the gap. This Jesus is better than the old covenant. He's better than all the other covenant mediators. He's better than Noah. He's better than Moses. He's even better than David. Because he fulfills all those covenants. He is the priest who sacrifices himself for us so that we can have forgiveness of sins. He is the king who rules on the throne of David righteously and justly. This is a big deal. So it's significant. It's the Lord God who's making his covenant. It is the people of Israel who are the members of the covenant, the people of Israel, have experienced the Lord's gracious deliverance. They have received his law. And told to embrace it in their hearts, and even under the old covenant, the Lord made it possible to experience forgiveness of their sin. So what, again, I ask is new about it. The people of God have had these things from the very beginning. And the difference is in the fact that they fail every time. God has to make it possible for the covenant to be kept. He makes that possible through himself and by giving his spirit. Ezekiel 36 mentions it. He gives us a new heart. That is the only way that the law can be kept. You can't perform the law. You can't pretend to do the law. You can't say that you believe these things about the law. And then go about your life as if it doesn't matter, as if it's disconnected from everything. God is saying he is going to put his law in us and he's going to write it on our hearts. And that word hearts is so much more than just feelings and so much more than just um romantic sensibilities you know in our hearts making us warm and fuzzy It is those things. But our hearts is the very seat of our emotions and our will And our thoughts. It's the very thing that drives us. And he's saying he's going to put his law in our hearts and we are going to be able to live it. Now, as you can guess from this passage, wait a minute, you say, we can keep this? I'm not doing a great job at keeping this. Matter of fact, I don't actually tell people about it because I do a poor job at this, or I'm so ashamed at what I do. Or what I have done in the past, or what I did this morning, or what I did yesterday, or what I said this weekend over your Christmas ham or whatever it may be. Christmas, doesn't it bring out the most? Blessed family things. It is absolutely amazing that God is saying these things. And he is saying it to a people Who are not even yet exiled. And he's promising that he's going to do this. So this is what's so difficult about this passage. This is grace, and this is mercy for them, and it is grace, and it is mercy for us, because we see God Unfolding his story throughout time. Now we get to see more clearly and we get to taste more sweetly because we see it through the lens of Jesus now, but we have to see this new covenant. in Jeremiah, not through the lens of Jesus first, as if to impose the New Testament on top of Jeremiah. We get to see the continuity of seeing and understanding what's happening in the New Testament because of what God has declared back in Jeremiah. And so there's a part of this prophecy that is both going to be experienced by the exiles because as we see, they do return. The Lord promises to restore their fortunes, and they do. We see other prophets who preach the word of God, and the people respond by faith. We see Them returning from exile and putting away the f the the the kind of the other gods that they worshiped alongside the Lord. We see the people saying, I don't want to go in exile again. I want to obey God. But we also see in that The seeds for we don't yet have a new heart. Because we can try with all our might, we can muster the strength. To attempt at keeping the law. And as good intentioned as it may be, we still fall short of that. Which is why we need a new heart. One theologian mentioned this, kind of the mystery of this prophecy, recognizing that it is both experienced now in Christ, but it's going to be fully experienced in Christ. in the future. The universalism and what he means by that is just the pervasive scope. And the finality of the promise both requires a genuinely eschatological, which just means the end of the age, how the Bible talks about what happens in the end time fulfillment of all things. The time of the new covenant is the time of final consummation. The time of the new covenant will be a time of the triumph of salvation when evangelism will be no more necessary than corrective discipline and apostasy will be non-existent. That's still longing for something that is not yet our experience. Because it says here that they will know me. They won't need to tell one another to know me, because they'll know me from the least of these to the greatest of these. And that's just again the breadth and scope of who the people of God are. And that's what's beautiful about even today with the children worshiping with us. The promises of God are for you and for your children. And just as you, moms and dads, and just as you, children. The invitation is for you to embrace the covenant from the heart. For you to see God's faithfulness, to see God's goodness and grace, and to respond by faith. Seeing that it is Him who gives a new heart. How do how do I end? There's so much more to say. I guess I end this way. This has to be lived out in community. You can't go about this alone. And so I encourage you, if you are a visitor here, how can I, how can we as a church meet your needs in a way of discerning if this is the church for you? And if it if this isn't a church for you, how can we help you find a church? How can you get plugged into a community that is seeking for this to be real in their lives? Recognizing that they are not yet there. If you are a member, how can you be engaged in relationship? How can you be engaged with one or two people? Some people have greater capacities for relationships than others, but the call is to have real intimacy, real fellowship with other believers. And a great environment for that is our community groups where life can be lived We can mourn over our sin together. We can rejoice in the salvation that we have in Jesus. Excuse me. We can rejoice in the fact that he has called us despite the fact that we are unfaithful, despite that we are sinners. And he calls us friends. And he calls us sons. And he calls us daughters. So this week, these coming weeks, the new year, the months ahead, and even the years ahead of your life, consider these things. Consider how you can embrace the covenant in your heart, making your actions more congruent with the profession of your beliefs, and realizing that even that is by grace. Consider how you can engage in covenant community. How are you growing in friendship and fellowship with other believers? How is it going more than just hi, how are you? Please pray for me all of my unspoken prayers. I want to be in a relationship where I can tell you the deepest fear and the strongest anxiety that grips my heart Now I'm not going to tell you everybody that. That's probably not appropriate. But I'm going to tell somebody. And they are going to call me to repentance They're going to call me to faith, and they're going to say, return to the Lord. He is kind. Do not stray for long. Come back. You are no longer in exile. You are home. Live in accordance to who you are in Christ. Above all, to the person who claims this to be true of your identity in Christ, or to the person who doesn't claim that yet That the message of hope is still the same, to return to the Lord. And in that there is freedom. Freedom from your fears, freedom from your shame. Freedom from the anxieties of your present. There is freedom in Christ. Because God never fails and he never stops loving you. And there will be a time where we experience foretastes now, but there will be a time when sin will be no more. And God will remember our sin no more. I began our time with a quote from Narnia, and I'm going to end with one. Father Christmas says this, I have come at last, said he. She has kept me out for a long time, but I have got in at last. Aslan is on the move The witch's magic is weakening. And just like Narnia's winter melting into a new spring, our God gives us a beautiful hope of renewal. Behold, the days are coming, our God says, when our failures to keep the covenant will come to an end. Let me repeat that. Behold, the days are coming. When our sin will be no more, when his law will be written in our hearts, and we will be able to keep it fully, just as Christ fully kept it on our behalf. And by the wonders of his love, we can know the Lord fully because of the story he is telling us. That is why at Christmas We can sing the chorus, repeat the sounding joy. And if I had known we were going to sing the song of offering, I probably would have entitled that the um the sermon. the line revealing God's glorious plan to save the world. We can rejoice with loud trumpets and joyful singing because the living God enters into history. He forgives people their sin. He writes his law into their hearts. The relationship between the Creator can be experienced through the work of the Redeemer, Jesus Christ, who is the mediator of this new covenant. And as far as the curse is found, sin and sorrow. Are crushed through the death of Jesus, and all things will be restored through the resurrection and return of Jesus. This is our hope, and this is our comfort. Let's pray. Father, we are thankful that we see time and time again in your word, of your faithfulness. And we experience it time and time again in our own lives of your kindness, how it leads us to your truth, to your grace, to your peace, to your mercy. And the mystery of all of this is that it starts with your birth. The whispers of you coming, the whispers of you being king, these are the things we place our hope in. That you are the perfect priest, you are the perfect prophet, and you are the perfect king. Give us hope and give us comfort as we live. This day and every day until your kingdom comes in full glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.