If you have a copy of the scriptures with you, I ask that you would turn with me to Numbers chapter twenty. The book of Numbers is the fourth book in the Bible. We'll be looking at chapter 20. I'll be starting at verse 1 and reading through verse 13. Numbers twenty, verses one through three, and before we read and consider the Word of God today Let us again go to our Heavenly Father in prayer. Father, have mercy upon us. Lord, we thank you that you are not a silent God, that you are a God who is not afar-off or distant, who is unknowable. Who we must fear. But Lord, you are our Father and Lover. And Lord, you reveal yourself to us that we might know you, and most of all that we might have life in Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that you would be with us today as we consider your word. Would you allow us to uh Keep the distractions away from our our minds and hearts of the things that we've been wrestling with over this past week and even today that we might allow our minds to be fixed on your word. And Lord, even as we consider your word, help us to not simply be hearers, but also doers of your word. Lord, reveal yourself to us today. Allow your spirit to rest upon us today in power and change us. by your word. And it's in the name of Jesus our Savior we pray. Amen Numbers twenty, verses one through thirteen. Hear the true and living God's word for you today. And the people of Israel, the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zinn in the first month, and the people stayed in Kadesh. And Miriam died there and was buried there. Now there was no water for the congregation, and they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. And the people quarreled with Moses and said. Would that have per would that we have perished when our brothers perished before the Lord? Why have you brought the assembly of the Lord into the w into this wilderness that we should die here, both we and our cattle? And why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place? It is no place for grain or figs or vines or pomegranates, and there is no water to drink. Then Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the entrance of the tent of meeting, and fell on their faces. And the glory of the Lord appeared to them. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Take the staff, assemble the congregation, you and Aaron and your brother, tell the rock before their eyes to yield its water. So you shall bring out of the rock, so you shall bring water out of the rock for them, and give drink to the congregation and their cattle. And Moses took the staff from before the Lord as he commanded him. And then Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock and said to them, Hear now, you rebels, shall we bring water for you out of this rock? And Moses lifted his hand and struck the rock with his staff twice, and water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank and their livestock. And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, Because you did not believe me to uphold me as holy in the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given them. These are the waters of Meribah, where the people of Israel quarreled with the Lord, and through them he showed himself holy. May God bless his word. There's a saying that some of you might be familiar with, maybe you've heard before. It says, those who don't remember the mistakes of the past are doomed to repeat them. Those who don't remember the mistakes of the past are doomed to repeat them. And I think many of us can relate to that saying. Uh I don't think uh if we if we don't remember the mistakes of the past well enough uh to avoid them, we we often tend to find ourselves doing them again And those mistakes often unfortunately begin to look familiar to us once we have repeated them for the second, third, fourth, and then time and time again. Have you ever had a a time in your life where you said, uh, I'm never going to do that again? I'm never gonna have that thought again. I'm never gonna say that again. I I'm never gonna do that again. I can't believe I said that. I can't believe I I had that Thought or or I can't believe I I I did that And you committed, I'm I'm not going to do that again. I've learned my lesson. Maybe it was losing your temper with your kids or with your spouse. Or maybe you allowed lust to overtake your heart. Maybe one time you were just so filled with worry and anxiety, and you allowed fear to take you over And you thought, all right, I think I've learned my lesson. I've learned to believe God, to to take him at his word with my life And then you realize later on when you repeat the same mistake that you really haven't learned the lesson, that you really haven't learned like you thought you had. But we have much in common with the people of Israel here in our text. They can uh constantly and consistently fail to learn from their past mistakes. They too found themselves repeating the mistakes of the past, and they found themselves again not trusting and believing God. And what I want us to seek this morning, what I want us to consider, and what I want us to learn this morning, is that we must trust God. We must believe in him. We must take him at his word. We must believe in God. As simple as that message might be. I think we are people who forget that and we find ourselves again also repeating the same mistakes of the past as here in Israel. Now I first and the the first point I think of how we can know that we can trust in God and that we can believe in him is because he's a God that provides. And here in Numbers twenty, the people of this Israel have just reached the end of their forty years of wandering through the wilderness. And you you might be familiar with the people of Israel. They they've been in the wilderness now forty years. And here in Numbers twenty that they're about to get out of the wilderness, about to enter into that promised land of Canaan. And after forty years of being with God in the wilderness, you would have think they would have learned so much. You know, the the the pillar of fire, the cloud, and God always providing for their needs in miraculous ways. You you think they would have learned so much and would have been a a great people of faith at this point. But what we see is that They really haven't learned much at all. After forty years, they haven't learned much at all. And they would have been wandering the wilderness forever. You see, Israel's failure to believe God and to learn from their mistakes of the past is highlighted in the events of this miraculous provision of water from the rock here in our text. And some of you actually might recall that this is almost a a mirror event. This is almost a mirror image of a similar event. that had taken place all the way back in their first year of wandering. Where the Israelites were wandering in the wilderness all the way back in Exodus 17 And when we have almost an identical event. And at that event, at that first occasion, uh where the people are are um in the wilderness, we see again They're quarreling before Moses and the Lord. And they're complaining against the Lord because again they felt like there wasn't enough water. There wasn't water for them to drink. And they said there in Exodus Uh why is it you have brought us out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst? Uh right? A similar sounding argument to what we just read Then also back there, God commanded Moses to strike the rock, and water would flow out for it for the people to drink. And Moses did what the Lord told him to do. And again, we see God meeting the needs of the people, providing for the needs of the people. And back in in that text and now in our text, we see some things new, but we also see some things repeating themselves. Again, the people are quarreling with Moses. Yet this time, their lack of water initiates complaints that are actually far more wide-ranging. Uh the the initial complaint in in the first was simply about the water, but but now in our own text they they start with the the water complaint, but we see that The the complaints widen in range. They start to complain about past issues. And maybe maybe you've experienced this, or maybe even you've done this yourself. It's kind of like um like a husband who were to knock over uh the sh the salt shaker at the at the dinner table and uh a a huge argument breaks out. And it's really not over the the salt shaker anymore. It's it's uh about uh a laundry list of of failures that he's he hasn't done in the last six months, but that the salt shaker kind of initiated. Maybe you've experienced that. That this one little argument starts a laundry list of of failures Um that that you've carefully been holding in your heart ready to to launch toward the person that's offended you. Well that's kind of what we have here in our text as well with with Israel. Uh that something particular launches into something much greater. And the result is instead of this limited argument, instead of this minor issue, there's there's a full-out war now launched about these past grievances And here the Israelites complain initially about the water, but then the floodgates of complaining begin to open. Israel repeated the complaint that they had made with Moses when he brought them out, but there's also a very distinct edge and harshness here in our text. Uh you'll see it says, Would that we have perished when our brothers perished before the Lord You see what the people are doing now is that they're now identifying themselves with people who rebelled against the Lord, and the Lord punished them by having the earth swallow them up. Back in chapter sixteen And so what the peer the people are declaring what they're saying here is it's not simply about the water, but they're they're saying that we would have rather died with those who have rebelled against the Lord Than be what where the Lord has them now. You see, they're not trusting the Lord. They're saying, we would have rather died with the people who rejected the Lord than be what where you have for us, Father, where you have for us. The people are also complaining in such a way that they're actually blaming Moses and Aaron unfairly. They're blaming them for the consequences of their own choices. In chapter 14, the the people heard a report from the spies who went into the uh into Canaan, into the promised land, uh to to seek it out and to report back. And they heard from the spies that the promised land was a land of figs and pomegranates But the people refused to enter the land because they were scared of its inhabitants. They were scared uh that the people would uh destroy them. They they were afraid that God wouldn't be a a a God of his word and take them into the land. They were afraid that God really wouldn't provide for them. So the people refused to enter the land that had the figs and pomegranates. And then the people are frustrated here in our text. Because the wilderness had no figs or pomegranates. And you see that the the people are blaming Moses and Aaron Because the wilderness was not like the promised land that they themselves had refused to enter. Because they were scared. Because they weren't trusting God. I think we fall into similar patterns of complaining, don't we? I think we can often paint our situation in a far darker reality than it actually is most of the time. Was the situation in the wilderness really a fate worse than death by fire? Well, they they may have been thirsty, certainly, and they might have not had their uh some of their favorite fruits and figs, some of their favorite foods, but certainly the Lord was with them. And he was supplying their needs. He was providing for them in every way. And it's amazing how full of worry and doubt we can get. Even when we're surrounded by our family and friends, when we have a place to sleep, when we have food, we even when we have our health. We because we don't believe in the Lord, that He will prov provide for us, that He'll supply our every need And if the Lord is able to provide for our needs, we might say, why doesn't He keep us from difficulty at all? I I mean if if the Lord could provide for the needs of us and for Israel, well well why do we ever find ourselves in in difficult situations Well, I think just like Israel, I I think one answer to that question that we have to consider and that we often don't like to face or to even think about Is that we may be facing difficulty because of our sin. There are consequences to our sin and wrong choices. And God sometimes allow us to allow us to suffer the consequences of our sin so we might learn of the horribleness of sin. And also of our need for a Savior, of our need for Jesus Christ. And often then, rather than accepting the responsibility of our decisions and uh and repenting. I think we often begin to think it must be someone else's fault. Just like Israel. They found themselves in a situation that was really their fault. But what do they say? They blame it on Moses and Aaron. It's their fault. And what we do a similar thing and we say, Lord, how could you let us end up in this terrible situation? Where the situation in fact is exactly where my own decisions and choices put me But rather than Israel accepting the consequences of of their actions and where they were, they they shift towards a a blame uh blaming Moses and Aaron and Y you know that's been a familiar trend all the way back to Adam and Eve back in the garden. This is not a new thing for us. This is not a a new thing for mankind. But yet we need to remember that wherever we are and w wherever our present situation might be, that the Lord is far more gracious than we even think. That we forget that the Lord provides for our every need, that he has not left us alone, but that he cares for us for us and that he provides for us. And because of that, we can trust him. We can trust our Lord who provides for us And then secondly, we see that not only we can can we trust the Lord because He provides for our needs, and we certainly see that here in Israel and and in Israel's history, a God of of providing needs, but we also see that we can trust God. Because he's also a judge and because he's also holy. And if you consider the text, if you consider the text that we read Uh you might recall that the main emphasis is not actually on the the grumblings and complaints of the people. Uh and that's a serious thing But you see the emphasis on our text, the focus on the text here is actually on the response of Moses and Aaron to that complaint. Uh Moses and Aaron, they actually started out well. Uh they they went to the Lord, they fell down on their face, and they received the instruction from the Lord, and that's good. That that's That's what they were supposed to do, and this is what the Lord said to them in verse 8. He said, Take the staff and assemble the congregation, you and Aaron, your brother. And tell the rock before their eyes to yield its water. So you shall bring out of the rock for them and give drink to the congregation and their cattle. Pretty clear instructions from God. And the first two steps were carried out correctly by Moses. He took the staff. He then gathered the people together, just as the Lord commanded him. But however, that's where Moses' obedience stopped. You see, instead of bringing out water from the rock by simply speaking to the rock, as the Lord commands him here, Moses first gives a speech. And then he strikes the rock twice. And both are problems. Here in this speech he says, Hear now, you rebels, shall we bring water for you out of this rock? Rebels, Moses calls them. Well that's what they were, right? We'd say, You're right, Moses. They're rebels, they're complaining. You're you have every right to call them rebels But you see, the problem here is that Moses was putting himself in the place of judge over the people, which the Lord had not told Moses to do. The Lord told Moses to extend mercy and grace to the people in giving them water, demonstrating that God was the source of their need and that God was their deliverer. Instead, what Moses does here in our text is he sets himself up as their judge and their deliverer. And he said, Shall we bring water for you out of this rock? And he struck the rock twice as if it was his action and not God's that was bringing forth water for the people. And Moses' frustration of the people, he was drawn then into the same mindset of complaining and forgetting that he couldn't really believe the Lord. That the Lord would provide and that the Lord was powerful, and that the Lord was holy, and acting as if everything were up to him. Moses presented himself to the people as as being uh some type of magician that he could simply speak and and and and and and then strike the rock and his ability to manipulate God. Would then deliver the people. Moses was setting himself himself up to be that deliverer rather than giving the glory and place to God. And you see here this rock, the rock in our text represents God Himself. It represents God to his people. Deuteronomy 32 tells us this. It says, The rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice, a God of faithfulness and without iniquity. Just and upright is he. Also, Psalm 78 tells us clearly that this rock represented God Himself. It says, He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers. They remembered that God was their rock, the Most High God, their Redeemer. You see, back in that first encounter Back in Exodus 17, the Lord actually allowed himself to be put on trial standing before Israel instead of putting Israel on trial for their grumbling and complaints. And and this is a picture of of God's amazing grace, of God's of grace to his people, the the Lord allowing himself to be struck Instead of the rebellious people, that they might receive the life-giving waters from him. And it's one thing to strike God when he tells you to, back in Exodus 17. But it's a completely different thing to strike God when he doesn't tell you to, or in fact to even strike him twice. And that's what Moses does here. Moses is actually demonstrating that he too had actually learned uh hadn't learned uh his mistakes of the past. Moses again is um showing that he's falling into a mistake of uh an attitude that he once had when he was back in Pharaoh's court. A time Moses, uh at that time Moses saw an Egyptian uh beating an Israelite and he intervened and remember he he killed that Egyptian And then the next day he saw two of his his fellow Israelites fighting, and he tried to rebuke the one who was wrong, and the man said, Who made you prince and judge over us? You see, in other words A as a youth in in Egypt, Moses had been trying to judge and deliver the people in his own strengths. And now many years later, Moses had reverted once again to that old pattern of self-trust, relying in his own wisdom and trying to deliver them. through his own strength. And Moses certainly isn't the only one who's guilty of that. Standing in judgment over people Uh trying to deliver them on his own. I think it's uh also a common temptation for us to get frustrated when people don't listen to us or do what we tell them to do. And we also substitute law for grace. We substitute guilt uh for obedience, uh trying to motivate them by law rather than God's grace And we judge people who are worthless and calling them worthless. We call people rebels and not trusting that it is God who is the deliverer, that God is the one who changes hearts. And we do this to ourselves as well. When we respond to our own sin By beating ourselves up or by judging ourselves unworthy, we're in fact actually acting as that judge. That is only God's place When we despair of our ongoing struggles with sin, we act as if we were our own deliverers. And what matters is not how we judge ourselves, but how God the Father judges us. We must remember that in Christ, God judges us, not guilty. He calls us saints. He calls us beloved. He calls us his children because he sees us through Jesus Christ. Who has committed himself to deliver us to himself to be holy and pure on that last day You see, it's it's God's verdict that counts, not our own or not others. He is our gracious judge, and God is our faithful deliverer And so the irony here in this passage is that in judging people and in judging people and and here Moses trying to uh deliver the people on his own. He became exactly what he accused the people of being. Rebels against the Lord. And Moses setting himself up to to be the people's judge and deliverer. Moses publicly displayed his failure to believe in and fear the Lord as that true judge and that true deliverer. And in verse twelve we have this very sobering verse. It says, Because you did not believe me to uphold me as holy in the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given them. You see, for his sin, for his unbelief, Moses was excluded from entering into the promised land. And Moses would die there in the wilderness. And this is a very sobering moment in this text. It's a trying moment. I even reading this text, it's it's hard for us to grapple, I think, with God's justice and holiness in that way. It's a reminder that this is a God of justice. This is a holy God that we serve no matter who you are, that God even judges his own leaders That the wages of sin is death. This verse this text reminds us of. And what's sobering about it, and I think what is sobering for us is that in essence just about all of our sin also boils down to a failure to believe God. Sure, in theory, we believe that God is our rock and our our refuge. But then in practice, I think we often believe that God doesn't really exist. And I mean, isn't that why we deem some people hopeless? Why we don't share the gospel with some people because if we believe that God can't really rescue them, that God can't really change their heart I mean why do we get so angry and and frustrated when our spouses and when our families disappoint us? Isn't it because we don't really believe That God is their true judge and that we aren't willing to let God sanctify them, to allow that God to change their hearts Or why is it that we're so fearful of our future? Well, isn't it because we don't really believe that the Lord will deliver us and provide for us? Or why are are we so angry with with God at the way our lives have even turned out? I think it's because we really don't believe God and that He has our best interests in mind. See, we are condemned also as rebels by our failure to believe in the Lord, just like Moses, just like the Israelites. You see, it was actually their unbelief and rebellion that threatened death in the wilderness, not their lack of water. But the good news is that we can trust God because He's also a God of grace. And our last point is we see the gracious character of our Heavenly Father. The Lord shows grace to his people, undeserved, certainly unearned. Unmerited grace. Israel needed a better leader than Moses and Aaron. We see how Moses and Aaron even failed them. Israel needed a better leader. They needed someone who would grant mercy, who would effectively would effectively deliver them out of their bondage. They needed someone who could bring them to the home that God had prepared for them. And you see these these events in our text, these historical events in our text, our types directing us to that true leader and deliverer, to the one who could not simply bring the people to an earthly home, but that could bring men and women to a heavenly and eternal home. And that leader, that true leader and deliverer, has come. And he is the Lord Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul actually tells us that Jesus was actually a part of this text. Jesus was actually a part of this event here in Numbers 20. We read in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, it says, Our fathers all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them. And that rock was Christ. It is us who deserve to be struck. It is us who deserve to die in the wilderness, who deserve the wrath and judgment of God. It was us who deserved death. But Christ, our rock, took the blows of death that we deserve for our rebellion. He took the blows of the Father's wrath that we might now enter the eternal heavenly promised land. In Christ flows the living water that we need to quench our thirsty souls and to transform our lives We must drink that life giving water of Christ. And we must believe in him. Again that we see the evidence of this text of that that verse in Romans that says the wages of sin is death and that's so S clean uh that's seen so clearly here. But because of the love and grace of God, he sent his son to die for rebels like us Those who repeat the same mistakes again and again. And for those who believe in Christ, there's hope. There's life. In Christ, we have that leader who has taken death and defeated it. We have a leader who has conquered all of our enemies and who has cleansed us of our sin. And who has brought us to himself. Christ alone is our peace. He is our rock in this weary wilderness of life. And Moses' sin kept him from entering the promised land of Canaan, but in Christ alone Moses actually is able to enter the eternal heavenly promised land as we read about his faith in Hebrews eleven. In Christ Moses gets to to heaven, Moses enters the eternal, non-perishing eternal land, the promised land. And Hebrews 11 tells us about that. That's the faith chapter. We see Moses' name listed there. But also in Christ and in the grace of God. Moses actually does get into the physical land of Canaan. Some of you might recall in in Matthew chapter seventeen Where Jesus is transfigured on a mountain before his disciples, and his clothes turn white, and Jesus' face shines like the sun. And two two people appear there with Jesus. Two other people appear with him on that mountain in Galilee One is Elijah, and the other is Moses. In Christ, God allowed Moses to even enter the physical land of Canaan. But most certainly what's great is that Moses enters the heavenly land. Moses was allowed to enter the the promised land, both earthly and especially heavenly. But it was all because of grace. And it was all because of Jesus Christ. You see, our God is far more gracious than we could ever imagine He is our gracious God that we can trust, that we can believe in. So let me conclude to just call you to believe in God. I plead with you to remember this again and again. That we can trust our God, that we can believe in Him, that He provides for us. That he is a holy God and that he is so gracious to us. How long will you live in your own strength? How long will you become frustrated over your lack of sanctification and your failure towards others? You see, we must look to the Lord. And submit ourselves to him, trusting in his goodness and mercy. We need to allow the good news of Christ and His gospel that He comes to save to the uttermost to sustain us and to allow our thirsty souls to drink from. Trust God, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and be saved. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are a God that can be trusted. Lord, I do pray that you will help us to learn from our past mistakes. But even Lord in our rebellious hearts and even in our sins, let us turn to Christ and let us cast ourselves again upon that rock, the rock that was struck for us. That we might have life and life abundantly. Let us drink from that rock of Jesus Christ. And it's in the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.