Seems to be a good morning, good morning. So good morning. It is good to be back with you. Let me remind you of what we've been thinking about and answer a few questions that were left over from last week and then move into the text for this week. Where we've been is we've been thinking about what are the practical implications of God not judging us anymore because We've been judged in Christ. As we're trusting in Christ, he was judged in our place. The practical results of that is that God isn't judging me anymore as I'm trusting in Christ. So I don't have to judge me anymore. That also means that I don't have to judge you either. So last week in particular, what we thought about is since we have Christ and in him all things, we need not judge. Neither people inside the church nor people outside the church. And so we feel free to follow Jesus' very clear commands to not judge Now as this happens when you say something controversial, people are clear and blunt as I tend to be. Last week's sermon left some questions unanswered, so let me just briefly clarify at the outset. Last week I in my mind I was mostly focusing on those who don't yet know Christ. Because I knew that today's sermon was coming. But you didn't. So I evidently left that unclear, so I'll try and make it clear today. We absolutely do have responsibilities towards each other within the body of Christ. Even if that doesn't involve judgments, except in very limited cases. Briefly, what are those responsibilities? If you look through the New Testament, you will find that there are 24 one-another commands in the New Testament. Twenty-four. They're worthy of your study. You'll be surprised. Very few of those one-another commands are directive. And where they are, the direction is to push each other towards Christ, towards love and good deeds. Another responsibility. So the one another commands. Bear the fruit of the spirit toward one another. This is a common problem as flourish as I work with different congregations, is I'll just say, well, what about the fruit of the spirit? And people are kind of like, uh, and that has bearing how? Uh well, it it is the way that we are called to live. We're going to think some, we're going to reflect some on the events of 2020 today as we must. But something that seemed to get skipped over entirely. In church's dialogues in 2020, was bearing the fruit of the Spirit towards their fellow brothers and sisters. That's sad and wrong. And hopefully it's something that we'll look at today. What we look at today, hopefully, we'll help with that. So that's a responsibility. One and others, bearing the fruit of the Spirit. Within that responsibility of bearing the fruit of the Spirit sits one primarily of love. In God's Good Providence, the one Sunday school class this morning looked at this today, that the overall put on love. Overall, put on love. One of my favorite authors says that what when we think about Christian maturity, we should make love the measure of Christian maturity, not anything else. And then last in terms of responsibilities within the body, we were in 1 Corinthians 3 and 4 last week. When you get over to chapter 5, you find out. That there are times when the elders of a congregation must move out of love towards an unrepentant congregant in church discipline. Why? So that they might repent. Right? And so you see this wonderful appearing in 1 Corinthians 5, you see them moving towards, and Paul instructed them, you need to move towards this person that they might repent because what they're doing is damaging themselves and the body. Right? And then you get to 2 Corinthians and you find out, wow, they moved towards him and he repented and he's like, welcome him back in. It it happens real time in Corinth. And that sadly does need to happen when people are unrepentant. The elders have to act in that way. So there's a few responsibilities within the body, again, extraordinarily little, and in the elders when judgment needs to take place. Well, with those clarifications, let's move to our passage for today, which is Romans 14, 1 through 4. This passage leads us to think about the attitude that we should have towards one another. Particularly when we have a difference of opinion on a topic that isn't clear in the Bible. So let's look at Romans 14, verses 1 through 4. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains And let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, relationships uh are just difficult. Even among believers. But as uh Brother Paul Tripp puts it, there are a mess that's worth making. Are they what you've called us into as a body? And yet the pressures that we faced in the last Several years reveal our immaturity, frankly, in this area. So would you continue to grow us and mature us? Would you work in us, Holy Spirit? A humility, a gratitude for grace, a willingness to rely on you, Holy Spirit, for how we are to think and act, speak, towards each other in the body. That we might here at CPC have such a vibrancy of welcome among us that the world can't believe it. They see something different in us that the gospel changes people. Do that work, we pray, Holy Spirit, even as we look at this word you've given to us this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Today, from this passage, we're going to learn what to put off. So if you know that dynamic from Ephesians 4, we're to put off and put on. So today we're going to think about, excuse me, what we're going to put off. The next time that we're together at the end of the month, we'll go through the larger passage, 14 into 15, quite lengthy passage. We'll go through the larger passage to see the macro picture of what we are called to put on. Alright, so this is a one of two. I mentioned that we're going to talk some about 2020 today. I hope that we have enough distance. From those events, that we can be a little bit less reactive. We can sit back with a little bit more calm to reflect to evaluate and to learn. The reason I think this is important is I desire as a pastor that we be different as a congregation. This kind of challenge we will run into again. And it will have the same potential to divide us as a group. You do know that that's one of Satan's favorite strategies is to divide I firmly believe that the Lord gave us COVID to wake us up. Millions of people who were never thinking of their own mortality suddenly were. And we botched it. We botched it, in my opinion. Christianity botched it. Because we got all twisted up in our own stuff. Instead of looking at all the people around us who suddenly were fearful for their lives and we had the words of life for them. One of Satan's favorite strategies is division. And so we should be forewarned so as to be forearmed. The main service level issues of 2020 are obvious. There was lots of different opinions about related to COVID and COVID strategies. There were lots of opinions around the tragic death of George Floyd and what that meant, how we should react. And of course, there was that minor bump of the election. Lots of different opinions related to those that led to divisions among Christians. Recognize that opinions just are. Everyone has one. In fact, it's impossible not to, even if your only opinion is apathy or exhaustion. What separated Christians here at CPC and across most of all the churches where Flourish worked was how. People's opinions were held. Their posture, their attitude towards their own opinions and other people's opinions. As my wife likes to say with one of our children who's most like his father. Um how you say it matters. The main issue was not the people who had opinions, which is just life. It's the attitude and the posture that went along with the opinions. That was the problem. That's why we're here in Romans 14 today. To learn what our attitude should be towards each other when it comes to disputable matters. So let's first, I know some of you are having real mental difficulty with the fact that it's again only a two-point sermon. I won't apologize. It just divides easily only into two points So first let's recognize your role in the body. Look with me at verse 1. As for the one who is weak in faith, so there's a there's a Postulation here by Paul that some are weak in faith and some are strong in faith. And what I have found over time as a pastor is that those who are actually strong in faith are viewed as weak in faith, and those who are weak in faith are actually believed that they're strong in faith. And so they invert this. People put themselves in the wrong category. But notice actually that it doesn't matter in this passage which category you're in. Your posture is still to be of a certain sort. Here, weak in faith, they're less mature, they've got lots to learn, they lack biblical nuance. But as this is grace in action, if you will. That's where we are in Romans 14, whereafter all those wonderful chapters where the gospel is re-preached. Right? This is how we we live out that we're in Christ together in the body. So how are we to view someone who is, to our perception, weak in faith? Welcome. That is fascinating as a word. I like to put it this way: who's around your supper table? Who's around your supper table? Who's the guests that you invite? Who is it that you welcome from this body into your circle of fellowship? Who do you welcome? Welcome him. But don't welcome him with a certain sort of attitude as a superior. Not with an attitude of, well, you know, he doesn't really get it. But I I think I can I think I can get him there. I think I can educate him. I think I can teach him Welcome in, but not to quarrel over opinions. So you don't welcome someone in to set them straight, which is what we typically do, right? That's what we typically do. Yeah, this once I'll sit down with you. It was kind of like, sure, boomer, money all. Right? We throw that around. We throw around our superiority over other generations or people with different perspectives. Like Okay, just 'cause I'm supposed to. That's not welcome, friends. That's not welcome Welcome in, but not to quarrel over opinions. And then we get an example issue. We look at the larger passage at the end of the month. You'll see that there's multiple issues, and not just these ones that are mentioned here. This is our attitude towards disputable. But the the example issue here is one person believes that a meat may eat anything while the weak person eats only vegetables. Recognize that this Eating only vegetables is about dietary laws. In some places in the New Testament, it's about um Jews concerned to still still keep the Jewish dietary laws. In other places, it's that You don't know whether the meat was sacrificed to an idol before it was put in front of you. And so it's an issue actually for Jews and Gentiles, this whole meat-eating thing, but for different reasons. But here's what it is. This person is seeking in good conscience to make a spiritual decision. The weak person is. They're trying to make a spiritual decision. They may be wrong, but they are trying to make a spiritual decision So what that means is the posture, the attitude, verse three, let not And notice that this posture goes both ways. Whether you think you're weak or strong in a disputable matter, this posture goes both ways. Let not the one who eats despise. That's a pretty strong word. If any of you are familiar with the work of um John and Julie Gottman who do what they're um secular, but they do quite wonderful stuff on marriage, lots of research, and fascinating. They say that when a couple, they can observe a couple having an argument, and if they can pick up that one despises the other, the marriage is basically already over. They just haven't declared it yet. Do you I hope you haven't experienced this, but I'm going to guess that you've experienced being despised. And feeling that. I certainly have. It's horrid to feel despised. But I think there's this vibrant language to make us realize what we're doing. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. And let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats. So notice it goes both ways. Whether you think in a particular issue, you're the weak, you're the strong, I'm on the right side, he's on the wrong side. I should be trying to convince him. Nope. No despising, no judging. That's not how you're supposed to relate in the body with somebody else in a disputable matter. So these are strong expressions. Evidently, this was what was going on in Corinth. Certainly, from what I've heard of how things were here, it's what was going on here. And I think that both in Corinth and here it was going both ways over disputable matters. Disputable matter is something that evidently is not clear in the scriptures to Christians eager to know and apply the Bible to their lives. That's what a disputable matter is. So for clarity, let me distinguish what is and isn't a disputable matter. No primary issue covered in the Nicene Creed is a disputable matter Those are primary level issues. If somebody doesn't hold them, they aren't a Christian. And that's obviously the most important thing about an individual. If we agree on primary level issues, there ought to be a unity between two genuine Christians. If they're going to share the new heavens and new earth. They ought to be able to not only get along, but genuinely love and welcome each other now. Hopefully that makes sense I do love that word welcome. It's beautiful. It's vibrant. You can see it. You can feel it. And it's so different than 2020 felt like. Welcome as a brother, as a sister, those that you agree with on primary level issues. Secondary level issues. The easiest way to think about these, in my mind at least, are distinctive beliefs among Christian groups like our Westminster standards. So the doctrinal standard of the Specular Church, the Presbyterian Church, the PCA, is the Westminster Confession of Faith and the Catechisms, right? Why is that secondary? Well, you can be in right relationship with God. You can be going to enjoy the new heavens and new earth with many of you, I trust. Believing in a different form of church government or having a different view of God's sovereignty or the present-day working of the Spirit. Are these things worth discussing charitably? Sure. I would expect if this is a typical PCA church, there's lots of difference at CPC at this level. But read the one another commands. See what your duty is towards a brother or sister in Christ. So even that disagreeing charitably, you do well. That you have the right aim in it. Because the right aim is to push each other towards Christ. That's the right aim. Too much of the time we're trying to push each other towards something that is vastly more important to me than it is to Jesus. And brothers and sisters, that is the standard I apply to myself. Is this more important to me than it is to Jesus? If it's super important to Jesus, it would be obvious in the Word. And by definition, a disputable matter is non-obvious in the Word. So you have to ask yourself, is the opinion that I'm holding in this particular instance, is it more important to me than Jesus have I let it supersede over the most important things? And I I fear that the answer is many, many times we have. Even when we're charitably discussing with another Christian that we believe differently on a secondary level matter. The main goal is to push each other towards Christ. Tertiary, third level, and lower tier matters are the kinds of things to my thinking that we ran into in 2020. Disputable matters are for a variety of reasons simply less clear in comparison to, say, primary matters like we're going to confess tonight before we come to the Lord's table. Genuine Christians with zeal for God and His Word can come to genuinely different positions related to COVID. How we should think and react to the tragic death of George Floyd, and how a Christian should vote on a particular matter in a particular election. I hope that's obvious. That you can say, this person that I disagree with this, with the this person on this particular matter, they're a genuine Christian. I'm not doubting whether they actually know and love Christ or turning from sin and trusting in Christ, even if we disagree on this thing. But notice that so much of that got amped up that it's kind of like, I need to separate myself. From Christians and from this body, because we disagree on this matter. And that's just not biblical. It doesn't match up to this, what we're looking at today. Why do we end up in disputable matters where it's not equally clear to everybody? There's a passage on our doctrinal standards that actually talks about this. We're not going to go there today, but if you're interested, the confession of faith actually talks about this Why do we end up where some things are less clear, like those in Corinth or even the issues that we face here? Why do we end up a place where some things are less clear? Two primary reasons. First primary reason. We are finite, small, frail, and weak And that's before we even start talking about our sinfulness. That's just our creaturliness. In our creaturliness, we are finite, small, frail, and weak. And then when you add on top of that, we're depraved in hearts and minds. And so it's no surprise with those very distinct limitations that we bring different perspectives, much less experiences, to the table of conversation. That's one primary reason. Creaturiness out of sinfulness leads to us to have different perspectives, and we bring different experiences with us. Second primary reason. Why do we end up in disputable matters? The Bible is crystal clear on all that we need for life in godliness. That's what 1 Peter 1:3 says. Everything that we need for life in godliness, the Bible is crystal clear on. But it is not clear in every possible matter. What that means then When we grab a hold of that and we get okay with it, is that our primary posture or attitude towards one another should be that of welcome, not of quarreling? The shared need that two Christians have of Christ, and to help each other understand the gospel more deeply and apply it more broadly. That shared need among them is vastly more important, vastly more important, than trying to convince each other of our perspective on a disputable matter. I hope that makes sense. So why do we do it? Why do we end up doing the exact opposite of this? Like, hey, come on over for lunch. I heard you're Republican. I heard you're a Democrat. Do you know what uh you know I travel churches across the country, work all stripes of churches, all sizes, all places. I have never been in a church that talks about politics as much as you guys. guys. I said that in its context uh this week. And and uh one of the responses was, Well you don't you know where we live, right? Yes, I'm aware of where you live. I live here too half the month. So which is bigger? The Bible or where you live? Which is more important to you? The scripture's admonition or the air that you breathe when you walk out this door? Which is more important to you? That's what you have to wrestle with. Why do we do this? Why do we get in these disputable matters and end up arguing, even separating, over it? Here's why we do it. It's easier. It's way easier than me going to someone and saying, you know, I'm really struggling with this sin. It's way easier to say you're wrong than it is to say, I'm struggling with this sin. I don't see how Christ's righteousness helps me in this way. I'm horribly insecure I'm nervous. I'm fearful. I'm afraid. I don't know. I have doubts It's way, way easier to go to somebody else and say, you're wrong, than any of that spiritual stuff. That's why we do it. And many times, if we're honest, it's in our flesh. It's not by the Spirit Our intent there in that conversation is not to benefit this person that they would draw more near to Christ. That's not why we're there. It's many times because we need someone else to agree with us so that we can feel okay about ourselves. It's many times in our pride. Well, I I I got this figured out, and if I explain it enough to you, you'll end up figuring it out too. So let me show you. Let's be honest. Many times it's in our pride because we think we actually have it, and we want to convince others that we have it right. And I think that's why so many conversations in this church revolve around politics instead of Christ If you examine your speech rather seriously before the Lord, as you think about others in the body that you would speak about, their views, sometimes sadly, their persons. Look at how much of it is despising and passing judgment. Look at how much of that has happened here. Just what's described here. Brothers and sisters, we've got to repent of this. We must. Are there others who've left that need to repent too? Yeah. For sure, I hope some of you might say, I'm repenting of this. I encourage you to do the same. That would be awesome. If they would repent also. We need to put this off. This topic, when you press into it Most of what it does for me is it shows me how much I need Jesus It shows me that I need a Jesus who never did this. When you look at the life of the ministry of Jesus, it is a ministry of welcome. And that's what he did. In our place, he welcomes perfectly. In my place, he welcomes perfectly and didn't despise or pass judgment on the repenting. Did he do it, Samma, the unrepenting? Yeah. But he calls us to love our enemies. And he did that pretty well too. Jesus didn't despise but loved and then died for ones like us who do that too much. And he rises. Why? So that we can have hope, not only that our sins are forgiven, but that we can be different. Right, Jesus rises away, he says, the disciples are like, No, don't go away. And he's like, No, I need to go away, because then the Spirit can come in this more abundant ministry than the saints in the Old Testament experienced. And we get this wonderful ministry of the Holy Spirit who enables us from the inside to live lives of welcome instead of judgment. So to that end, we should realize how critical this is to the Lord. And so we should, by the power of indwelling Holy Spirit, then second and much more shortly, I promise. Resist the urge to be someone else's master. This is the call on us is to resist the urge to be someone else's master. Look with me at the end of verse 3. Why should we not despise or pass judgment no matter which side we're on, and whether we think we're the weak or the strong? Why should we not? God's welcomed him. Imagine the oddness of this. God's welcoming you, I'm despising and passing judgment on you. That's the contrast that's set up here. So our posture is to be like God's to our fellow brother and sister. Even when we disagree in a disputable matter, welcome. God has welcomed you. I will welcome you. And not require you to agree with me before I'll welcome you. I will just welcome you. Because we share Christ. And then verse 4 is this sort of blunt, who are you? Who are you? See, in our self-proud view, here's how we think about ourselves. Who am I? Well, um, I'm right. I'm living on the right side of history. I I'm enlightened. I understand I'm woke, I'm anti-woke. I get it. Distinct sarcastic undertone. And obviously you don't But I get it. And I can help you get it. And so we evangelize people the things that are not Christ's. Be honest. That's what we do. We evangelize people towards things that are not Christ. That's the problem. Who are you? So the self-view, pride, I'm right, I'm on the right side of history, I'm enlightened, I'm woke, I'm saying, woke, I get it. That's that's who we have in our self-view. Well what's God's view? Well, Matt, you do remember that you're just a little tiny puny creature, right? You do accept the limitations of your teeny tiny brain. Your very limited understanding and experience. This is how the Lord speaks to me. See, if you're a New Yorker, the Lord speaks very bluntly. And you can listen in on the conversation. So Matt, you know you're just a little tiny creature, right? Which means that you're limited and frail. And you're broken and you need help. Your mind doesn't work the way I made it to. Your heart is so many places other than my glory. Matt, you're sinful and you're insecure. Why do you need to win that argument? That's what the Lord speaks to me. Who are you? You're welcomed. You're my child. But you're teeny and frail and you act like you're big and you know what. It's wrong, man. That's what the Lord speaks to me. Would you be willing to hear that about yourself? That's actually who you are in God's sight. Welcome, beloved child. Small, frail, limited, weak, and sinful. That's why this is so blunt. Is they thought of themselves so big. Let me educate you. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? This is the key issue Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master, not you. It's before his own master that your fellow Christian stands or falls. When I worked with Crewe many years ago, we used to talk about that our labor was for the audience of one. And the audience of one is not me. And it's not you. It's the Lord. We work for an audience of one. It's before his own master that he stands or falls, and gloriously he'll be upheld. Why? Because the Lord is able to make him stand. It's the Lord that enables us to continue standing in Christ and growing. So the call here is to resist the urge to be someone else's master. This is blunt. It's blunt in the text. I know I'm being blunt, but it's blunt in the text. When you pass judgment on someone else, functionally what you're doing is be my servant. Let me be your master. When you pass judgment, you're seeking to make someone your servant, and you don't have that right. That's why it says, who are you? James 14:14 says, um You you're a you're a mist and then you're gone. That's who we are. But if we're honest, if I'm honest, I don't like that. I'd like to be way more significant than that. In fact, I'd like others around me to affirm that I'm way more significant than that. If I'm honest. See, we have this urge because we're not finding our security in Christ that we need others around us to affirm us that we are okay and right. And it's our fragility and our insecurity because of not understanding that we already have all things in Christ. That's what drives us to this. I need this conversation to go this way so that I feel okay about myself. Let's be honest that that's what's going on. Because if you don't agree with me, then I might be wrong, and I'm not sure I can live with that But if you're trying to live on that as the basis of having some sense of significance and acceptance and worth, that is a problem. Because I am wrong an awful lot of the time. And I'm assuming you are too, as a frail, limited creature who's sinful. Friends, our security has got to be in Christ and our acceptance in Him, in the welcome of God, because of Christ. Not because we're sort of canvassing about for people to affirm us that we're okay and right. That's why the precursor sermon to this was trying to help you understand to drive into go into the depths the fact that we already have all things in Christ. Recognize that when you do this, but this is your posture, you are basically demanding someone to be your servant and receive you as their master. We rightly revolt as these words, as these words, and we are meant to. So how do we resist this urge to be a fellow Christian's master? How do we do this? Prayerfully dependent upon the Holy Spirit, we seek its opposite. We seek to assiduously act like God toward our fellow believer. We actively welcome those who we differ with, knowing that where we differ is vastly less important than our shared need of Christ To the point where we men not even need to talk about it. Imagine. The need to not convince somebody that they're wrong and that you're right. We seek its opposite. We, by the power of the Spirit, seek to welcome people quite different than us, with quite different opinions than us. Believing God is at work in our fellow believer just as he is in me. What feels like quite a long time ago, Robert Benedict and writing CPC's Church Health Assessment Noted that as a group, you didn't have a lot of curiosity towards one another. Now, some of you didn't like that word. I don't know why you didn't like that word. I think it's a perfectly wonderful word. Here's why. My wife taught me this, by the way. I didn't have this when we Matt. This is something that the Lord worked in me through my wife, who is inveterately curious with people, and is beautiful to watch as she works. As she loves, as she welcomes. She's my wife is one of those people that's uh what you would call a people magnet. People are just attracted to her because she has the spirit of welcome. I have learned from my wife that many times if you have a genuine curiosity As your reigning heart attitude when you speak with someone, if you even need to, about a disputable matter where you differ in your views. If you have genuine curiosity, it makes for a very different conversation. Genuine curiosity is not lobbing bombs over walls, castle to castle. Genuine curiosity is meeting on the path and shaking hands and saying, you know, I'm curious. What led you to this viewpoint? And that's very, very different in posture than proclaiming I'm right, you're wrong. And it if you have that posture, it yields a really different and better conversation than you might have expected. If you do that, you'd be honoring the Lord, and you'd be resisting this urge to be someone else's master. Let's pray together. Father, this a word of yours here in Romans fourteen one through four is a blunt word. Because it pains your heart to see your children not getting along with each other, not welcoming each other. Not resisting this urge to be someone else's master. It paints you And so I I will be the first to repent. And I pray, Lord, that you would work. in the hearts of many here and many who are not here, sadly, that they would repent. That we would recognize what happened here for what it was. And that you would work in us such a love for Christ, such a desire that our fellow brothers and sisters would know Christ more deeply and apply the gospel more broadly, that that would be our discourse. That we would not need, maybe even want, to have many of the conversations that pervade. But we would much more want. To talk about Christ. Work this in us for your glory and our joy. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.