Be honest, if you'd been told someone was gonna fall down getting up on his platform. I do want to especially thank, as some of you don't know, I'm legally blind. I have extreme tunnel vision, which is kind of a cool thing. But Matt Shellon and others put these rails up here because they were worried I would fall down. And I learned something really neat just this morning from Mark Shoger. As many of you know, their daughter, Naomi, has my same eye disease. And she shared with a Facebook group that her new pastor has retinized pigmentosa. And evidently a good number of those folks are live streaming today. So if you are um Fellow sufferers of retinitis pigmentosa and you're watching this morning, I want to especially welcome you. It is a uh a strange but a blessed condition in so many respects. Our text for this morning is taken from the Gospel of Luke, chapter 1. If you have your Bibles with you, I'd encourage you to turn with me to that text. The words will be on the screens in front of you. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for its truth and its beauty. And Father, we confess our great need before you. Lord, we need you to help us to understand it. to accept it and believe it, to put it into practice, to let it become a part of who we are as in this pilgrim life we are leading together, Lord. struggle with ups and downs, good times and bad times, successes and failures. Lord, we pray that your word to us would be a comfort and a conviction That we might know you better and glorify you in the way we live. Father, bless this reading and the preaching of your word that follows. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 1, beginning with verse 18, the Word of God. And Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you, and to bring you this good news. And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple, and he kept making signs to them and remained mute. And when his time of service was ended he went to his home. After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me. to take away my reproach among people. This ends the reading of God's Word. Now I got that line wrong again. I I will get it. I will get it right. We started reading that text a little bit abruptly. If you're visiting with us, you might think, well, it starts with this business about Zechariah saying to an angel, well, what has just happened? And for many of us, well, it might be a familiar text. In Luke chapter 1, and Luke is the book of the Bible we're studying right now in the sermons. An angel had appeared to Zechariah when he had his once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to go into the temple and light the altar of incense representing the prayers of the people, and they're seeking at the evening service For the redemption of Israel. So he goes in and this he his his group is the his his tribe, his clan has their turn. He's selected by lot. You can do this once in your life as a priest. And he's an old man, never had this honor. And he goes in to light the incense, and an angel appears to him. And the angel basically says to him, God has heard your prayers. You and your wife are going to have a son and you will name it John. And he's told that he will be a forerunner in the spirit and power of Elijah, that he will turn the people back to God and turn fathers to their children, in the language of the last verses of the book of Malachi. He will be that great forerunner to the Messiah himself. So what the angel's telling Zechariah is that the prayers that Zechariah had carried with him his entire life as he and his wife Elizabeth had been longing to have a child. It was a great reproach in that ancient culture not to have children, had been heard and was going to be answered. And so were his prayers as a priest on that great day in the temple. God was going to, in a creative burst of divine genius, take this man's personal prayers and the prayers he was lifting up cur corporately on behalf of all the people who were praying outside of the temple, and he was going to answer them in this one great gift of John, John the Baptist. And that's where we find Zechariah saying to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years. Now, that could mean many different things and could have many different spins to it depending on how you look at it. And we'll see that more in the case of Elizabeth. For example, Mary says, just a couple verses later in this same chapter, she says to the angel, how will this be? How will I have a child since I am still a virgin? And yet the Bible gives us insight into the spiritual condition of both Zechariah and Mary. We're going to be looking at the account with Mary, which is boldly and even starkly juxtaposed or contrasted with this case of Zechariah, where Mary believes and is just wondering at how is this going to work? But with the case of Zechariah, the angel Gabriel specifically says, because you did not believe my words. And Zechariah's entire response that he receives from Gabriel is in light of his disbelief. And when we as Christians look at this text and want to say, well, what's the take-home for me? Here we are at the beginning of 2024. It's important to notice that all of what Gabriel says and what follows is premised on the fact that Zechariah doubted. I want to talk to you about doubts. Oftentimes we don't like to talk about doubt. And we might want to look at a text like this and say, let's instead of talking about what doubt is and what its effects are and how it uh creeps up in our hearts. Let's just talk about belief. I mean that's the sermon title. Let's keep this positive. And yes, I would love to keep every message I ever preached positive, but sometimes the way to get to the hilltop is to go through the valley first. You see, the angel says, because you didn't believe. And in order to understand this text, we have to take a long, long, hard look at doubt and unbelief. And the first thing I want to say to you about it If you're following along in the outlines, kids, kids age third grade and higher, that includes you octagenarians. or kids starting next week who are second grade and higher, the word is universal. Disbelief is universal. And you might take a little bit of umbrage at that and say, well, I don't struggle with disbelief. And I would just simply say to you, really? What is sin but an action or an attitude grounded and driven by a failure to accept what God has said. And more than that, I want you to think about the Bible as a whole. This is Zechariah who didn't believe. Zechariah is introduced to us. In verse 5 of chapter 1, in the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. These are people, a man and a woman, who have a great knowledge of what the Word of God has said and a great loyalty to the God whom they serve. In today's language, we would say they know all the Sunday school answers. They have a great and penetrating knowledge of the great doctrines of God as they were revealed up to that point through the prophets. These are not new believers. This is a man and a woman who are mature in their faith. Despite the fact that the greatest answer to the prayer and the source of all the social stigma heaped upon them, despite those things, they were faithful in obeying God and serving him. And yet at the moment of God speaking into their life most powerfully, there is disbelief, doubt. And that despite strong evidence. I want to share with you something of a peculiar feature I noticed in studying this text. And you might think, well. You can't study much, Bob. Your books are still in boxes. But all my books on the Gospel of Luke, and they are many, or should I say legion, or would that be sort of inappropriate? Came across an interesting fact regarding Elizabeth. And this is something that is pointed out by a gentleman who is the professor of New Testament Theology at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville. And he's written what is considered one of the premier commentaries on the Gospel of Luke today. And he comments regarding this verse, after these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden. He comments on that and he says that there is no known ancient tradition. And he's talking about Canaanite, ancient Near Eastern, Babylonian, Egyptian, Israelite. There is no known tradition which can account for the fact that she kept herself hidden. And so we look at this text and we think, okay, why did she hide herself? Why did she not, the moment she received the promise you were going to have a child, go out and say to her neighbors, The Lord has blessed me and honored me. I'm going to have a child. Ladies, what happens in the fifth month? I know a lot of you have had kids. In fact, I I watched some of your kids grow up. You start to show. And the picture here, as it's observed by that professor in Southern Baptist Theological Seminary and others, is that Elizabeth herself contrasted with Mary. Elizabeth herself waits until there is definitive worldly proof before she goes out, unhides herself, And says, thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach among people. You see the picture here Interpreted by this very clear cue from the angel Gabriel's comment regarding the unbelief of Zechariah is of a couple that despite The evidence of Zechariah's muteness waited until there was not only the spiritual testimony of God Himself through his servant Gabriel, who was no bum by the way. They wait for the physical, earthly, worldly evidence before they come out of hiding and share their testimony with the neighbor. And I say this because I want to comfort you. I do. You should never feel alone when you have doubts. When you have doubts about God's goodness to you, about his work in your life, about the promises of Scripture, You stand shoulder to shoulder, heart to heart, with millions upon millions of children of the living God who have struggled with doubt. And to put a pretty blunt point on this, John the Baptist is described later in Matthew chapter 11. As that man who is greater than any other man born of woman up until his time And that commendation is given to him by none other than Jesus Christ. That John the Baptist is the spiritual giant among men. If you turn into the Old Testament and go to the book of Job, chapter 1, we are told that Job was righteous among his entire generation, and there was none like him. He was supreme in his godliness, for he feared the Lord and shunned evil. There was no one who was his equal in spiritual maturity and faithfulness and devotion to God. And what you both Job and John the Baptist have in common? Doubt. Job complained before the Lord at whether or not God was just. In Matthew chapter 11, verses 1 through 5, we read about John the Baptist being in prison. It's King Herod the Great's son who has him imprisoned. But he hears about what Jesus is doing and he's perplexed. And John the Baptist, when he's in prison, we read that he sends his disciples to Jesus and says to Jesus, Are you the one we are supposed to be looking for? Are you the Messiah? John the Baptist had his doubts One of the eleven faithful disciples had his doubts even when he saw the risen Christ at the resurrection. His name was Thomas. He had to literally be invited to put his hands into the wounds of Jesus before he believed that Christ had been raised. You can look through church history. One of my favorites is Abraham Kuyper. He's a Dutch theologian and a statesman. He wrote a wonderful series of articles on the Holy Spirit. published in book form by Cragel Press, if you're interested. Twice he had what we would today probably call some kind of nervous breakdown where he doubted everything and had to recover from it. And then he would resume, pick up his faith, and go back to chair a department of theology. Doubt, discouragement, frustration, depression, anxiety, these are part of the infirmities that we bear And it's important for you, when you experience doubts, not to allow the Satan, who the Satan, by the way, is how the Bible describes him, be great accuser. It's important not to allow the Satan to say to you, see You're not a Christian after all. In some respects, the fact that you have doubts is evidence that you are a Christian. That's comforting, isn't it? But I want to offer you something convicting. Because the next thing we see here regarding The angel's response to Zechariah should be, it should be comfort in a way, but it should fall heavy on the note of conviction. Because disbelief is inexcusable. And there are times when I go through periods of doubt or discouragement or disbelief That I have got to say to myself, Bob Bjerkis, there is really no excuse. You might have all these reasons, but they are not sufficient excuses for your doubting the goodness and providence of a faithful God. Here's Zechariah. And Zechariah is no doubt far godlier, more mature, certainly a more seasoned clergyman than I am. And he is going about his ministerial task, his once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and an angel appears beside him next to the altar of incense. Okay, let's just stop for a minute. An angel appears before him. Now, I believe in angels The book of Hebrews says that they are ministering spirits sent to serve them that will inherit eternal life. I believe this room, based upon what the book of Hebrews tells us later, chapter 12, that when we gather to worship in the name of Christ, we are not come to an earthly mountain, but we are come to this Mount Zion that is the spiritual uh collection not just of us but of thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly and even to the souls of just men made perfect. I believe that. I believe that the Bible says sometimes we encounter angels in disguise, and therefore we should be good to strangers. The Bible teaches that. But I can't point to a single instance in my life and say an angel appeared to me and actually spoke to me. Neither do I expect it. Such events are exceedingly rare in the recorded history of God's people in the Bible and tend to be joined to moments of the developmental, progressive unfolding of God's great redemptive plan, a plan that has been completely brought to fruition. the death and resurrection of Christ and the establishment of his church. Today, as 2 Peter puts it, we have all those promises made more certain. We have the Bible and the work of the Holy Spirit in our hearts. But nonetheless, if an angel were to appear to me, I would like to think that after I felt down, fell fell down to the ground terrified, and after the angel used that very familiar phrase, be not afraid. I would like to think that I would then proceed to believe everything the angel told me instead of disbelieving And I love the fact that this angel, gifted by God with the insight into the human heart, knows exactly what's happening. He knows that this servant of his, this child of his, just like you, is disbelieving the word of promise and the fulfillment that is offered. And he says, I am Gabriel I sometimes think that it would be neat to be able to hear a recording of the tone of voice, the rhythm of the speech. What we know from the grammar and syntax is that these are short sentences. I am Gabriel. It's the first thing he says. He doesn't immediately say, how can you not believe me? I'm an angel. I mean, get a hold of yourself, man. He says, I'm Gabriel, one of three named angels in the Bible, the others being Lucifer and Michael. And Gabriel is specifically noted in the book of Daniel in chapter 8 and chapter 9 as an angel specifically commissioned by God to tell God's people what is going to come. in God's plan to save. Take you back to an earlier statement. This is from Daniel chapter 9, the second text in Daniel that describes Gabriel. Daniel says, while I was speaking in prayer, And it was the evening, just as Zechariah was. The man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the first, came to me in swift flight at the time of the evening sacrifice, exactly the same as Zechariah. And he said, O Daniel, I have now come out to give you insight and understanding. At the beginning of your pleas for mercy, a word went out, and I have come to tell it to you, for you are greatly loved. Therefore, consider the word and understand the vision. Now we're not going to tell Daniel's story this morning. But I want you to notice Gabriel's role. This Gabriel who is sent by God to give understanding and insight into what God is going to do. And Zechariah would have understood that context immediately. I am Gabriel. And just as I came to your great, great, great, great grandfather in the faith, Daniel. Now I've come to you. And he goes on to say, I stand in the presence of God. A short clause. I have it from the mouth of God Himself. I'm not playing some telephone game. With red plastic cups and old pieces of yarn, I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this gospel. Same word for good news that shows up again and again in Acts and Luke. I want you to think for a moment about how Zechariah had no good reason to doubt the angel. But the angel makes it very clear that you doubted, stop doubting. I am not just any angel. If that had not been sufficient for you, I'm Gabriel himself. I'm coming as I did for Daniel, directly from the presence of God. And I'm telling you what's going to happen. Now at that point, we have every reason to believe that Zechariah did believe. Nonetheless, the third thing that we need to notice in understanding what this text says about disbelief is the disbelief is Not only universal, we all struggle with it. Not only is it inexcusable, but it's tragic. You see, disbelief takes away our opportunity to exalt in the goodness of God. Zechariah comes out late from the temple and the people had been wondering what was going on. They realized he'd seen a vision. He's mute. He can't communicate. When his speech is restored, the very first thing that he says. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and this in the presence of others When his disbelief ends, he is able to stand up and exalt before the people. When Hannah sees the evidence and is willing to go out in public, she is then enabled to say, thus has the Lord done for me and taken away my reproach. But you see, in the meantime, when I doubt and I disbelieve, the tragedy is that my own testimony gets dampened. My own participation in those ministry events that are so much a part of the warp and the whoof of every child of God's life becomes quieted and sometimes even stilled. Therefore, this disbelief not only has an effect on me as an individual, but on the people to whom I could be ministering. And all of this drives me to my knees to say with the great gospel giant, yes, Lord, I believe, help me in my unbelief. So I want to encourage you to think, dear Saint, in the first place, before we even look at the application points I wrote down, some of you struggle with believing God. And I want to tell you, that is not abnormal. You are not alone. You feel alone, but you are not. Your experiences are not unique. Your fears and frustrations Are not strange to the internal experiences of God's people. The Psalms are full of godly saints struggling with belief. But I also want to encourage you to think on these words, I am Gabriel, because that's just the tip of the mountain for Zechariah's belief. Do not the heavens declare the glory of God? Doesn't the earth pour forth speech? I want to give you a practical thing to think about. One of my favorite features in the teaching of Jesus Christ is that he used his illustrations from everyday life so that as you're going through your life and you see a bird, Or you see a fox. It was a common occurrence back then. I understand it is in Columbia, Maryland now too. You all of a sudden are reminded of what he taught. So I want to tell you something about blood clotting. You see, it was easy, I think, to be an atheist in 1890. I think it was easy to have a materialist worldview. And to be utterly secular in a world in which science and the supposed experts taught you that the universe is infinite and eternal. I am not sure that based upon those once greatly ballyhooed Western values of data-driven science, empirical research, things like that. I'm not sure there's ever been a time when it's easier to believe that there is a God and that he's wise and that he's good as it is today. And I want to invite you to carefully consider blood clotting. And the next time you scrape yourself or fall down when you're walking the dogs and get a uh scraped knee, like uh someone whom I love very, very dearly and married once had happened to her recently. We've only been married once. Where's Terry? Oh. When your blood clots, did you know that there are 13 different functions that are taking place. There are 13 different, they call them, factors that all have to work together to cause that blood to clot for that skin to heal. And did you know that that is so finely tuned that if any of those 13 factors aren't right, you can either have the blood clot inside the artery or capillary and vein and cause blood clots which could ultimately lead to strokes or to you who knows what kind of problems could result in, but certainly in serious cuts, death. Or, on the other hand, it won't clot at all, and the slightest cut will make you to bleed out. Now I want you to think about this, especially young people who are told that uh uh evolution is rock solid, certain, absolute science, un un Unchallengeable. If any of those 13 factors is not perfectly balanced with the others, blood clotting is not going to happen. And at least mammalian and reptilian human life that bleeds and scabs and heals would die every time it got the least cut. How in the world is it that some specimen of some early life form developed all thirteen factors that work together in perfect harmony with one another? found a suitable biological mate and succeeded in passing along all thirteen of those factors so finely tuned that if any of those factors are off by fractions of a percentage, blood might not clot. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. That's just blood clotting. That's just scabs And oh dear friend, the evidence of God's fingerprints on your life in this universe are everywhere. Do not let the great deceiver who delights in stealing and destroying and killing Challenge your faith in the things that are so clearly revealed. God is good and he is strong. One thing I have heard, two things God has spoken. And if there's a place in your life where you're struggling with disbelief, identify it. Don't let it isolate you. You're not alone. Confess it to the Lord. Say, Lord, I have no excuse for continually doubting you. Help me in my unbelief. And then accept the consequences of what it has done in your own life and resolve to declare the goodness of God today. In both the case of Zechariah and the case of Elizabeth, when they are lifted from their disbelief, they are in the company of others praising God. And I would urge you, dear friends, in your spiritual pilgrimage, do not allow your doubts to isolate you. Some of you knew me back in the 90s, some of you knew me actually in the 70s, but let's not talk about that. In the 90s, I was an intern at a church in Abilene, Texas And there was a man there by the name of Mr. Grant, who had been a colonel in World War II in the Army and the Pacific Theater, and he'd been a postmaster general in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. And he owned a ranch. And in Texas, they don't measure ranches in acres. They measure them in sections. Those are square miles. And each square mile of his ranch was separated by a fence. And each enclosed square mile had four accesses. In the middle of each square mile was one gate. So that you could get from one paddock he called them to another. And on one occasion he'd have free range cows in this quarter, which was a square mile, and he'd have a flock of sheep in this other one, and every month or so his rancher would rotate these Heads of cattle or flocks of sheep. I learned many things, traipsing about and exploring that huge ranch. Did some of the best fishing I've ever done in my life, but I'll never forget one thing that happened. It was getting toward dusk, and we were we just crossed into the paddock that the sheep were in, and we're driving down that barbed wire fence. And we see right in front of us all the sheep clustered against the fence, and one sheep on the other side of the fence. A part of the herd but separated. And Grant, Mr. Grant, said, do you see that sheep? I said, yeah, yeah, I do see it. He said, that sheep won't live to see the morning And I said, well, why? Because he has separated himself from the flock. And he's out of the safe fellowship of the people of God. The coyotes will have them. And it was getting on towards dusk. We were heading back to the ranch house. And I said, Well, should we turn around and get him? And he said, No, we're already a quarter mile down this road. By the time we get to him, he's already going to become a dinner. I was 21 years old at the time and never forgot it. Your doubt will isolate you. Your disbelief will drive you off of fellowship. When you struggle with doubt and disbelief, your number one objective should be to get yourself into a church and find a community group, find a prayer circle. Join the men's ministry, join the women's ministry, and get yourself around people who can guard and protect and nurture you in a community. And dear sheep, and I speak as a sheep myself. I am delighted by the many, many amazing options we have here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. I would plead with you, join a community group. Jeff Gropp is doing an amazing job of putting together a whole spread. And I know he, Jeff, you got a lot of help. I don't know everyone's name on that team. Diane has tremendous women's ministries, men's ministries. I'm not sure I'm am I the head of that? If I am, I will get kraken. But connect, love, live, and always point each other to the fact that you have a God who has spoken and he is good. Amen. As we conclude the service with our last hymn and then a benediction, please let me pray. Almighty God, we ask your blessing upon us. Father like Zechariah. Lord, we disbelieve. Like Hannah, we stay hidden until there's definitive worldly proof. Lord, help us to more and more take you at your word. Lord, to let our hearts be quieted by your promise. Lord, forgive us for the ways that we let our deep insecurities and doubts and disbelief separate us from others. Lord. Give us the wisdom and the courage to connect in small groups, in Bible studies, in praise teams, or choirs, and prayer circles. churches. And Father, I pray for everyone here who is struggling with doubt. Lord, I know that I am not equal to the task of lifting those doubts, but I do know that your word is. Father, won't you bless anything that has been read today or said to pull us one step closer to a more complete trust in who you are Bless us in Christ's name we pray. Amen