Well, I thought that this would be a good Sunday to preach on rest. About a hundred of you were working very hard here for Vacation Bible School. All week, um there were over 200 kids, and uh those 200 kids and besides those then there were another twenty-some workers' kids And about of the two hundred or so, um, about half of those were not from Columbia Presbyterian and about half of the non-Columbia Presbyterian were kids that basically had no church home. that they were connected to and uh it was one tremendous program. I mean it was a busy time. There were seven events every morning. Start off with singing, some questions, and then there would be a really creative video of the previous day. They were acting out Bible stories, uh demonstrations of Bible stories. I'm remember I was talking to Jack Schaefer uh one morning on during a break And as we're talking, this little kid that I'd never seen before just kind of comes up next to me and sits down at my feet. And I look over at him and I said, Are you here to get a front row seat for the next presentation? You know, you kids were just so well behaved. You were really into it, was enthusiastic, everybody was responsive. I wanted to get over here every chance I could just because it was like joining a party. Everybody's just having so much fun. And that's partly because it was so well organized and things just flowed, but it was what really impressed me was how it was such a balance of both fun and good biblical gospel content. And it just was an exceedingly productive and fun program But I'll bet you're tired. Amen, Missy. Um So rest. Maybe you're here because you're part of the vacation Bible school. Your kid was here, you'd never been here before, and you need to hear a word. about rest. Or maybe you're planning to go on vacation, short, few days, longer, whatever, in the next days, weeks. It's been a weary year, and you're looking forward to some rest. So I thought I would speak on rest. Because we are a weary generation. And that's really rather ironic, unexpected, uh if you think about it. When I was a kid Back in the fifties, this generation after 2000 was supposed to be the leisure generation. The labor-saving devices would make our work to be so untoilsome. We were going to have shorter work weeks, maybe 25, 30 hour weeks. Early retirement and on and on. That's what was expected. What happened? Now, if you are not exhausted, you feel guilty. One of the positive uh you know an encouragement to somebody is to say, well I know you're too busy, but because if you're not too busy Then what's the matter with you? So it's expected that we be too busy. Well why is it? Why has life become so hectic? Well there's a number of reasons. One of them is just because of the information overload that we see. I mean, um do you realize in one year, recent year, 2002, the new information that was added to our store of knowledge as a culture Would have filled thirty-seven thousand libraries the size of the Library of Congress One year's information. I saw a book this week. Surviving the information overload. And so that's stressful. Or you take the choices, uh the over choice that we live in. Here's Starbucks, you know, it's just a coffee shop. You go in and you say, I'd like a cup of coffee. Well You know, I mean what do you do with that kind of choice? Somebody count it up the number of options. If you couldn't went into a Starbucks, how many choices could you have? They came up with 97,920 options at a coffee shop. And you say, you know, forget the coffee. I'll just go home. I mean I'm too weary trying to make a decision about it, just overloading. Or you take our schedules. In a recent survey, over half the people said, I don't have enough time to spend with my friends or my family, and I don't expect it to change. I feel trapped. Um just feeling like there's never spontaneous time. I mean, when's the last time you just dropped over to a friend's house, unannounced, or somebody drops over to you? You don't answer the door and say, no. You kidding. We need this time. We screen our phone calls. We look at them to see, do I want to take that phone call, or take it now, or on and on and on, you know? It was a fellow by the name of Plautus who wrote when there was a new um Chronometer, a new way of measuring time, and he said, Cursed be that new device which divides up my days into little fragments. That was written 200 BC about the sundial. Now we think in terms of nanoseconds and what I might be able to accomplish at a stoplight. while I'm waiting for it to change, you know. There's the striving of our generation That picture is from a the the that picture that's uh and then on to the next one uh from Time magazine recently um saying that um this was a couple of weeks ago they were saying that uh interesting thing is that we as a culture spend more money on leisure than any other culture in history. We we spend one third of our incomes on leisure. And yet And that's of course more than any country in the world, and yet we have the least amount of vacation and time off of any country in the world. About half of Japan and Germany. Fourteen days. And yet of those fourteen days, the average person will relinquish four of them. It counts up in the Arctic Calamity millions of days off every year in America that just aren't taken. Why? Because I can't afford to take the time off. I'd never get caught up on all the emails when I got back or whatever else I've got to do. You know, and it's just um we're never away, never off. Yesterday I called somebody up about something, and uh turns out I got them on a beach They had their cell phone there. Excuse me. Hey, just ignore me. Go back to sitting. Relax. You know, forget it. It's not that important. You know, we are so used to multitasking. Multitasking has become the state of the art for our generation. You know, we don't do, rarely do we do one thing and focus on it. There was a time in the dim memory of my life when I would sit down and eat breakfast, and that's all I'd do. And then it dawned on me that, you know, that's probably the best time of the day for me to listen to some of my favorite music. So I'd have breakfast and I'd listen to music. Then I realized, what am I doing? Just sitting here eating breakfast listening to music. I could catch up on the news, read a couple staff reports, get prayer letters. And maybe pray for them while I'm eating. So now I've gotten into the habit of being able to fill my mouth and be able to then go off and do a couple of other things while I'm chewing my cereal like a cow cow chewing cud. Multitasking is an art. Take driving. You don't just drive anymore. You catch up on your cell phone, on calls. If you're a woman, you're putting on your makeup. If you got an SUV, there's a TV in the backseat. And you know, I've gotten into the habit of when I'm driving past the SUVs of trying to check out what they're watching in the back seat. It's not a movie I've seen, you know, I recognize that as I show, you know, and I'm afraid of what's gonna happen sometime while I'm checking out what's going on here. you know, uh while I'm doing two or three other things. You know, so we are stressed. James Dobson recently wrote about a documentary on aircraft carriers he saw on TV. He said they've showed a a jet coming in And landing on the aircraft carrier, and then just for a moment touching down and taking off again at breakneck speed. And he said, as I looked at that, I thought, that's my life. That's my schedule. That's the way I live. But of course, the most stressful thing of all is sin and guilt. Feeling guilty for what you've done that you shouldn't have done. Feeling guilty for what you haven't done that you should have done. Being so focused on meeting expectations of others that you can't stop to consider what the Creator designed you for. Living at breakneck speed for the s brief span of this life and ignoring eternity Recent song by Tim McGraw. It's called Live Like You Were Dying. Talks about a guy who was in his 40s, found out he had cancer, and how it changed his life. He said, all of a sudden people became more important to me. And in the song, this is one of the top ten, at least in the country circuit, he said, I read the Bible and I thought about eternity. What does it take to make us stop and think about what our life is about? You know, people were weary in Jesus' day. We don't have a corner on weariness. Now we may have a unique pace that burdens us, but not the feeling of weariness. And so I would like to call our attention to these three verses in Matthew chapter 11, where Jesus addresses this. Now, as I read these verses again, let me urge you that whatever else you do with this morning's message, this is another one of those cases where you will be best served if you memorize these verses. Just take them this week. They're really not hard to memorize. And you just uh take them because they're an invitation with a reason. And it's the kind of thing that you need when you're feeling stressed to be able to just pull those verses out of your mind. Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened. And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am humble and gentle and humble of heart And you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Three things I would like for us to notice from this verse, these verses. Number one, who is it that offers the rest? Who offers the rest? We tend to think of rest as something that's determined by our schedules and our circumstances. The problem for rest is to be able to get all your ducks lined up, get other people to cooperate, clear your schedule, and get away. The problem is that when your rest is dependent upon circumstances and other people, it's extremely fragile. And so you find that you're disappointed, you're frustrated. Now you're even more stressed because somebody robbed you of your rest. You went to to the vacation and it didn't work out. You didn't get the rest that you hoped for. Jesus is saying here, Come to me, all of you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. He doesn't say clear your schedule. Vacations are good and they're necessary. But Jesus is saying that the deep heart rest Is something that He uniquely gives. You notice He doesn't even say, Come to God, and He will give you rest. Jesus claims here the unique prerogative. To give to you and to me rest. And that's in the context of verse 27 where he had claimed All things committed to him by his Father. No one even knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. All things have been committed to him. And so Jesus claims that he, the sovereign one. is able to give to you rest. And you notice that in verses 25 and 26, he doesn't give it to the overachievers who were self-sufficient. He says, you've hidden these things, Father, from the proud, the overachievers, the self-sufficient, and you've revealed them to children, little children, babes. You and I come as children. We come and we will not know that rest until there is the realization That it's only Jesus who can give that rest. That it's not the vacation, the long weekend, the shutting off the cell phone. The vacation may produce Tension, quarrels. It's overscheduled. Too hectic. Weather didn't cooperate. Wasn't what you hoped for. But you know what? Jesus stands here this morning, and he invites you, come to me, and I will give you heart's rest. A rest that's sufficient. I invite you to lay down your agenda, your schedule, your demands, and see your need of me. Secondly, notice to whom is this rest offered? Very clearly, it's offered to the weary and to the burdened. Not just to the weary, to the burdened, but all who are weary and burdened. The contrast there is to the people of Kharazen and Bethsaida and Capernaum. We describe back in verses 20 to 24 as those who were self-sufficient. They were the people who refused to acknowledge their need for a savior outside of themselves. They didn't need him. Reminds me of the current Superman Returns movie. There's one scene in there where Superman's talking to Lois Lane and she in bitterness because he's left. Says to him, I don't need a savior. And these people don't need a savior. And Superman responds, I hear every day the cry of this people for a savior. We need to admit we need a savior. Karazen wouldn't admit it. And we will do everything to escape humbling ourselves to come at the feet of Jesus. We'll try to do it through time off, amusements, diversions, TV Cable, sports, shopping, friends, whatever it is. Once again, I'll say vacations are good I look forward to ours. I look forward to getting out onto Wing Island and wildlife sanctuary of Welflead Bay and Great Island. But you know what? That won't give the deep heart rest that I long for. And all of your plans, your diversions, your escapes Will not give you that deep heart rest. Jesus says, Come, come to me. Come, and when you finally get to the place. Where you see that none of these other things work for you. Come and then finally you will stop You will stop and you will cry out, Jesus. Nothing else is working. It's not doing it. Show me yourself. Let me see your face. Jesus, I need you. We must be desperate to come and break through all the diversions. Break through all the stress, all the things, the clutter of our lives to come in the days that you can plan this summer. To see Jesus. To come and realize that so often our view of God Is that he is there to enable us to accomplish our schedules, our agenda. He's there to help me get through the insanity So that I don't have to stop and examine where my life is going. But in his kindness, Jesus won't permit that. And so he'll stop you. He'll do what it takes so that the other things don't satisfy. And you come to him and you say, Jesus, I respond to your invitation. I come to you. Lord, how do I get that rest? How do I come out of my weary desperation and my burdensome exhaustion? Lord, show me. And so then the third thing is, how is it offered? How is this rest offered? Two ways. First of all, it's offered at his feet as a gift. He says, I will give you rest. Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. You see, I want my busyness to bring me glory and cancel out my failures. If I can just build a record of things that I've accomplished, that will demonstrate that I'm deserving. But no, it's never enough. You will kill yourself trying to earn before God a reputation where you will be accepted. You need rather for someone to take away your failures, for someone to remove the burden and lift it. That's what Jesus did at the cross. When Jesus died on the cross, one of his last words, just before he committed his spirit to the Father, said, It is finished. All that the Father had given him to do, he had accomplished perfectly. And in his dying on the cross, he was taking your failure. And upon himself he was bearing that, so that he could give you the record of perfect rightness. That before the Father would gain welcome and well done, I don't need to prove anything. That's rest. To be able to know that at the end of your life The verdict that will be rendered upon it is sufficient, perfect, acceptable before the Father. What else do you need to add? That's the rest that Jesus offers to you. And that rest is a gift. Jesus here stands to give it to you. If you're willing to admit that you can't accomplish it, you can't deserve it, that you are weary, that you are burdened, that you're a loser, that you're a fake. That you can't prove that you're what you're afraid that you'll look and see that you really are. A friend of mine I wrote a week or so ago about a guy that he knows that just planted a church. You know what he called the church? Scum of the earth church. It's a guy that's saying, I want the gospel to come as the gospel. It's not going to be first victorious Come join us and be successful. Scum of the Earth Church. Now I'm not saying we ought to change the name necessarily, but you get the point And some of us would say, man, I'd love to join a scum of the earth church. I'm weary. I'm so burdened trying to prove that I'm something. Jesus says, Come. I will take that burden. I'll give you my record. And there you will find rest. But you notice there's a second way that he offers this rest. Not only does he say, Come and I will give you rest at his feet, but the second is bearing his yoke as a disciple. And you notice there he says, you will find rest. Very interesting. Take my yoke upon you, learn from me First thing you do is come to him. Second thing you do is take his yoke upon you, and the third thing you do is learn from him. What do you learn? That he is gentle and humble at heart. And you will find rest for your souls. Some of you have been Christians for many years. And you're saying, why is it that I still feel so burdened? Why do I still feel so weary? If Jesus has given me this rest. Why am I still so weary? Because he's talking about a second kind of rest here for the believer, a rest that you discover. Because what happens is when you become a Christian, he's given you the rest. You begin to take his yoke upon you. Now that phrase, take my yoke upon you, means to come under submission to my authority. The yoke was a symbol of authority. And so Jesus is saying, Come, take my yoke upon you. Come and serve me. Come and be my disciple. And learn. Learn that when you try to serve me, and you realize there are more task forces and committees that you'll ever be able to serve on, and more missions, trips, and more to give, and more to do, More and more and more in service for the king, service in the church, you begin to suspect that God really is severe and he never gets enough. We suspect that he really isn't gentle. We suspect that he's impossible to please. We suspect that his demands Are beyond my capacity to meet them. And Jesus says, You will find My heart is quite different. You will find that my yoke is easy, my burden is light, I bear it with you. It is a relationship that you and I have together. You're not bearing this alone. It may not be easy. It may not be the thing you would choose to do. Paul wrote from prison in Philippians chapter 3, though I have reason for such confidence. If anyone else thinks he has put confidence in the flesh, I have more. And he talks about how he has seen all that he has accomplished as rubbish And he has received the righteousness of Christ, a gift. But then he goes on in chapter four. To describe how this taking the yoke has placed him into difficult circumstances. Now he's in prison. And he says in Philippians 4 and verse 10, I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you've renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you've been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. I'm not saying this because I'm in need. For I've learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret. Of being content in any and every situation, whether well-fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want, I can do everything through Him who gives me strength. That's good news, you know, because some of us believe that being content is some inequality that certain people have. And there's the rest of us who just kind of like or grumblers and are discontent. We notice what's not right But Paul, the apostle, says, I have learned the secret of being content. I have learned That Jesus' heart is gentle. I have learned that he is humble. I have learned that his yoke is easy, his burden is light, because he is here with me. It's not just knowing things about Jesus that will take the burden away. It is knowing that Jesus is with you. It is knowing that Jesus bears that with you. It is finding the rest of resting in the hands of Jesus, the one who comes and invites you. To rest in his strength. I read just recently about a fellow who went to Ireland to celebrate his uncle's 80th birthday. And they went out on a lake to watch the sunrise in the morning, and his 80-year-old uncle got up and started dancing. Started skipping down the road. He said, Uncle, I perceive that you're happy this morning. He said, Yeah lad, I am. Would you like to know why? Yeah, Uncle, tell me. He said, because I have an Abba Father who is so fond of me. Do you believe that Jesus is fond of you this morning? Or do you believe he wants more blood? Harder service, longer hours? Jesus says, I want you to learn about my heart. I want you to learn that I delight to lead you into pleasant paths, streams of quiet water and rich green pastures. And that I'm fond of you. Jesus wants you and me to learn his heart. He wants us to learn the secret of contentment that comes from knowing what he's really like. Do you remember that Jesus came to Mary? Martha and Mary were There and Martha's trying to get dinner ready and she starts complaining to Jesus. Why don't you tell my sister to get up off her duff and help me out here in the kitchen? Martha, Martha, Jesus says, you're so distracted. You're so fretful about many things. Just one thing's needed. Mary's chosen the better part. What had Mary chosen? To sit at his feet, to know his heart Jesus says to you this morning, there's one thing needed. One thing Get some time this week, get some time this summer. And when you think of your vacation, don't just jam it full of activities to keep everybody happy and stimulated. And on the move. So you can come back and say, wow, that was a rich experience. Trade-off. husband, wife, the kids, or however you need to do it, to get a half a day Alone with the Lord. And to be able to say, Lord, remind me. Why am I here? Lord, remind me. You've given me the rest of your perfect record. Lord, remind me what your heart is like. Let me come to know your heart. Let me come to see your face. Let me come to know that rest that can only be gained when nothing else satisfies. And I find that you fully satisfy. And then take the one thing that's needed. Maybe you're looking at your life and it's Seems out of control and you say, Lord, I don't know what to do. He says to me, one thing's needed. And maybe that one thing is just become be alone with me. Come get in my word. Come learn my heart. Or maybe it's a broken relationship, somebody you're alienated with. And so he says, come. One thing is needed, whether to go and confess or to confront after you've taken the log out of your own eye. But reduce things to basic simplicities. One thing is needed. Our lives get so scattered. We try to multitask life. Jesus is saying, come back. Come back to my heart. Focus. Maybe it's you're anxious and fretful about something that's going to happen this fall or something that's going to happen in the future and you start playing as one person told me after the first service. What is this and if only that? And on and on, and I begin to play the scenarios out until I go crazy. Jesus says, one thing is needed. Come. Come to me. Let me give you my rest. Come and learn my heart, and you will find rest for your soul. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we are a weary, weary people. And yet, in some ways, Lord, maybe we're not weary enough because we still think that we can plan the diversions. The time's off, the vacations, the hobbies, the shopping, whatever that will cause us to recover. Bring us, we pray, to that point of weariness and exhaustion where we say, Lord, only you can give the heart's rest that I long for. Only you can give me that gift of the record of your perfect righteousness that is sufficient at the end of my life, and I don't need to prove anything. Only you can lead me as I take your yoke upon me and submit to you To find that your heart is gentle and kind, that you not only tolerate as you are fond of us. You delight us. And you want us to learn your heart. You want us to learn that you are sufficient for every need that we have. Not people, not circumstances, not schedules. But you. Ah Lord, we bring ourselves to you now. And we ask you to quiet our hearts before you That we would bring ourselves to know the rest of Jesus. That you would enable us this summer to discover that. To not waste the time filling it with distractions. Oh God, come Meet us. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you are here. You stand here before us this morning and you say in kind tones, naming our name. Alan, come. Let me give you my rest. Lord, help us to hear our names. To see our face, to see your face, and to receive. In Jesus' name. Amen.