We consider Jesus' admonition to us that we seek forgiveness of any person that we've wronged. without delay. We talked about how this is more urgent even than our service or our worship of God And we consider some of the wrong and some of the right ways to seek forgiveness. Among the wrong ways we talked about was To seek forgiveness while ignoring any needed restitution. And I consider this briefly this morning. This matter of restitution It's a difficult subject. It's more difficult than I realized when I committed myself to studying it. In fact, I have found practically nothing written on it. It's a very complicated kind of thing, and yet I think there are some clear things the scripture has to say about it. I'd like to focus our attention in this on Leviticus chapter 5 and 6. Leviticus 5, 14, through 6, 7. So I'd like to read that as our scripture this morning. Leviticus 5. 14 to 67. This is concerning the guilt offering. The Lord said to Moses, when a person commits a violation and sins unintentionally in regard to any of the Lord's holy things, He is the blame to the Lord as a penalty a ram from the flock, one without defect, and of the proper value in silver according to the sanctuary shekel. It is a guilt offer He must make restitution for what he has failed to do in regard to the holy things. Add a fifth of the value to that, and give it all to the priest, who will make atonement for him with a ram as a guild offering. And he will be forgiven. If a person sins and does what is forbidden in any of the Lord's commands, even though he does not know it, he is guilty. And to be held responsible, he is to bring to the priest as a gift offering a ram from the flock, one without defect, and of the proper value. In this way, the priest will make atonement for him for the wrong that he has committed unintentionally And he will be forgiven. It is a gold offering. He must be guilty of wrongdoing against the Lord. The Lord said to Moses, If anyone sins and is unfaithful to the Lord by deceiving his neighbor about something entrusted to him, or left in his care, or stolen, or if he keeps him, or if he finds lost property and lies about it, or if he swears falsely, or if he commits any such sin that people may do When he thus sins and becomes guilty, he must return what he has stolen, or taken by extortion, or what was entrusted to him, or the lost property he found, or whatever it was that he swore falsely about He must make restitution in full, add a test to the value to it, and give it all to the owner on the day that he presents the guilt offering. And there's a penalty he must bring to the priest, that is to the Lord, his guilt offering, a lamb from the flock. one without defect and of the proper value. In this way, the priest will make atonement for him before the Lord, and he will be forgiven for any of these things that he did that made him guilty Thus bar, the word of God. Haven't had a lot of things this morning, and I would beg your attention as we consider because uh it'll be very hard to get this in in five minutes and so I don't intend to get it in in five minutes, but I beg your attention as we take a little time more than usual to consider, uh more than usual for the total service time As we try to understand this very important subject of restitution. So just put away your watch for a few minutes and uh we'll just hang in there and get out as soon as we can. But these are two very important points I want us to consider. First of all, This matter of the nature of the sin that's envisioned, and then secondly, the meaning and the purpose of restitution. And uh This is not only I consider important material, but I don't think uh I've ever heard a message on restitution, and I wonder when the last time you did. So If you don't get it this morning, I don't know when you're going to get it. Well, first of all, then let's consider the nature of the sin that's envisions. The nature of the sin is quite simply either robbing God or robbing a person. First of all, let's picture who is robbing God in a case like that. That's in verse 15 and 16 of chapter 5. See, he says here that uh if a person commits a violation and sins unintentionally in regard to any of the Lord's holy things, He is to bring the Lord as a penalty around to the flock, one without defect, and of the proper diamond silver according to the sanctuary shekel, as a guilt offering. He must make restitution of what he failed to do in regard to the holy things Add a fifth of the value, to that, and give it to the priest. He will make atonement for him with a ram as a joke offering, and he will be forgiven. Put some picture here. Let's review it. Well it's something uh that's perhaps the kind of thing that's described in Ecclesiastes 5 verse 6 or other passages of scripture, where a person shows off their piety Uh you show off by uh making some vow or promise to the Lord that you really don't have any means or intention of keeping You say that you're going to do thus and such. You're going to uh make an offering to God, as in the case of Ecclesiastes, or in our day perhaps, that you're going to volunteer for missionary service When you're going to sign up for Bible school, you're going to go into full-time Christian service. Come like this, you're going to give you a little status in the community. And then you don't have the meanings or the real commitment to keep whatever vow it is that you've made, and the effect of it is that you've robbed God. God says you said you were going to do something, you offered it to me, and you didn't keep it. And Whether it was unintentional, it hasn't been here viewed, whether it's unintentional or a simple blatant violation It could be something as simple as taking the first fruits of a Jew to uh the first fruits that were committed to God and he eats it and say uh here he is enjoying this meal and all of a sudden after the meal it hits, oh that was the first fruit My goodness, what am I going to do? That was God. I had no right to eat that. And so God said, here's a provision. You're guilty of that. You must make restitution. Plus 20%. That'll help you to remember the next time Well maybe what's in view is something as simple as shearing a s shearing the firstborn sheep. I've said that three times. You see, if you shear a firstborn sheep That sheep is not to be shown because it is to God. It is God's sheep. It's to be set aside to him. And so that was a violation of the holy things. That's the kind of thing that probably was in mind here And so this is robbing God, and therefore restitution would be made toward God. And the other thing that can view is also a robbing of one another. That you see in chapter 6 The paragraph from 17 to 19 is talking about even if the person doesn't know it, uh and uh they're still guilty for it, even if they forgot about it. But then in chapter six, he goes on into this matter of robbing one another. He says there in verse 2 if anyone sins and is unfaithful to the Lord by deceiving his neighbor about something entrusted to him, or nothing of care, stolen or if he cheats him or if he finds lost property and lies about it or if he swears falsely or if he commits any such thing that people may do. That's the thing that's involved This is talking about robbing one another in a number of ways that you see here described. For instance, by destroying or keeping something that is entrusted to you Now this includes anything that's borrowed. You see, you take something and uh you borrow somebody's screens or their books And as Christians we have a great way of saying that well I intend to get that back to that person. Something happens to it, it's destroyed, or it's just you forget about it God says that's sin. He says he can't just minimize that. That's the sin that's described here in Leviticus 6. 2 Or perhaps you've outright robbed him. The first case you see is something entrusted to him. That's something that you've borrowed. Either he entrusted it to you or you asked to have it and so you entrusted it to you, trust it in your care. Or if it's stolen, you see, there's another case, you've simply robbed it from them, you've taken it from them, one way or another The current way he talks about it is there. He cheats him, you see. And that hasn't been taking advantage of a person, exploiting them. Perhaps you've done this by uh employment This has in view the problem of oppression in employment of a person who is strong, taking advantage of a person who's powerless or weak, treating them unjustly. Scripture is concerned about labor relations. Uh if he finds lost property and lies about it, uh perhaps what's involved here is uh you find a tool at work. And you say, well find us keepers, lose your sleepers, you know. And uh then somebody asks, has there been anybody who's found this thing? And uh after that, you know, you've been enjoying this thing, now you don't want to give it up, and so you even begin to lie about it, or conceal certain truth it says, or swear falsely And you compound your sin. You've taken what is not yours. And you've gone deeper and deeper. And let me just sums the whole thing up there by saying or whatever such thing people may do. What such things? Such things as taken from other people, those things which are not ours. And what he's trying to show us is there's a number of ways we can do this. It's not simply snatching something that doesn't belong to me. There's a lot of ways that you and I may take from one another those things that don't belong to us So what do you do if you have such a case? Do you simply ask for forgiveness? Do you simply grow up and you say, well I have come to see how I have wronged you in cheating you or in keeping this thing for five years and it also got destroyed and now I can't return it to you or whatever else. And I've just come to see that I have wronged you in that. Would you please forgive me? The person says yes Now where's the thing? And you say, well, I don't know, it's gone or I you know it's that's the way it is. And you say, Well, uh wait a minute, let's uh discuss this forgiveness a little further, you see Now there's a number of things we may take, a person's position, their possessions, but we repent and say that we're sorry for it But it hasn't been restored. But there's no part in that forgiveness of seeking that forgiveness by making restitution And it really hasn't been a repentance. Proverbs 14, verse 9 tells us that fools mock at making amends for sin, but goodwill is found among the upright. That right person wants to make it good, and fools mock at that kind of conscientiousness. What then is the meaning and the purpose of restitution? First of all, I see it as a proof of repentance. It's a proof of repentance. You see there in verses four and five in Leviticus 6, that when he thus says and becomes guilty, he must return what he has stolen. was taken by excursion or what was entrusted to him that he borrowed or the lost property that he found or whatever it was that he scored falsely about he must make restitution in full and add a fifth of the value to it and give it to the owner on the day that he presents this guilt offering. This simply goes along with his confession. You see this kind of idea illustrated also in Numbers. In Numbers, in chapter 5. In verse 5, we read that the Lord said to Moses, say to the Israelites, And a man or woman wrongs another in any way, and some is unfaithful to the Lord. See, he wronged another, and therefore is unfaithful to the Lord. That person is guilty and must confess the sin that he's committed. You confess, you're seeking forgiveness, but that's not where it ends. In confessing, in seeking forgiveness, he must also make full restitution of his wrong. Add one fifth to it and give it all to the person that is wrong. But if that person has no close relative to whom the restitution can be made for the wrong name says, Well, I'm off the hook. No Even then, the restitution belongs to the Lord. It must be given to the priest along with the ram, which atonement is made for him. You see why? Just so he has the opportunity to demonstrate his repentance. If there's real repentance, that person will seek to make it right. And they'll want to make restitution. So restitution is a proof and evidence. of sincere repentance. This is perfectly illustrated in what uh was even referred to earlier this morning of the case of Zacchaeus. Do you remember in Zacchaeus in chapter 19 of Luke? When Zacchaeus came to Jesus, what did he do? In Luke 19, verse 18 reads, Zacchaeus stood up and said to the Lord Look, Lord, here and now I give half my possessions to the poor, and if I've cheated anybody out of anything, I will pay them back Four times the amount. Now Zacchaeus really took this to heart. He comes to me and says, I want to give him back four times What I took from him to show you how sorrowful I am concerning what I have done. And so Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because this man too is the son of Abraham The Son of Man is going to seek to save that which is lost. Jesus is saying that that is a sure evidence of true repentance. He wants to make it right. That's the evidence of the work of grace in his life. Restitution, you see, is the nitty-gritty part of repentance. It's that which comes from a changed heart alone. I think of a fellow who Some of this have known who came to Jesus Christ just a few years ago. He came to Christ out of a rather messed up background in a number of ways and had stolen hundreds of dollars worth of goods He then uh says that God was calling him to seminary. But before he went to seminary, he took years Not only to save for seminary, but also to save up all of the money that he owed to those people he had stolen from. And he paid every bit of that. Hundreds of dollars went back to those people and said, I have stolen this from you, I've taken it. I want to come to say that I'm sorry, I've become a Christian now, and now I want to give back to you what I've taken, bless them. And so he put that money, he uh saved it up, working very hard Gave it all back, and now it's at seminary with a clear conscience. It's the evidence of God's work of grace in him. You see, we've talked before About how you must forgive when a person asks for forgiveness. Luke 17. Whether it comes seven times in a day, Prophet only turns and says, Please forgive me If he repents, you forgive him. But this gives us some divise to know whether the person has really repented. If in fact there's any restitution that needs to be made. And the person is not willing to make that, he hasn't repented. Therefore, in that case, you must forgive him in your heart. You can't be bitter toward him. As Matthew 5, Mark 11, Ephesians 4, Colossians 3, these passages we've looked at talk about our heart attitude toward the person. We must be willing to forgive and not be bitter. But in terms of forgiving of giving me a forgiveness, that is the promise not to bring it up again To remember it no more against that person, to not bring it up to him, to yourself, to God, to other people, in that case, you don't give that forgiveness unless the restitution's been made We do have the right to say, but where is the restitution? I remember a fellow, he was a student, we were at a conference some years back And this student struck me as a rather irresponsible kind of character. And one day I was uh we were going out on a an evangelism trip And uh this fella came, he was parked next to my Volkswagen, roared out in reverse, opened his door and took off the whole side of my Volkswagen, the thunder of the thing. Just because he opened his door while he was backing out, just caught the door, smash. But his car was in such shape you could even tell that it hit my car. But uh my car did show it rather extensively. But he came up to me very sorry, said I'm really sorry. I want to seek your forgiveness for this. I'm very sorry that I did that. Please forgive me. Terrific. No problem there. All right, now what are we going to do about this side of my car Well he says, yeah, I don't want this to go on my insurance, they'll cancel it. Well, that's up to you. And he said, but I'll pay you back. And I wondered. And as time went on it became very apparent he had no intention of paying me back. I brought the matter up to him, and although he didn't say it, basically what he was implying to me was, Well, you're a Christian now. I mean this is Christians, you know. I mean, you you don't expect me to pay this back, you're I'm disappointed. And I said, No, I do expect you to pay that back. That's gonna cost me to get that car fixed and uh you said that you would do that. You promised me You know, it took me six months to keep after that fella to get me to pay back, to pay me back. And he finally did. He paid the whole thing back. And his last payment, all in pennies practically. He said, uh, I want to thank you. The teaching me responsibility in this matter, I hadn't realized all the things that God would show me by being responsible and making restitution in this. Sometimes that needs to be done. Well, sometimes a person may have the right to also exercise grace, as I told you about that Ghanaian chick chicken farmer, who when the neighbors had killed all of his little peeps Uh the little neighbor boy came and then uh they said the family said we want to make restitution for this. That poor Canadian chicken farmer from uh from Ghana in Africa, if you're wondering what Ghanaian is, uh the chicken farmer from Ghana said, uh you have no means to do that. And so I cancel the debt You don't have to pay. I don't want you to pay. I won't receive the payment. That's also possible. But restitution must be offered as a proof of sincere repentance and sorrow. The second thing is it's a deterrent. A deterrent to future temptations. You see, when you go back, and if you say here, you've given us you've taken this property that you have uh been entrusted with and treated this person and whatever it is, and you return that person, and you add twenty percent of it. Then you've lost something. It isn't just sort of, well, you know, easy come, easy go, I missed it, I'm sorry, I shouldn't have done that, but there it is back again. But when you add that fifth Boy, that that death is an awful hard part to add to it. In fact, Exodus 22 says in really aggravated situations where a guy steals an ox or a sheep and slaughters it. In other words, he's not only taken, he's destroyed any opportunity of returning it. Exodus 22. 1 tells us he's got to pay back five cattle for every one that he slaughtered and four sheep for every one that he did. That's probably what Zacchaeus had in mind. You see, when he's saying, I'm gonna this was an aggravated Assault of your people, God, in my taxation on it. And so I'm going to go to the very limits of this and turn back four for one. Interestingly, you see how it's used as a deterrent because a few verses later on it says But if the stolen animal is found alive in his possession, then he pays back double. But why that kind of rule? You see what it's saying is if you've taken something but you haven't yet disposed of it, you may repent and change your mind and restore it. And at that point you pay back two for one. But if you've not only taken it, but you've worn the extra part and you've destroyed it, disposed of it in some way, there is no way of turning it back now And to deter people from this kind of action, God says you're going to pay that thing four for one or five for one if you're caught. And so this is a deterrent. We see this in our own families. Now there's nothing for children as a deterrent when they're caught lying to a neighbor, like telling them, Are you really sorry for that? Yeah, I'm really sorry, Dad and Mom. I'm really sorry I lied to that neighbor. I'm really sorry I told those lies to those other kids about them. Well then I forgive you, but you must go back to that neighbor. You must ask that neighbor's forgiveness, and you must make restitution by correcting the truth You must correct the false impressions that you've spread around the neighborhood. Go back to every person that you lied to and you've got to tell them, I really told you a lie. This is what the truth is See, then you're restoring the truth. Now I've tell you that if you do that with your kids, you're gonna find that they're not gonna continue to lie because it's just not worth it. It's too much trouble. But to go back and tell everybody what you lied about and make the truth correct and set it all straight, your kids will just say it's just not worth going out lying anymore Because it's a deterrent to make restitution. The third thing is that it satisfies justice. Satisfies justice. This is the primary significance of restitution. And in order to save time and help you to get it clear, what I've done is I've written out pretty fully what I mean here. So follow along here in the bulletin. This word restitution is an intriguing word. The word to live restitution is the word shalom, but it means to pay back a debt. For instance, in 2 Kings 4. 7, you have that story of the widow who didn't have any money, she had a lot of debts. And so she went to the man of God and he said, Go he remember he makes this oil to multiply and tells her to go fill up all the vessels she can find. And he says, Go sell the oil and pay your debts Then your sons will live off what's left. The word go pay your debts is the word to make restitution. Go pay your debts. It also is a word that means to make something complete or to finish it Which then leads to the meaning, it's basic meaning that we're most familiar with, to bring it into a stage of peace. Probably the most popular, most well-known Hebrew word is the word shalom, peace. That's simply the noun form of this verb to make restitution, to make something complete, to finish it, to bring it into a state of tranquility. Why? Because you've restored it And that's what's intended here. What's teach? Well teaches if you see simply that when I have sinned in robbing somebody of some position or their pz uh a possession that they have or their position that is their reputation by taking that in mind That implies a debt in which I owe that person what I have taken. And that debt requires a just compensation, both to the victim And to God. To the victim, in which I then, as Leviticus 6 tells me, I restore the full value plus a 20% compensation because of uh their inconvenience, because of what they've lost in that. And I restore this also to God and bring about justice there. God, you see, is the primary party offended. And therefore he goes on to say in verse six And as a penalty he must bring to the priest, that is to the Lord, his guilt offering, a lamb from the flock, one without the effect and of the proper value. In this way the priest will make an atonement for him before the Lord, and he will be forgiven for any of the things that he did to make him guilty. God, because he is the primary party offended, must also have a sacrifice brought. And that sacrifice, you see, is not called a restitution. But we notice in verse 7, it is called an atonement. Because for our sin before God there is no restitution. All there can be is a covering by God Himself. And so you see here, as you see on the back of the bulletin, a picture of salvation. Salvation is a picture in which Jesus, there's a picture here of salvation, in which Jesus, as our atonement Here in verse seven and then fully described to us on the Day of Atonement in Leviticus sixteen is the sacrifice made for us, in which he pays for our sin and carries away our sin. And Jesus is a restitution in the Philemon. Go take a look at that book to say it to me. Remember in Philemon we're Paul Commends an essence back to his master. He says, If he has robbed you of anything, receive it as you would me and charge it to my account. There's Paul substituting for anesimus to pay back anything that had been taken. That's a picture of what Jesus did for you and me. He paid back, he made restitution to God. For all that we had taken from God. And what had we taken from God? We had taken from him his glory, and we had robbed him of our lives. And Jesus restored that. He restored the glory to God by his sacrifice. And he's brought our lives to himself as a complete payment to our God. And so He has done this as our Savior and as our Lord, you see there, that we give him back our renewed lives. Lives now that are not simply lives as they were before, messed up perverted, destroyed by sin, but they're lives that are now increased in their value by the Holy Spirit's control. They're new lives Now God has taken his life and he's added to it a greater value because we're now people who are indwelt by the Spirit. That's greater than Adam before his fall And God has increased the value of us because He's called us to become like His own Son. And so we have these new lives that are now given to Him, lives that we've stolen from Him. These lives are given back to Him as restitution when we acknowledge Jesus. as our Lord. So finally then an application of this. I ask number one that we really simply realize that there is no restitution. That should be restitution instead of retribution. There is no restitution possible to God for our sin to pay for it. The only thing that will pay for our sin is atonement. And that's only what God has done. The question for you is, are you covered by his atonement? If you are, let's praise him for that. Secondly, renew your acknowledgement of the restitution of your life to him as your Lord. Realize that sin was robbing him of his glory and taking your own life into your own hands and running it. Restitution is giving it back to him and acknowledging him that it's to him, that it's his life now that you've given to him. Think of that this week in your decisions and your priorities. But thirdly, do you have anything that you have borrowed that you shouldn't be keeping? It's amazing to me how Christians who would never think of stealing will think nothing of borrowing a book and keeping it for ten years. We'll borrow things from one another and we'll simply say, now can I just have this thing for a couple weeks? And on and on and on it goes. And you never make the connection. This is precisely what Leviticus 6 is saying demands a guilt offering. It's sin. It is nothing to be taken lightly. Restitution must be made for this. It is wronging our brother and sister in Christ. And I I would suggest that uh you go home and you make some inventory. Do you have some things that you've won some other Christian in? Because you've just kept them, or you've just forgotten about it, and treated very lightly the fact that that belonged to them, not to you. Now this morning we're going to begin the church library. It's a good time for us to be aware of this. But you sign things out of the church library. Don't just simply say it's oh well I paid for that book and my ties anyway. It doesn't really matter, you know, I'll hang on to it If I don't ever return it, if I move away, that's okay. It's not yours. It belongs to the community. And we have an obligation and things that are entrusted to us. To pay back what we've said that we owe, what we promised to do. There's one other point I want to make here that's not in the bulletin. I just want to spend one minute on this because I think it's a very important one I don't care if you call it 3A or whatever you call it. But it's simply the fact that our call's attention is the fact that in our country for many years we have been losing a biblical view of man, and therefore in our people uh institution, we have switched our um mentality in this country from being a penal institution to becoming correctional institutions In which people are simply put in jail. And they are no longer penalized, they're simply rehabilitated. Now, you'll find that there is nothing in the Old Testament and New Testament about incarcerating, putting people in jail. For doing something wrong. The payment is always a restitution or a penalty being made on them. It's instant. Some physical thing. It is not throwing a person in jail to lost for ten years. That is not biblical. And so I would suggest that we be aware of certain restitution legislation that has been proposed or a certain turning back in some areas of our country away from incarceration. To a beginning to look toward restitution as a means of penalty. Oregon and at least one or two other states have been pursuing this We need as Christians to support, to take the lead in even proposing such legislation that will bring our society back into a more biblical understanding of justice rather than the poor one and the ineffective one that we find right now. Finally, the last thing is concerning our own lives. Is there anything, anyone that you need to make restitution to in seeking their forgiveness? Something you need to restore to them. Something that you can say, not simply, what must I do to make this right, but how much can I do to show how really sorry I am and make restitution So that that person sees that I really do seek their forgiveness. You can't earn it. Forgiveness is always by grace. But restitution is a necessary part of our seeking forgiveness. From one another. Let's pray. Father our God, how we thank you that while we realize that there could have never been restitution that we could make for our sin before you. Jesus Christ has made full restitution and has been our atonement. He has restored your glory. He has bought us for himself. And Lord, while we rejoice and re relax and delight in the fact that we could never make payment, it's been made. But we still, Father, seek in various particular ways to remind ourselves that our lives are yours. They have been restored to you. And Jesus is our Lord. Help us to live in that way. And we pray, Father, particularly, that if there is anything that we have taken defrauded one another in, Take him that it's not ours in any particular manner. Well help us, Father, bring that to our attention that we might make restitution and seek your forgiveness and walk before you with clear conscience Father, we pray for our country that we receive little glimmers, not because of a biblical attitude, but because of despair of the ineffectiveness of the current humanistic attitude That you would help us, Father, to encourage that, and we might begin to move toward more restitution as a means of um penalty and as a means of justice toward those who have taken, who have robbed, and who have defrauded others. Father, help us to be as Christians on the front line of this and taking the lead in it. that we might be a salt for good in our society. We pay for our country, that we move more toward restitution, and less toward the ineffectiveness and the unbiblicalness of simple incarceration. Father, we lay these things before you now, and we ask that you would make us faithful in heeding and obeying the things you've shown us this morning, as servants of Jesus, our High Priest and King. Amen. Thank you for your patience and let us now worship God partly, together with Him. Hymn number fifty uh hymn number twenty. The Great God of Wonders, Hymn number twenty.