Now for the last three weeks we have been seeking to look at three contemporary issues. You may recall that we've been looking at A couple of weeks ago was the sanctity of human life and then homosexuality and then environmentalism. Now this week I want to bring us back to the heart of the gospel. Why is that? Well, because we have, Lord willing, just two more weeks to be in this facility. You're always allowed to cheer when I say that, but I know you're getting a little cynical, but it's looking more and more definite. Uh the uh The uh inspection by the county is this week. You may want to pray for that, because if that goes well then we should be in there. In fact, the chairs all came this week and I know some of you listen to say, Yes, they're all in there. So things are moving along. Okay, that brings us down to the we're we're getting right down into the uh home stretch here. And therefore, as we think about this the uh occupying of the ministry center as a base of operation for bringing the gospel to our community, the ministries that we expect that God is going to be raising up. I've asked myself, what kind of a Christian Is the Holy Spirit going to use effectively to rebuild this broken culture and to be able to be used by the Lord? And the answer that I give to that, and I think that the scripture gives to that, is a confident Christian, a secure Christian, full of faith. I believe that uh confidence is a real root issue. uh for many of us. I've been impressed recently as I've talked to people who have been pouring out some of their deepest needs And as I've heard them talk about those things that uh they would really long to see happen in their lives, uh the real need, as I have heard that And I and I must say, it it's really impressed me as I thought of this, really is the gospel. More than anything else that they have needed in their lives, it really has been an awareness. a deeper awareness of the work of Christ in their lives and for them. And so I believe that In these last three weeks, as we're preparing to occupy that center, that the best thing that we can do is to come back to the gospel. And to find our confidence in that gospel. And so Steve and I are going to be sharing these last three weeks to take you back, to show you something of the fullness of Christ for you and how that will enable you as we move into this new phase. of our life together as a body to be able to serve the Lord more effectively. Confidence really is a root issue for many of us, isn't it? Aren't we people that when we look at ourselves Are ashamed at how many insecurities we still have. We're all full of insecurities. We think that other people are less insecure than we are. But when we're honest about it, all of us are insecure. Now you take, for instance, a guy like Robert Redford. Now, you know, who could be more confident and secure? Then a guy like Robert Redford, look at all he's accomplished and he ages, you know, my wife still says she doesn't see any picture with him in it because, you know, this guy is just such a handsome dude, you know. He was interviewed uh recently And this is a quote from that interview. He says, uh I'd probably say that Paul Newman's my best friend. A couple of weeks ago we went out to have dinner with him in Connecticut. We're driving home and I'm thinking to myself Uh here's old Paul. What is he? Sixty, sixty one, I don't know. Looks great, feels great, has lots of money, gives to great causes, he's in love with his wife, races his cars when he wants to, makes a movie when he wants to He's incredibly happy, start that face it looks the way it did when he was twenty. Well, by the time I got home, I wanted to shoot myself. Yeah, here he is, jealous of his friend, thinking, you know, now he's not at me. He And we're always looking at somebody else and thinking, if I could only be like that person. And in comparison to other people, what about our confidence toward God? We all feel so Inconfidence. So is that a word? Lack of confidence. We're insecure. We look at what our standing is before the Lord, and we're always seeing the deficiencies, and we're always seeing those ways that we don't measure up. We're seeing those things that rob us of any confidence in our relationship with Him, and that cripples us in our freedom to live and to enjoy life. Confidence, I would suggest to you, is the theme of Philippians chapter 3. Paul deals with this matter of confidence here. In fact, in verses 3 and 4, he mentions the word confidence three times. That's the subject that he's addressing. Now, let us then read this section from God's Word. I want you to follow along Hear what God has to say about this, and then I want for the next few minutes to open some of this up that we might be able to restore our confidence. Because I believe for every one of us, this is something that we have a hunger for, and I pray that God will in fact meet us this morning through this. Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. It's no trouble for me again to write the same things to you, and it's a safeguard for you. Watch out for those dogs, those men who do evil, those mutilators of the flesh. For it is we who are the circumcision, we who worship by the Spirit of God, who glory in Christ Jesus, and who put no confidence in the flesh. Though I myself have reasons for such confidence. If anyone else thinks he has reasons to put confidence in the flesh, I have more. Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews in regard to the law, a Pharisee, as for zeal, persecuting the church, as for liberalistic righteousness, faultless. But whatever was to my profit, I now consider loss for the sake of Christ. What is more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish, that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ. And the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, and so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already obtained all this, or have already been made perfect, but I press on to take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of me. Brothers, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it. But one thing I do. Forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead, I press on For the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. Now first of all, I want for you to notice a basic contrast between false confidence and true confidence that you see in this passage. First, the subject of confidence. The false confidence is in the flesh. You notice that. The false confidence is in the flesh. Verses 3 and 4. He says, We're in the circumcision. We worship by the Spirit of God who grow in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. Do I myself have reasons for such confidence? If anyone else thinks he has reasons to put confidence in the flesh, I have more. Now what is this confidence in the flesh? We think of flesh and we think of sensual sins. The flesh or fleshly sins, sins of the flesh that are X-rated or NR seventeen or something like that. But that's not what Paul means when he talks about flesh. When Paul talks about flesh, he's talking about who we are and what we do outside of faith in Christ. Simply who we are and what we do that is apart from our faith in Jesus Christ. That is what we do in ourselves. Who we are in ourselves. What we do in ourselves is what we do in the flesh. We're always longing to accomplish something in ourselves, aren't we? It will give me a little confidence, some sense of security that I've accomplished something, that I can burst about something, that I can be secure about myself. Confidence which is in the flesh. Who I am, what I do. And so what Paul says is, hey, you want to talk about confidence in the flesh? You think you can have some confidence in the flesh? Well then let me match you. If you think you have any reason to be confident in the flesh And you notice that Paul's perspective is dealing with the ultimate issue now. He's not dealing with jealousy with Paul Newman. He's not comparing himself with another person. He's saying, I'm talking about confidence that's ultimate confidence that stands before God. He says, that's the confidence that really makes you a secure person. That's the confidence that frees you from having to be in bondage comparing yourself to other people. Now Paul says, you want to talk about that kind of confidence? Then let me match you. If you think you can be confident in who you are and what you've done, anything about that, it will give you confidence and security. Paul says, look at my life. First of all, he says, look at who I am. Look at my heritage. You see what he begins to go into there in verse 5. He says I was circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel. And so my heritage was that I was one of God's chosen people. God said, Of all the nations of the earth, you have I set my love on. You are a special people to me. Hey, I'm one of those people. Were you born into the tri into the nation of Israel? I was, Paul says. You talk about heritage? You say you got some pedigree of a background? Your ancestors came over on a Mayflower? Hey, my ancestors were from Abraham. I have a heritage that will outstrip anything that you can mention. In fact, he goes on and says that I was of the tribe of Benjamin, not only of the twelve. But a Benjamin, one of the two, Judah and Benjamin, that were alone faithful to God and were sustained. I'm one of the only two that can still trace their lineage. And so he goes on to say, I'm a Hebrew of the Hebrews, unmixed ancestry. I have a pure lineage of God's holy people. Now all that is nothing of what he's done. That's simply who he is. That's his heritage. That's what you look at and you say, I think I'm better than somebody else because of my race, because of my background, because of whatever. That has constituted me, that I was born into this, and I think that I'm superior because of that. And then Paul goes on. He says, now let me tell you about my achievements. Continues on in verse 5. In regard to the law, he says I was a Pharisee. I chose to be one of the Bible-believing Christians, to take all the scripture seriously. And we applied all that scripture, rule by rule, to help us to live it out in contemporary living. In everything that I did, I sought to follow the scripture faithfully That's very easy for you and for me to look at that where he says, uh according to the regards of the law I was a Pharisee, as for legalistic righteousness, faultness and saying, well, that's a foolish legalistic attitude. We know that God, of course, looks at the heart and it's the sincere motives. It's not just a matter of keeping a set of rules. And I think we very easily demean that. And I think if we do, we've missed a very important point. We've also missed the thrust of Paul's argument. Maybe I can best illustrate that by an experience that a fellow who is an editor of leadership had, Marshall Shelley So one time when he was in seminary, he decided to take a course from a rabbi. It was one of those elective courses, and a group of them met with this rabbi for a couple of times a week. In Rabbi Wagner, we take them through the Torah, that is the first five books of Moses, the law, as well as the um in laws that they had constituted as Jews to help them to keep this. And he says one night Rabbi Wagner was lecturing on the 613 laws in the Torah. The first five books of the Bible. He's covering the dietary laws, the Sabbath laws, laws covering various holy days, such as Yom Kippur, mentioned Leviticus. Described in detail how Orthodox Jews obey these laws. The kind of thing you and I would think, well, that's kind of silly how you get caught up in all that stuff Now all of a sudden the rabbi turned to them and he says, Now I believe that when God speaks, I must obey. Nominal Jews and nominal Christians might disagree with me, but I believe God is a commanding God, that he gives us laws to obey. Alright? There's no problem with that. Now you Christians claim to obey God. I've just described the laws of God that I live by. Tell me, you Christians, what laws of God do you obey? Silence. Shelley says, not a person in the room spoke. He said somebody had to say something, so I opened up my big mouth and I said, Well I guess I'd answer that by saying something like the Lord Jesus said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and your neighbors yourself He said the rabbi looked at him and smiled. And he said he stroked his beard. He said, that reminds me of a story. Whenever a rabbi says that, I'd learned, you're in trouble. Have you ever heard the story of a centipede with sore feet? he asked. None of us had. Radio had a hundred feet and they were all sore. He couldn't walk, and so he went to the wisest creature he knew, the owl, to ask what he should do. The owl heard his plight and then intoned his solution. Just learn to fly. Give your feet a rest and you'll be fine. Hey, that's a wonderful idea, replied the son of T. How do I begin? To which the owl retorted, Hey, I gave you the principle, the specifics you have to work out for yourself. We all chuckled. That's what you Christians do, the rabbi said You talk about loving God, but how do you love God? It's not very practical, just a nice principle. Lacks specifics. We Jews like things more well-defined. You've got to get the thrust of what Paul's saying here. He's saying every morning when I woke up, in everything that I said, in everything that I did, there was one question on my mind. What does God require in this area and how can I meet that requirement? Now before you and I look at legalism as some silly little set of rules and regulations, you've got to ask yourself, How much are you consumed with pleasing God in every area of your life the way Paul was? Paul says when he talks about being a Pharisee and according to the law, He says I was faultless. You gotta understand there's a tremendous effort and zeal that is wrapped up in that. Probably the kind of uh zealous A desire to please God that you and I know very little of. And before you two glibly pass off what Paul was speaking of in terms of his pre-Christian experience, You need to appreciate the zeal for God that was wrapped up in that. Because if you don't, you'll miss the thrust of his argument. You missed the weight of it and what it means for you and me this week as we seek to walk in confidence. What Paul's saying is that I was so zealous for God. That when I found people that I thought were wrong and that were undercutting the law and his requirements, I set myself to persecute them. See what he says there in verse 6? As for zeal persecuting the church, as for liberalistic righteousness, faultless. How many of you or me Would look at somebody who we think is undercutting something of the Bible and say, I'm going to put an end to that. Paul finally was a delegate of the Sanhedrin, an official delegate, to bring death. To those that follow Jesus, because he thought they were wrong and that it must be stopped. He gave his whole life to what he believed. And after he did this, he said, then one day After you and I would look at Paul and say, if there's anyone who would have a reason for confidence before God, it was Paul. If there's anyone who had a right to be confident based on a sincere attempt to follow God, it would be Saul of Tarsus. And then he says, one day, I had an absolutely shattering experience. One day, Paul says, it hit me. I tallied up all of my merit. I tallied up all the profit of what I had done to please God. And then one day, when I was looking at how impressive that was, it hit me. that I had been using the wrong accounting method. All of a sudden it hit me that I wasn't using God's profit and loss method. I was tarrying up all my profit with the wrong accounting method, and by God's accounting method, it was absolutely zero. I was bankrupt. That's what he says in verse 7. But whatever was to my profit, I now consider. One day it hit me, but it was lost. It was zero. It was bankrupt for the sake of Christ. He saw that God's method of accounting related to something far deeper than the keeping of various behavioral practices. What in fact God was speaking of shown in the person of Jesus Christ. through his life and through his teaching, had to do with the heart on a far deeper level than anything Paul was able to change. He said, when I looked at what God's accounting method was, I realized my absolute bankruptcy. Let me ask you, have you ever looked honestly to see What your own efforts are worth in the sight of God. All those things that make up who you are and what you try to do Your baptism, your upbringing, your background, your pedigree, all of your scrupulous efforts day by day The very best things about you. I'm not talking about the rotten things that you look at. I'm saying the very best things that you seek to do, that you find confidence in Did you find your security in? Because you have accomplished this. Because that in comparison with others in your family, your brothers or your sisters, or someone else that you know, You've done better with what you had given to you. And you look at that and you say, I have gained at least some confidence. Because I've done this. Paul says if you look at that before the light of a holy, perfect God, you will see that it is utterly worthless. It is bankrupt because Jesus Christ shows us what it means to love God and to love your neighbor as yourself. And when we look at what his motives were, when we look at him and his example as well as his teachings, at every point it condemns us. And so it's by looking at this for the sake of Christ that we then come to true confidence. Which is in Jesus alone. Now I hope you can understand. I'm praying the Spirit of God will open our eyes to see on a deeper level than perhaps we've ever seen before how utterly stark is that contrast. Paul says here in verse 7, Whatever was to my profit, whatever now he's not talking here about things that he enjoyed. He's saying the things on which I built my record The things that gave me confidence, that gave me security, whatever was to my profit in those terms, I now realize are absolutely lost. Zero for the sake of Christ. Now, what does he mean by that? Verse 9. Because I am now found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. Paul saying here that I now see a different kind of righteousness. It's the kind of thing that's summed up in the hymn Rock of Ages. Not the labors of my hands can fulfill thy law's demands. Could my zeal no respite, no, no rest? Could my tears forever flow for the things I've done wrong? All for sin could never atone. Thou must save, and thou alone. Nothing Nothing, not my efforts, my intentions, my sincerity, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. Bow I to the fountain fly. Wash me, Savior. Or I die. Paul's saying here that what he needs is a perfect record for his life. That's A in the outline What do you have? You have a perfect record in Jesus Christ. Not your righteousness for keeping the law That's what he says in verse nine, found in him not having a righteousness of my own. It comes from anything that I've done, anything I've sought to do, but a righteousness that's given to me. You see he says there in verse nine that comes. From God. My confidence is a gift. It comes from God. It's objective. It's not something that I work out. It's not my heritage, it's not my achievements. It's given. Because what it is, is the heritage and the achievements of someone no less than Jesus Christ Himself attributed to me. That's what Paul's saying. God looks at my life, and he sees the record of his own son. Paul's saying this. Is my security. How do I get this, secondly? By faith alone. You see again verse 9? Two times. He says, faith Found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, that comes from the law. But that which is through faith in Christ, through faith in Christ. Righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. Daily. Once I saw my bankruptcy In the Bible I saw Christ's record in his offer, and I laid hold of him. I looked to him and I said, There's nothing that I can do except to trust you that when you say in your promise, whoever comes to me, I will give you my record. I will take upon you my record, and I will suffer the full consequences for that on the cross, and then I will give you my record. And that record attributed to you is a perfect record. It's a record that God Himself finds no fault in. And so what are the consequences of this confidence? It's a perfect security. It's a security you see, he says in verse 3, we are the circumcision. We are the ones who worship by the Spirit of God, who glory in Christ and put no confidence in the flesh. And then verse 9, speaking of that confidence that he has through the righteousness given to him. Why? Because I have, first of all, an acceptable record. No matter how hard you or I try. Last week, this week, forever. Now how matter how hard you try to live right, you will never know that your standards are high enough You ever come to a place where you've looked and you've realized that something in your life that all along you had been oblivious to, all of a sudden you see how offensive it is? And you see, my God, I hadn't realized that I was like that. And all of a sudden I got my eyes open through some intense conflict with another person or whatever it is, and I all of a sudden I see now. this area of my life that I've been oblivious to. If you're living by your own standards, you have no way of ever knowing that those standards are acceptable. They keep changing, hopefully rising. And if they're rising in your sight, why are they in God's sight? His standard is perfect from start to finish. But we know that his standard was met by Jesus because he said Here's my son, in him I'm well pleased. His record's absolutely acceptable, and the only acceptable heritage and achievement. Not only is it an acceptable record, but it's also a permanent record. A permanent record. Think about it Even if you were able to live. And suppose you had lived to this point in your life in perfect conformity. To the deepest intentions and implications of God's requirement for your life. You had done everything that He requires. You'd still have no security or confidence that tomorrow you wouldn't fail. You'd have no way of knowing that you could maintain such a record. But the record of the Lord Jesus is finished. He's done. He has accomplished a perfect life. And the re the writing over the life of the Lord Jesus is perfection. And so when God says I have vindicated my son and his life by the resurrection, raising him from the dead, saying, There is no more penalty to pay for your sin or my sin. We know that that record is a permanent record. That's a permanent declaration. Nothing can remove it. You can get up from your bed every morning and stand on that floor and say, I stand this day in the righteousness of Jesus Christ, which has been, is today, and is ever sufficient for my life. And I am confident in that record. That record gives me a security that nothing can take away. Let me ask you, is that confidence yours this morning? Are you still trying to either mix some of the things that you do to give you confidence with the things that Jesus has done? Well perhaps the things that Jesus has done are quite optional to you. They're at best an example of how you should live. They call you in some vague way to be religious and to come to church on Sunday mornings But you've never come to rest in that record. You've never come to your life and summed up all those things that you think are profit and say, when I'm honest with myself, they're worth zero. It's only the record of Jesus Christ that is ever going to enable me to face a holy God with confidence and to live in this life day by day. With a security that my confidence is based not in anything I do, but only in what Jesus has done for me. Now again, we're not talking about somebody who has no basis for that. Paul says, you look at my life and I have no confidence in that. If I have no confidence in that, what are you trying to establish a record for? You see, and so it's just it's just the intensity of Paul's life that gives us the stark contrast and the hope to say, why should I even bother to try? I'll never match what Paul did. But I don't have to. I can have the same confidence and the same record that He had given to me by Jesus Christ when I place my faith and trust in Him. And that security turns not only that security is leads then, secondly, second consequence, to a passion for Jesus Christ. A passion for him. You see the progression of his thoughts. In verse 7, he says, Whatever is to my profit, I consider loss. Verse 8 he says, What's more I consider everything a loss. And then at the end of verse 8, he says, I consider it rubbish. The Greek is a word that literally means manure. It's manure. That's what it's worth. It's utterly loss. It's detestable. Paul says, I look at it with scorn and I want nothing to do with it. Now he's not talking about pleasures. He's not saying everything that I enjoy in this life I consider trash. He's talking about the things on which I base my confidence and my security. That's what's rubbish. Then notice the progression of his esteem for Christ. Verse 7, he says, for the sake of Christ. Verse 8, he says, compare to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord That on, the end of verse eight, that I may gain Christ, be found in him, to know him, and that becomes the driving passion of his life You see here, there's two contrasts in this. First of all, there's a contrast of values. Values before were centered on himself Now the values are simply in knowing Christ, gaining Christ, coming to a deeper understanding of the one who gives him that confidence and security, knowing the more I know Christ The more I understand his record, the more I see the perfection of his life, the more I see how acceptable he is before God, the more I see his tenderness toward me and wanting to give to me that record and sustaining it and working out in me his nature and his character. But always that working of that out in me is based on the record that is already established. It's no more a discussion before God in my acceptability. Then he says, the more I know him, the more confident I am, the more secure I am as a person. Secondly, it's not only a contrast of values, it's a contrast of purpose. Contrast of purpose. Because in verses 4 to 6, his purpose is to justify himself. He's always living in the danger that suddenly is going to point something out that he missed. And his purpose is always to establish his own record, to maintain it, to compare, and to be able to say, I can defend myself. Now listen, if there's anyone who can bring a justifiable accusation against your life, it takes away your confidence, doesn't it? It takes away your security And if I or some other person, your husband, your wife, your kids, your mom, your dad, if they can take away that confidence by making you ashamed What must it be before God? How much confidence can we have before his accusations? We're always needing to justify ourselves. Paul says that once I have understood the record of Jesus Christ, which is given by faith, trusting him, looking to his finished work. Then I understand that my purpose is no longer to justify myself, but simply to know Christ and to exalt him. I want now, he says, simply to be able to understand what it is that I have in him. Verse ten, I want to know Christ, the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that is becoming conform to his attitude of giving himself in death. And so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead Let me give you a silly example to try and illustrate this. A couple of weeks ago I had bought this mug that struck my fancy. I I like mugs, I have a lot of different kind of mugs I like to drink out of. There's one I'd found in a uh a store with thrift stores with a nice six-dollar mug I got for 75 cents And I took this thing home, I put it up in the cabinet, and I thought I'm gonna enjoy that. It's really nice. And a couple days later I I went to get it and it was gone And uh, you know, I I thought surely somebody in the family had just walked off with this mug. Maybe they broke it and didn't tell me or you know, maybe somebody took it away somewhere. You know, what happened to my mug? Some sort of grumbling around. Yeah, anybody seen my mug? No, I haven't seen your mug. You sure I haven't seen my mu it didn't just disappear, you know. What happened to my mug? Forget it, Dad. Cool it. It'll turn up some day. You know, I sort of messed up my night. I walked downstairs, you know. I never got a drink out of it. Not once. Walked downstairs, I realized just the the night uh before I'd looked into my mail, and it was a thousand dollar check, totally unexpected, was my mom's estate on something that gotten settled. thousand dollars I had no idea would ever come. All of a sudden I realized who cares about the mark? I got a thousand dollars. In the balance of things Who cares? You say that's what Paul's saying. He's saying, Who cares about my record and my image and the things that I try to establish? I have the record of Jesus. And that record has given me heaven. Who cares about the incidental, trivial little things that I'm always worked up about in this life to maintain my image and to justify myself? You see, if you understand the record of Christ, you are given a confidence that transcends the trivial. And that leads us finally to an abandonment of ourselves. To abandon ourselves to Him as we come into the ministry center or whatever opportunities to press on for what Christ has in store for you to gain his passion for the world and for the lost. Be able to say, here is what I have to offer. To be able to fulfill his commission, to serve him in any way possible, because I'm freed from having to justify and establish myself. So you and I can walk on in that confidence as we enter a new phase of ministry because we're secure in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we pray. Right now that if there's any of us that are wondering, how in the world do I get this, you would reveal yourself to them and hold up Christ. They would simply look to him and see in him his finished work. For those of us who Continue to struggle and want to gain that confidence. Wish we were freed up to be able to serve and to be able to get off of ourselves Lord, show us more of the deep and radical work of Jesus Christ available to each one of us We would stop playing with the trivial out of our concerns to justify and establish a confidence that gives us a security We'd be able to see the unshakable security and the heritage of heaven that you have given to us, that we would abandon ourselves to you. Hear us, Lori. As we give ourselves to you anew. For Jesus' sake. Amen. Let me say if any of you wonder about this and say, I'd like to talk about this, when you hand him the gray slips in the offering that's coming, Just put your name there and say, I'd like to talk. And I or Steve will get in touch with you, and we will make sure that we're able to sit down until you have that confidence in the Lord Jesus.