You have your Bibles with me, turn to the book of 1 Peter. If you don't have your Bibles, that's okay. We've got screens. And uh this morning. The screens have on them the entirety of what I'll be covering in terms of the main focus of where we're going. You recall last week we began this series, Living the Resurrection. The implication being, as you'll see in the signs out in the foyer, is that living the resurrection isn't something we just do or remember on Easter. If the resurrection isn't something that we live, meaning what Jesus has done, not just on Good Friday, but by the victory over sin and death on Sunday morning that we celebrate as Easter. Jesus victorious over sin and death, if that does not change the way that we live the rest of the week, then what good is it? So our call is not to confine the resurrection to Easter Sunday morning, but to every day. And last week we looked at the nature of salvation itself, of how we enter into being united to Jesus Christ in his death and resurrection. Peter writing to these Christians, these new Christian converts, scattered, you'll notice, as elect strangers, as exiles. They were not in just one church or one city. They were not in hospitable environs. They were scattered Throughout the Roman Empire and facing persecution and difficulty and suffering, as you will see as the letter unfolds. And so, what he wants to do in these opening verses is to ground them in something that transcends their circumstances. That even transcends all that they are, and that is the work of Christ, his death and his resurrection. And so this week we look at specifically these verses three through five where Peter first mentions. What is to be the lens through which he's going to look at their lives in the context of where they live through the resurrection hope in Jesus Christ? So let's look together at 1 Peter 1, verses 3 through 5. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead and into an inheritance that can never perish Spoil or fade, kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. May God bless the preaching of his word. I believe that this passage tells us some significant things about hope. Not just resurrection hope, but hope itself. So what I want to do is you'll see in your outline this morning, I want to look at what is hope How do we get resurrection hope? And how do we live resurrection hope? What is hope? How do we get it? And how do we live it? First, what is hope? Now let me just tell you that the very fact that Peter brings up the idea of hope would have been foreign. To the ears of those who were in a Greek-speaking background or world. They did not use the word hope. It was not a concept that they believed in or relied on. And within a Jewish background, the idea of hope would have had some merit, would have had a definite grounding. And for those who were religious Jews, those who believed in the sovereign Covenant God of the Old Testament believed and hoped that God would fulfill his promises, but that hope was invested in what God would do at the end of history To restore Israel. Restore Israel to its most powerful way, to its most powerful existence, recovering Israel from of old. Freeing it from its captors here, of course, it's Roman. Roman captors But the idea of hope in general, as Peter speaks of it, would have been a foreign concept. And here I want to at least ask the question: how often do we use the word hope in the way that Peter uses hope? Most of the time, just your general everyday understanding of hope, we speak of hope more as a wish. Right? Well, I I hope the weather is good on Saturday. It's in other words, often the way that we speak of hope is not based on a certainty, but a wish or a desire. But what Peter wants to tell us, the way Peter understood it, because he linked it to the work of Jesus, it was not to be Guesswork. It was not to be a wish. It was not a spiritual gamble. Hope is trust in a certain reality, in a certain fact. It is certitude. Now, you may not think of yourself as one who hopes. Maybe for you the idea of hope is in fact something that is really just given over to religious people. But here's another way of looking at the idea of hope. It's also asked this question: not what do you hope in, but what do you trust in? is another way of asking the idea of hope. Because really hope is, if it's biblical sense, is what do you have what are you certain about? In other words, what do you absolutely trust in? What do you go down? What are you leveraging? What are you using as the foundation from which you springboard into life? Now the Bible has a whole lot to say about hope and trust. In fact, I'm very thankful for my brother and former colleague, Bob Dahlberth. He's former because we're not working in the same state. He's not died, but he's still very much alive. And we still talk about this passage. He first opened up for me the way in which I want to enter into what I think Peter's driving us to is this fabulous, fabulous passage from Jeremiah. It's Jeremiah chapter seventeen, verses five through nine. Hear this. Jeremiah Preaching and prophesying to the Jewish people, he says this, Cursed is the one who trusts in man. Who depends on flesh for his strength, and whose heart turns away from the Lord. He will be like a bush in the wasteland. He will not see prosperity when it comes. He will dwell in the parched places of the desert, in a salt land where no one lives. But hear the contrast. But blessed is the man whose trust who trusts in the Lord, whose confidence is in him. He will be like a tree planted by the water that sends out its roots by the stream. It does not fear when heat comes. Its leaves are always green, it has no worries in a year of drought, and never fails to bear fruit, and the heart is deceitful above all things and beyond cure. Who can understand it? In other words, the question that I think the mere putting forth that Peter does of the idea of resurrection hope We must begin by asking the question, what is hope? For the biblical answer it is, a certainty Trusting in what God who God is, what He has done, and what He will do Now here's the interesting point. There's not a person in this room who does not hope. Jeremiah tells us. as he looks at humanity, is broken into two different groups, those who put their trust in themselves. Or in the things that they can put their hands on, their reason, their talents, their gifts, their success, all of those things, or you put your trust in God. In the Lord. So you either hope in yourself or you either hope in God The question is, where is your hope? Now you may disagree with me that in fact hope is a certain thing. For you, you're quite fine with the idea that is in fact a wish or a desire. But the question is, hope is only as good as that which it is invested in. If that which you are investing your hope in isn't certain, then how good is it? Let's go back to Jeremiah 17. What happens when he comes if your hope is in and invested in or your trust is in yourself and your circumstances. What happens? When heat comes, it'll be burned up. When difficulty in life can swallow up your circumstances, where's your hope? But what Jeremiah is telling us is that there is a help that is certain, that transcends circumstances. That transcends desires, that goes deeper. In fact, I will tell you that it is not possible to live without hope. In other words, we were hardwired to hope. Where is your hope? I remembered yesterday this verse. Yesterday I was racing in Poolsville, Maryland on my bicycle, and one of my favorite verses From the Psalms, as a one who races bicycles, is this verse, Psalm 33, verse 17 and 18. A horse is a vain hope for deliverance. Despite all of its great strength, it cannot save. But the eyes of the Lord on those who fear him, on whose hope whose hope is in his unfailing love. Why does that matter to me as a cyclist? I'll tell you why My bicycle is something which is vain to put my hope in. So I spiritually prepare for every race. Because I know that the heat of the sprint is coming. And I cannot hope in my own strength I cannot hope in my bicycle. In other words, my hope has to be invested in something that is not decided by whether I win or I lose. Because yesterday, 75 yards from the finish, these two young men right in front of me, locked elbows, were moving at 33 miles an hour And that horrible sound of crashing carbon fiber. My hope is not in my bicycle My hope is not in my legs. But I was reminded of this verse yesterday. As it the Lord was preparing me to deliver this message, I have to ask myself. Number one Is my hope based on something that is certain or based on something that can be taken away from me? Because I recognize as a human being with blood flowing from my through my veins. with a brain that is operative, with desires that well up within my heart, I was hardwired for hope. But Peter says that there is a hope that is certain. How do we get it? How do we get it? Well, he tells us. He tells us specifically in verse 3 when he says, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, in his great mercy. He has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Now I want you to see something. That Peter is saying, first, that before he even gets to the the receiving and the getting of the resurrection hope He uses this word, and you see it in your outline. It's called mercy. I don't know if you see it. But if you take that word mercy and put it together with what he attaches to hope, which is living, do you see what's being implied there? Work with me. When Peter says, Praise be, Alleluia, all glory and honor and praise should be given to our Father. Of our Lord Jesus Christ in his mercy. What is mercy Not giving to us what we rightly deserve. Well, what do I deserve? Work with me in the inner logic of the verse. I deserve God's judgment because as one who is hardwired to hope I am constantly looking for things to plug the wires of my hope into that are not God. But God in His mercy and His grace Gives us new birth into a living hope. Do you see what Peter is saying? That if your hope is in anything other than Jesus Christ, it is not living, it is a dead thing. Let me remind you of something that's just took place a week ago. The 100th anniversary of what? The Titanic. For those of you who don't know, it was a historical event, not just a movie. Leonardo DiCaprio is very cool, but he's not the historical thing. So they redid a new version of it. It was on ABC. It was actually quite good. But of course you're reminded. What was the promise The Titanic will not Let me say the Titanic will not there you go Looking back with 2020 vision, wouldn't it be easy? And isn't it also tempting? To cast judgment, dispersion, anger, what fools were those who believed that it couldn't sink. Let me tell you, friends, that God, in all of His grace Could look down from beginning to end, look straight into the corridors of your heart, and say the very same thing. But he doesn't. He sees where your most tempted to anchor it to, most willing to plug it into, and he does not cast dispersion, but he tells you the truth. And that is his mercy. In his great mercy, he sees the deadness of human hope. Put in things that we cannot guarantee that are not certainties. And He gives us not judgment. He gives us mercy. Let me say it illustrate it another way. Okay, so um we have a good electrician in the church and he came to do some electrical work at our house and He was changing out some things and I thought I could do a phone jack. So I took out the phone jack to put in a new phone jack It's pretty and white and not faded and yellow. So I took out the phone jack. I took it out. Yeah, I've done this before. So I take out the new one and I look at the new phone jack and I'm like, hmm. That doesn't have what that has. Hmm. So I took out my screwdriver, looking at the instructions, horrible instructions Work with me. So I took it following human instructions and I wired it up and recorded the visual diagram And slugged in the phone and guess what? No dial tone. And I said, Kate, is there another phone jack? Yeah, there's one in Caroline's room. So I go into Caroline's room And I plug in the phone jack. And I'm thinking, this is gonna do it. It didn't work. That's okay, you can laugh You get it? When one wire is off in one room, the entirety of the telephone system doesn't work So I took out the phone jack and I saw how a skilled, knowledgeable electrician did it. I memorized it, went back into the other room, and followed what he did. And I put them into the right way. Bingo, all of them work. Instructive, right? If my hope isn't plugged into the right thing, the rest of my life will also be not working as it ought to. And so he tells us New Birth. New birth In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope, the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. What he's telling us there is that God in his great mercy sees that our hopes are often plugged into the wrong things And God in his grace and mercy comes in as the God who is the source of all power through his Son, Jesus Christ, dying in our place. Which is what he tells us verses one and two. He then takes us. These are all passive verbs, he says here And he has given us new birth, meaning he works in by his Holy Spirit, by his power, and reworks our hopes, reworks our desires, and takes us down deep to a power source that is beyond circumstances, that is beyond my skill set, and plugs me into that which can never fade or perish or lose its power, Jesus Christ. And that is called new birth. How does it happen? It happens, he tells us, by his working. How, okay, well that's somewhat self-evident, right? But how does he work? Well, what's interesting, work with me He says here. He says he has given us new birth into a living hope. Well, that's interesting because he uses the very same words later on in chapter one. Later on in chapter one he says this verse twenty-three, for you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but imperishable. through the living and enduring word of God Peter's picking up on what Paul said. That when God's word is preached, when God's word is read, God's Spirit is at work. And the Spirit working with the Word comes in behind your eyeballs and inside your heart to where the depths of where your hopes are and it seeks to rework them. And it reworks them by giving you faith and a new place to put your hope. And that is in the finished work of Jesus Christ, who is not dead. Who died for your sins, but is now victorious over death and sin, and is reigning, is victorious and sitting at the right hand of God the Father. Where it is imperishable, where it cannot fade, where it cannot spoil, where it cannot be stolen, where it cannot sink, is But one further point. Let me ask you. Let's go deeper. If Peter is saying in verse 23 That for you have been born again not of perishable seed, but imperishable. Can you rebirth yourself No. But the words in twenty-three are also passive, meaning somebody else has planted the seed. Someone else needs to give you new birth. And that is God in Jesus Christ by his Spirit through His Word. But wait, let's go deeper. How do you get there? You get there, we get there, I get there, by finally asking this question then. If I'm hardwired to hope and I ask you the question, in what is your hope connected? Hardwired into, is it certain? Can it fade? Can it be stolen? I ask you. Have you come to that place in your life? Maybe it's this morning, where God by His Spirit is opening up your mind and your eyes and your heart, and you're able to ask this question. Is your hope, does it go deeper than your relationships, than your circumstances? Because if it doesn't, you're in great danger. I'm thankful for my great friend, Angela Geyer. You don't know her. Someday perhaps you'll be able to meet her. I'll never forget. She was new to our church along with her husband David Geyer. And uh we had just Caroline was not very young and I remember just asking her what it was like to be a mom and a father, but Angela is so full of life. She said, Being a parent is like Having your heart exist outside your chest. Moms, right? Because at any moment you feel like somebody else is going to come along And squash your heart. It's no longer inside your chest, it's out there. Now look, parents, for just a moment. If you have hope in your kids, I want to tell you first, that's a good thing. If you hope that they will follow the Lord Jesus, if you're a Christian, if you hope that they'll lead productive lives, that's a good hope. But here's the problem. If your hope doesn't go deeper than that, Your hope will be stolen from you. Because why? How your children will do is not certain. They're not a math quiz. Write answer in, write work in, write answer out. Human beings are not like arithmetic. One plus one does not always equal two. If your hope That your child will become what you hope they are, I will tell you your hope must go deeper than them. If you're single If you're hoping to know the love of another human being in a lifelong relationship of marriage I want to tell you, that's a good thing to hope in. That's a good thing. It's a good thing to want. But if your hope is not deeper Then you're one bad date away from danger. May I share with you for just a moment? I had to wrestle with this in 1995 as a single man. I'll never forget I woke up in the middle of the night. I was living with other single guys. We didn't have curtains on our windows. Maybe it was a full moon shining into my room, but I woke up in the middle of the night. I've just been challenged in how and in what ways I've been putting so much hope in finding a spouse. And I remember waking up in the middle of that night, and I just began to confess. Because you see, I thought, I hoped, I knew what I needed. And I've been worrying, investing in, trying to find that right woman for me. And I thought I knew what I was doing. I was putting my hope in myself. And in that moment, God tore away the years. And all the relationships, and he began to shine a light, and he began to say, the problem is that your hope is that you thought you knew what you were doing. And I finally, in that moment, I gave up. I just gave up. And I said, Lord, I don't know what I'm doing. But you do. The way you get this If you're willing to come, to come to this place and say, Where is my hope? But I want to tell you, in that moment, I gave up that. But there are a lot of other hopes I haven't given up. Hopes that are not going deep enough. In the process of preparing for this sermon, God is peeling back those layers. And what I am finding in myself is the same old problem in different ways. I still hope in myself But God, in His great mercy, by His word and Spirit, is shining that light. And you can this morning come. If it's love, if it's kids, if it's a job, if it's the next promotion, whatever it is, if your hope doesn't go deeper You're in danger. So how do we live it? If we get it By God putting in us by his spirit and word a completely new thing through the work of Jesus Christ, giving us something that goes deeper than our circumstances Then how do we live it out? This was important for Peter because to whom he was writing were those suffering in the midst of their circumstances. So they needed to know how do I live it? Well, he tells them. In verse 4 and 5, he says, You have received this living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead and into an inheritance that can never perish. spoil or fade, kept in heaven for you, who, through faith, are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed. Well, how you do it and how we live it, how we keep it, is right there. He says, who through faith are shielded by God's power How we live out resurrection hope is recognizing this. Our hope is not in Christ. Our hope is Christ. Because there is a living reality, a present reality, and a future. Work with me. Okay. Living under God's protection, God's power, God's strength as your foundation means that as a Christian, you become one who is plugged into a power source. That has already been established, that can never be extinguished, that can never fade Therefore, it isn't that we put our hope in Christ, meaning, okay, I'm going to hope that Jesus gives me what I really hope in You see? A lot of religious people can hope in God. Okay, I'm going to go to church, I'm going to pray, I'm going to study my Bible, because if I do so, Jesus will give me what I really want. It's not just hope in Christ, it is hope is Christ. Watch. If he says that I can only live Through what? Shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed at the last time when Jesus will come again. If I can only live under that power, then I need for someone to show me what it looks like. And there's none other than Jesus Himself. And here is where God, if I may tell you, come into the study with me, rocked my soul this week. You ready to rock? Let's rock. Okay. I'm I'm hurrying. Alright. First John chapter five, verse nineteen, Jesus says this: I tell you the truth, the Son of Man can do nothing by himself. He can do only what he sees his father doing. Because whatever the father does, the son also does. John 5, verse 30. By him, by myself I can do nothing. I judge only as I hear. My judgment is just, for I seek not to please myself, but the one who sent me. Chapter 8, verse 28 of John. When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know That I am the one I claim to be, and that I do nothing on my own but speak just what the Father has taught me. And then Jesus, just a few chapters later, looked at his disciples and looked at us who can hear the word, John 15, verse 5: Apart from me. You can do nothing We live resurrection hope by stopping and saying, Jesus In his obedience, in his trust, in his certain hope of his father that would raise him from the dead. It is that that I need. It's not that Jesus comes along and gives you the strength to have hope. He does, but that's not the point. He is the hope, you see. Do you see it? Maybe I'm just maybe maybe the Holy Spirit is just preaching at me, but that rocked my soul because I saw, holy cow, there's no daylight between Jesus and his Father. And I look into the mirror and I see a whole lot of daylight between the way I live and Jesus my Savior. Because I want to hope in him. He'll give me what I want, but is he my hope? Sure, Jesus, give me the strength, and I'll work it out. When in fact he's calling me to something far more radical, far more deep, far more full of power. It is Jesus Himself. It is Jesus, it is Jesus, it is Jesus. Because If your hope and if your strength to live out that hope is in anything other than Jesus, it will be in one of two places. It'll either be in yourself or your circumstances. And if it's in yourself and you're talented and gifted and cool and all that stuff, you'll be insufferable because you'll still be so full of pride. But if you're a person who puts hope in yourself and you struggle with depression, you won't be insufferable, but you'll think life is insufferable. If success has passed you by? If you know that that train of achievement has already left the station and you can't catch it? Then you won't be insufferable, but life will. If your hope is in circumstances and not in Jesus Himself, then you're one He Heat away, one heat event as in Jeremiah 17. You're in one drought away. You're in one economic collapse away. You're in one demotion or layoff flip away. From great danger. And I close with this. Not only in the present reality do we live it But if Jesus is our hope, as we look into the future, do you see the peace? Do you see the freedom? Notice what he says: Verse 4: And into an inheritance that can never perish. spoil or faith kept in heaven for you. Meaning the salvation not just of your soul, but of our life, of our body, the resurrected body, the new mind, the new heart, the new way of living, all of that is stored up in the person and work of Jesus who Who's seated at the right hand of God the Father? It can never perish, spoiler faith. And if that's the case, if that's the case, then I can stop worrying. I can be freed from my anxiety, and I can be freed up to serve. You can be freed up to serve because no longer no longer are you so captive to what storing up hope in your desires and trying to establish them here. They're already given for you. They're already protected. They're already shielded. And if so, you're freed up from storing for yourself You're freed up to give out of the great storage hood of God's grace for others. Do you see Because now we can be freed from petty worries about ourselves and our own desires, or trying to establish our own hopes, trying to establish our own achievement. Something like a grand finale. Here we go. You ready? Here it is Dan Small is not a household name, but he was the oldest of seven children. He decided that he wanted to go to Iraq To start schools. Dan Small was killed by a student in one of his schools But do you know what the story that came out of his situation was not of a wife, a life wasted, but a life that was invested. You see, in 2005, Small traveled to Iraq to teach English and history, and he served with a group called Servant Group. And he returned to a rat to teach each year after year because of the great changes and hope he saw in the lives of his students. You see, he began schools that taught classical curriculum and he was able to teach the gospel and scriptures openly. In his favorite quote, G. K. Chesterton, it might be true that the sun rises regularly because he never gets tired of rising. His routine might be due not to lifelessness, but to a rush of life. It was the theme that defined Dan Small's time in Iraq as he filled after school hours, taught students rock climbing, organized trips to Europe over summer break, he helped to launch a student-run newspaper. He helped others start a monthly newspaper, and at one point small and a fellow teacher helped train and recruit the first responders after he learned of a critical shortage of firemen and ambulance crews in the city. When he discovered the city had no real library, he encouraged students to launch a drive to create one. And the students, who were a part of his schools, now had renamed that library after him. And his parents went to Iraq where he was buried. Near one of the schools that he started. And his parents embraced the parents of the child who killed him. And they wept with grief, but also rejoicing. That Dan Small, who was certain that his salvation was secure, was freed to love even his enemies. And to teach children. He was free. His life may have been taken in a moment, but his new life lives on. on what he was doing because Christ was his hope. Is that what you want That's what I want. I invite you to know it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father Despite microphones and all the stuff and my many words, I would pray. That by your Holy Spirit you would so come forward with your word and light, open to our hearts the places where our hope is not only in the wrong places but doesn't go deep enough. I pray that by your Spirit and Word you would give us new birth into a living hope. For those this morning who want that hope, Father, I pray, call them. For those, Father, who know this hope, but who recognize their hope is not yet going deep enough, Father, help us. Help us go deeper. That Jesus Himself would be our hope. For we pray in His name. Amen.