Our text this morning comes from First Peter. We've started a new series looking at First Peter and what it means to live the resurrection life every day. Our text this morning is 1 Peter chapter 1, and I'll be considering specifically verses 6 and 7, but I'm going to start back in verse 3. But like I said, considering verses six and seven specifically this morning. 1 Peter 1 I'll start at 3, reading through verse 7. But before we turn to God's word, the living word here, let us go to God again in prayer, ask for his blessing upon us. Let's pray. God, our God, how majestic you are in all the earth. Lord, we are weak. Even right now, we are so weak, our souls are weak, or they are burdened by Our life, by our sin, by the things going on, and even now, Lord, our souls, our bodies, by sickness, by being tired cannot worship you. As you deserve, as you are worthy of. So help us, Lord. We pray for your spirit. We pray for your spirit to rest upon us and open our eyes now. Unplug our ears now that we might hear your word that is living, that your word that created all things, your word that gives life. Father, we praise you that you are not a silent God, but that you speak to us. And even this morning, the true and living God speaks to us. Lord, help us to hear. We pray. We thank you for Jesus, our Savior. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. First Peter chapter 1, I'll be starting in verse 3, reading through verse 7. Hear now the word of God. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, as was necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire. May be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. He who has ears, let him hear now the word of God. Joy. Joy is a common theme in scripture. If you read throughout Scripture, you see the word joy, rejoice, pop up many times in various places throughout God's word. We're told to rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I say rejoice. Fruit of the Spirit is love, joy. And so here Peter picks up the theme of joy and gives us reasons why we should rejoice and why sometimes our joy is even a painful joy. Verses 3 through 5 as we considered last week we heard about this inheritance that is kept for us This inheritance that is imperishable, that is everlasting, unfading, and it is kept for us, and we are kept for it. And so matter no matter what we face No matter what we face in this life, we can see our future that is coming. But here then in verse 6, Peter dramatically moves from this ecstasy of looking toward the future to agony. The focus is shifted from the certainties of that future that is ours. To the heavenly glory that is ours in Christ, to the murky realities we find ourselves in, to the present. The road to heaven is marked with earthly sorrow. We who rejoice in Christ, we who are born again, we who are kept. We suffer grief and pain of all various types. We face all different types of trials and pain and suffering. But yet Peter calls us here in this text to rejoice even in our suffering, even in the midst of trials. So our text this morning gives us reasons to rejoice, gives us reasons to have joy But not only joy looking toward the future, but to rejoice in that hope in the midst of trials, in the midst of suffering. So let us turn to our text and consider how indeed we can rejoice. How we can rejoice And so if you look at verse 6, if you have it there before you, the first thing we have to ask is What does this in this mean? In verse 6, it says, in this you rejoice. Well, what does the in this mean? Because it is in this we rejoice. So what does the in this refer back to? Well what is it getting to? And I think it's clear that the in this you rejoice, the in this Is what we looked at last week. It's referring back to verses 3 through 5. We rejoice because God has caused us to be born again and has given us a living hope. Through the resurrection of Christ. God is powerfully keeping that inheritance for us as we looked at that is imperishable, unfading, undefiled, and he's keeping us. To receive that. So Peter says in verse 6, In this you greatly rejoice. We can rejoice and have joy in the promise of that great future that is before us. That God has committed to keep us for it and it for us. Our living hope of that inheritance, as Peter is saying, is our joy. The living hope that we have of the inheritance kept for us and us for it is our joy. In this you rejoice. And Peter does not simply mean that we can only then rejoice in that future time. Peter isn't saying in this you will rejoice one day when Christ comes and you'll go into heaven and be ushered into this imperishable inheritance and then you'll rejoice. Peter is saying we can rejoice now. This word for rejoice is a second person present. He's saying, you rejoice now. You rejoice now. Certainly when Christ comes back. Certainly when Christ comes back and he ushers his elect and his people to eternal and everlasting life. Well that's something we will be joyful about, and that's something we can rejoice in. But Peter is saying that we can taste That joy now in this life at this moment where you are sitting, he says you can rejoice right now, wherever you are, whatever is happening, rejoice now, you people. He says, In this you rejoice now, though now for a little while, if necessary. You have been grieved by various trials, continues verse 6. The little while there is to remind us that our lives are brief. It reminds us of the brevity of life for a little while. Our lives are but a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away, we're told But to be honest, this is one of the hardest things to believe when you're in the midst of pain, when you're in the midst of distress, that it's a little while. Every moment, in fact, in those times, it it's drags out. It seems like an eternity when we're in the midst of pain and trial. The thought doesn't usually pass our mind that this is just a brief and momentary life. This is but a little while. And little while can mean a whole lot of things, can it? But when we say that it took a long time to set up the chairs this morning, we mean that it probably took an hour or two to set up the chairs, right? But when we say that Elizabeth has been the Queen of England for a long time, well we mean over 50 years, don't we? We mean close to 60 years. So long time can mean a lot of things. A little while can mean a lot of things But compared to others, compared to a lifetime on this earth, your trials might seem like a long time. But Peter uses this phrase a little while to direct us to the period of our suffering that is short compared to eternity. Compared to that inheritance that is unfading, kept for you, and you kept for it, it's only a little time till it'll be yours. Till it's there. Till we're no longer here. And that you're face to face with Christ. For a little while, just hold on. Eternity is soon to come. And we experience a variety of trials we're told in the text that says you have been grieved by various trials There's a wide range of struggles that we face, not one particular type of trial, not one particular type of struggle is in mind here. And it also tells us that we experience these various trials for a little while, if need be or if necessary. This is difficult here, if need be, or if necessary. Well, what trial is needed What trial is necessary because I don't want it? I don't want the necessary trials. I don't want the need-be trials. How can I avoid the need be? How can I avoid the trial? How can I avoid the suffering? What kind of trial is necessary? What makes these trials necessary? Who determines if I should struggle? if need be. Well, I think the sobering truth of our text and of Scripture tells us that trials only happen when God wills it In chapter 4, verse 19 of 1 Peter, Peter tells us, he reminds us, but those who suffer according to the will of God. Entrust their souls to a faithful creator in doing what is right. Peter is teaching us that the sovereign will of God governs our distress. our pain, our grief that happens to us. And therefore there's design. There's design in them. That is greater than the design of wicked men, greater than uh design of what Satan has for us, but it's a design of God. And that raises some very serious questions, doesn't it? That raises some very tough questions, I think we have to address. Because we're faced with various trials. We're faced with various griefs and pain. Some of you right now at this moment. Some of you maybe have just come through the storm, and many of us have it soon to come. The trials are soon to come. We don't even know it yet, but they're they're soon to come. And so you might be saying, Dan, I hear you saying that God is over all the trials and pain and grief that happens. So are you saying That God wanted me to have a failed marriage? Are you saying that God willed that the people that I love to have cancer and I would watch them get chemo and they'd be su become so weak that their heart would give up. Dan, are are you saying that God willed for me to have rebellious children so they wouldn't listen to me or follow the Lord? Are you saying that God willed that I lose my job? The answer is no, God does not will it, and yes, He does will it It's known that God does not delight in pain for pain's sake. He never commands sin or never approves of sin. He's not the author of evil, we're told. But the answer is yes, because he ordains these things to be. He ordains these things to be in the sense that he could prevent any of those things from happening, but rather guides them. Because he has a higher design than the destructiveness of sin. He has a higher design than the deceitfulness of Satan. God is not endorsing or approving of sin ever, but he can and does will that these sinful acts come about for his own glory and for his own purposes. This is tough. This is tough. Do you remember the story of Joseph? Kind of towards the end of Genesis? Joseph had been viciously betrayed by his brothers. He was sold into slavery. He was held in prison for many years. He was separate from his family, from his land. And then when we're told that Joseph reunited with his brothers, They were terrified that he would exact revenge on them for what they did to him Do you remember what Joseph said to his brothers when he saw them? When they were terrified, because they did evil things? Remember what Joseph said? He said, as for you You meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, in order to bring about, as it is this day, to save many people alive The brothers of Joseph engaged in very serious and evil behavior in which they are responsible for. They're responsible for that wicked and evil behavior. But over and above their actions, God intended it for good. The hand of God trumps the intent of evil And he uses it. In his providence, he he uses it for his glory and for all our ultimate good. The best example of this doctrine, of this fact, as difficult as it might seem, appear, is the cross of Christ. Jesus was murdered on the cross. It was sin that brought him there It was the most perverse, it was the most wicked, twisted situation that you could ever imagine that you could ever could occur that we would put the Son of Man The Son of God on the cross. But God willed it and he ordained it to happen. Isaiah 53 tells us it was the will of the Lord to bruise him. And by that we're saved. You see, if God has nothing to do with our afflictions, if God really is not in control of what happens in our lives, Well, we should be pitied. In fact, we should be terrified. But the comfort that we receive, that we receive from Scripture. Is that God is involved even with our suffering to the extent that he ordains them for our good. Whatever God permits, He chooses to permit. And whatever He chooses to permit, He ordains. So when Peter says in verse 6, if necessary you have been grieved by various trials, he means if God deems it necessary. If God mean deems it to need be. But why? Why would God ever do that? Why would God ever deem it need be for us to go through suffering? Why would God ever say it's necessary for us to face trials? Why would God do that? Well that leads us to verse 7, to the so that at the beginning of verse 7. You have been grieved by various trials, and it's necessary that you're grieved by various trials, so that Well well here here we have the answer. So that why why do why do we go through trials? Why do we go through suffering and grief sometimes? So, verse 7 at the beginning, we're given the reason why God would deem it necessary that we would be grieved by various trials. And it says. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, being more precious than gold which perishes, though it is tested by fire. May result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. The design of our grief, of our trials, we're told. Is like the fire that refines gold. The fire that refines gold from its impurities. Distress Struggles, trials have a part in getting us ready to enjoy that inheritance that God has set for us to the greatest measure possible. When gold is melted in the fire, uh the impurities rise to the top and then can be removed When the refining of the gold is over, the gold is more pure, it's more valuable because it's been pulled, the impurities have been pulled out of it. And so Peter says, so it is with your faith in God. You have faith. You trust God. You believe in Him, and that's great. You're saved in Jesus Christ because of it. But he says, but there's impurities still in you. There are elements of gossip and selfishness still in you. There are tendencies to lust, tendencies to lust for what is not yours and possessions and popularity and relationships. And here we have this dirt kind of mingled in with our heart and our faith in God. And these impurities. Hinder us from fully knowing and experiencing the glory and greatness that God is. Because we have these impurities all in us. So our trials, Peter says, are designed to burn away self-confidence. Our trials are designed to burn away self-reliance. Our trials are designed to burn away self-righteousness. The fire doesn't destroy the gold, but it removes, it brings out the impurities. So God's design is to refine our faith with the fires of trial and distress. His aim, his goal is that our faith be more pure, more genuine, that is, that we would be more and more dependent on him. That we would not be looking to other things, other people, ourselves, possessions, that we would more and more Cling to him, embrace him, be drawn to him, love him and him alone, and God will stop at nothing to let that happen, that we would love Christ. With all of our hearts. So we don't simply look beyond the distress to the sure hope. We don't just grit our teeth and endure hoping for the future that we'll just get through this time, this year. This weekend, this marriage. We don't simply just look to the future and grit our teeth, that we can actually embrace what God has for us now. We can look at God's design for trials. We can look at God's design for suffering. And we can know he's working the trial together for our good. Christianity is filled with joy, we're told, because we have the promise of a great future to look forward to, that it's being kept for us and us for it. But also we can have joy because God has designed for us right now to increase our joy in Him. for the future by various trials, suffering, grief. And man, is this so much easier to say than to do? This is difficult. And it's so much easier to say that God has planned it for our good to really believe it, to have it sink down into us. That the suffering i is good that he is it pulling out the impurities of our my heart. But it's the truth. Because it's the truth, I share it with you. Not that I say that it's easy for me, but this is the truth, and this is my obligation as a minister of the gospel to tell you this truth. In second Corinthians one eight and nine, Paul describes this kind of refining Understanding. I think Paul gets it in 2 Corinthians 1 verses 8 and 9. He says We do not want you to be unaware, brethren, of our affliction which came to us in Asia, that we were burdened excessively beyond our strength. So that we've despaired even of life. Paul was despairing even of life. That is a trial. That is fire. That is distress that Paul is despaired unto life, but then he says, indeed, we have the sentence of death within ourselves in order that we should not trust ourselves. But in God who raises the dead. You see, that's the purified gold that this trial did in Paul, to pour out this impurity of self-reliance that then Paul is like. I'm a dead man, but I believe in Christ. My faith is in him alone, not in my own strength or eloquence. I've seen all these visions from heaven, and God really loves me. But Paul is saying, I've been dead. If I trust in God, I trust in Him alone John Ripon, the pastor of the Metropolitan Tabernacle in London, prior to Charles Spurgeon, wrote a famous verse of a song that showed us that he understood what Peter is saying here. It'll be probably familiar to many of you. It says, when through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie. My grace all-sufficient shall be thy supply. The flame shall not hurt thee. I only design thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine. These words get at the heart here of this text, doesn't it? And lastly, we're told when when Jesus comes He will bring far more than an end to suffering and pain and grief. When the clouds pull apart and Christ comes and he sees his people and we're ushered up to him. He a lot more is going to be ushered than simply the end of suffering and pain and death. We're told that he will bring praise, glory, and honor. Our trials are never forgotten by the Lord. Paul says, our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. Our present suffering cannot be compared to that glory that will be revealed to us There will be a day when the universe is remade, and that day is when the Lord returns and when he is revealed, our text says, and that day should bring terror. To anyone who does not believe in Christ, who does not have faith in him, that should be a terrifying day when the king of kings and the lord of lord returns. But to those who do believe, it will be a joyous day. It will be a day in which we will greatly rejoice. We will rejoice beyond expression. Those who believe and trust in Him. And we're told that when Jesus is revealed When Jesus comes finally to usher us home, he kept us for the inheritance that he has, and when he comes. His glory will be wonderfully reflected in the mirror of our purified faith. Jesus is the glorious one. Jesus is the praiseworthy one. He is the honorable one. His glory will shine. And the more pure and refined the gold of our faith is the more clearly his beauty and glory will be mirrored and reflected to his glory. It's kind of, ladies, do you have those diamonds? And you need to get them cleaned every once in a while so the light when it goes in it it makes it more shine, but it's not the diamond that's really shining, it's the light that's coming that's bouncing off. So the more and more our faith is refined by various trials and suffering, the more those impurities are pulled out so that when the glory of Christ comes, it shines and reflects off of us and it gives all Him the praise and glory and honor. The gold of our faith will shine to his praise. It will reflect glory and praise and honor. The any glory and praise and honor that we have is his. And it's just being reflected back to him. The whole nature of our suffering, the whole nature of our trials, our griefs. And don't get me wrong, these are serious. We don't take lightly, we cry. We have loved ones die. We don't take lightly this at all. We don't take lightly the things that are happening in our lives, in our hearts. These are real pains. These are real sufferings. But the whole nature of our understanding of suffering is changed for the Christian when we realize that our anguish Our pain or our suffering will be used to exalt the glory of Christ. God never gives us pain or anguish or suffering without purpose. He doesn't waste tears. That's not how God works. When Christ returns and is revealed from heaven, we will finally see the complete and perfect design in our trials and our grief. But sometimes here in this life we don't see, but when he's revealed and our faith reflects his glory and we're ushered up, then we'll see. Let me close by telling you about an ancient Roman method to harvest grain. One man would stir up the sheaves. He would throw them out and then another man would ride over the sheaves in a uh crude cart uh that had rollers instead of wheels. Right, so one man's throwing the sheaves, another man is is rolling a cart over uh them, but it doesn't have wheels, it has rollers. And these rollers have sharp stones and rough bits of iron on them. And as they grind over the sheaves, the stones and the iron separate the husk and the grain, that precious grain, and that's what they want. They're harvesting the grain. And that simple cart uh was called a a tribulum. And that piece of machinery, that ancient Roman method of getting the grain off the the sheaves and the husks Separating the precious grain that was called a tribulum. And that's the word in which we get tribulation. So do you ever feel like you're under the inescapable weight and pressure of a tribulum? Where stones are riding all over you. Sharp iron. Well, because your faith is far more precious than gold. To God. Be encouraged. Because your faith is far more precious than gold to God. Rejoice. Have joy because you may just find yourself. On the anvil or in the fire of suffering. Because he cares about your faith. He wants to reflect his glory. And when this happens, we can know that God is at work. He's purifying us. And that faith has eternal value. How much gold is your soul worth? What does it profit a man if he gains the entire world but loses his soul? Nothing. Gold? Nothing. Whatever. Nothing. Faith in Christ. Everything. Faith in Christ. Everything. Glory, honor, praise in Christ. Because God cares about your faith. He has this planned out for us, and this faith will shine bright, the praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So in this, you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials So that the tested genuineness of your faith being more precious than gold that perishes, though tested by fire. may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, help us. These are hard words to believe, to know, to take to heart. Father, we do trust you. We have faith in you and help us to have faith. Our faith is weak Lord, we ask that you would purge us from every false desire, purge us from everything that is contrary to you. Take those impurities out of our hearts. Lord, we thank you that you are God, that you have wisdom, that you have love, that you are love. We thank you for all your acts of discipline on us. Thank you for putting us in the furnace to refine our gold and to remove those impurities. Lord, we ask for a sanctified affliction. Lord, we we ask to be sanctified. We want to be like you. We want to know you. We want to reflect your glory, praise, and honor. Deliver us from every evil habit, everything that That would dim the brightness of your glory in us. Remove it, take it, take everything that prevents us from rejoicing in you. Father, give us joy. Not only joy that we anticipate and that we look for in the future, but give us joy now. And even in our sufferings, Father, give us joy. Because you are God and you command it and you are good and you have a plan that will help us to glorify you more. We pray for your glory alone. In Christ's name, Amen