Need for some good news and some hope, isn't it? When you think about broader picture. I mean, you know, last Easter was before nine eleven Can you think of how different our world is since last September? Not only in the attack, the war on terrorism so costly and So troublesome. You think of the almost daily reports that we hear of suicide bombings and retaliations in the Middle East And then you look in the home front and we hear of priests praying on young boys and the scandal of that and the deeply troubling news. In case anybody is at all unclear about that situation, let me just say As an aside here as we begin, that the Bible is very clear. There is no restriction, no requirement of celibacy or restriction of marriage for anybody in any calling. Including any kind of ministry of the word. In fact, the New Testament warns against such restrictions. And so it's so sad to see what happens when that's ignored. Um the danger is, of course, that um the gospel suffers, the cause of Christ and his honor suffer. Doesn't it? You know, you think of us as a nation that problem of becoming more cynical about organized religion and Christianity itself. The church is full of hypocrites. Full of sinners, yes. But not full of hypocrites. And so I would like to suggest that there may be some analogy Between the lack of peace and the hopeless cynicism that you may be feeling this Easter morning, and how the disciples felt on the evening of that first Easter. Let me pick up the story from where Tom left off in John chapter 20, where he ended at verse 18, and pick up in verse 19. Let's add that up there. Thanks, Dave. The story continues that on the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said Peace be with you. After he said this, he showed them his hands and sighs. The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord Again, Jesus said, peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. And with that he breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive anyone his sins, they are forgiven. If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven. See again verse 19. On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together, with the doors locked for fear of the Jews. The disciples are fearful and likely hopeless and perhaps cynical because their Savior, whom they had hoped in, is dead. Jesus. Seems to have failed in being able to fulfill what he had promised. And Even after they've heard Mary come and say, I've seen the Lord, He's risen, they're still afraid to believe. Maybe you're afraid to believe this morning. Maybe you come here and you say, I would like to believe that Jesus rose from the dead. But I'm afraid that that's a silly thing to believe in today's world. Afraid to believe. Let me invite you to come for a few moments into the Bible's world and to see The facts that John lays out, as well as the implications of the resurrection story in John chapter 20, in these verses 19 to 23. The story itself of the resurrection is pretty plain and clear, but I believe that there are some subtle clues to a deeper meaning here that John has for us. that are both astounding to consider as well as hopefully they will encourage your faith and your hearts this morning. Again, notice that the disciples are full of fear. And notice that John begins this section by saying that it was on the evening of the first day of the week. I believe that uh John is putting stress on this because he's repeated that. You notice where Tom read in the beginning of the chapter, John began the whole section early on the first day of the week. while it was still dark. Then in verse 19, again, he stresses, on the evening of that first day of the week, I believe the New Testament scholar N. T. Wright, and and that really is his name, it's you know it's nice that he's a New Testament scholar and he goes by N. T. but I'm sure he gets a lot of mileage out of it. I believe he was correct when he said that John in fact means something far more than simply it happened on Sunday. There's more to the meaning of this. You see, what John is saying is this is not just the beginning of a new week, but this is the beginning of the new week of God's new creation. Of God's new kingdom. He's saying that Jesus' resurrection inaugurates a new creation. Those are the first two blanks in your outline. A new creation, which is his kingdom. You see, the first creation took six days, whether they were literal 24-hour days or day-age spans, the Bible measures them in six days. And the Bible says that it was on the sixth day, Friday, that God created man. But man, though created in that pristine, innocent garden, fell, rebelled, disobeyed, and the world became bent and broken. And so now we live in a world of terrorism and perversion, of major heartaches, and simply daily stresses Of broken relationships, disappointment with what's happening in your body, disappointment of hopes Failures that you dwell on, that have continuing consequences in your life. And the Bible says that Jesus came to bring a new world, a new creation. And that in bringing that new creation, John points out that it was on what we call Good Friday, the sixth day That at Jesus' trial, Pilate stands Jesus before the crowds, bloodied, beaten, bruised So that Isaiah said he was disfigured, so that he was inhuman looking. And Pilate says, behold the man. This is the man of the new creation. And if Jesus is going to establish a new creation as the second Adam, eligible by his perfect obedience to God. He must suffer the disfigurement, the mocking, the spitting, the bruising, the utter disfigurement of his face Being broken by the bearing of your sin and mine, in order For him to establish this new creation, to take away our sin, to take away your sin and my sin. And it was Jesus, John uniquely points out, that when he died on the cross, his last words were, It is finished, a cry of victory, because now all the work necessary for the new creation has been accomplished. And so Jesus gives up his spirit. And it is John who then points out that it is after Jesus' death that he rests in the tomb. Parts of two days, one full day. Saturday, the seventh day, the day of God's rest of his work from the new creation. And you see, that's why John makes such a point when he begins in chapter twenty to tell about the resurrection, to say it was early on the first day of the week. You see, not just the first day of the new week. But the first day is also the eighth day. The eighth day of creation. The first day of the new creation. The first day of the new kingdom. That's why Jesus said in Luke, I'm not going to eat this bread or drink this cup until I drink it new in the kingdom. He has come to establish his kingdom. All the rules are changed. This is a new world that Jesus has ushered in. And Jesus has now brought in the new creation through his resurrection. It is John who points out uniquely Where does Mary meet Jesus? She's the first witness of the resurrection. Where does she meet him? In the garden She thinks he's the gardener. Now what does that mean? Did Jesus did the was the tomb in uh you know among a bunch of roses and they had all lilies there, you know, and some hyacinths and maybe boxwood or no What John is pointing out is that this is the new Eden. This is the new garden. And that in a certain profound sense, Mary is right. He is the new gardener. He's the gardener of the new Eden, of his creation, that he's established by his death and his resurrection. And so Jesus is coming now to Mary, and she can't say it. And so what's he have to do? Remember, the Bible says he needs to open her eyes to see the reality. Who he is. And so, as Mary's eyes need to be opened to understand what's going on, so the Bible says Your eyes and my eyes need to be opened up. We look at the world and we say it looks just the same as if Jesus hadn't risen. And Paul says in the book of Ephesians I pray that the eyes of your heart might be enlightened, opened to see the hope Which he has given you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. You see, he's saying, I pray that you will see that this new creation Is not something you and I just need to wait for at the end times when Jesus returns, but that that end time of Jesus' rule has come rushing forward into the present That Jesus is now King and He is now ruling. And Ephesians 1:14 says the Spirit has brought the first fruits, the down payment of that new world into our lives to experience. And that's why we take so long going through Ephesians, you see, to explore what that new what life is. By the way, we'll be getting back to that next Sunday. My popular request. You see, this this is this is beautiful. Now can you imagine this is John who's a Galilean fisherman? This guy did not go to the Harvard School of Writing, you know, and all the rest. You know, John, a fisherman, is pulling all these themes together. And he says, now, here's the first day of the new week of God's creation. And you and I don't need to wait to experience what that kingdom and that creation will be until Jesus comes again Because this passage talks about three things that Jesus gives to us to experience right now as down payment and first fruits of that new creation, resurrection life. The first is his peace. He comes and he says twice, peace be with you. You see it there? Verse 19. Here they are, locked in this room, full of fear. And Jesus walks right through, right through the walls of the door. He can conquer now all the laws that restrict you and me. And he transcends it and he comes sovereignly in. He says, Peace be with you. They so lacked peace because, first of all, first blank there, they lacked faith. They lack peace because they lack faith. They didn't expect them to rise from the dead. They weren't hoping in that. He had promised it. He had told them In fact, Luke tells us that it was on this occasion when they first saw him that they thought he was a ghost. They didn't think he had come back from the dead. They thought he was dead coming back from beyond the grave. John tells us as well as Luke that he comes back alive. And they're full of dread and despair because they lack faith. And that's the same way with you and me. Your despair, your anxiety, your stress, your dread is because you lack faith Really don't believe that Jesus is who he says he is, or that he can do what he has promised to do. You think that you're alone and that you need to fend for yourself. And so you fret and you try to cope with food or sex or toys. And Jesus comes, the only one this morning who is able to say it because he is alive. And he comes to you and he says, Peace, peace be with you. His peace that he offers you. They lacked peace not only because they lacked faith, they didn't believe him, but they lacked peace because They are guilty and filled with shame. These are the next two blanks. They had guilt and shame. They had shamefully failed the Lord Jesus. They had said just that night before Thursday night, when Jesus said you're all gonna depart They said, Oh no, Lord, no way, no, no, no, no, we'll die with you, we'll go to our death with you, no way will we abandon you. How out of touch with their hearts they were. Just like me. Just like you, right? Make promises to the Lord. Come here Easter morning, you say, okay, Lord, gonna start going to church, gonna start getting back to you I want to start walking with you. I want to start meeting business with you. Lord, I want my spiritual life to grow. I'm gonna change. You fail. And I fail. You see, we don't know our hearts, and we don't know what pathetic failures we are when we make our promises. And yet it is to these pathetic failures like you and me that Jesus says, peace be with you. And you notice that he says it without any reproach. That's the next blank. Without any reproach, he doesn't come and say, peace be with you. Now, Chris, you guys know you're really screwed up. And I told you you're going to, and you didn't believe me. I told you. But that's okay. I don't hold it against you. Peace He doesn't even mention it. That amazing. And notice that he brings peace without any conditions. That's the next point. He doesn't come and he say, peace be with you. Now, you messed up, but if you can just show me your really mean business now, if you just Just will do this to show that you really want to follow me. If you just I'll give you a couple of things to demonstrate your sincerity, and then you'll have my peace. You see, you and I think that peace comes through works. We think that peace comes by what I do. And the gospel says in this passage so vividly, as well as every other place, peace is by grace. Peace is only in Jesus Christ for him to give as you lay hold of him. As you come to him and say, Lord, I don't have peace. I can't get peace, Lord. I don't believe you so often. I am full of shame and guilt and failure. And dread and anxiety and stress. And my only hope is that you will speak that word to me this morning. Peace Be with you. I give you my peace. You see, John who wrote this is John who recorded that the last words he heard from Jesus were, It is finished. And therefore, you see, Jesus accomplished everything you need for peace in himself. Peace to be reconciled with clear conscience before the God who knows your heart and every rotten stinking thing that you and I have ever done, that we have every right to be ashamed of. But Jesus has borne it on the cross. And if you look to him and admit that you have no peace or right to peace or way to gain peace in yourself. But simply look this morning, right now, this moment, to Jesus Christ and say, You alone are peace. My only hope of peace is to receive it from you. He will grant it. Isn't that good news? Isn't that great? He can give you peace, not just the peace with God, but he'll give you his own peace. When the disciples saw him come through into that room They looked at a man who obviously was peaceful. The agony of Gethsemane is over. The struggle and the torments of the trial, the ridiculing, the beatings, the mockings, the cross, all of that Is now passed, and Jesus stands before them like a calm sea after a raging storm. And they look at him and they say, There is obviously a man of peace. And Jesus is saying to them, as he says to you this morning, you want peace? I have peace, and I will give you my peace. The peace of God for every circumstance and stress and disappointment and failure that you're facing this week You know, there is nothing that I long for this Easter morning more than that you would know the peace of Jesus Christ. That you would know his peace that only he can give. And if you know him, then you know something about that peace which is uniquely his. And if you have experienced that peace in Jesus Christ, if you're one of those, say amen. Amen. Wonderful to know that piece. And if you don't, if you're if you're if you're saying I I I really not clear on what you're talking about, put on the gray slip you see there. Just put your name down and put on the back. I'd like to talk about that piece, and I'll get back to you. And there's a whole bunch of you, maybe we'll pull together a class. But I want more than anything for you to know that peace. We notice he goes on. Not only are we to experience this new peace of the kingdom, the first fruits of the peace that we'll have in heaven. Where even the sea will be as glass. By the way, the sea is always a picture of turmoil and trial. The sea as glass means no more turmoil and trial. First fruits of that, he also gives a new purpose. You see that there in verse 21, Jesus says, Peace be with you as the Father has sent me. I am sending you. This is a new purpose that he gives. This is the commission which is connected to the peace. Peace be with you, as the Father has sent me. I am sending you. It is a purpose that is connected to his pattern. As the Father sent me. How did the Father send him? Well, you remember back in his prayer in John 17, just before he died, he said in verse 18, As you sent me into the world I have sent them into the world. The pattern of as so, as the Father sent Jesus into the world with his peace. To a peaceeless world, so Jesus now sends you with that peace. To all the peaceless people that you know. Pieceless people that you work with, peaceless people in your family, peaceless people that you may be getting together with today. Peaceful people in your family. In order to bring not your peace But simply to bring the peace of Jesus as one who has experienced that and to be able to offer that. You know, it's so tempting for us here at Columbia Presbyterian to keep the peace to ourselves, isn't it? It's so easy when you come out of that world of Dirty jokes and blaspheming and all the stuff that you listen, you feel like your ear is a garbage can, and then you come you're with Christians and you say, you know, just nice To be able to be with people that love the Lord. The danger of that is that we forget that He connects His peace with a commission. As the Father sent me, so I'm sending you. You know, you're pretty loving folks. I find you a lot of fun to be around, and I could just spend all my time with you. What a mistake that would be in disobedience to the Lord. I had the privilege just this week of talking to somebody who came to my office to Talk about the new faith they had gained in Jesus Christ. The person was just just delighted. I mean I went through the list of what we believe. This person didn't want to just put, yeah, I believe it. They said, can I put down hallelujah? Can I put down yeah? You know, I mean they're just really excited That would have never happened if it wasn't for two things. Number one, they had a friend from within our midst, our body. Who invited them to come to church here? And they didn't. But that friend didn't give up. Friend kept urging, you really ought to come, CPC, you ought to go to CPC. I I can see you know these needs, we talk about this, but you know, you really ought to come. And after a while, finally they did. And that's where the second thing kicked in. They would not have found Jesus if nobody had talked to him or greeted him. But she said, five minutes after I came in, somebody was greeting me, talking to me, making me feel welcome, glad that I was here. And that happened again and again and again. And so, gradually I began to hear the gospel. And the gospel began to sink in. It took years. So finally the person saying this week, I want to profess Jesus as my Savior and Lord. It would be so sad if that opportunity was missed. As the Father has sent me with this new piece of the kingdom, so I, Jesus says, send you. To get beyond the proverbial comfort zones that you and I have, to talk to that neighbor with a foul mouth. The gross materialist who only talks about money, and to be willing to share Jesus. I remember some years ago having a picnic with some Christian friends out at Great Falls And uh we were having a good time there and I went over to the falls to kind of enjoy looking at all the water and the turbulence. And as I went over there, I heard a scream And I looked down and there was a young woman in the falls. She was on a rock and just about to go over. And she screamed, and um, so I did, but any of you would do, you you know it's really it's just kind of a natural human response. It reached over and grabbed her. Um the only problem is that she started pulling me in because the water was really sucking her to come over. So I yelled And I got two of us yelling. And I said, uh somebody grab my ankles and somebody grabbed my ankles and somebody grabbed their ankles. We formed a chain and gradually pulled her out of the falls And I thought, boy, what a picture of how the body is to function. One of us reaches out to somebody and they say, this person's really got needs. And it's overwhelming to me. I can't deal with it. But as a community, somebody else grabs a hold, and somebody else, I'm pretty soon that person is surrounded by people that are pulling them out of the depth of their lostness. And showing him Jesus and the life that he can give. Don't be afraid to take that risk. We need to help each other in that. In fact, I'd like to even put it more specific To you and to me. I would like to challenge us that we look at this as the Father has sent me, I'm sending you to bring that peace to somebody that the Lord would give to us in the month of April. That's tomorrow. Starting tomorrow. Somebody would give us one person at least that we would say, I'm going to talk to that person about the peace that I have gained in Jesus Christ, and just see where the Lord takes it. I don't know who, where, how it's gonna I've just prayed, Lord, give me one person, and then at the May Lord's Supper, we're gonna get a part of the time of that evening service For anybody to stand up and just say, Let me tell you what God did in answer to that prayer in the month of April. You willing to do that? I mean I you know, I look and I say, Well, am I willing to stand on the line and say, Will there be somebody? Do we believe that God can do that? You say, Jesus said than done. I'd like to believe it, but you know how many times I've said that and failed? And that's what brings us to the third point. By the way, before we get to that third point, the power that he gives, let me just comment on verse 23. What he says that you and I are to state, if you forgive anyone his sins, they're forgiven. If you don't forgive them, they're not forgiven. It's a difficult verse. Don't have time to deal with it in any kind of exhaustive matter. But let me just say this that speaking of the proclamation that we offer, and it is not speaking of some priestly declaration of the forgiveness of sins We know that's true because, first of all, Mark II and other places in the Gospels make it very clear that only God can forgive sins. We do not have that prerogative as human beings. But secondly, we know it's true because it was never practiced by these disciples who heard it. There's no record anywhere in Acts of their declaring that someone's sins are forgiven or not. Based on their own authority. What you do have is in Acts chapter 2, Peter, who heard this, saying to those who had murdered Jesus Christ, if you Who with wicked hands have slain the Lord of glory, if you believe and repent and trust in Jesus for the forgiveness of sins You will be filled with the Spirit. He will do that. That's a declaration of how to have sins forgiven. We have him in chapter 8 saying to Simon the magician, Your money perish with you because you thought you could buy the gift of the Holy Spirit, declaring your sins are not forgiven, you see. We know that's true because it's the parallel to what you see in Matthew, Mark, and Luke of the Great Commission. He's saying, state the gospel of forgiveness of sins. Now, can't deal with any more of the problems of that, but let me just then go on. You say it's easy, how do you do it? You notice that in verse 22 he says, receive the Holy Spirit. He knows that you and I can't do it. And so he gives to us this promise, the spirit of the new age, the spirit who is the one who will fill us perfectly. In that day when we'll declare his glory shamelessly to all eternity, that spirit, he says, comes in you now. And notice at this point, John brings us around full circle to where we began the message. What does he do uniquely here in John? The only place you have this, he breathes on them and says, receive the Spirit. Why does he do that? It's a prelude to Pentecost, but why does he breathe on them? Because, you see, John, this simple fisherman, doesn't know a whole lot about literature, you know, it's very interesting. John reaches back into Genesis 2. 7. He says, Remember the first creation? God took Adam, dust of the ground, and he breathed into him the breath of life. Now here's the new creation And on the dawn of that new creation, Jesus comes to his disciples and he breathes on them, so that the Spirit who brooded over the first creation in all of God's glorious works. He now comes the Spirit to fill them with spiritual life and power to do what He has said, to give that peace In your heart to enable you to respond in obedience to the commission that He's given. And that Spirit comes to fill you with a new sense Of the peace, of the purpose, and of the power of the Lord Jesus Christ, who as a risen Savior has come in this new first day of the new creation week. To call you and me into that peace, to follow him in his purpose, and to be able to then go in his power in all of your stresses, in all of the opportunities, to represent Jesus Christ this week. Let's pray. Oh, Lord Jesus, open our eyes. That we might see you as the risen Savior who brings a peace we could never have on our own. And from that peace calls us to new purpose, to follow you in seeing you transform lives and bringing peace to other people. Through weak, helpless, pathetic sinners like us, because you give to us your power to do that. And so, Lord, we realize this is a message more than just to sing about and to enjoy here among flowers and lilies and palms. This is a life-changing, transforming offer of the gospel and to live out of the gospel, and to see that gospel transform not only our lives, but lives of others, that we will pray about. Lord, grant the grace. For those of us who follow you, to say, Lord Jesus, give me one person in this next month Before the May Lord's Supper, to share the peace of Jesus Christ and to see what you will do. And that's a step of faith. And Lord, we're just looking to you, helpless. But not hopeless, because we have Jesus, who is alive from the dead. Amen. He is risen.