That time on our first service back in the meeting house, I preached from what do you think? Ephesians one. Now don't get me wrong, for those of you who've only been here for the last couple of years I have not been preaching on Ephesians for 20 years. I'm not finally up to chapter 5 after 20 years of this. We have covered a number of other books and other things, but that's where we started. And on the second Sunday, on September the 24th, 1978, I preached on Ephesians 1, verses 17 to 23. And in fact, here's the sermon. It was back in those days. I still had I had done the bulletin outlines, but they were done on Mimeograph and Typewriter back then And I was looking at that this summer, thinking about that again, that original message, and wanted to, as you see in the title here Revisit God's original purpose for us, which is taken from this portion of God's Word. So let us again hear God declare to him to us his purpose for Columbia Presbyterian Church, Ephesians chapter 1. Verses 17 to 23. Paul says, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation. So that you may know him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. In order that you may know the hope to which He has called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints, and His incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. far above all rule and authority, power and dominion and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet, and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything. In every way. Amen. Indeed. For 20 years, that's been our purpose. And this Saturday, we're going to gather right here in this room for a banquet. To celebrate the victory of the Lord Jesus Christ, what he has done, his faithfulness to us for 20 years, I hope every one of you will be able to be here for that. It's going to be a great occasion. And there's a table back there. Sign up. You see the sign there on the wall says 20th anniversary. Check that out. Sign up so that we'll have food for you. It's going to be catered. It's going to be a great time. We're going to be reviewing God's mercies to us. If you're new to us, that's just as much reason to come. If you've been around for a long time, you'll be able to identify with a lot of things and rejoice with us. But if you're new. It'll help you to understand a bit of who we are, what God has done in us, to rejoice and to celebrate with us in His goodness. Well, that day, 20 years ago, I preached this, proposing it would be our purpose. How did it get to be our purpose? Well, to understand that, you have to go back to May 22nd, 1978. It was a day that I took as a half day of prayer. Kathy and I, with our two children at that point, lived up in Syracuse area and I went out to a place called Clark Reservation. Walked along the rim. of a uh an ancient waterfall that when the ten thousand years ago dwarfed Niagara. Nothing was flowing over there anymore. Just a dried cliff with deep ridges from the falls that had run through, walked back in the woods, and at that point I was praying that God would reveal to me something of his purpose for this new church As May Beth said, uh 1970, when some people began to think about uh breaching Colombia and identifying with this area, Colombia was just three years old. 1978, Colombia was eleven years old. It was still considered a new city, still in its just initial development stages. And as I went out there, I was very aware that many churches that I had been part of were program-driven. And because they were program driven, the programs tended to kind of become the identity of the church, the reason of the church. Things weren't evaluated. We just continued to function with the programs, and if the Holy Spirit abandoned the church. it'd take a long time to ever notice because the programs would just keep going. And it was my longing and desire as I had agreed to come and plant this church and organize the twenty-five people who had committed themselves to start that work, that we would seek to be a purpose-driven church. We would seek to understand what is God's purpose for the church. Let me read to you from my journal that day that I wrote out in the woods up there outside of Syracuse. I wrote these words. God is already mightily at work in Colombia. And so Lord, if you're calling me there. I want to claim an observable difference in ten years, a significant impact of this church on Columbia. But what would I expect or hope or pray for for you to do? I admit that I don't know right now. Can I be confident that I will discover your desire for Colombia and for this church by deep earnest prayer over the next months and years? I start to continue on down the trail. Nothing happens. Remember I almost stepped on a snake and I realized I was in an unusual point of concentration when it didn't distract me and I just kept praying. And I prayed, Lord, I want to know. Do I have this promise from you? What is it? That as I would pray alone and with the other elders, I will come to know your specific desire for Columbia and for this church. So that I can enter into that. And we together with all of our might. Can I have that from you, Lord? Again there is silence When I think no, God directs me again to Ephesians chapter 1, verses 16 to 23. And I realize that here he is showing me three things. Number one, that his purpose is for me to have a spirit of wisdom and revelation in knowing him. And two, did he desire that I know the hope of his calling and the riches of his inheritance among the saints? What are the riches of his purpose for the Columbia Church to know and appropriate And three, to know the exceeding greatness of his power to us who believe in Christ, his supernatural power in Colombia. I offered that to the elders. I preached that twenty years ago. And since that day, we have said, This Is the means by which we measure the success or the failure of Columbia Presbyterian Church. Are you coming? You see the three things there in your outline, to know him. Secondly, are you coming to know our hope in him? Are we coming to know that better? Our hope in him? Or thirdly, are we coming to know his power in us? What do we mean by know when we say that? Is that that old Presbyterian cognitive nature coming out? It's like a Bible study. We want to know it, we can explain it, we can exegete it, we can talk about it. So often there's this idea that Presbyterians know everything but don't do very much. And I wanted to avoid that. And I knew that that's not what God was calling us to. And so if you look at that word in the Greek that Paul prays for The word uh no is a simple word in the Greek, but this has that word plus a prefix, epi, which means Full experiential grasping, that's the blank there, the full experiential grasping of the reality of something. That is to know it the way you know your husband, your wife, your kids, your parents. To know something deeply, experientially, or as we've seen through the book of Ephesians, in chapters 1 to 3, to sit in the truths of the gospel by faith. And that's resting, the knowing of him which is resting. Or then in chapters 4 to 6, to walk in these truths by faith, and that has to do with our changing And so the resting and the changing of the Christian life. That's what Paul's talking about here, to know him, to know our hope, to know his power. What I want to do for a few minutes with you here is to look back at those three purposes and ask three questions of them. Number one, what does each one mean? Number two, how have we done through the years, very briefly, and three. What are we planning to do as we enter our 21st year for these next months and years ahead? How can we go deeper? The first purpose that we have as a church is to know Him. That's verse 17. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him. better. I want to look at that second point first, and the first one, the who is him. The him here refers specifically to the Father, because that him is the one in verse 20, the He who raised Christ from the dead, but it is the Father as He is revealed in the Son. We know God through the revelation of the Son. And as the Son and the Father are opened up to us by the Spirit of wisdom in verse 17. So You can't really separate them. Knowing Him the Father is to know Him, the Son, by Him, the Spirit. What is it that we are to know when we know him? Well, we'll go back to the first, what he is like. We're to know him, his character. That's what Ephesians 1-3 talks about. We're to know that perfect balance of His justice and His mercy. We're to know Him as the God of grace and peace in chapter 1 and verse 2. who's purposed to call you into sonship, make you blameless by the righteousness of Christ, forgive your sin in verse 7 by the riches of his grace. We're to know him whose cosmic purpose in verse 9 and 10 is the gathering of all things together under the headship of Jesus Christ. This God who is in sovereign control of all history, who nevertheless cares for you and knows you and knows the number of hairs on your head. who has sent his own son to die and to take the full burden of his wrath against sin, so that you would not have to pay that penalty. And so that you would know his grace, his mercy, and his forgiveness. That this God is not a God who simply loves you unconditionally and allows you to be as you are, but loves you too much to leave you in your sin and is continually in the process of Changing you, reforming you, to know him and to know him more and more intimately I read somebody, Susan Machinick, this summer, who was saying, as I think about God, I guess I'm more comfortable with the Father than I am with the Son. Because I look at the Father and I see Him as one who accepts me as a Father. But she said, I've begun to realize that I sort of skirt around the edges of Jesus. Because when I look at him, Jesus seems so impossible to please to me. I mean, he says After you have done everything that you should have done, you should say, We're just unprofitable servants. He turns on Peter, who's trying to give him some helpful advice and says, get behind me, Satan. Seems like you never quite understood him or where he was coming from. It just seems like with my whole life, you know, if I want to feel like a failure, spend more time with Jesus. Do any of you feel like that? And so we read this, you know, God's purpose is that we know Him better. We say, yeah, I know I ought to want that, but there's something in me that kind of resists that. And then she said this. She said, someone asked me, if Jesus were here with me, what would he say to me? And my immediate response was he'd tell me all the things that he was disappointed in me about that I should be doing better. And then all of a sudden it hit me. Why would anybody want to follow somebody like that? But the crowds followed Jesus. His disciples said, Where else can we go? when he asked after a particularly hard saying, Are you going to leave me too? They loved him. They gathered to him. They were willing to give their lives for him. There must be something about Jesus that I don't understand. And I would say that for you and for me, there's something yet about Jesus you don't understand. You see, the danger is that after 20 years We can look and we can say, well, we kind of know all we expect to know, the side of glory about Jesus. And we plateau. I find that my growing in my intimacy with Jesus does not go in a pattern like this. But it tends to go kind of like this, and then, you know, it sort of plateaus, and then something happens in my life. A realization Of my own failure, my need, my loneliness, my incapabilities, that drives me to Jesus. And the gospel, to look into the pit of my heart, and then to see the Son of God loved me and gave himself for me That God, because of the riches of his grace, made me alive and seated me in the heavenlies with Jesus Christ. And he is intending to reveal to me in all the ages of glory ahead. The riches of his kindness. And all of a sudden, you see, there's a wow, Lord, somebody opened a window and there's a new revelation of you But then after I'm exhilarated for a while and I walk and I bask in the wonder of that, I tend to plateau again. Because I know that seeing Jesus is going to involve seeing my own heart. How have we done over the years in this? Well, you remember some of the series that focused on this Names of God? Every Sunday, I mean every uh Christmas time, messianic prophecies. Twenty years, about halfway through on those. I don't know if I need to speed up or give up, but we'll keep going. Easter time. His death, his resurrection. Where are you in your intimacy with Jesus? You ready to take a new step? Of knowing him more intimately, knowing the Father by the Spirit, as they delight to reveal themselves to you. What are we going to do to try to help you? Well, you see there just a couple thoughts of worship. We're trying to work harder at worship as we plan it, work on it. To gather the best resources, to give more thoughtful attention to a worship that will draw us to see Jesus and to worship and to express our affections to Him. We want to do better at that. In ourselves, our small groups. Worship is an essential part of that. I saw again the necessity of that last month in our own group when before we got into the discussion we played a tape and We're listening to the words and the music, Jesus, Jesus. As I gaze upon your face, I'm changed from glory to glory. And as we entered into that, and we let our spirit sink down into the wonder of those words and made it our prayer, I believe that it changed significantly the nature of the discussion that followed that. We discuss in our groups, aware that we are meeting in the presence of the risen Christ. That makes a difference. We're trying to do better in helping us to realize that each of our meetings are in the presence of the living, risen Christ who meets with us. We're using a particular curriculum in a number of our groups, and we offer it in other settings also called the gospel in the heart. It's intended to simply get the gospel out of the Bible and into your heart in deeper ways. It's a masterful piece of writing and exercises, assignments that help us to enter deep more deeply into the wonder of the gospel. To see how radically evil our hearts are, but how inexhaustibly great is the grace of God to meet us at our deepest need. If you're interested in that, ask us about that. And about some way that you can get involved in that. Our second purpose is that we'd know our hope in him, not simply to know him. But he says in verse 18 that his prayer is that the eyes of our hearts would be enlightened in order that we may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. So what does that mean? It's referring there where you see it says the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. That word in could be translated either in or for. So it is his inheritance in the saint that refers to your new identity in Jesus Christ. You are transformed if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning. If you've come to confess your sin and ask him to change your life, to forgive your sin, to make you a new creature, you have a new identity And that's what Ephesians goes on to unpack, the new identity you have in Christ, chapters 1 to 3, and therefore by faith to experience A faithful obedience, experiencing that new identity in your daily walk in chapters 4, 5, and 6. But it also can mean, as it says here, his inheritance in the saints, but also for the saints. And that's referring to the hope of glory that we have laid up for us. What I said from chapter 2, verses 6 and 7. We're seated in the heavenlies. But in the ages to come, he is intending to open up to us the riches of his kindness. In all those ages to come, and what's interesting to me is verse 7 doesn't even talk about discovering all the worlds of his creation. Eye is not seen, neither ear has heard, nor entered into the heart or our imagination the things that God has prepared for those that love Him. But what is focused here is our relationship with him, knowing the riches of his kindness to us. The fact that you and I, by the blood of Jesus Christ, are made in a right relationship with God. We don't fear and dread His presence. But we come to him as his children to know his kindness. You're rich, rich beyond your wildest realization and imagination. You don't know it. And that's why Paul prays that the eyes of your heart would be enlightened, you see, to see what you can't see with a physical eye. The riches of glory that are laid up for you. And we as a church are committed to reminding each other and entering in more deeply to this new identity of who we are. As new creatures in Christ and the hope of glory that is set before us, that we live by hope. Have we done through the years Well that's why when we first formed in 1978, we assigned everybody to a small group. We'd be able to do this, apply this, work it in our lives. We decided after a couple of years that wasn't the best because some people didn't want to be in those groups and weren't committed to them and you have to really decide you want to be in that group for it to work And so we moved in unleashing those. And we said, if you want to be in a group, choose a group, let the groups do what they want to do, different ideas, creativity of the Holy Spirit. But then in the last few years, we've realized we can do better than that in terms of our training and our quality control. And so now we're trying to help the groups. So by working with the leaders, there is a keener sense of what do we exist for? What are we trying to accomplish in growing into this hope? In entering into this new identity, new creatures, being conformed to the image of Jesus, and living by the hope that is set before us. And so where are we going with it? Well, you see there in your outline, I've put just a real brief little thing, a box there, that helps you to see what we're thinking as a church now. You see what we're really realizing is that as we seek to make disciples, and that's what this is about, that whereas most of you through the first twenty years have come to Columbia Presbyterian, your first contact was probably Sunday morning, wasn't it? For most of you. You know, you heard about the church for whatever reason. You came with someone or you saw us in the directory, you moved to the area, and you came. But most of you did not come through some other means. Let's just see how many for how many of you was your first contact with Columbia Presbyterian, your first involvement with it, was not on Sunday morning, but it was some other activity, some other group, some other ministry, something else. You see, relatively few We expect that to change. We expect in the years to come, in a society that increasingly sees the church as irrelevant, most of our contacts are going to be through what's called the side door. Front door Sunday morning. We're going to need to do a better job of helping people to see our new identity as His creatures in our communities. And build relationships with those people so that they come to our ministries, our groups, and that through that they begin to get involved in Columbia Presbyterian. So you see the strategy there. The front doors come three basic structures we have our celebration, that's Sunday morning worship and the Lord's Supper. Our seminars refer to our middle hour groups. The seminars that we hold as well as the weekend seminars from time to time. And then the cells refer to our small groups, different kinds of small groups. And so what we're saying is some people will come through the Sunday morning celebration, hopefully move on to a middle hour, into a small group, into some personal study. We have some Some study programs that we've now worked through and that we're starting to use. Some we've produced, some we're using from others. And then the weekend seminars. Or others of you may come through the side door. Be mobilized so that your friends, your neighbors will come first to your group, and from that perhaps to get into studying the scriptures, and then to Sunday morning and into the middle-hour seminars and weekend opportunities. That's what we're moving toward in order to deepen our awareness of our new identity in Christ, the hope of glory that's set before us. Where are you in that? What's something that's here in this box that you could perhaps take advantage of that might move you on deeper in your own awareness of the riches of God's inheritance for and in his saints? Finally, the last purpose that we have is that we might know his power in us. To know his power in us. Verse 19, continuing the prayer that your eyes, the eyes of your heart would be enlightened, it is also to know his incomparably great power for us. Who believe? What power? Well that that power is the same power, you see. It's like the working of his mighty strength Which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. There was a point when Jesus Christ was a corpse. Like any other dead person, he laid in a tomb. Imagine the power that was exerted to raise Jesus up from the dead. And not only to make him alive, but to give him a glorified body that would never die. And not only a body that would never die, but a da a body that was in his whole person ascended. To heaven, to the right hand of power, you see. In the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given. Every shaman, every goddess, every force, Jesus is above them all. He reigns and he rules. Above all the superstitious and new age forces of today. And in him the fullness of the Godhead dwells to rule his church. And he wants to make that power known in you and through you. Can you believe that? And how has he done that? For twenty years seeing lives changed to the power of Jesus Christ, broken marriages restored People threatened with death overcome fears and live either to healing and recovery or to going to be with the Lord in a faith. It says that this life is not all there is. Seeing people in temptations and bondage released. By the power of Jesus Christ. We have three support groups operate in this church from people who have experienced the power of Jesus Christ from various addictions and bondages. Jesus continues to make his power known in your life and in my life. Leave each of us here who knows Jesus Christ is in some way or another a living trophy to the power of the gospel. We each have our own stories. We each have our own struggles. There's been a lot of hurt, a lot of trials, a lot of pain over 20 years, hasn't there? Things it as a church, as you heard uh Sandy describe when we were kicked out of the meeting house over the simple issue of Can a person be in a right relationship with God without Jesus Christ or not? And her unequivocal answer was no. And they said unanimously, would you please leave God provided a facility for three years, and as we outgrew that, God provided a facility at Howard Community College. And that was their policy was against that. Their policy said we will not rent to any religious groups. And I knew that because we had tried. But Chuck Greenslit didn't know that, and he didn't ask me. And he asked them if they would rent to us. If he had asked me, I'd have told him don't bother to try But you see, God had changed the mind of the president three days before. Three days before Chuck Greenslit walked into his office, the president said, We gotta start renting this place on Sundays and get some more income here, and I don't care if it's religious groups or not. And they said, well, uh, what about Columbia Presbyterian? They're knocking on the door. I don't care, fine, lemon. We've seen as power individually and corporately. Where are we going with that? What are we doing with that? So easy, you know, to just stop and say, well that's great. Think of the good old days. Without realizing God continues to press us and move us on. And whether it's Y2K or whether it's terrorism or whether it's economic collapse or whether it is revival or whether it's all of the above or persecution or all kinds of things, individually, corporately, culturally. The best is yet to be, brothers and sisters. The days of faith are ahead. And what the Lord is wanting to do is to prepare us and to equip us to mobilize our small groups and ourselves as units. that are ready to share Jesus Christ with those that we know and to see the power of Christ transform lives. That's why we're having the two services, the way we do now, identical services, because we expect God to bring more people and therefore we need to have more room and opportunity in both services and use the best resources so that people are able to come and to hear and to worship Jesus. We expect both services to be full That's why we're thinking about a course which has come out of London that God has used in many churches called an Alpha Course. It's a simple means of tool of presenting in a 10-week experience the gospel to secular people. People who had never come to a church and to a worship service. I don't know if you've heard about it, but if you haven't, you'll be hearing about it because we're going to be testing and trying that And we believe it's an exciting opportunity for us to use in order that we might reach the lost more effectively and turn our attention to what the power of Jesus Christ has be displayed as we Established this church 20 years ago to reach the lost in Howard County, not just a place where we can assemble and grow as Christians. That's why we have a Sunday service prayer team that prays every Sunday back there. It's only about a dozen people at this point praying during each service that the Word of God would go forth in power to change lives. And every week I give them feedback to tell them how has God answered in the service? We expect God to be changing us through his word and through our groups and through the ministries of Columbia Presbyterian. And I pray that that team will double from 12 to 24 by the end of this year. If you're interested in that, please see me. It's a backbone to our Sunday opportunities here. Because we expect that the power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead is at work in you and in me. Do you believe that? Are you ready for the next step? Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, what a purpose you have given to us as people As individuals, as families, as a congregation, to know you more intimately, to know the great hope of our calling, the riches of your Glorious inheritance in us and transforming us and for us the hope of glory in Christ. That great power not only to be displated is coming, but also tomorrow. As we get up to prepare breakfast, to go to work, to go to our tests, to homeschool, to go to school, to Do whatever you've called us to do to know the hope is that the power that raised Jesus is at work in us. Lord, we pray that you would double that prayer team. It prays for each service. in this fall, and that you would mobilize our groups, that we would be more expectant in reaching those that we know, to bring them into a relationship with Jesus, to see Columbia, Howard County, and this whole region. Changed by the power of the gospel. Thank you, Lord, so much for your Faithfulness to us as a church that's never had a split or major disruption in 20 years by your grace and power. Lord, we're ready for the next step of what you want to do in us and through us as your people, and we offer ourselves to you that. To celebrate it this Saturday and to think about where you're taking us in Jesus' name.