Those who didn't find your way out the children's church are now dismissed to do so. What a joy to see the bold testimony of Keenan and Terry with us this morning. I really rejoice that God has brought them to the place where they acknowledge Christ openly and publicly and boldly as their Redeemer and their King. Turn with me back to Psalm 36 this week. Are we turning to Psalm 36 for just this one week? to free Al Harris to prepare for a course he's planning to teach this spring at Chesapeake Seminary. We'll be continuing our look at Psalm 36, focusing on the first part of verse 6. But I'd like to like to read the whole Psalm that we get the context of it. it uh and feel its power a little bit more in that way. So let's hear then with humble hearts the reading of God's Word. And oracles within my heart concerning the sinfulness of the wicked. There is no fear of God before his eyes, for in his own eyes he flatters himself too much to detect or hate his sin. The words of his mouth are wicked and deceitful. He has ceased to be wise and do good. Even on his bed he plots evil. He commits himself to a sinful course and does not reject what is wrong. Your love, O Lord, reaches to the heavens, your faithfulness to the skies. Your righteousness is like the mighty mountains, your justice like the great deep. O Lord, you preserve both man and beast. How priceless is your unfailing love Both high and low among men find refuge in the shadow of your wings. They feast on the abundance of your house. You give them to drink from your river of delights. For with you is the fountain of life. In your light we see light. Continue your love to those who know you, your righteousness to the upright in heart May the foot of the proud not come against me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. See how the evildoers lie fallen, thrown down, not able to rise. Quickly we'll uh I'll encapsulate for you where we've been in looking at this psalm. You'll remember the first four verses of this psalm describes the wicked man to us and his character and what he's like. And then we've uh looked at that and we've gone on to look then at the Lord's character and how that contrasts with the wicked man's. And previously we looked at the Lord's love and faithfulness, as they're described there in verse five. And so now this week we come to look at the Lord's righteousness and justice, two-thirds of verse six. Perhaps you've had an experience lately that has caused you to doubt the Lord's righteousness and justice. Perhaps you've been exposed to a situation or read about circumstances that have left you with the lingering question in your mind: Is there no justice in the universe? You know, just reading the newspaper these days can be a traumatic experience. I picked up the Washington Post yesterday. And saw on the front page yet another article on the drought and famine in Ethiopia. And as bad as that famine is It's worsened now because of these rebel attacks on truck convoys that are trying to carry precious cargoes of food to those some two million people threatened with starvation. What barely adequate relief measures are trying to be done to save these people is being bombed by other people. And as I read articles like that, my blood really can begin to boil. And I cry out to myself sometimes, easily finding myself asking, Is the Lord really just? To let this happen. All I see around me is the bitter fruit of man's unrighteousness and man's injustice. What kind of righteousness does God have anyway? Well, the writer of Psalm 36 answers that question for us this morning. As he calls us to consider and to celebrate the Lord's character, the Lord of righteousness and justice. Let's consider then first the Lord's righteousness. And the Lord's righteousness is a steep righteousness. If you're following along in your bulletin outline there, you can fill in the word steep. The Lord's steep righteousness. And look at with me again at verse 6 there. The psalmist says, Your righteousness, O Lord, is like the mighty mountains. Now, the term righteousness is a common one in the Old Testament, and the root idea really is that of moral perfection or total innocence, a complete lack of sin. Absolute perfection. And you know, we hear some talk of justice today, at least in certain circles, but we hardly hear any talk about righteousness these days. And I don't have time to go into all the reasons I think for why that is. But righteousness is really a foreign concept to our culture today. It's a foreign idea to our society's ears. But it's a rich idea in the scriptures. And Old Testament scholars tell us that very often the righteousness of God in the Psalms, as well as elsewhere in the Old Testament, refers to the faithfulness of the Lord in doing what he says he will do. His dependability to fulfill all his promises to his covenant. And what is this righteousness like? Well, a psalmist draws us a picture here. Look again with me at verse 6. Your righteousness is like The mighty mountains. Like mighty mountains, says the New International Version. Other versions say, majestic mountains. Literally, in the original, the idea is that of the mountains of God. That's what the phrase says. And perhaps that refers to those very impressive mountains around Jerusalem. The Judean hills, where in less than twenty miles the land rises almost 4,000 feet from the depths of the Dead Sea way up to the Judean hills where Jerusalem is. But the basic idea behind the metaphor is that the Lord's righteousness is high, exalted. Impregnable, elevated, dependable, sure All these things are encapsulated in that term. Mighty mountains, the mountains of God, majestic mountains. Now, how tall do you think the world's tallest mountain is, if I were to ask you? Would you know offhand? Well, I didn't this week, and so I asked uh our administrative assistants in our office to help me with a little research, and Pat and Ree were very gracious in doing that. And we don't have a lot of great mountains around here in Colombia. The land's pretty flat actually. But the fact is that Mount Everest in Tibet is the tallest mountain in the world, and it's almost five and a half miles high. Now I know it's fall and football season and all that, so For you football fans, five and a half miles translates to ninety-seven football fields. Think about that. 97 football fields high. That's how tall Mount Everest is. That's how far above sea level. You think that's Paul, right? Well, it is. But the psalmist point is that the Lord's righteousness is even greater. The Lord's righteousness is greater than Mount Everest's tall. So great, even greater, is God's righteousness. And this is all the more so, you see, when when you realize that this is in sharp contrast to the first four verses of Psalm 36. It's all in sharp contrast to man's character, to the wicked man's character as described in those four verses. A contrast, you might say, to man's low righteousness. If you're following along in your bulletin, you could put in the word low there. But I think you could also fill in the blank with flat or meager Or shifty, or just plain unrighteous. Look with me again at the first three verses of Psalm 36. The psalmist says, An oracle is within my heart concerning the sinfulness of the wicked. There is no fear of God before his eyes. For in his own eyes he flatters himself too much to detect or hate his sin. The words of his mouth are wicked and deceitful. You see, here we're reminded of the root and the fruit problems of the wicked person as we discussed several weeks ago. And I won't go into all of that again with you, but you see, there's no fear of God before the wicked man. And therefore, he's involved in self-flattery in verse 2 there. So much that it hides his sin that he can't detect or hate his sin as he should. And his words are wicked and deceitful, shifty, even there in verse 3. You see, the Lord's righteousness is in striking contrast to man's character. The wicked man's character you could liken to a low-lying swamp, if you will. An area that's a marshland where all is relative and uncertain and even shifty under your feet. That's what the human marshland is like. It's kind of like ground level quicksand, if you want to look at it that way. My wife and I went to see the movie The Princess Bride the other week. And in that film, it's it's corny, but it's fun. There was this place called the Fire Swamp. And the fire swamp was to be dreaded for three things. First, these spots of fire, fire spots that it could explode at any time and engulf you in flames. And then there were these large rats termed rodents of unusual size. Euphemistically. But the third danger of the fire swamp was treacherous quicksand. And at one point in the movie, Princess Buttercup. I know, it's corny, isn't it? Princess Butterc Buttercup and her hero, Wesley, are sucked down into this quicksand. Unless I leave you hanging on what happens to them, well they do eventually escape from that. But this treacherous quicksand sucks them right down at the hole that didn't seem to be there, but took them right down. It was fickle. It was not trustworthy. And you see, what of you and me? Well, our lives, our characters, our righteousness is really like treacherous quicksand. When compared to God's character, our hearts are fickle. Think of James and what he's uh Alan has been sharing with us from uh the other week. We have divided deceitful hearts. on our own. And I know of the own twistedness the twistedness and shiftiness of my own heart. The Lord has been showing me that in the last few weeks. All too often my words are wicked. They really are. And sometimes they're deceitful. And sometimes I actually commit myself to sin. Knowing that it's sin, I commit myself to do it anyway. The Lord has been showing me more and more how big a sinner I am, and how big a savior I need. And you and I don't like to think of ourselves as wicked, do we? We're not that bad, after all. And yet we really are. The Lord would see us as the wicked, the wicked man, the wicked person described here in this psalm. And all of our low righteousness, all of the shifty quicksand of our hearts, is in sharp contrast to the Lord's righteousness, to his steep and mighty righteousness. Righteousness like the mighty mountains, as Psalm 36 says. And not only does the Lord have steep righteousness, but furthermore, the Lord has deep justice. The Lord has steep righteousness and deep justice. Look at verse six again with me. Your righteousness is like the mighty mountains, your justice like the great deep. So you could fill in that blank in your bulletin outline there, deep justice. Now the term justice has also been translated wisdom, and you may find that in your translation of the Bible. Indeed, the psalm that we've been the song that we have been learning in the past few weeks that goes along with this song describes it the same way. Debbie was even playing it in the prelude for those of you who remember it. We won't be singing it this week. But the lyrics of that song go your steadfast love extends to the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the skies. Your righteousness is like majestic mountains, and your wisdom like the depths of the sea. And not only can the term be referring to wisdom, but it can also refer to judgments. In the Old Testament, even it refers to written judgments, that is, the scriptures themselves. And the derivative of the word can refer to ruler or judge, one who judges, one who dispenses justice And often this justice is linked with righteousness in the Old Testament. There's a very close relationship between these two terms. So close that the NIV study Bible can says that they can be seen as one concept, righteousness heightened justice. Something like that. Psalm 33, 5, for instance, says the Lord loves righteousness and justice. Those two terms linked together there. And again in Psalm eighty-nine fourteen, righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne, O Lord. And what is the Lord's justice like? Well, the psalmist again paints another picture for us here. And he says that your righteousness Thanks are your justice is like the great deep. Like the great deep. The idea here behind this metaphor is that God's justice and his judgments. are unfathomable unfathomable. They're deep. They're profound. They're not easily understood. They're like a bottomless sea Now how deep is the bottomless sea to you? Well when we use the term bottomless sea, we know of course that the sea does have some limits to it, even if we don't know exactly what they are. But how deep do you think the world's deepest sea is? If I asked you offhand, would you know? Well, I didn't this week, so again I had my researchers help me out a little. And I did some more looking up on my own. In fact, I even heard some pretty good guesses from some uh naval engineers at APL this week. Well, the fact is that the deepest part of the ocean is what's called the Mariana Trench, and it's off the southwest coast of Japan. If Japan is here, the Mariana Trench is down here off the Philippines actually. A deep, deep ridge down into the sea. And So deep in fact that experts aren't really sure what the exact the exact deepest point is. But some say that the Mariana Trench is ten miles deep. Ten miles deep. Now again, if you think in terms of football fields, that's 176 football fields. That is deep. That is mo almost twice as deep as Mount Everest is tall. That is a deep trench. And we're right to think that that's a deep number, ten miles deep. But the Lord's justice is deeper still. That's what the psalmist wants to tell us. Just as deep as the Mariana Trench, even deeper is the Lord's justice. And again we see that this is in such sharp contrast to the first four verses of the Psalm. Because man's character, man's character is that of shallow justice. A vivid contrast with man's shallow justice. You could um Fill in the blank there if you want with shallow. But look with me at verses the end of verse three and verse four again in this psalm. The psalmist says that the wicked man has ceased to be wise and to do good. Even on his bed he plots evil. He commits himself to a sinful course and does not reject what is wrong. The wicked man has ceased to be wise. He ceased to do anything good. As we talked about a few weeks ago, there's serious complacency involved here, not rejecting what is wrong. A just a laid-back attitude toward evil. That's what characterizes the wicked man. And you see, the wicked man's character is very different from the Lord's. The wicked man has self-flattery that obscures his ability to even care about justice issues. His concept of justice is no deeper than whatever seems fair to him at a particular time. That's shallow justice. Fairness is shallow justice. And the wicked man has ceased to do good because he's got no energy left after he's consumed himself with his own concerns He's got no energy left to care for the concerns of others. And so his justice is very shallow. Very shallow. You could liken it to the reservoir on my humidifier. That's how shallow man's justice is. Now, I don't know if you've seen uh those new ultrasonic humidifiers that they have out these days. But Linda and I bought one this week for Lauren's room. And they're really great devices. They've got um This real extra fine mist that they develop and they run real quietly and supposedly they kill bacteria in the water and keep that from getting into the air, and so they're much healthier than the old style vaporizers used to be. But the water tank on this baby that we got is oh about 12 inches deep or so, holds about two gallons. It runs for maybe 20 hours at the most without a refill. And that's not much water at all, really, when you have to fill that thing every day, when you have to look at that thing every day. It's a pretty shallow tank when you compare it with the ocean, isn't it? Well, our justice is as shallow as that water tank on our humidifier. My concern for social justice is so thin at times. I shock myself when I think about it. It's easy for me to criticize left-wing Christians like those who write Sojourner's magazine. And yet I find myself not coming up with much as an alternative to social justice. Or on a local scene here, some of you may be familiar with the housing issue here in Howard County in Columbia. And you may know that Howard Research and Development, who owns most of the land in the Columbia area, originally committed 10% of that land to low-income housing to make Howard County a hospitable place for people of all economic ranges. But HRD, as it's called, has now reneged on that commitment due to intense economic pressures and the skyrocketing prices of land that we're all familiar with here in this area. How deeply do I care about justice in this area? How obvious is my concern for justice that it be done in an issue like this? Well, if I'm honest with myself, I don't care that much. Not in an observable way, any anyway Or more broadly considered, what about the homelessness issue in the United States, even in Baltimore and Washington? I've been recently reading a stimulating book on homelessness in America by a pastor named George Grant. The book is called The Dispossessed. And Pastor Grant spent actually four days living as a street person in New York City. And he's done other impressive biblical and social research in this book. Now I know there are many causes to homelessness, and it's a very complex problem today. But how much do I care about justice for the homelessness, for the homeless in our country? How much do I care for justice even for the twelve hundred or more Marylanders who are without a home and live on the street? every night. Well, if I'm honest with myself, I don't care that much. My justice is pretty shallow. I see how much I have not rejected what is wrong. And I think if we're honest with ourselves, that we'll really realize that our justice is as shallow as that water tank is when compared to the Mariana Trench. Our justice is shallow when we're left to our own to ourselves. But fortunately, you see God's justice is a great deep. God's justice is not like ours. It's a great deep. As deep as the Mariana Trench, and even deeper. And you see, from our New Testament perspective, we know that God's steep righteousness and his deep justice are both displayed beautifully in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ shows God's righteousness and God's justice united together in a beautiful way. You see, God showed in Jesus Christ's life his righteousness lived out. Christ's life shows us God's righteousness. Because Jesus was without sin. He was just like you and I, yet without sin. And so he's the perfect man He was perfectly obedient to all the law's commands. All the commands that I could never keep on my own, Jesus kept perfectly in perfect righteousness. His life record is that of perfect deeds, perfect obedience, perfect righteousness. And God showed his righteousness lived out in Jesus Christ. And moreover, Christ's death shows God's justice. Christ's death really shows us God's justice in a unique way. You see, there was no lowering of his standards involved. When God sent Christ to the cross. When God chose to redeem rebellious sinners. He didn't lower his standard of perfection and say, okay, now I'll let you in. I'll grade on a curve since everybody seems to have failed this test. No. No, God is a God of justice. And he poured out that just wrath that we sinners deserved on Jesus Christ on the cross. Jesus took God's just wrath on himself on the cross And all the judgment that you and I deserve was poured out on him. You see, Christ died and rose again for sinners' lack of righteousness and justice. Think of how Peter puts it in 1 Peter 3:18. Christ died for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. Or as Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5, 21, God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Jesus died, the righteous one for unrighteous sinners. That's the beauty of how God showed his righteousness and his justice in Jesus Christ. And so if you're here today and you've never come to that place where you've transferred your trust from what you can do to please God to Jesus and what he's already done for you to please God, I urge you to do so. Because you'll never be able to stand under the just judgment of a holy God on your own. You'll be consumed. You need God's righteousness and justice in Christ. Otherwise, that righteousness and justice will be a threat to you and not a source of joy. The only place of safety from God's righteousness and justice is at the place where His righteousness and justice have already been shown, at the cross of Jesus Christ. You know, farmers out in the mid Midwest like to talk about uh prairie fires and the awesome force that they are And a prairie fire consumes everything in its path. There's absolutely nothing can can stop it really. Once w once it gets going and the wind picks it up, it just takes that fire over everything in its path The only thing that can stand up against a prairie fire, not throwing buckets of water on it, not getting hoses out. None of that'll do it. The only thing that will stop a prairie fire is to set another fire in its way. And that prairie fire stops at the point where where there's no more fuel, where the earth has been consumed already by a previous fire. And so the only way to escape a prairie fire is to stand at a place where what that has already been burned. And so you see, the only way to escape the just judgment of a holy God, whose wrath will come as a consuming fire, is to stand at the place where his justice and fiery judgment has already fell. On Jesus Christ. And so I urge you to come to Jesus, to him who took the wrath, the fiery wrath and judgment of God on himself. And now provide you a place of safety if you will stand with him, cling to him, trust in his perfect work for you. I urge you to do that today. Don't delay. But if you're here this morning, you've already come to that place where you've trusted in Christ alone as your personal Savior and Lord. I'd encourage you to remember that Christ died for your lack of righteousness and justice. All the times that you've blown it in not acting righteously, in not pursuing justice, Christ died for your sin there. It's paid for. And Christ lives to provide his power that you might pursue new obedience to him and joy, that you might pursue righteousness and justice by his strength available to you as you lay hold of Christ. That's the encouragement that we have in Christ, that He lives to provide us with His strength. You need to remember that you're a big sinner. But you have a big Savior. Jesus Christ, the righteous one. His power is available to you for new obedience And you see, Christ lives and rules to bring the righteousness and justice of his kingdom to fulfillment, and he will do so. God's righteousness and justice will triumph in Jesus Christ. Christ's kingdom will come to its fulfillment. We have that sure promise from his word. In what circumstances are you tempted to forget the Lord's righteousness and justice? Maybe you faced a situation of great oppression in the past week or two. Maybe you've just read the paper and been appalled at what you've seen there. Maybe you've heard about the tangled web of social problems that we face in this country. Or maybe you face injustice on your job or in your family or in some other sphere of life Well, I urge you this morning to look to Jesus Christ, the one in whom is displayed God's righteousness and justice as nowhere else. Look to him and remember that as you lay hold of Christ by faith, his righteousness is transferred to your account, so you stand before God just as if you've never sinned and just as if you've been perfectly obedient. to all God's law. Remember your identity in Christ. And remember too that Christ's kingdom is coming. It has come already in his in his person and work. And it's coming to fulfillment. His righteousness, his justice will not be thwarted, but will triumph. And in that we are sure. Rejoice in God's steep righteousness and his deep justice, as they're displayed so clearly in Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Lord, we praise you that in the midst of such a a world that is shot through with sin You displayed your righteousness and your justice in Jesus Christ. And I pray for those who have not Come to cling to the cross, to cling to Christ by faith as their only hope. And I pray that you would humble them, Lord, before yourself, that they would cast themselves on Christ as their only righteousness. that they might escape condemnation from the just judgment that you will bring. And for those Lord who are here today and who have trusted Christ Who at times are tempted to doubt your righteousness and justice as they look around them and as they look in their own hearts. Lord, I pray that you would cause them to rejoice in Christ's righteousness transferred to their accounts. Cause the Lord to rejoice and to remember and to feed richly on the truth, that you are a God of mighty righteousness and deep justice, whose kingdom will not fail. And for those around the globe, Lord, who are oppressed, for those in Ethiopia suffering from famine and starvation, made all the worse By rebels against that government. Lord, we pray that you would ease the unrighteousness and injustice in that situation That you would sustain those people and show them the Lord Jesus. And that you would bring Christ's righteousness and justice to bear on the systems that oppress them so. For Christ's ever expanding glory, we pray these things. Amen