It's the very heart of the doctrine, and the very heart of God's forgiveness for us. That's a very precious thing to me this morning As any of you can remember back as far as January when we began the series, uh handed out an outline at that point tentatively, spotting our course series. You may recall that there was a section there on the implications of this in our relationship to God. The implications of forgiveness, the meaning of forgiveness in our relationship with God. Well it's that material that I'm dealing with under this heading of justification. So once I have dealt with this, uh I will have dealt with that section And then after that we will consider two parables of forgiveness. And then finally the last section on the implications of forgiveness on our relationship with one another. And that will finish up the series. There is an end in fight somewhere. But I do want to cover this material justification, dealing with it from different angles to help us understand the very heart of the matter, the very heart of God's forgiveness for us This morning I want to come at this concept of justification from a slightly different angle. The feedback I'm getting is more and more of you are beginning to pick up on well what this means. Justification is a It's a difficult concept for some of us to get a hold of. It's not uh it's not uh common thought today in two our salvation that we saved. And yet it's the heart of God to keep me to it And this morning I want to take a look at justification in the picture that the Bible presents to us of what justification is. And that picture that the Bible gives us is justification of a garment. as clothing to put on. Let's take a look now then at Galatians chapter three. Five scripture. And I want to read from Galatians chapter three verses ten to twenty-nine. Galatians three ten to twenty-nine. All who rely on observing the law are under a curse. For it is written, cursed is everyone who does not consume to do everything written in the book of the law. Clearly, no one is justified before God by the law because the righteous will live by faith. The law is not based on faith. On the contrary, man who does these things will live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree. He redeemed us in order that the blessings given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus, so that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit. Well, is let me take an advantage from everyday life. Just as no one can set aside or add to a human covenant that has been duly established, so it is in this case. The promises were spoken to Abraham and to be seen. Rescription does not say anti-seed meaning many people, but anti-Echized meaning one person who is Christ What I mean is this, the law introduced 430 years later does not set aside the covenant previously established by God and thus doing away with the promise. If the inheritance depends on the law, then it no longer depends on a promise. But if God in his grace gave it to Abraham, but God in his grace gave it to Abraham through a promise. But then what's the purpose of the promise? It was added because of translations until these to whom the promise conferred had come. The law was put into effect to angels by an evil. Does not represent just one party, but God is once. Is the law therefore oppose to the promises of God? Absolutely not For if a law had been given that could impart life, then righteousness would certainly have come by the law. But the scripture declares that the whole world is a prisoner of peace So that what was promised, being given through faith in Jesus Christ, might be given to those who believed. Before this faith claim, we were held prisoners by the Lord Locked up until faith could be revealed. So the law was put in part to lead us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith Now that faith has come, we are no longer under the supervision of the law. We are all sons of God through faith, through Christ Jesus. All of you who were baptized into Christ have been clothed with Christ. There is neither Jews nor Greek, slave, nor free, male nor female. We were all one in Christ's Jesus. If you belong to Christ, then you're Abraham teams and heirs according to the promise Thus far, God's words. But let us now particularly focus of our attention, verse 27. All of you who were baptized into Christ Has been closed with Christ. So that word there closed with God is a word which means to put on a garment, to put on a piece of clothing, to dress yourself, to clothe yourself. Now how is that related to justification? Well follow the three statements in the bulletin outline there to see this. Number one, justification is not a subjective change within the believer. But rather an object of things in the way the belief that is regarded. We covered this uh completely, remember Justification is not a subject of act, it doesn't change us inside, but rather it is a change with the way God regards us. It's a legal term, remember, a term from the law courts. The forensic term, the judicial term. It's what God declares about us. That's the meaning of justification. Therefore, thou take a look at number two. The point here is we are justified, we are regarded in a different way. We who are guilty are now regarded as innocent or acquitted. So number two We are justified, that is declared righteous. Remember, it just simply is the verb form of that word. We are declared righteous and forgiveness not because of our righteousness But because of the righteousness of Christ attributed to us. Now again, that's an important point. We are not justified because of anything that we do. It's all because of what Jesus did attributed to us. In other words, in God's eyes, it's as if you had lived the life of Christ. You know, maybe. The Bible can you and me, with human trust in Christ, as if we had loved the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, strength, and mind, and our neighbor as ourselves If we it's just as if we had been as kind and gentle and loving to all the people that Jesus was, as if it it was characteristic of us that we did not break a bruised lead or quite a smoking floor. I think it was characteristic of us that we did no evil to anyone, but only good. And that's attributed to us Because of what Jesus did. Now that is so true, point three, that is so true that the Bible fixes our righteousness, that is our justification being declared righteousness. as a garment to clothe us. In other words, something that is placed upon us. Not something that easy, that is placed upon us. And the Lord in his book he knew that this is a concept that would be a little difficult for us to grasp, and for God in his tenure, it's always given dismisses to help us to understand He's given us this picture of a garment. And I want to print that through the Bible very briefly with you now to see how God designed it. that idea. So take a look now, first point is that unrighteousness is pictured as nakedness or a filthy garment. Genesis chapter three, right back to the beginning. Remember that in that initial act of rebellion, where man had sinned, he's gone his own way, what was the first thing that man said when God sought him out? Well, in Galatians, I mean Genesis chapter 3 in verse 10 we read that when God called to man, where are you? Adam answered in verse 10, I heard you in the garden and I was afraid. Because I was naked. So I did. And God says to him that well he told me you were naked. You haven't been a problem up till now. Now why all of a sudden you've got a problem Have you eaten from the food that I had liked that I commanded you not to eat from? He nakedness before there was any unrighteousness was no problem. Perfectly fine to be naked, to be exposed, to be revealed place at the very core of our being. Nothing is wrong with that. But now man knows that to me to be naked is to be exposed. To be exposed to my skin. It wasn't just a matter of lustful thought. It was a matter of exposure. I'm vulnerable. I had something to hide. And somehow in response to that, man. Is placed in a cursed world. And man is under the curse. Man is now separated from God. And the curse comes. And God gives a forte of the deliverer who's to come in order to redeem them, to restore his relationship with himself. And notice how he textes this then in verse 21. In verse 21 of chapter 3, after saying this, after cursing the serpent and establishing now an enmity, A spiritual conflict that is still going on to this day. The Lord God made garments of sin for Adam and his wife, and he clothed them. They're very significant, you see. Don't even clothe themselves. God closely. Notice secondly that that clothing involves a sacrifice. An animal had to give up its life for them to be clothed. That's the first picture that we have in the Bible, that blood is necessary in order for man to be clothed with righteousness. An animal had to be slaughtered. An animal had to die in a world that had known no death. And bloody said that. So that God Himself made the first close. God Himself was the first clothes designer, and God Himself was the first one who placed clothes on man. And that's the first picture to hide his nakedness at great cost. Then we move on into Isaiah, skipping over a lot of time there, but take a look in Isaiah. And how does Isaiah hit to unwrap this one? Well in Isaiah 64, 6 we read that all we have become like one who is unseen. And all our unrighteous acts are like what? Like filthy wrath. Now that word in the Hebrew can w refer to a menstrual cloth. You say it's just like a stinking dirty rag. It's like a filthy rag that you would throw away and destroy. It's like toilet paper. He's saying that this is something which is filthy and we all scribble up like a leaf and like the wind or swings sweep us away. Our unrighteousness is a filthy garment, and that we have nothing to do to hide ourselves in. This picture is developed even further in Zechariah. In Zechariah chapter 3. We see there in the beginning in verse 1 in Zechariah. Zacharias read that uh Zacharias describing a vision here and he says, And then he the Lord showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and what statement is Satan was standing in his right side to accuse him. As Satan's constant act force, he's always accused in our Jesus. He's accusing us justly. There are things that he's done wrong, but he's accusing him. And the Lord said to Satan, the Lord reviews you, Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem reviews you Is not this man a burning six sacks from the fire? Now Joshua will be dressed in filthy clothes as he stood before the angel. The angel said to those who were standing before him, Take off his filthy clothes. Then he said to God to ask, I have taken away these sins. You notice the equation there. A filthy clothes and sin. His filthy clothes are his unrighteousness. His filthy clothes are his sins. And then God promises, and I will put risks on his end. Then I said, put a clean turban on his head. And that's a reference to Exodus 29, the turban of the truth. The turban that spoke of his righteousness to be in the tree before the people of God. Put a clean curban on his head, and so they put a clean turban on his head and they clothed him while the angels of the Lord stood by. This is the same idea too that we read in our opening scripture this morning, Psalm 132. That the priests are clothed with righteousness. And it's just reference to God clothing his feasts and his people with a righteousness to cover their filthy garments, to remove the filthy garments of their unrighteousness. Now the second point we need to notice in scripture here is that Christ's own garments are in strong contrast to ours. Christ's own garments are righteousness. Take a look at Isaiah 59. In Isaiah 59 we read concerning this Messiah, this promised one who's to come. Isaiah 59 verse 17. He put on righteousness at his breastplate, and the helmet of salvation on his head He put on the garment of vengeance and wrapped himself in zeal and a clothes. And so this one is left in righteousness, in zeal, in salvation. That's his garment. A couple chapters over in Isaiah 61, verse 1. This is the the scripture that we uh often refer to concerning the work of the Messiah. In Isaiah 51, 1, the Spirit of the Soviet Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to preach good youth to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim freedom for the captives and to and youth for the Christians. To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And what does he say he's left like? Down in verse ten. I delight greatly in the Lord. This is the same one speaking in verse one, the Messiah. I delight greatly in the Lord, and my soul rejoices in my God, for he has clothed me with garments of salvation, and has arrayed me with a robe of righteousness. As a bridegroom adorns her head like a priest. And as a bride adorns herself with endured Jesus Christ promised our righteousness. Now why do we say he puts this on? Wouldn't we expect it that Jesus in himself, make it as it were, would be righteousness? Well, if we take a look sometime at Psalm 93. 1 or Psalm 104. 1, which is when we're outlined there, we see that oftentimes God refers to his own character as his garments. In Isaiah, in Psalm 93, 1, Isaiah 104, 1, we see that God is clothed with strength, clothed with splendor, clothed with majesty They're a very part of him. See what God is saying is that you can't see God without seeing his strength, his splendor, his majesty Because they wrap him up. They're part of him. And so this is referring to the fact that in contrast to Russians in our nakedness It's served things. And in our garments we see our filthy garments, garments to be distarded, garments that are rotten and stinking. We see that Christ's own garments are righteousness. His own garments are purity. You can't look at them without seeing them. That wraps him, that enclosed him, that's very part of his nature. Now, the third point then is that our license in the light of it, our linkedness, is the garments of Christ's life. Our righteousness is the garment of Christ's righteousness. Again, Isaiah 59, verse 17, He put on righteousness as he dressed for righteousness. And what that reminds you of. Well of course, we go over into Ephesians chapter six, where Paul describes the whole armor of God. And he says in verse fourteen, Ephesians 6, 14, stand firm then, with a belt of truth buckled around your waist, and with a breastplate of righteousness in place. He's speaking about us and what he's saying. He's quoting from Isaiah fifty-nine seventeen, uh where he said the in the next uh Phrase there in Isaiah 59 that he puts on the helmet of salvation, we see the same thing in uh in Ephesians 6. To put on the the helmet of salvation Or the full armor of God. You see that uh there in verse 17, the helmet of salvation. But you see, his breastplate of righteousness has now become our breastplate of righteousness. He also has put it on. It's gived by his own nature, and he's given it to you as your breastfeed. You see this even more clearly in Isaiah 51, 10 You see that in the very context of praise, I delight greatly in the Lord, my soul rejoices in my God, for he has clothed me with garments of salvation and arrayed me with a robe of righteousness. See, here is the Messiah speaking of his own righteousness. But it's our praise. You and I can sing the phrase of Isaiah 61. We exalt in our God. We rejoice in him because he has given to us a world of graciousness. How has he done that? Well that's Galatians 3. 27. That's where we started. That's what Paul is telling to us here in Galatians. Paul is saying to you, you who have been baptized into Christ have been clothed with Christ. And that word closed with there is the same word that translates to Hebrew in Genesis 3. 21. God closed them with the promise from that synod on Amazon. God Himself has clothed us with Christ. You and I have put on Christ as a God. And God cannot look at us without seeing Christ. You see, it's it's like this card. If I take this card and I put this in the book, you say, Well, there's a card, I can take that card I can fumble it up, I can burn it, I can do all kinds of things to be clear. Very fragile, very easy to do. But if I take that card and I place that in this book And now try to get to that card. Now try to crumble it, try to burn it, try to destroy it. I can't do it, you see, without destroying the book. Because that card is closed with the book That card is placed in the book. It's secure in that book. I can't get to that card without getting to the book. That's what Galatians 3. 27 is saying. I can't get to that without getting to the card. Reside in him. He's been raised in him. He has justified us and clothing after Christ. God has placed in you and me the garment of Christ Christine. That's why you see in Matthew 22, where we have that parable of the wedding banquet, you see there the uh all the guests that are called into that banquet for the great wedding feast. And you remember there was that one guest that came in there in Matthew 22 in verse 11. The one guest came in and the king came to see the guest. You notice they're a man who was not wearing wedding clothes. I think it was a custom in those days when a person had a wedding feast that the guest, that the bridegroom of that feast would provide the garment So those who came. He would take off all the garments that they had of their regular seat clothes and everybody would come with it with a garment that was provided by the hook. And so this king comes in, he sees a man dressed in his own clothes. And he says to him, friend, how'd you get in here without wedding clothes? The man is peaceful. So the king told his attendant, I am handed free. Throw him outside into the darkness you would be weakened and not to be seen. You can't come to the sea without the gun. divided by the earth. You can't come to Jesus down to unless you have the garment. The key is divided. You can't come the voice unless you wear in good way of righteousness. That's the best of the things to be honest. Without a faithful new means we're going to come And they're so specific. They so cover you and me. Although they're not a part of us in the sense that we learn them, but they're a part of us subjectively in our schools, they so completely, however, enclosed us. What God cares to us in anything but the righteousness. God Himself can detect no flaws in our minds. So we read in Galatian Revelation. What the saints address like there is we stand before him. What's the picture that's given? Take a look at Revelation chapter 6. And we see there how the saints were arose. Revelation chapter 6, verse 11. Then each of them was given a white robe. They were told to wait a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and brothers who were to be killed if they had been were completed So they stand in these white robes. Chapter seven, verse nine. After if I look, notice these robes have been given to them, they're not their own After this I looked in chapter seven verse nine and before me was a great multitude that no one could count from every nation, five people and minded, standing before the throne and in front of the land, and they were wearing white robes. holding palm branches in their hands, and cry out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne into the land. Sit down to verse 13. Then one of the elders asked him, Steve in the white robe. Who are they? Where did they come from? And I answered, uh, you know. And he said, These are they who have come out of the great tribulation. tribulation of all the life that was picture during Genesis chapter 3 the first. And that cosmic assault of the kingdom of Satan upon the kingdom of God and says easy to come out of that great concept. What have they done? They've washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb Jesus didn't do the right. Jesus didn't do that. Because the two bikes is good. If what he has done is given it to us, if God's hand is my only son. But he loves me with all of Christ's soul, friends, and I am a believer in himself, and I must decide And he took upon himself the curses that he does to you and to me, because you've lost zero in this one. God has given to you and to me a clean and spotless robe that we can wear before and be accepted before because he has even cleaned our peace to set our heart on the past. Now it's a final. You can hear the first thing, not the three thing on the back side. There is to east encryption Praise God for a righteousness that's not our own, the righteousness of Christ. Christ is who you will be used. Given to you is a garment, external, you see, a righteousness that's nothing that you have worked out, but a righteousness that's been given to you A righteousness that wraps you up so that God looks upon you through the garment of Christ's righteousness. You're wearing his robe He got on the mask his words now. Praise God with the word that he can. Praise him. And let's realize that we take no credit today. And if we can praise God, we are set on fire. by the kindness and the justices that he serves in Christ. So the first thing is that we praise him for. Notice secondly. We praise him because that's external, it covers me. uh the the set tunnel the be there that it covers me completely. I cannot be separated from it because that part cannot be ripped out of the book without getting to the book. And so I'm secure. Enjoy and relish that security which you have in Jesus Christ. He accused of Satan who stood in Zechariah 3 to accuse gospel deceit has nothing to say. So God says who is it to be condemned? I'm the one who just sucks in the beast. So therefore we stand secure in that light to this, but nothing to take it. Of course the question is we had that answer. You're not born with it. You're born naked. You're born with floating garments. You're born with garments of the dominant arts and then Garments that are yours because you thought to run your own life. Garments that I have guilty because in my own scene, in my own vulnerability, I stand a display, mutant, in my thoughts. It furs in my motives, it fur before God. The fact that I sought to run my life in my own cut out of him. I am not God. And unless you cast yourself upon Jesus. To receive the garments of his righteousness, by his life, his death and his resurrection. We don't have that You like that wedding garment, you like that the wedding guest who came in without the garment. And if nothing before you, if you sing with an outfit, take an out and bind them, he has no right to be interfeated. What a hardest of us. Well, you couldn't this morning offered to go through the righteous secret Jesus Christ. Don't worry about our sin. last night four four and two five. The final thing I want to apply, and I'm going to skip that third point point evangelism and take that up in a later part in the series because I want to focus in the last few minutes on just this new uh aspect of the application here. The question of justification is the only basis for a successful undersepary. What is an under-separagon? For those of you who may not be familiar with that thing. It's kind of a term that we use in this fellowship, it refers to our fellowship teams. You may have noticed we don't have any services this way. We don't come back into this room and meet for an evening worship service as many churches do. Our evening services are in home. They're in the context of small groups. A group that we wish were a little small because we'd like to divide them. a group that uh in fact comprise units of our family, of our fellowship. And in these under-separate or fellowship groups, we worship God together, involving the kids. We then will consider the passage of this morning and of each Sunday and Thursday morning to understand our passage to be able to discuss it a little bit, to get into it, and then to understand particularly how do I implement and apply and build that passage into my life with me Well that's what we do as the basic Sunday part of our groups. There is also in those groups the the aspect of our caring our life to be, our praying for one another are beginning to open ourselves to one another and to minister to each other in the way that Koinonia and fellowship is really intended to convey in the New Testament, to share the common life that we have in Jesus Christ. Now how that related to justification? I'm convinced in my years of working with college celebrities groups, with a member of fellowship groups over the last ten or twelve years, that only the only successful undersept evil fellowship peace will only be based on justifications You see, if an underceptor or if a fellowship group is not based squarely on justification, then we'll never experience the kind of acceptance in the group that God intends for. You see there the first point that as we experience the acceptance in the room, we can first more of God's acceptance of us It begins to communicate to us what justification is. It's always a group that will issue forth in my not being able to let me know where I'm really at spiritually. Because I've got to establish my status within this group. I've got to seek to establish my own righteousness. Because I don't come to fear in the righteousness of Jesus Christ wrapping me in garnet of Jesus righteousness, discord. So Don't we ever reach the best thing with struggles? It's always in the past tense. Yeah, I used to have that problem too. Let me tell you about the things I used to struggle with. Nobody ever talks about the things we're struggling with We never say, uh, yeah, you know, I find that uh I still lose my temperance. I find that uh I'm still very selfish in that area. I find that my heart is still so often cold toward God. If I haven't had a decent quiet time and time of prayer and worship with him, the TV. We find that we have to face our sins in the past tense as this will always indicate I've overcome that now and therefore I can be accepted in this group. The manufacturer graphics based on justification is a group where we can rejoice and update on sustainers, then that is something that is mighty on And God has only kind of the deep disglosingness. But here are areas I'm struggling with now. And I can be secure that the truth can accept them. We must accept them. We're obligated to accept it. Because your righteousness is no different than us. We all meet here on the one basis, the righteousness of Jesus. And none of us here come to establish our own righteousness or asking the night Jesus' righteousness. And we do not do that. We do it so often it's subtle practice. When we do this kind of thing And find that we have to try to talk spiritually. But that spiritual talk becomes soon hollow in the felicity. Because we're people who find that God is really impersonal. We're always talking about Him in spiritual times. But as we group on knowing God is beginning to get into and through, we find that there are people who don't really say that we know God personally Because of our own experience. So we can rest in the past that God is revealing himself to us. And we want to know him. Because we're all so busy talking about how much we know about him. We're also busy talking about our spirituality. We're not able to be honest and just first thing have to buy together to do the things. So an underseparate group based on justifications. An underseparate group is based on the simple fact that we're constantly wrapped in the road to evil things. Where we can confess our things to one another, not try to pretend that we're more victorious Christians than we really are But we can come together and we can say, This is a problem I'm having. Here's where I'm at. Praise God for what He's done. Here isn't your problem. Here are some things that I need to support us and coming to me in this one. And we can come to each other in that kind of security deciding. But we know our family. And we can practice them. And then once we do that, maybe we can see that if the group accepts us, if we're still accepted around us, after we find out and find out we haven't had a good quiet time in students, we say He doesn't throw me out. I thought you don't push your way through the window. But uh you know I can still figure it. Uh nobody has jumped up and uh still get out of here you finished. Uh but I can still figure it. And I can still ask to what happens. But once I begin to experience that relief, then I begin to get a glimpse of God. He knows everything about me. And I can begin to say, Well maybe God knows. He knows all of my things, witnessing things. Maybe God. Maybe I can understand what it means to be suffering and the righteous people pleasing and to feel be done. And it begins to feel anything, to come handy, in a way that nobody would study and just simply talking. The idea beginning to defend so that we can communicate to each other in the way we see each other That's just the truth that we need. He doesn't go any reason. And finally the last thing about that is that the foundations here already made in our poem You and our poor love each other on the basis of grace and law. Remember the grace principle, the law principle is if you do good, I will love you. And the great principle of I have mercy now we do. And how do we operate in our heads? Be the greatest opportunity to lose, to keep stuff to take you. You can't be a family before you come in. My data thought to me is each stuff of the Christian, with my wife's counsel, with the heavenly being. It's there that I really communicate that self-depression is in their speaking, as well as by the way I explained about it. The way we treat each other will either community and reinforce it will be line, not to the patient's right now. God has intended in our family, the basis, and the unconditional love that comes only concede expectations, understanding how God has accepted us, to understand that if he did gratification attributed to us. And therefore, the global reason to accept one another, not on the basis of performance. Not on the basis of what you these four news Not on the basis of the pleasure that you give me. Not on the basis of the reputation that my children established for me as a pastor or as a parent, or somebody in an age of. But on the basis that in my children On the basis that God has given me to me. On the basis that God has nothing unconvinced to you, given me the right to speak of Jesus Christ. And that's what love is in that time. Let's pray that that will enable us. Begin to practice this more and more. So we see that what that really means by operating in our family. This I must leave for it's not meaning we don't think it's not. It doesn't mean that we just accept everything we do and say, well just because we just need to go along, we never correct each other, we never rebuke each other to send it to them. So let me give you an example of what I think it is. Just it we my youngest brother went out and he had taken some of the flowers, the daffogons, from the Navy. And uh you know the government accessible. And so when you came in, you had to deal with that. And I had to be deep in. I had to Tell us first of all to need it to go over the tobacco members and to apologize face to face. We need to ignore the interest to continue and call and put out the years. That's how I got to that. How is it going to do it? Who is going to be really bad? But the second thing is that I had a thing So once I went to banter and I got up, uh, he was uh pulling the pants back up and immediately the first thing he tried on me. I'm sorry guys and I forgive. That's not the point to say no and I forgive this. Because uh I want you to show me that you mean. I want you to demonstrate that you're really sorry to me. that I'm not going to forgive you and put you on over and go to that leader and apologise. The desperation is I take you in my arms and I say that we forgive me. We forgive them. Now the correct thing is if you go to them But I accept the repentance of great value which is given. We'll get into that later on in this group. But I must as a father communicate to him that love is a discipline and correction is in the context of the acceptance and justification. And that's the context for ourselves to the same. That's we begin to process that our postcards. We begin to see this and becomes a favourity, it becomes a friends in our relationship. I know this begin to see this. Columbia begins to see it from the feel of things from the very place. No lo done. How is it making the The news live in that side came to do the children. Are flowing this coming. The father that should have flowed her feet. But if you have faith that deserves the right receiver, we will be lost by full of life in the blood of the night. And with given to a new one, the robe to the wedding feast, he may anticipate his ease. For that great deep one will be gathered before your faith. One will be accepted due to your very present. Because we wear the garments with me with the violence. The Lord our God, a playing of us need we still speak, immediately it presents lack in our own garments, in our own voice. In other sense that we do starting by self-profit, we told the things, and tell the hollowness of us, and so the examination of us. And peace for the world of righteousness that keep with grace in the last of heaven. That your only hope, as your only clean before. Father, we confess the praise again and again. We have not seen how very shorty our own words are. We have not seen how very thankful our immediate is the praise. So Father, we have not really claimed for the righteousness of peace. We have thought we've saved in claims. We thought we'd be with other Christians, by pretending that we're furthering our systemic humans and the being out, by trying to uh implement some of these other Christians And by speaking to them of that real experience to be. And not simply what students have. It appeared like this. And it's therefore giving it to you. Father we tell if you take up a speaker who would do that and won't be the context and crazy system. If you don't know that three, and I think this is for you, uh we make them more conscious. If you conscious about it and have an easy time. If you conscious about him, I'll face before you I'll lie before you immediately. Father with you to make us more than my hand so often in my home as we acted. And I have uh not suited my family that way. Father means we have it to our our husbands, our children. For those of us who live in our house with the body for the women from helping, we don't include each other on the basis of the fact that we have given us The fact that I mean grateful to the fact that we call us from other things without conditions. And if you go into some and they will be feeling the truth like this. It will be seen in us. uh the intestinal incident, the contracts are I guess uh the part of infantry, the fact that the distance between influence and company. But it will have no idea. How we do that things for our people.