Well welcome everybody to our middle hour on behalf of the World Missions Task Force and myself. Uh we're uh we're hosting uh A series of events we try to have every quarter where we focus on a uh bring a missionary in and hear the word of God and hear what's going on in the world abroad. Uh for a moment I want you to think about something that smells really good. Okay? Ladies, you're good at this. Guys may have to work on it. Think about something that smells really, really good. Pictures in your mind. Well there's a passage in Corinthians that says, We are to people the to uh to those who are being saved, the aroma of life, and those who are perishing the aroma of death. Our lives, how we live our lives, our words. And we have a purpose in this world and a calling upon God, not only to know God, but to make him known. And that's why it's so important that we encourage each other, remember that that we're not here for ourselves. God's got a purpose for us And Robert and Lois are going to encourage us this morning with their lives and their story. They've committed their lives to the gospel. We are ministers, we're all ministers of Christ. We're committed every day to live our lives. But they uniquely have uh given their lives to the Lord and gone abroad and had a lot of experiences to share with us this morning. Perhaps their greatest accomplishment, which they probably would not say, are their four children. That I've seen them uh over the last sixteen years since I've known them. uh mature and uh and serve with them alongside on the field and as well as individually start their own careers and lives. They uh Robert Lewis started ministry in nineteen eighty five with World Harvest Mission. They served there from uh in Uganda from eighty five to ninety one. Uh the mission was a brand new mission back then, uh out of Um PCA, is that right? Or no? No. Okay. Excuse me. Just World Harvest Mission, Presbyterian Base, uh up in Philadelphia. And They started planting churches in in Uganda Uganda back then. I got to know them in 92. I went on a short-term mission for three weeks in transition as the minister was transitioning and have known Robert and his family since then. In 1997, they started their work in Kenya, which is basically equipping pastors and uh Christian believers to build the churches there, and they'll talk, and that's what they're going to talk about probably primarily today. Robert has a uh a degree from Westminster and Columbia University, International University as well. And but he'd probably say his best degree is uh a seasoned field missionary. So without further ado, Robert and Lois Carr. Thanks, Pete. Great to be with you this morning. And uh yeah, World Harvest actually started uh sort of in the OPC and the uh uh that's when New Life Church was still in the OPC. And uh they were trying to find get the OPC behind going into Uganda, we wouldn't do it, get the PCA behind it, they wouldn't do it. And so finally they started World Harvest Mission. So we predominantly Presbyterians. But we have uh see we have an Episcopal priest and a couple Baptists in there too. But uh any of the churches we planted have been Presbyterian churches. I'm thankful for that. And I'm ordained in the PCA myself. But uh I think it's been at least a couple years since I've been here. And uh so I was glad there was an opportunity uh to come down and share with you. For those of you who don't know our work at all, I'm sure there's always a turnover of new people and uh As Dan said, we worked in Uganda from 85 to 91. In 97, we went to Kenya to train African church planners. We did church planning firsthand. And I always tell people it's sort of like when you're a missionary handing over a church that you planted to a national, it's sort of like handing over fly paper to somebody, you know. You can't quite shake it. And um they still feel that you're the only one that can do things. You have to do it all. And so we said, when we go to Kenya, we know there's a national Presbyterian church. We work with the Africa Evangelical Presbyterian Church started in the 60s by the Bible Presbyterians. They are in Kenya. We said, let's work with these guys and help them to be church planners to multiply a movement of churches in Kenya and beyond. And so that is basically what I do, training church planners through seminars, through personal mentoring. And uh we have moved from a point of just training individual church planners to now bringing the training into the presbyteries. We have five presbyteries in Kenya. And three of them we're partnering now where guys that that we have trained to be church planner trainers Are now training their own church planners. We help them, coach them in a process of envisioning where to plant churches, how to do that, who would do it. And then most importantly to financially support that church plan. We come along and partner with them in that, but we will not give any money unless they themselves are supported. their church planners. They also are doing the training and supervising. And um and then the other uh What comes along with that in in the planting uh establishing of com of communities of believers uh in Kenya? is uh one church we work with is reaching out to Hindus uh in Nairobi. And uh that's called New City Fellowship, and that's been a significant part uh of our ministry and sort of our home church there. We also get involved in building church buildings because uh you have to have a place to worship. And uh Africans are very uh feel it's very important to have a designated building that has a cross on it and it is a place where you worship God. And And uh so we've been doing that. We've done about seven, eight buildings we've helped build uh there. And then uh we're even involved in a ministry uh to the uh the physically and mentally uh What's the word? I'm not supposed to say handicapped. Yeah. Disabled, yes. Disabled. Challenged. Challenged, yes. Physically and mentally challenged. uh and uh and particularly reaches out to uh Indians. Um so that's been exciting. And then my wife who's a nurse uh is gonna you know and tell you in in a couple minutes about um Kyanga Kids, which is a ministry to uh children. But before she comes up to share about that, I just wanted to read briefly from 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Paul says, are we beginning to commend ourselves again, or do we need, like some people, letters of recommendation to you or from you? You yourselves are our letter written on our hearts. known and read by everybody. You show that you are a letter from Christ, a result of our ministry, written not with ink. but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of human hearts. And If anything, that's what we really rejoice to see. It's not so much the big numbers. You know, we could tell you that uh more than fifteen We're now in this uh just last year we started this venture with training in the presbyteries. We're each Each church is planting four new churches. So we now have twelve new churches being planted at the same time, and we're expecting that to grow exponentially. Uh where Lois could tell you about the hundreds or even thousands of children whose lives she has touched, who Jesus has touched through her to show the love of Christ. But the thing we really rejoice in is that we see individual lives being changed. There was an interesting article in December of 2008 in the London Times uh mag uh paper and there was a fella in there who uh wrote an article uh And the name of the article was, As an atheist, I truly believe that Africa Needs God. And uh he's a guy who grew up in Malawi uh with along with missionaries and uh You know, obviously was not a Christian himself, but uh as he grew up and was working uh in London, he decided he'd go back and see how things were going in Malawi. And when he came back, what most impressed him was what the missionaries were doing. And these are some of the things he said. He said, faith does more than support the missionary, it is also transferred to his flock. Christianity changes people's hearts. The rebirth is real, and the change is good. Removing Christian evangelism from the African equation may leave the continent at the mercy of a malign fusion of Nike, the witch doctor, the mobile phone, and the machete. And I could tell you, like, for instance, one of the pastors uh I've worked with is uh Theophilus Musini. Theophilus, for those who know Greek, means a lover of God. And Theophilus was born with a club hand. And uh he came to know the Lord as a teenager and decided he was called to go in the ministry, went to Bible school, and when he got out he was ready to take a church and none of the churches would accept him because of his deformity. And it was a very discouraging time for him, but he believed sincerely God had called him. He decided to go out and start a church by standing under a tree. uh out in uh the town of Machacos, out in the uh outsides of the town outskirts of the town. And um you know just had a few people and over a period about six months uh that group grow grew and he eventually uh planted a temporary church and then a stone building and now has a uh full congregation that's thriving there. Theophilus also uh came to our training program in 2004, became very adept in a trainer himself, and he's now I'd say our key trainer within the Church Planner Training Program in the AE. And he's gone to Uganda with me and done training there. And uh so it's been great to see God uh work in his life. The last couple years of our ministry in Kenya has really been marked by the post-election violence, where over 300,000 people were displaced. uh around the country. And also we had an influx of uh nine uh interns were short termers we were supervising. And uh now I'd I'd like uh Lois just to come up and share a little bit about her ministry before we get started. Morning. It's great to be here with you. Okay, you can hear me, huh? Uh thank you for having us come. We just thank you so much for your s the support you've given us over many years and especially for your prayers because all of this work could uh not be done without without you behind us. I just wanted to give you a short introduction to the work that the Lord has given me to do. About four years ago, I started a project Through the Africa Evangelical Presbyterian Church, the denomination that Robert was referring to that we work with there, it offers health care to children in the communities that surround some of these churches. Uh we call it Kianga kids, which is a Swahili word, uh meaning the brightening of the sky uh after a storm. It's like when the sun comes out uh and you get this burst of light. And that describes to us the way um, you know, we we believe that that Christ uh wants to be in the lives of these kids bringing hope um to them. You know, in Nairobi about sixty percent of the population live in slums. Um There is very little sanitation and electricity there. They uh you you just can't imagine unless you've seen some pictures, but even that doesn't completely describe it. Uh if you can picture maybe if you saw the movie Slum Dog Millionaire that took place in the slums, of course and it's very similar in the city of Nairobi to those conditions. And sixty percent of the slum dwellers are under sixteen years of age. So there are many, many children living in this Dirty, crowded atmosphere. Street children, AIDS orphans, abuse, rape, slavery. Neglect, malnutrition, malaria, AIDS, these are all rampant social problems So I've been helping the pastors that Robert's been training to meet some of the needs of these children by providing porridge programs, vitamins. Setting up growth records for these children, going back every few months and weighing and measuring the ones that are in church-related nursery schools. checking their heights and weights, and then connecting parents with some of the resources that are already in their communities. Nairobi has lots of um medical facilities. not comparable so much to here, but there are trained doctors and there's lots of medicines available. So a lot of times th these parents just need to be connected with the resources that are already there. So we've paid for several surgeries, we've gotten hearing aids and various various help like that from government services. Presently Kanga Kids is working in seven locations. Some are urban. Most are urban, but we've branched out into some of the rural are rural areas. And I don't know if you remember Um almost two years ago now when um the country of Kenya had its presidential elections uh and a lot of fighting broke out uh between the tribes after that. And there were three hundred thousand people who were displaced. So uh they many of them went to find refuge at police stations and Uh it was just a mess uh wherever they could go to find safety until they uh gr gradually um uh gathered and began living in IDP camps. That's the internally displaced people camps. So they were living in tents and it took a long, long time to begin to assimilate them back into uh the culture. But some of the people took the money that the government gave them and put it together and bought some land. But So we've been working with one nursery school that has 400 children in one of these IDP camps. So uh I will you want me to tell you tell them about her now? Okay, Robert wants me to tell you about my friend Mary. Um Um because uh as he said we're s never mind, I'm not prepared to say that. You t you tell him why I'm talking about Mary. Um We just want to we we think it's very important for you to get a personal glimpse of some of our friends and some of our people. And if any of you are on the uh mailing list. Um you've you've heard us speak of some of our friends. So I want to tell you about Mary. Um I've been privileged to know her She self-named Mary Magdalene when she converted from Islam a few years ago. As a young woman, Mary was married to a doctor in her Sudan home. And after he was killed, she was inherited by her brother, according to tribal tradition, when this man was also uh killed in the ongoing war In her life, Mary has had nine children, several of whom were abducted during the troubles and the war there in Sudan, and all but one have now been re-reunited with her. Uh but her oldest daughter, who's in her early twenties now, her whereabouts have not been known since the girl was about ten years old Mary has lived many years in various refugee camps. She's been raped. She's been threatened with murder, nearly starving, and depressed and suicidal. But Jesus met her on a mountain one time when she was fasting and praying in the desperation of her situation. But now the fruit of the Spirit is displayed in Mary's life. She's uh since come to Nairobi with uh the eight of her children. Mary's joy is contagious. Her love for Jesus and others is lived out by bringing home abandoned children, abused women, prostitutes, and those with AIDS. Since learning the art of rolling paper beads, Mary has employed many of her neighbors from the slums to help her in this trade, working out of her tiny four-room home, so that others will come to know the savior she loves. So what we'd like to do is show you these slides, just 10 minutes long, and then have a time of QA to see what you're interested in talking about. Okay? So if we can dim the lights and we can get started. Should I move this too or is is this going to be in the way? Is it okay? Okay. Are we gonna dim the lights or they're coming down. Okay. Me quedas, de mi amor to, me quedas, de mi na moto, oye canada, dale que ni queda, daway comigo de mi arrebo. Na ni bora, koćin dama, na ni bore, kuć in dama, ako je měsí se, na ako nie u capit. I canada, now I make care, now I go to the near book. Now I commigo deviare, porque aman, mi amor, de amar, mi amorto, I can't be quiet. A silent call from a distance. Crying for a helping hand How will it go on? Ignorance and vanity supersede humanity so how Another child is laid to rest Another day of hopelessness have with Go on, go on everything we're on the fence Brings another fatal consequence. So how long will it go on? I wanna know how No, no, too longer to fumble Shake it up, put it up now. Can't wait any longer. No, no, no. Can't wait any longer. I wanna play it again. Can't wait any longer I wish we'd like to do it. So you all know how to say praise the Lord in Swahili now, right? Anybody want to try? Buana. That's pretty good. Yeah. I see freeway. Now somebody up in Philadelphia, this funny lady up in Philadelphia, and she told us, you know, in Philly we know how to say that. And you say, I see the freeway. Buenas fiway, I see the freeway. Um there were some uh a few names up there only because sometimes we refer to some of those people. Not that you remember with all those pictures maybe you may have seen James and Christine. They're two children, some of you have been hearing about, thought you'd like to see them, uh two orphan refugees who Lois has really taken a special interest in over the last uh few years. But um any any questions you may have? I see that hand back there. No, I don't really. Go ahead. Yes, you're suffering. I remember reading about the election of the Bible. it's more stable active countries for instantly. Um where what's it like now? Are there a lot a lot of problems with the mud once a lot of travel fight? Well, this this really doesn't have much to do with Muslims. Um this is mainly intertribal fighting. uh between the the two largest tribes. Uh one's primarily in the east of the country, others in the west. A lot of it is rooted with the history when Kenya came to independence There was one tribe that got most of the goodies and got most of the land, and now they have the president. And uh and And then uh it appeared as though the election was rigged because there are all these amazingly high numbers coming out of poll stations that didn't have that many people registered. You know. Um so right now uh we say it's it's a tenable, uh what what is the word? A tenuous coalition. Because they actually created a post of prime minister when there's not even a place for that in the present constitution. So that's how uh tricky things are right now. And they can't figure out whether the president's supposed to be doing one thing or the prime minister Who has more power? We know that the president has uh is the commander in chief of the armed forces, so guess who has the most power, you know? Um so that a lot of that is still being sorted out and they're supposed to come up with a new constitution, which they keep promising us uh before the elections in two thousand twelve, the new elections, and everybody fears that There could be um uh violence again. Another thing that could provoke more violence is the uh ICC, the International Criminal Court is going after some of the politicians that incited this violence. And they're all seem to be protecting each other. So we'll see how it all works out. But yeah, it it has been a more stable country uh in the region, and I always say that Kenyans are very uh patient, almost too patient. with what they're with the corruption that goes on and uh and all that. But we we you know by God's grace it has been relatively peaceful. Anybody else? I was just gonna ask um how are how are you received as Americans and how are you received as I mean, if you're people that don't know what you want I think we're received very well. I mean uh uh you get some cynicism among some of the more educated uh Africans, uh which is to be understood with the history history of colonialism and and all that. Um but um we're received um very positively. We have to struggle with getting work permits sometimes, but I think that's more out of corruption than anything else. Uh Kenya has come after us for taxes in the last few years, which is, you know, we're okay, we're here to help your people and you want to tax us. Okay. I mean everything they want to tax, you know. So um that's been a little difficult, but I think that's just because they want money and not necessarily because they don't like Americans. Um So yes. As a uh Caucasian, do you feel threatened at all? Threatened at all Well it depends on any given day. Uh we uh um I have felt pretty uncomfortable being in some of the towns that are predominantly Muslim in the northern uh Kenya. We have um You saw some pictures there. We have a church planner in in uh a northern town which is ninety percent Somali. So that's a place where I have to keep a bit of a low profile if uh our evangelist there goes out and he wants to do an open air crusade, which is very popular among Africans. Um he has to have an armed guard around him. And I've been in his place where he worships, which was a little tin roof thing, and and Muslims around there as the worship surface is going on uh they throw stones at the um on the roof, you know, to disturb us. Uh but he has not been uh physic physically attacked or anything like that. Uh he went to a public school that had uh about three hundred boys, three hundred a boys' school And he noticed that they had a mosque right on the grounds of the school. And he also knew that there were about five Christian young men attending that school. So he went and he said, Could we have a small room allotted so that these Christians Christians could worship Jesus Christ on Sunday. So, oh no, no, no, we can't do that in the school grounds. But you can do that outside of the school. And he could have I you know, w I suggested we maybe going to the whatever would be the equivalent of the district superintendent or going to the Kenyan government and he realized that, you know, that would just make it worse for us We better do it outside. And now those kids and many others are coming to that worship service. So um and then we have several other towns we've been encouraging them to reach out to Muslims as well as Hindus because they make up uh the greatest number of unreached people groups uh in Kenya. But that is a long road, it's been slow. We're trying to encourage them, show them ways of reaching out to the Muslim this one church planner, what he does, uh who's who's in this uh Muslim town. He has basically Nicodemus secret meetings with Muslims going through the Bible with them. So Robert? Yes. Yes, I was like to address that too. Go ahead, sweetie. Where's your microphone? Oh okay. Yeah, I just to add to that that um Uh because when Kenyon see someone from another country, especially with white skin, they would um see us as an opportunity for money. So yeah, I can't walk anywhere without you know, being on my guard just like maybe if you were in certain areas of the city, um in any city here in the US, but you just have to we always have our windows up, we always have our doors locked on the car, um yeah, that kind of thing. You just always on guard. Robert Lois, um you've been a a couple in mission and a and a family in mission. I've got in front of my Bible yesterday I found five picture cards of your family over different years, twenty-five years worth before Andrew and Stephen was just a babe in arms. Reflect upon the history of what you've seen and and how your family's been involved and bring us up to date on those that family now. She's better at that than me. Well, yeah, it has been twenty four years since we've been missionaries and Um times have really changed. We went to Uganda in eighty five eighty five with two small children and um Um now three of the the three oldest are living uh not in Kenya with us, but we have uh our baby is uh fifteen, sixteen next month and uh we're really enjoying him uh being at home. But um yeah I think uh ministry wise looking back over the time And you know, Robert has um the Lord has really used him in the lives of pastors, and for that we're really grateful. um just to see the discipleship that he's done. You know, we can't boast of um thousands of churches or anything like that, but um We trust that as generations go on that the those men that Robert has really worked closely with and that that they will make a change in in the uh their society. But um as far as our family, uh I think well one thing as a couple that has really changed now that the children are all older is that um I've been just freed up to do more w ministry with Robert and um in this last these last couple of years we've really enjoyed traveling together more. For a long time I've just wanted to be at home with with the children and keep a stable uh home situation and let Robert go off um and do the traveling but uh the Lord has worked in my heart then I'm more willing to go into um difficult places and she doesn't like camping. Yeah, I was just gonna say I have this fridge magnet that's that's got a a lady from the fifties with her nice hairstyle on her satin pillow and she says, I love not camping and that's that's me. But God has given me grace to do more of that because what what really drives me is being able to be with these children like you've seen on the pictures and just to love them and to show Christ's love to them. So oh as far as our other children, Becky is thirty-one, she got married last year and she's living in Chicago with her husband who's in the Coast Guard. And uh Jessica is um um twenty eight and she's in Columbia, South Carolina as an E working as an EMT. And um Steve is still a senior in college or second year and he's in Jerusalem. He's finishing his studies in Jerusalem and he loves just being outside of the US. He doesn't feel like he fits in very well here. So um to go there was he j he just loved that. And uh then Andrew's at home with us. Yeah, thank you. One of our every one of our kids wants to go go back to Africa someday and uh be in missions. In fact our uh firstborn Becky, who's married to this guy from the Coast Guard, they're both praying about going to South Sudan. Which is a very tough field. So we'll see what happens. But we thank God. We really wouldn't trade our uh last twenty-four years of our life for anything, I don't think. And uh God has been very gracious, blessed our marriage. We're still married. Wow, that's grace. And um And and all of our kids love the Lord. I mean, and that's grace too, because there are many godly families. Kids don't necessarily always go in that direction. when they're younger. But uh we thank God that they've they've never resented being overseas, uh being out of America. And like you've heard, in fact they uh are ready to go at the drop of a hat, some other part of the world. Anybody else? I have a question. Um Yes sir. Given his uh African heritage, what was it like there when Barack Obama was elected president? And has that had any impact on your ministries or any impact? Oh yeah, it was it was uh crazy. Um You'd uh I mean they all feel like he's their cousin and uh you know, he is gonna make Kenya wealthy now and he's gonna bring you for goodness sake, you've got a we've got a cousin in there in in the most powerful position in the world, you know. And uh and and of course they view life that way. Everything is relational and in the family, you know, and what's yours is mine and And uh so it'll it'll be interesting to see how that disillusion goes as they see what's really gonna happen, you know. the credit for um having they're taking all the credit for having produced the the world's greatest leader, most powerful leader. Yeah. But certainly there's a sense in which it endears us to their hearts, you know, any Americans, because we come from that place. And they all ask me, you know, are you gonna see 'em? you know Okay, well I haven't had an invitation yet, you know. Um what opportunities are there for young people like Americans who would want to help serve in Kenya Yeah, like short missions or good question. Did you plant her in the audience? Yeah, we um we have uh uh Uh a lot of young people like we had uh nine short termers come. Sometimes they come as part of a team in a church. uh which is great if you have a small group of people. U Uh we can do anything from um helping to build chur build a put a roof on a church in in a week and a half. We can do other things like with Lois in the slums and rural areas, ministering to medical needs. Uh we do uh prayer and vision trips, we've uh done worship symposiums, uh so we do any number of things. So a lot of uh opportunities uh working with youth and uh Uh w you people don't if they're working with Lois administering to children, that's what a lot of the short term is come out and do. uh they don't have to be highly qualified medically. In fact we found sometimes the more highly medic medically trained people get frustrated because they want to go around and fix everything and we're not necessarily doing uh medical care firsthand. We're doing more preventive stuff and um more like social work. Um, you know, so um did you want to say anything more about that, I would just say that um you should be in touch if any any uh anyone is interested um college or post-college age. We're just getting ready this week to post on the on the website, World Harvest Mission website, um the budget and um yeah you should be Excuse me, I'm gonna pass this around. If you would like to receive our propaganda for the rest of your life. Put your name on here and it you can check if you only want put one on the other side of the room. Um if you only want email and you want to cut down on the paper, you can check that, but also give us your physical address. so that we can contact you when you forget to tell us your new address. Go ahead, I'm sorry, huh? Yeah, we're just uh this week uh getting ready for next summer. There's six weeks when um about four or five of World Harvest different fields will be accepting um interns. So that's an exciting opportunity. You have to raise about five five thousand dollars, which is, you know, the whole the whole amount that you would need and um yeah, so if you check out our website, I think it's WHM dot org. Hello Six weeks. Mm-hmm. And I I don't think have we had anybody from from Colombia yet after all these years. It was Dan, but you weren't coming to Colombia at the time when you came, right? You were? You were. Okay. So we have time for somebody new now. And the and the and the Emmons also. I agree. The Emmons came also, Ron and and Trish Emmons, and they were they're Trish Emmons, correct. They were part of this church at that time. Okay. Yeah, but that's a long time. Do we have time for one more question? We could give some prayer requests too, if you'd like to do that yeah wanna give quick some quick prayer requests on go ahead. Okay. Uh let's see, pertaining to what I've been doing, I would ask prayer for um uh uh the group of orphans, I don't know if you remember the s the picture up there was kind of a sparse building and some children were running past um in the sand. That's an area about six hours outside of Nairobi, um w which is an area that's gone through a lot of drought and famine in the last five years or so. And um there is a a hospital, well, how do I make this short? Um There's a healthcare center that's owned by the AEPC that we work with. So I went out there and there's a lot of pastors that Robert works with in that area as well. This this family area and one of the community groups from the healthcare center began a primary or a nursery school for some of their um uh or for some of the orphan children. And in that society, um, orphans, even if they're in a um a foster care situation, they're not they're sort of the last ones to get food. So when you have um famine and then you have orphans Th these children are very malnourished and very needy. And so I've been working with them and we have a parge program set up there. And just before we left the country in May. I had gone out there and we'd weighed all the children and I brought those weights home here with me. And um Um just a month or so or two ago, I got word from the community health nurse that took over what I was doing and she had weighed them again. And in almost every situation the children either had um lost weight or had stayed the same and that was very concerning to me. Um so I don't know, I know you don't know these children, but having seen their faces and knowing that about them, I I pray that I mean I I ask for you to pray for them for these children Pray for rain. And for rain, absolutely. Okay, yeah. And and just one of the reasons we're home, we've been home since June first. here until January. I'm actually staying on until the end of February, and that's mainly because we have a financial deficit and we thank God it's gone from thirty thousand dollars when we left May to now down to two thousand. uh we just found out. Um but we still have to build up our monthly. So uh you can pray for that and um yeah pray for a family too. Well we thank uh Robert and Lois for sharing so much with us and encouraging us. I know there are a few of you out there who has been touched today And you want to know more about maybe I can be a part of serving in Africa, make sure you just put your name on that sheet. This is a great ministry to work with. They are gospel-oriented, but they're also service-oriented. It's what World Uh Harvest is about. And uh if God's calling you there, you'll have some opportunities. So find that sign-up sheet and get on there. Talk to Robert and Lois after between the services here and after the second service, they have a display in the back. We'll be back there for a few minutes. uh meet you and and answer any questions. Let me just pray and close. Our great Father in heaven, we thank you that you give us great hope in the gospel and as you uh call us to go forth uh Today and and and in the future, Lord, give us the strength to do that. Uh bless uh the cars and and what you've called them to do. Uh provide for their their their needs and provide for those children, the rain and the resources to uh to feed them and the caregivers to love them. And we pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen.