You might think after Dan's last shot that you know coming up with my new American standard ready to get to we need to do more evangelism, we need to do more of this, more of that. Uh you all know me. Um, and yet as I reflected, I thought of a passage that has really had a grip on me lately, Jeremiah seventeen, verses five through nine. A passage where we don't look at what we should do, but what we are. But what we do flows from who we are. A passage that speaks about loose meaning deep. Let's hear now God's word. Jeremiah. 17 verses 5 through 9. Thus says the Lord, cursed is the man who trusts in mankind and makes flesh his strength, and whose heart turns away from the Lord. For he will be like a bush in the desert, and will not see when prosperity comes, but will live in a stony race in the wilderness, a land of salt without inhabitants. But Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, and whose trust is the Lord. For he will be like a tree planted by the water that extends its roots by a stream, and will not fear when the heat comes. But its leaves will be green, and it will not be anxious and it yields doubt, nor cease to yield fruit. The heart is more deceitful than all else, and is desperately sick. Who can understand it? First of all. Now Lord, we thank you for your word, and that we can turn to it to find out what you would have for us. Oh Lord, we pray that your Spirit would apply this, your word, to each of our hearts, individually and corporately as your Church. In Jesus' name. Amen. A tale of two trees in this passage, a tale of two people. Within the last six weeks, I've met two people that I haven't seen in a number of years. Robin and Ned. Got to see Robin when we were down in North Carolina for Presbytery a few weeks ago. Robin like Ned Ned has uh one of Christian fellowship news that Carol and I were both involved in at different places over the last ten years. Robin like Ned has another little uh little boy, a little a little child. Uh Robin like Ned is married. But the differences end very quickly after that. As we talked with God and I was excited to see her and her husband alone. But it became very evident that there was a lot of sadness in their home. Laden hadn't gone to church in years, yet she was someone that used to profess faith in Jesus and sing praises in our fellowship group. She told me how that she and Warren are getting divorced after January first. They were staying together just for Christmas and we're gonna separate. As we talked long into the night about this and we started talking about the Lord and about spiritual things, she told me I do not want to talk about it. She even picked up a pillar and flew because she didn't want to talk about it. spiritual thing. Neb, on the other hand, was someone who over the last years has gotten his reach to. He has continued to grow in grace among the Lord. He's a member of E. C. Church over Indianapolis. He's a man that Because he be he bleeds Bible, he bleeds the dream as Alfred. He he has got his roots deep over the years. And even though Robin had things on the surface in her life for a while, there was no roof structure to support it. Going down to the living water that Ned has. And he has a tree that has lots of fruit and lots of grain on it. And that's what our passage talks about. A tale of two kinds of people. I think in my own life how easy it is. And in my year and a half year how I've seen it the potential to build on top of the ground and not to get the reason. It's in me and maybe it's something that you spoke as it also passage that's gotten a grip on me. They say it's good for the preacher to have a good grip on the text and to do his exegesis in the Hebrew and all that. But it's better for the sex to have a good grip on the preacher. And I say this one does on me, especially this last week, as I wrestled with it. It had a grip on me like a vice that wasn't comfortable sometimes as I wrestled with my own roots in my life and how are my roots doing compared to the branches that are going up. Some of you are like me. You have a lot happening above the ground. But I asked today, what's underground? What kind of root system are you developing in your life. Jordan McConnell in his book that I mentioned on the back of your outline at the bottom, ordering your private world, he talks about the soupholes in Florida. And you know they build nice houses, even motels and hotels on the ground. But underneath, something was happening that wasn't for you. And all of a sudden, most of the time all of a sudden, it just fades in. Because there was nothing underneath supporting what was visible and what was built on top. We have a lot going on on top, most of us. Beware the barrels of a busy life. Especially when there's not the root system underground to support it. The Apostle John said Supposedly, this is tradition says the Apostle John said this, it's not in the Bible. But the bow that is always bent will soon cease to shoot straight. The bow that is always bent will soon cease to shoot straight. I feel like that sometimes the bow that is always in action. But that bow needs to stop. You ever feel like maybe you don't shoot so straight anymore? Like maybe the leaves have some um ground around the edges? But the fruit isn't quite there like it should be. The message of the Bible is don't go to the leaves, don't try to word to the leaves. The message of the Bible is go to the roots. From the roots comes the fruit. And that's what we're looking at today. How the Bible tells us to get our roots deeply. Out of the roots comes the fruit. So let's look at the text. How do we get our roots deep? How do we get roots that will support our lives for the whole long haul daily? and for the whole of our lives. Let's see what the text says. Look at verse 5. First is the man who trusts in mankind and makes flesh his strength. It's the same word there when it talks about who's trusting mankind as in verse 7, when it says bless is the man who trust in the Lord. Same word. It's talking about trust. But it doesn't mean trust like believe when we talk about believing in Jesus Christ so much as relying. Who is your confidence in? I think in fact that's what the NIV says. It talks about putting your confidence in him. Notice that if you have an NASD in the margin, it talks about who makes flesh his arms. The word there literally is not strength, the word literally is arms. Even before the days of Rocky and all the uh weightless thing and all that stuff, but it would seem that the arm was a symbol of strength. So it's rightly translated as strength. That's what it means. Our arm. Who is our arm? Who is our strength? In Jeremiah's day, the Israelites had a hard time of this. What we did. They kept putting their strength, their trust in the wrong source of strength, in people, in mankind. Here what Isaiah said to the same audience Jeremiah spoke in Isaiah 31, 1 and 3. Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help and rely on horses and trust there's that same same Hebrew word and trust in chariots because they are managed or in horsemen because they are very strong. The Holy One of Israel, nor seek the Lord. The Jews were trusting Egypt to be their deliverance from the Assyrians instead of turning to the Lord. Now what does the Lord say about that? Now the Egyptians are men and not God. Sure, they may be strong, they may have strength. Remember how Song of Solomon series when he waxed eloquent about Egyptian horses and they remember that and how strong they were in shalom? They asked them, but they are not God, and they are not spirit. So horses are flesh and not spirit. says Isaiah. So the Lord will stretch out his hand, and he who helps will stumble, the Egyptians, and he who is helped will fall. And all of them will come to an end together. What do we have to trust? The analogy to us is not chariots or horses. It might be programs. It might be ourselves. It might be someone else. It might be a small group. And fed us the Lord. Trusting the Lord. So you could say. If you look at the universe though, he adds on to what it means to trust our flesh, whose head turns away from the Lord. So you could put it like this. The one who is trusting himself. or flesh or mankind, equals turning his heart, turning away from the Lord. It's the same. But it helped me to understand verse nine, which I've always taken just by itself. The heart is desperately sick. And who can know it? It's deceitful above all else. is especially deceitful about our hearts. It's that we want to turn away from the Lord. How do we turn away from the Lord? By trusting something other than the Lord. He wants us to trust only in him. Yet we're so firm, aren't we? At least I know I could depend on myself, not only And not in the Lord. The opposite, we see, on the other side of the page there, less is he who trusts in the Lord and who trusts is the Lord. Less. Happy. Prosperous in the way God would have us to be prosperous. Verse 7. Blessed is a man who trusts in the Lord, or the one that should be translated one, not necessarily man, who trusts in the Lord. And notice the Lord there, capital L-O-R-D. Yahweh, Jehovah, God's very special name is my kid. And whose trust is the Lord. Now you'll notice the difference here if you have an NIV. Does it say whose trust is the Lord? No, it says whose confidence is in him. Literally the NASD is right. It says whose trust is the Lord. The word trust is mentioned twice in the first line and in the second line, and the word for Jehovah, Yahweh is mentioned twice in the first line and the second line. And here's a good example of what you've heard me say before where the NIV translates thought for thought. It's not a paraphrase. That's what the text means. Hebrew it's a pro they use parallelism like uh thou shalt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on this. That translation that that literally says that he shall keep him in peace peace. But we don't translate it peace peace. It means perfect peace, it means full peace, and that's what the author is doing here. So the NIV translation is that's that's a good translation. Uh because that's what he means. The point is, who are we putting our confidence in? What does the writer mean? What does Jeremiah mean here? How much confidence are we to put in the Lord? Totally. Nothing else. Blessed is the man whose trust is in the Lord, the preposition, whose trust is the Lord. Totally. Nothing else. He's the one that we must turn to. Love Psalm 44 on this. He says It speaks against those who trust another thing. For by their own sword they did not possess the land, talking about the Israelites taking the land. And by their own arm it did not save them. Again, there's the arm. It wasn't their own sin. But by thy right hand, in thy right hand. Mine armor and the light of thy presence thou hast saving us. In verse 5 of Psalm 44, through thee we will push back our adversaries, through the Lord not through us. And verse six, I will not trust in my bow, nor will my sword save me. We may not tend to trust in both and swords. Yeah, have you seen that commercial for the Marine Corps on TV? With the uh sword. How many have you seen that before? Okay, it it's usually man, I love that. It is so motivating. But you know I also hate it because I see in me this open reign force, that tendency to trust in the sword, to trust in man's strength. You only get what you get yourself. And that's totally different when God has. The bless is the one who doesn't trust in himself, but who trusts in the Lord. How much I need to be building, to be dependent, to learn more of what it means to trust only in him. To not worry about what's above the ground, but what's underneath. I've had the because I'm really kind of that, I've really I I've taken it on to memorize a lot of the verses that speak about that in the Bible. Uh second have a couple of them yesterday, 2 Corinthians 3, 5. Not that we are adequate in our ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from him. Or one that I don't like too much. Second Corinthians twelve nine, where it says, Our power is perfected in what? In weakness. Most gladly therefore Therefore, our reader verse about what? About weakness, that the power of Christ may dwell in you. That is what it's about to be a Christian, to trust in the power of Christ and his power, not our own total trust. Okay, we haven't had children's church for a while. So here we have a little uh children's summer here, okay? Let's see. Who's here that's been the phone with me before? Okay, Dean, okay, Dean, what do you use you? Dean? Is this pretty strong rope? Pretty strong with it. Remember going down that cliff with this rope? This rope will hold three or four thousand pounds. Pretty strong. And it's stretched too, but it won't go. It's a strong rope. Now Dean, how about this rope here. Does that one look pretty strong? How'd it like a colour that was? I wouldn't either. It's not that would help to look pretty strong. Well how about this team? How about let's see, how about we use half of this rope and then half of this rope? We'll tie this rope around the tree. And then, you know we need help me this rope, but you know, we need some of this rope too. How about that? That'd be okay? You can't scare me, but he's not set me up. You can't scare me? Let us tie this. Does that be strong enough? No, it won't. How about we carve this road all the way up to the top, but then we leave just a little bit of this rough. How about that? Not good enough. We need to flush completely in the And isn't that how easy it is for people? Think especially of our salvation to trust mostly in the Lord, but a little bit enough. Think of in Luke 9 or Luke 19, Luke 18, verse 9. Jesus told a story to those who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. And he talks about the Pharisee who came in. And he listed, gave a laundry list of all the things that he had done and how good he was. He tithed, he did this, he did that, and he says But the second guy came in, what did he say? Did he list anything? Did he depend on any of himself at all? Not even a little bit. He says, uh there he says, Lord, have mercy on me. sin so whether we to trust in a lot of ourselves it'll break. The trust in our little a little of ourselves we can't not for our salvation and not to live every day. That's something so clear in Scripture. We totally must trust only in the Lord to save us as well as to live and stay. Okay, well how do I rely on him? How do I trust on him? This sounds very nebulous. He gave me a tangible example. But how do we do that? In the scriptures clearly. It gives us some specifics. We sang about it and we read about it in Psalm 1. It puts some feet on how specifically we can put our trust in the Lord and not in our source. It's a very concrete example. And you see point B there on that one. Do we trust in human wisdom or do we trust in God's wisdom, his word? Pull out your empythemal reading if you if you would, from your bulletin, and look. Notice verse one of Psalm. Starts out the same as Jeremiah 17. Blessed is the man, the blessed is the one. Skip down to verse 3. Same kind of analogy. He is like a tree planted by streams of water. Which yields its fruit in its seasons, and whose leaf does not litter. Whatever he does prospers. Look now at verse five. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. Verse 4. They're like the Chaff which the wind blows away. Same illustration. He doesn't use a bush instead David used chaff, even less than a bush, the one who doesn't trust in God. But notice what between, and we've got to let Scripture interpret Scripture, and notice here how we see what the pain in this song. We see how is a way that we are blessed, how is a way that we trust in the Lord? Verse 2, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law he meditates day and night. He feeds on the word. He's a man or a woman who gets their roots down into the word, into the Lord. This is critical to our trusting. It's critical to getting our roots deep. It's critical to a fruitful life. In my own life I see such a parallel. Between those times when I am doing what verse two of Psalm 1 says, and those times when my roots are getting leaving, and my trees, the leaves of my trees are flourishing and growing. There's a real parallel. Sure you can go on for a while. is depending on old leaves. But after a while it'll show up in strong leaves and in fruitlessness to delight in the law of the oldest. What is the surest way to stamp your grace as a Christian? Just to not see those roots. To not get them deepened. Are you satisfied with shallow roots? I hope not. Oh, it's so easy to go on past roots and not to keep them. So it's so easy. Look at point two of the outline, talks about shallow roots, or even no roots at all. Because you notice verse back with Jeremiah 17, it doesn't speak. specifically of the roots of the bush in the desert, but what that word there when it says he will be like a bush in the desert, the the word literally means barren. And you can't help but think of Luke eight, where Jesus talks about the fish the four different seeds, the four different kinds of story. And the three that they die eventually, only one stage, and it's the one that has root, Jesus said, it's the one that has moisture. The one that has root can get down to the moisture in order to live. Jeremiah seventeen verse seven. Blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is the Lord. Verse 8, he will be like a tree, planted by the water. It extends its wrist by a stream. He will not fear when the heat comes, but is leaving. will be green, but we'll not be anxious in a year of doubt nor cease the year of fruit. When we get our roots deep by the living water. Who is the living water? Here is the spring that we're talking about here. If you look over at verse thirteen of the same chapter it tells us The Lord, the hope of Israel, all who forsake thee will be put to shame. But those who turn away on earth will be written down, because they have forsaken the fountain of living water. They have forsaken the fountain of living water. Even the Lord. The Lord is the one that makes what's above ground possible. But our roots have got to go deep down to hand. Now I can't tell them. this we're talking about. We don't have an appreciation I think for water and how important it really is. But if you go to a desert area, like Camp Panel Thin Semi Desert, you walk across all there are these little sprawny bushes like like are described here. There are no big beautiful trees. It's just ground, it's it's very short little bits of stuff with no gas, scrawny, they die after a while. But you pull over a hill and all of a sudden you go down to a valley. And there, just like that, there are big beautiful trees. And you go down in the valley there and there's not even any weather in the summertime when I've been out there. For three months, like Song says, didn't know the rains in California. That is true, for three months it doesn't rain. Very rarely. Why are those trees still green? Everything else is new because they have their roots deep. Even when those streams start stop growing in the summertime, their roots are deep and at last and there's fruitfulness and they stay green. At the end of August, out there at Canton, those trees These look the same as they did when the water was still in because the reach would be yeah, that's my prayer and I see some of you won't be for five years. When we come back, I mean we're not leaving the next week. It's a while yet, but when we come back, they're just the same. regardless of what happened in your life, difficult things because of things, but because of deep roots, believes big things, there's fruitfulness because of what has God has done in your life. Isn't this analogy of God being the stream of being our living water all through scripture. Isaiah fifty five, one, the second sermon I preached here, Ho everyone who thirsts, come to the water. You who have no money, come, buy and eat. The free Jesus. is our living water that we can consume. Or John four fourteen, what Jesus said to the woman at the well, whoever drinks of the water I shall give him shall never thirst, but shall be the water that I shall give him, shall be in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. Jesus gives us that word. And Revelation twenty two verse seventeen, if you want to look it up later to the last five in the within the last five verses in your Bible, Jesus says, Come, and let the one who is thirsty come. But the one who wishes take the water of life without cost. It is free. This water is free. It doesn't depend on us. It depends on what God has done for us in Christ. I love the little song. Cause me to come. To thy river, O Lord. The other song there? Cause me to come in the first verse. The second verse has caused me to drink from thy river, O Lord. Most of us have come and drink. Maybe there's someone here that hasn't come and has drink. From the river of Jesus Christ. Maybe you need to come. Some of you have come very recently, I know, and have come and trusted Christ and drank from that river and had your first course. That's the thing you need to do now? Is it to work on grant Getting those branches up and the tree trunk up. No. Get your roots down. Drink more of that water. Get some deep a root system that will support you for life. That's what the Lord would have us to do. The third verse though, me to come, cause me to drink, cause me to live. And doesn't that apply to all of us? Isn't it so easy? After we've been transplanted from that salty wasteland with the verse talking about to the river. To not continue to drink, to not take time in the Word. Psalm two tell Psalm one verse two again tells us how to do that. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. It's so easy not to continue It's my struggle, it's far. Those of you that know me well, I'm uh go get to work, let's go do it. But now, let's be still and know that he is God. If the bow stays dense, it will soon cease. to shoot straight. I sense it when it's not shooting straight. I know when something's wrong. And usually the reason is the roots aren't doing too well. They're not getting down. Get around. Think the thing hole. may be started. But there's a way to fight against that by getting our roots deep, especially by turning to the word. Jesus says, come away and drink daily and for life. Get your roots into me. David says Dear pants for the water, so I can't for thee, O God. We need to be thirsty for Him and get our roots down into Him. We need to disengage and come away to be with Jesus daily, weekly, often, for longer periods of time. something. Disengage. You say I can't disengage, I'm too busy. I'm busy. If you're too busy to disengage. And come away to be with Jesus. You're too busy. That's all there is to it. I wish we could be like we did with a diachemon climate thing and stuff. You know, try this and if it doesn't work we'll pay you. There's nothing we can pay you to try it. Take time to be with Jesus and to get away with him. I'm gonna read something uh from Gail MacDonald, a book that Phil's been reading, on uh How frivolous, hard climb. Maybe you can identify with this. Paul Reese once urged me to learn the rhythm of engaging and disengaging as our Lord did. I thought he was asking me to be the impossible to be the impossible, she says. You understand? ask him how busy I can get in this life of mine? Does he know I wondered the number of times the phone rings I can identify with that one? Has he any idea of the demands on me my children make? I think you women especially can identify with that have children at home and she goes on and gives lots of other examples you fill in the glass. Most certainly he quickly responded, he had lived that way for years himself, she and I and me. Besides, there'll never be a time when the noises of your world won't compete with left to your attention to your attention, he warned me. They would get so loud, he says, that they would usually drown out the quiet invitations of Christ to join him at his fire. She talks about going to the fire, like we're talking about going to the water. I would have to simply choose early in my adult life whether or not to make pending Christ's fire a priority. No one would ever force me there, but I would learn later on that resisting it would end in tragic loss for me. Disengagement, thone to the fire, she says. I must tell you that I soon discovered that virtually every part of my inner and outer life militated against doing what Paul Reese said was most important. You find that true? I do. Everything is me away from the fire, from the way. General noise. Random events. I'm sure you know this can tell really identifies that one. Random events. You can't plan anything, there's so many things crowding. Demands of people, poorly organized schedules. Inner turbulence, rebellion, and an inability to separate the good things from the best things. These and many more ruthlessly towed each day at my will, and made going to the fire at Christ a difficult task. that struggle still exists today, and it sure does for me. Anyone here that it doesn't exist for us? I don't think so. And when I give to such demands and I put Christ off, the result is frequently exhaustion, both physical and spiritual, loss of perspective. I have never regretted going away to be with Christ, whether that day or for a special time that week or So even in a busy time to take a little extended period of time to think to reflect the past, to deepen my roots. Your third point down your outline, I realized yesterday that we would have to skip that. We'd have to start this movie early today, but let me just summarize What we mean there. I think it's pretty clear. But uh obviously the one who prospers is the one who has the roots feet. Notice that it says, when difficulty comes in verse 8, he will be like a tree. planted by the water that extends its roots by a stream will not fear when the heat comes. When? Not if. Is there any of us here that will not have heat? Some of us this year have had more than others. Some of us have gone through horrible things. Are there any of us that will be ignored in heat? Some Christians say you are. If you're really walking by faith, you won't have heat troubles. Jesus says, in the world you will have tribulation. But when the heat comes, what will be true if your reach are deep? Your leads will be great. You will not be anxious in a year of God, nor C C your feet. Look at the back of your outline. Personal application. I'd like you to write in a different question one. Have I been planted by the water? Is number one. Have you been? Especially some of you kids. Have you been planted by the water? You've heard a lot about the water, about Christ. You know the answers. Have you been planted by the water? Have you come to him? If you have, or if you have recently, get your roots decent. Number two, which is number one there. How did my root system fare in nineteen eighty-five? Root? Quality? Quantity? Are there more branches on the surface without strength or deeper roots? Any sinkholes for them? Maybe some of you who have lots of roots for lots of years. Are there new routes developing? Are there roots going deeper? Are you just depending on the old ones from years ago? Question three. What specifically do I need to do to deepen and strengthen my roots in 1986? six. Are there any hard choices to make in terms of competing priorities? Oh, aren't there a lot of competing priorities? Time, work, ministry, pray, church duties, TV, bedtime, keep through it in. See, I would really recommend you doing what Al has really got me doing this year. That's taking time to get away just to think and just put. If you've never taken hour, take an hour. Think about 1985, think about 1986. Remember the forgiveness we have in Jesus Christ. Don't let this the the boat trip on you. Make you turn to the water all the more and get your roots deeper and fast. You might want to tell someone what you come up with. Uh accountability sure goes up. It's hard to do things on our own water. But the right motives, accountability can really help us. My greatest prayer for each of you as we go away, you're gonna see us, but you'll see less of us in the months ahead, we're gonna be traveling a lot. But my prayer for each of you, individually and as a congregation, is it is We leave. Not that you join E E, although that really be great by the way. Not that you get involved in all this other ministry or do this or do that. But most of all that what you do will flow from who you are. That you really could be due, each rooted, planted by the way. Also trusting the Lord, deepening in nineteen eighty six you reach and put all of your life. But as we come back in five years and we look at some of these little trees around here named Stephanie or Rachel or Matthew or whatever. But those little trees would be bigger and they'd be fruitful. And if those roots would be decent. But if some of those little trees go off to college that they wouldn't fine that they didn't have very disease. There's some of you who struggle with the same things I'm sharing with today. I pray there'd be men like Robin who come back and say, We're so Well, they don't come anymore. They never got disease. There were some things on the surface, but not much down underneath. That's my prayer for you, and I favor it for me. Because all the things that we do, like I said, we are going to be facing a lot to do. But what we do must Oh Lord, we do thank you for your word. And we thank you for this passage, Lord. We pray that we would trust you. And that in trusting you we would seek and There are strength in you, the living word, in Jesus' name, amen.