Realizing ordination services, I have a lot more gear all of a sudden. So we have questions, we have a lot to do tonight, and it is going to be an opportunity for us To give to one another, to minister to one another. As we prepare for the Lord's Supper, we'll also take time tonight as we seek to pray for each other We are a congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, and as such, we are existent because of the love of God the Father, who gave us his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. As I repeat again what I said this morning, for God so loved the world that He gave. So we are to be a congregation that is rooted in love, that also flourishes in mission. And so consider this this evening, just as I was thinking of what it is that we are doing in the process of yes, we're doing things as Presbyterians, we're ordaining and installing deacons. But it is so much more than that. It is an expression of mission. Consider the famous words from Micah. He has shown you, O man, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you? To act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God. That is our mission. Our mission is to serve the Lord by walking with him in humility. And because we are rooted in love, to find that that love flourishes as we pour that out to others. So this evening it's going to be a reflection based on two brief passages of Scripture. The first is from Matthew chapter 25. And here, as we look at these two aspects of ministry, specifically mercy ministry. To care for those who are in need. The first thing we see from the New Testament and from Jesus' own words are this: that mercy is foundational to the gospel. Consider Jesus' words when he reflects on what will come to pass when he returns He says that when the Son of Man comes in his glory, all the angels with him, he will sit on his throne and in heavenly glory. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate people one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. He will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, take your inheritance. the kingdom prepared for you since the creation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and you invited me in. I needed clothes and you clothed me. I was sick and you looked after me. I was in prison and you came to visit me. Then the righteous will answer him, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you something to drink? When did we see you a stranger and invite you in, or needing clothes and clothe you? When did we see you sick or in prison and go visit you? The king will reply, I tell you the truth, whatever you did for one of the least of these, brothers of mine, you did for me. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you who are cursed into eternal fire, prepared for the devil as is his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me nothing to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me nothing to drink. I was a stranger and you did not invite me in. I needed clothes and you did not clothe me. I was sick and in prison and you did not look after me They will also answer, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or needing clothes or sick or in prison? And did not help you? He will reply, I tell you the truth. Whatever you did not do for one of the least of these, you did not do for me. Then they will go away to eternal punishment. But the righteous to eternal life. What Jesus is demonstrating is that the mercy that God has shown to us In the love of Jesus Christ on the cross and the power of his resurrection has called together a body of people. That are rooted in exactly that love that has brought about the gospel. As such, this passage removes all doubt That the priorities of the kingdom that grow out of that rootedness in love are all about the nature of ministering to those who have need. There is no way one could get to the finish of that passage and see that somehow mercy ministry is either secondary or tangential to the ministry of the church. What is very clear from this passage is indeed that because God so loved the world he gave, so should his people Why is it that in 2014 do we do something so antiquated? It is because, as we've learned from the book of Acts, that has precisely been God's design. Never, ever once in his church has he ever wanted the office of deacon to be secondary or not thought about. Or to somehow be sort of behind the scenes. Indeed, our diaconal ministry ought to be frontline ministry. It ought to be what we are known for, as we are known for preaching the gospel. That is what we are called to do. The mercy of Christ is foundational to the gospel. It is foundational to our ministry. But not only is mercy foundational, mercy also exposes the truth of our love. We hear from John in his epistle when he says these words in chapter 3 of 1 John. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers. If anyone has material possessions, And sees his brother in need, but has no pity on him, how can the love of God be in him? Dear children, let us not love with words or tongue, but with actions and in truth. How do we discern whether love that is spoken is genuine? How are we able to gauge the veracity of a profession of love? I'm reminded of this illustration that Tim Keller gave a number of years ago when preparing for ministry, he wrote these words as an illustration. He says, imagine A wealthy older woman who has no heirs except a nephew, who has always been kind to her. But how can she know if his kindness is just a facade? How can she know what his heart is really like? Imagine that she dresses up as a homeless street person and sits on the steps of her nephew's townhouse. And when he comes out, he curses her and threatens her. Now she knows his true character. So too. God intends that our actions, Ought to be that which is consistent with our words. For many, that sounds as though it might be works Salvation. I trust that you know that is exactly not what I am saying. Because it is our foundational belief that salvation is by faith alone. But faith is never alone. Why is it that we continue from the earliest days of the church to have at the center of our ministry not just ministry of elders, but ministry of deacons? It is because the needs of the body are great. The needs of this community are great. They look different perhaps in other communities, but the need is still there. What will the test Of love look like for us as a congregation? What will the refining fire of God's judgment discern for us as a body? I'm greatly encouraged by what I see in our midst. I know that you actively seek to love one another. You seek to provide meals for one another. You love one another, you pray for one another, you visit one another. You're here tonight because we know that the ministry of the diaconate is not secondary. It is Central and important. But we need to continue to grow in just this action. These deacons need your prayers. Because discerning what the needs are of a congregation is very difficult. Discerning the needs, but also discovering those needs Because in a community like ours, it is not exactly applauded to make your need known. Remember, self-dependency and self-sufficiency seems to be what rules in our culture. How countercultural it is to let someone know that you are in financial or physical or nutritional need You need to be praying for your deacons. You need to be praying for Mike Espy and John DeSinna as they join this band of brothers as they seek. By God's grace alone, in the midst of their own weaknesses, to care for the needs of this congregation. And it is no less a spiritual office Than that of elder. They are no less the targets of spiritual warfare than are your elders. And if that surprises you, let me remind you that indeed those who are called to lead and serve in this congregation become the targets of spiritual warfare. Discouragement, criticism, feeling the palpable weakness of their own minds, of their own schedules, becomes overwhelming, and they don't know what to do. They know they need to do more. But they will rarely tell you that. Usually that's what happens to deacons and elders when they wake up in the middle of the night and they remember something They remember a conversation. They remember a person that they prayed for. And they feel, just as I and Pastor Tim feel, we feel utterly out of control. We feel our weakness. Why should you be praying for your deacons? And why should you be praying for your elders? Because it is in precisely those moments That we need people praying for us because in those moments the Holy Spirit would answer those prayers, and the Holy Spirit would say, It is my work in the midst of your weakness. You are carrying out the ministry of the gospel. That is why we are here. Let me encourage you to pray for them. Let me encourage you to consider how you can support the work of the deacons because it isn't just the deacons that are called to serving the needs of our community. They need many of us coming alongside them, encouraging them, supporting them in ideas Ways in which we can come alongside and give them a real shot in the arm for what we can be doing as a body of Christ. Because it is The test of love. We love the Lord, and we ought to love one another as each has need. And tonight, as we will finish our service, we will have a service where we will finish by celebrating the supper. Is it any wonder that Jesus says in this illustration, When I was hungry, you gave me something to eat? When I was thirsty, You gave me something to drink. The supper is God saying to us, I know your deepest hunger, and I know your deepest thirst. You will never be satisfied until you eat of this flesh and drink of this blood. Those were the words of Jesus. They scattered many. Because you remember, many followed Jesus because they simply wanted another plate full of food. And he shocked them. They wanted his gift. They weren't so interested in him. Jesus in this sufferer points us to himself. At the center of our faith is a mercy ministry. When you were hungry, I gave you something to eat. When you were thirsty, I gave you something to drink. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. Whoever should believe in him shall have eternal life. Now that is a meal. That is a hunger and a thirst. Not just satisfied, but our table overfloweth with the grace of the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, now we pray, by your Holy Spirit, we ask that you would, with this your word Give us a passion for loving and caring for those who are in need. Give us discerning wisdom. Give us eyes to see, ears to hear, and hands to help. Lord, take these hands and take our feet that we fitted with the gospel May run headlong with the love of Christ to those who have need. For that is precisely what you did for us. We thank you, Lord, for this ministry. It is greater than we have ability. That is why we need for you to meet us in our weakness. I pray for our deacons. I pray that you would so equip them. I pray that you would encourage them. I pray that you would fill them with your Holy Spirit that they would be overjoyed. By the fact that two more men are joining with them. And Lord, I pray as they go about their work, I pray you would broaden the horizon of their ministry of mercy, and may you Inspire us by your spirit and the calling of your word. Inspire us as a congregation to join hands with them That we might give with our hands and our feet what our lips so easily do. We love you, Lord, because you first loved us. Now help us love one another. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.