We've been seeing in our study of the Church of Jesus Christ that an essential part of the identity of the Church is that we're priests. Remember, we've read in 1 Peter 2 verse 9, that you're a chosen people, a royal priesthood. This means that you and I as priests have direct access to God in worship. That we're called to a ministry of intercession for one another. That you and I are called to a ministry of inciting, of provoking, and of encouraging one another in our Christian lives. Means that as priests you and I are called to present to God an offering of people that we bring to Jesus Christ through our ministry. But there's more to this. Not only does the Bible say that you and I are priests, Who worship God in the temple, but the Bible says that you and I are the temple itself. Now that's an amazing statement when you stop to think about it. And yet that's exactly what the Bible says. Because that verse 9 that I just read is set in the context of that whole section there, 1 Peter 2, verses 4 to 10. Let's read that as the scripture this morning. Turn to 1 Peter chapter 2. I'm going to read from verses 4 to 10 and notice how Peter describes us as the temple. First Peter two, verses four to ten. As you come to him, the living stone Rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him, you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood. Offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. From Scripture it says, see I lay a stone in Zion. A chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe this stone is precious But to those who do not believe the stone builders rejected has become the capstone, and a stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood. A holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Notice particularly there, verse 5, when it says that you, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house. To be a holy priesthood offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Christ. Now that spiritual house is clearly the temple. It's the temple of God. We then are the temple. What is the significance of the temple? What does the temple mean? Well, the temple was the place where the priest approached God because that's where his presence was. You see, that's where you could meet God, and there alone. Therefore, to better understand what we mean when we say that the church is the temple, we have to look at that broader theme of the presence of God. And so we're going to look this week at the presence of God and how we are related to that as individuals And then next week we're going to take a look at the whole church as the temple and some of the implications that flow from that, particularly the matter of church buildings. Let's consider then this morning the question of the presence of God. This is a very central theme in Scripture. Very the heart is at the very heart of scripture because that's what life you see is all about. Life is to be in God's presence. Death is absence from God's presence. Death is to be apart from God. And so we're going to trace this theme now from the beginning through Scripture in six steps, the presence of God. And we're going to literally go from Genesis to Revelation. So hang on to your seat and don't try to look up all the scriptures. Or all you'll be doing is a Bible shuffle the whole next thirty minutes. So please, uh unless I tell you to look at it, uh just listen to what I'm saying. It's written down there in your bulletin. You can look them up later But just follow along with the bulletin outline and listen to the scriptures as I read so that you can get a sense of the development of this theme, of the presence of God, and what this means for us The first stage that the Bible presents to us about this is where God walked with man in the garden. God walked with man in the garden. We read in Genesis chapter 3, beginning of verse 8, that then the man and his wife. heard the sound of the Lord God as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day. First after thinking what that meant. And God was walking with man in the garden in the cool of the day. What would it mean to walk with God personally? Imagine his evening came on and you'd walk with the Lord and say, Lorda, see those lightning bugs over there? Why do those lightning bugs make light? And the Creator, the one who made the lightning bugs, would tell you, in a way that you could understand why lightning bugs make light. Lord, what is light anyway? You know, and then the more uh sophisticated start asking him about how it's uh how it has corpuscular nature and the wave uh nature of it. Lord how how do you reconcile those things? And the Lord would describe to you something in the way you'd understand of his creation. And you begin to enter into the beauty and the majesty of all that he's done. There will be no separation between you and him, no ugliness, no pollution, no disruption. All was in perfect harmony, and man could walk in the very presence of God. And this apparently was a customary thing that God walked with man in the garden, personally. I don't understand all of what that means, but I think I think something of the beauty of that is captured in Psalm sixteen. When we read the psalmist that says there in verses eight, nine, and eleven, I have set the Lord always before me, because he's at my right hand, therefore I'll never be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices, my body will also rest secure. You've made known to me the path of life, and you will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures. At your right hand. And this is the way things were, and the way God meant it to be. But disruption came because of sin, because of our disobedience, because we turned from God and that we uh claimed the right to run our lives our own way. Because of this radical disruption, man was banished from God's presence. We read in Genesis chapter 3, at the end of that chapter, in verse 24, 23 and 24, that the Lord God banished man from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he had been taken. After he drove man out, he placed him on the East side of the Garden of Eden cherubim, and a flaming sword flashing back and forth to guide the way to the tree of life. Man no longer had access to God's presence. He was banished. And the only way back to God's presence was at the initiative of God. And so the rest of the Bible traces for us in five stages how God has restored and beyond men to be in his presence. The second stage then was where God appears to man. God appears to the patriarchs. In dreams and in angel by angels. The For instance, you read in the life of Abraham in Genesis chapter twelve, verse one that the Lord had said to Abraham, Leave your country, your people, and all and so forth. In verse seven we read That the Lord appeared to Abraham and said, In Genesis chapter 15, verse 1. After this, the word of the Lord came to Abraham in a vision. Genesis 17, verse 1. When Abraham was 99 years old, The Lord appeared to him and said, Now these special appearances are called theophanies, special appearances of God to man in the Old Testament. Now we can misunderstand this, I think. We often get the wrong picture because we read through these chapters and it seems like oh just uh time after time God's always appearing to Abraham and Abraham uh sort of has a regular quiet time with God coming in visions and appearances. That's a very wrong impression. Many, many years separated these appearances. In one case, God comes to Abraham and speaks to him, then 13 years go by of total silence. Then God speaks to him again. God spoke only to Abraham during this particular time. So one person, and that one person Only very, very rarely. Other than that, there was silence and no evidence of God's presence in some way that could be revealed, some way that was infallible. Now picture what Abraham then what it meant for him to walk by faith. He didn't have the scriptures. He didn't have the guarantee of God's presence except in very very rare appearances and stories that had been handed down concerning who this was. God was. But then another stage broke into history, where God called out a people to himself and established this covenant with these people at Sinai. And so here we have the third stage, where God dwells in the midst of his people. Now no longer is God appearing to just a special very few people, but is appearing to all his people, and not just on rare occasions, but continually. And so this is because God has established himself as linking his presence with the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant, you see, was the sign of God's presence because it was the sign of His covenant of grace whereby God would call man. into his presence, whereby God would make the provision for man to be in his presence. And so this ark symbolizes now God's presence. That's where God is. And the ark, you remember, was kept in the tabernacle. So you read in the Leviticus chapter twenty-six, verses eleven and twelve, that God says, I will put my dwelling place among you. You see, in the context where God has only very rarely ever spoken in history, rarely ever shone. This is an amazing statement. God says, now I'm going to dwell among you, and I will not abhor you. I will all I will walk among you, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. And so God says that He is going to places on the world. And that's why in number two, when you had the description of what the camp of Israel looked like, I drew a little diagram there so that you'd see. That's what it looked like. The rectangle there you see is the tabernacle The tabernacle was at the very center of Israel, and you had three tribes on the north, three tribes on the east, three tribes on the south, and three tribes on the west, so that the people of God had a very graphic picture of the fact that God dwelt right in their midst. The people of God surrounded him. And it was because of this that God says in Deuteronomy 23, in verse 14. For the Lord your God moves about in your camp to protect you and to deliver your enemies to you. Therefore your camp must be holy, so that he will not see among you anything indecent and turn away from you. Because God is holy. dwelling in the midst of the camp, that camp therefore must be totally undefiled, it must be holy, because it bears his presence. In fact, this is so true. You remember the story where the Philistines came and they captured the Ark of God because they thought that it was a magic box that would guarantee them victory. And God allowed the ark to be taken from Israel. The Philistines took it and remember they couldn't bear it. Uh God judged the Philistines, and again and again his hand was heavy upon them, smiting them again and again with this and that plague. Until finally the Philistines said, We can't take it anymore, you take this ark back out of here, because it's too much for us. And so the ark was taken back. back into Israel to a town of Bethshemish. We read that the men of Bethshemesh toyed with God. They were curious about the ark. They wanted to see what God was like. And so some of the men of Bethshemesh looked into the ark. They hear all about this. What's dad really like? Now you and I can't toy with God's presence. God is a holy God. He's revealed himself as a God who is near to us. But that nearness should never be misinterpreted as chumminess. The men of Beth Shemesh learned that lesson in a very costly way. They played with God. And because of that we read in 1 Samuel chapter 6, verse 19. that God struck down some of the men of Bethshemesh, putting seventy of them to death, because they had looked into the ark of the Lord. What's the response? We read that the people mourned because of the heavy blow that the Lord had dealt them. Seventy struck dead. And the man of Bethshemesh asked, Who can stand? In the presence of Jehovah, this holy God. Who can stand in the presence of Jehovah this holy God? This is not a God to be played with and toyed with. His presence is so awesome and so radiant, so powerful, so holy. That we can't stand in his presence. And then, having taught that, the Lord continues to move graciously through Israel until we come down to the time of Solomon. And Solomon determines that he's going to go. A house for the Lord, a house to house the ark. And so because of that, the presence of God is now identified with one place where the temple, replacing the tabernacle, was built. The temple now is identified with Zion, that hill, in Jerusalem, and God's name is set there. Of course, this doesn't mean that Jerusalem or Zion contains God, but it simply means that because the Ark of the Covenant Is there, therefore God is identifying Himself with Jerusalem. In a very particular way, God has set his name there and his provision for sinners to come into his presence. But even that, of course, is only once a year. To a high priest and great circumstance and provision for him to do that on behalf of the people. Only one man could come into the presence of God, and that man with great circumstance and provision. Read in 1 Kings chapter 8 and verse 27. In the dedication of the temple, Solomon says, Will God really dwell on earth? The heavens, even the highest heavens, can't contain you. How much less this temple that I've built? And yet to the temple. Attention to your servant's prayer and his plea for mercy, O Lord my God. Hear the cry and the prayer that your servant's praying on you in your presence this day. May your eyes be open toward this temple, night and day, this place that you've said. My name shall be there. So that you'll hear the prayer that your servant prays toward this place. Because God now had set his name there, Jerusalem is the one place where you can worship God. That's why you see, if you read through the Psalms and the Prophets, there's so much about Jerusalem and so much about Zion. It's not because of an intense nationalistic patriotic fervor that the Jews are writing this. It's because that's where God's presence is. It's because that's the one place you can really worship God. That's why you read in Psalm 48 what seems like almost a worship of Zion. Why? Because it's that's where God is. It's a worship of God's presence. That's why in the prophets there's so much emphasis on the woman. On this being the one true place to worship God. That's why, remember, the whole ten northern tribes were cut off and lost forever. Because the thing that was distinctive about them was that they refused to come to Jerusalem to worship. Their sins were no worse. Judah was no more righteous. God makes that clear in Hosea. But he says the distinctive part of it was that these people separated themselves from Zion. They separated themselves from my presence. In Jerusalem. And so Isaiah, writing about this in chapter 28, verse 16, says, that it's there. See, I lay in Zion a stone, a tested stone, a precious corner for the stone. Now then Isaiah 28, 16, you see, is precisely what Peter quotes in the passage that we read to begin this morning. It's fair that Peter is referring to You are a spiritual house offering these sacrifices for the Scripture says, See, I lay in Zion a stone, a precious cornerstone. Now what's the connection? Why does Peter refer back to this quotation from Isaiah? Because he understands that it's where that stone is, that stone that Isaiah has promised, that that is the true temple. And so the fourth stage is where God sends the Messiah, the true Messiah. Temple, the true presence of God, the one who is the stone, the foundation of Zion. The first phrase then is that God in Christ walks and talks with his people. This is why you see John in chapter 1, after in awesome language he has described the word who has existed forever The word who is God Himself. And he describes the word coming in the flesh. Notice the language that he uses. John says, the word became flesh, New International says, and lived for a while among us. American standard if you have it, you'll notice as the word dwelt among us, and there's a little marginal reference there. Notice what the literal Greek is if you have that in the cross references. It says tabernacle. Literally, you see, the Greek word that's used in John 1:14 is the word for tabernacle. Jesus tabernacled among us. Jesus is the true tabernacle. He says in chapter two, just in case we missed the point in chapter one about the tabernacle, then he tells us about the temple. And so in chapter two, you remember, after Jesus had driven out the money changers and he had cleansed the temple with great Violence. The Jews come in a rage and they say, What right do you have to do this? Who do you think you are? And so they say in chapter two and verse eighteen Well, uh, what miraculous sign are you going to show us? To prove that you have authority to do all this. And Jesus answered to them, destroy this temple. And I'll raise it up in three days. Somehow they missed the gesture there, and so the Jews replied, Oh, it's taken forty-six years to build this temple. You're going to raise it up in three days And John says, but the temple that he had spoken of was his body. Jesus is the true temple. Jesus is the presence of God, you see. He's Emmanuel, God with us. And that's the whole significance of the temple. So Jesus isn't the symbol, he's the temple itself. He is God's presence That's why he says in chapter four, verse twenty three, to the woman of Samaria, says, Where should we worship? Up here in Gerizim, down there in Jerusalem. Let's discuss this theological debate that's been going on for centuries now, and Jesus says that's beside the point. The time's coming. Well it won't be a geographical matter. The time's coming when you will not worship in a geographical place here, but will worship in spirit and in truth. Because Jesus is saying, It's at that time you'll worship at my feet. I'm the temple. How do we worship at the feet of Jesus? Where do we go geographically to worship at his feet? Well you remember when Jesus left, after he had ascended, he said in Matthew 28:20, after giving the great commission to go and make the sacrament. In all the world, and the disciples are thinking, now how are we going to do this in all the world and penetrate all the world and still be in your presence? And Jesus says, Don't worry. I will be with you even to the end of the world or to the end of the age. Now how's he going to do that? Well, it's because of the next stage in God's plan, stage five, where God by his Holy Spirit dwells in his people. Jesus In his plan saying, I will be with you always, accomplished that by sending the Holy Spirit to the church in Pentecost. Now, again, Think of the background of this in order to get the impact of what's being said. God dwells in his people. This is the same God of 1 Samuel chapter 6, who had spit And seventy men dead on the spot because they had looked into the Ark of His presence. The same God who was in the Holy of Holies behind the great veil that could be approached only in its dim, awesome light by the holy high priest. With his vestments and provision for his own sin once a year. The same God is saying, Who has not changed, I will dwell in my people John records in chapter 17 Jesus' high priestly prayer for his people. And what does he say in John 17, verse 22? Jesus says, I have given them the church now. The glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one. I in them, and you in me. This is why Paul says in First Corinthians chapter three, in verse sixteen, Don't you know that you yourselves are God's temple? And that God's Spirit lives in you. If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him, for God's temple is sacred. And you are that temple. You are sacred. Your body is sacred. Why? Because it's the residence of the Holy Spirit, God's very presence. He says in chapter six, verse eighteen, talking about out the problem of sexual immorality. Flee sexual immorality. Why? All other sins a man does are outside the body, but he who sins sexually sins against his own body. Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit? Who is in you? Who you've received from God. You're not your own. You're bought with a price. Therefore, honor God with your body, that body, which is the residence of his presence. So Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Talking about how we must separate ourselves from ungodliness cannot be unequally yoked, whether it is in marriage or in other very close relationships with unbelievers that would compromise. People who are the temple of God. And what's his argument? Why is it that we must be equally yoked with believers? Because he says in verse 16, What agreement is there between the temple of God and idols? The two things are antithetical. They're diametrically opposed. The temple is God's presence. Idols are false gods. What agreement can there be? For we are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will live with them and walk among them. The passage we quoted earlier from Deuteronomy, from Leviticus. I will live with them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. Therefore come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Touch no unclean thing, and I will receive you, and I will be afraid. Father to you, and you will be my sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty. And it's very unfortunate that chapter seven, verse four, and was separated from this, because it's a conclusion of his whole point here. Really should be going here with chapter six. Because he finishes this off by saying, Since then We have these promises. What promises? That God's going to dwell in us, He's going to walk among us, He's going to take us for His own sons and daughters. Since we have these promises, dear friends, let us purify ourselves from everything that contaminates body and spirit. Perfect. Holiness out of reverence with God. You are his temple. That's why the injunctions of Scripture pertain to you concerning separateness from sin. Because you bear his presence. And yet the Bible says there's still one more stage to come. The sixth stage, where God will be face to face with his people forever. Even after that amazing declaration in John 17, where Jesus had said, I will be in them, he states a longing for something more. That's amazing. After having said this, Jesus then says to the Father, Father, in verse twenty four, Father, I want, I desire, that those that you have given me be with me where I am. So that they may see my glory, the glory that you've given me because you loved me before the creation. Jesus says there's something more that I'm looking for Something even more than dwelling in my people. That is that they'll come to see me face to face, to behold my glory in all its unveiled fullness. And so, finishing then with the book of Revelation, concluding this study, literally from Genesis to Revelation, turn with me to Revelation twenty-one and see how God will fulfill that longing and that promise of Jesus. Before his death. In Revelation chapter twenty-one, we read, John says, Then I saw a new heaven, and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. And there was no Longer any sea. Sea is the symbol of trial. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem. Remember Jerusalem is the symbol of God's presence. And now here's a new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a Bride beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be as people and God Himself will be with them and will be their God. In fact, so intimate and so personal will be the fullness of this presence that he will wipe every tear from their eyes. Eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away. Skip down to verse 22. And I did not see a temple in this city. John, of course, uh being a devout Jew, knew that the whole thing that made Jerusalem Jerusalem was that it had the temple. And John says, Now Lord, here's a new Jerusalem, the fullness of everything. And there's no temple here. What's wrong? There's no temple in the city. Why? Because the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple. The city doesn't therefore need the sun or the moon to shine on it for the glory of God. God gives it light, and the lamb is its lamp. The nations will walk by its light. The kings of earth will bring their splendor into it. On no day will its gates ever, ever be shut. No danger, for there will be no night there. There. The glory and the honor of the nations will be brought into it, and nothing impure will ever enter into it, nor will anyone who does what is shameful or deceitful, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life. Hallelujah. Praise God, what an anticipation. Now, how do we apply this? First question that we need to ask ourselves is: Does God's presence dwell in you? Does his presence dwell in you? Are you his temple? Have you ever come to Have you ever come to acknowledge that that's been because of your own sin? Because of your rebellion against him, and that the only solution to that was the sacrifice of Jesus on the world. You see, the temple is not only the symbol of God's presence, it's the place where sacrifices were offered. And so Jesus is the true temple, Emmanuel with us, is not only the presence of God, but he And therefore, in order for you and I to be temples of God, We have to be that temple because of the sacrifice offered by the true temple, because of his sacrifice on our behalf. Jesus, for you. But note this holy God can Not dwell in a person without making a noticeable, observable difference. And so the question here is what evidence is there in your life that you are his temple? This God that we've spoken, who took such great pains in the development. Of his revelation to show us how holy was his presence, how majestic was his presence, is also saying that when that presence comes within a person, it makes a difference. The question is not, you see, just whether you're religious. The question is not simply that you can say, Well, of course there's evidence. I'm here this morning, aren't I, worshiping with God's people? The question of the evidence of the Spirit of God dwelling in your life Has to do with a changed life beyond simply practices of religion. Do you love his word? Do you spend regular time in it? Do you spend time in prayer, talking to the Father, enjoying his presence? Do you love his people who are also part of that spiritual house? Do you have a love for the world without Jesus Christ and long for them to be brought into that spiritual house? Do you have a love for the world? Love for justice and mercy. These are the evidences that the presence of God is in you. If being a Christian Was a crime in this nation. Would there be enough evidence to convict you? The second question we need to ask is having determined that in fact we are his temple. We need to see if we understand what it means to be the temple of God, then this is why we must live holy lives. This is why. See, holiness is sometimes presented as some sort of an arbitrary negative. Sort of like that sign that you see in tourist shop that says everything that I like is either illegal, immoral, or fattening. And that's kind of the way that holiness is often presented, kind of an arbitrary absolute in negative terms. If we don't see a positive reason for holiness, we'll inevitably slip in to legalism. What God is saying here, why holiness is necessary for the Christian is because of the holy resident within you It's because the Holy Spirit dwells in you that you must be holy. The camp must be clean, God said. And because of that, God is saying to us, our lives, our bodies, must be clean by His grace. We must be walking in a way that seeks to take seriously that we bear the presence of a holy God. I hope you remember this as you struggle with sin. This is a very beautiful and positive reason. For us to long for greater holiness in our lives. Because God's presence is in us. And as you rejoice in the wonder and the awe of that, Lord God, your presence is in me. That should be the greatest. Greatest incentive by the grace of God to live a life pleasing to Him, so that your life is consistent with His presence. This is a story told of a prince who lived in a very unprincely way. The kid was always misbehaving, always getting into trouble, always bringing disgrace upon the royal family. They tried beating him, they tried punishing him by depriving him of things, they tried everything they could think of, and nobody would succeed. And finally one fellow said, Give me some time with him, let me have a chance, and nothing else was working, so they said, Okay, you can have a crack at him. And this tutor took a whole different approach. He took time to tell the prince who he was. He told him of his heritage. He told him of the name that he bore. He told him of the house that he represented. He described to him his identity. And then he said, Prince, live like a prince. And the story says that it worked. Because he realised his identity. Now I've tried with my kids saying, kids, live like a harass and somehow it doesn't seem to have the same effect. Why is it? Because somehow the notion of living like a harris doesn't produce The great aspiration of all that's involved in that. But brothers and sisters, when I say to you, live like the temple of God, that has meaning. When I say to you that you are the temple so live like the temple. That's no idle injunction. You and I bear his presence. And therefore, that's the greatest incentive for us to deal seriously with those contradictions in our life that would compromise the presence of our Father in us. And finally, the last thing. Is that you be encouraged and be content because the Lord Himself is with you. In Hebrews chapter 13, in verse 5 and 6, we read, Keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you have. Because the Lord has said, Never will I leave you, never will I forsake you. And so we can say with confidence, The Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? What needs do you have? Be content, for the Lord is with you. What fears rob you of peace in your life? Be content, for the Lord is with you. is with you. And one day he will bring us to him face to face. Think about and write down where in your life that is the greatest encouragement to you and where you need to have that encouragement applied. For you and I are the temple of the living God and bear his presence. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, help us to understand what it means. To stand in the presence of the living God. Lord, how we have taken your presence for granted, because you have made it so accessible. It's so easy for us when we think of the fact that we're the temple of the living God to take out of that all of the content of the Old Testament, all of the holiness, all of the majesty, all of the grandeur. That is displayed. Father, we pray that you would help us to understand something of the majesty of your presence. So that we as your people might seek to root out those sins in our lives that compromise Your honor. Help us to understand that we bear your presence, we bear your name. How we praise you for our grace. That has made sinners like us to be vessels fit to bear the very presence of the living God. And how we long for your presence to come. When we shall be with you and see you face to face, and there shall be no more even walking by faith, and knowing that we bear your presence. But face to face We shall see you as you are. And to the full extent that creatures are able to bear it, we shall enjoy your presence. Lift us up, make us content. Make us free from all fear, free from all greed, free from all complacency in our struggle against sin, because we realize that we are your temple.