That Alan preached two weeks ago about the need we have for confident Christians and that confidence only comes from our relationship with God. And last week I preached on the fact that that we have been truly freed And that that freedom means that we are not able to offer anything back to God in order to secure our position. There is no way we can retain our independence and control over our lives as we relate to Jesus. And this morning is the more pointed of my two sermons because it has a very, very clear application for us. And as I get into the the message this morning, I want you to realize that this is a message that is pointed at all of us. The the staff, the elders, the deacons, the trustees, and the members. It's it's not it's not coming from the pulpit out. It it's it's permeating us all But as we begin this morning, I want you to look at the top of your outline. And I want you to notice the little statement there, I'm buying with colons. I want you to take a few seconds to think about what it is your life is buying. Now I'm not asking you to think about what you believe you ought to be investing your life in or what you think you ought to be achieving with your life, I'm asking you to think, as my life is lived now, when I'm gone, I will have bought And I want you to think about that and I want you to actually write it down. I want you to write down on the top of your outline what you believe your life is going to accomplish or to buy. Now as an aside, I hope all of you are busy enough writing down your own answers, you're not looking over at your neighbors. Don't want to get good ideas or to uh to spread any guilt. If you need more time I'd encourage you to take it later, but we do need to move on. As we begin, let me open us in prayer. Lord, it is difficult for us to gather and to grasp the depth of the freedom that you've given us. And we can reflect upon that day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute, year by year, and not fathom the depths And yet, Lord, you've not given us freedom simply to be free. You've given us freedom with a purpose. And I pray this morning as you reveal to us more of that purpose through Paul's writings. That you would reveal as well what we are to do with our individual freedom and with the corporate freedom that we as Columbia Presbyterian have. being here in Howard County and its surrounding environment. Lord speak to us. But more than speaking, we ask that you would send your spirit in a way that we would be filled with the power to accomplish the thing. That you've called us to do. And Lord, as we move into our new facility, please use us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Christian freedom. It's an amazing concept. It it it is something that is so difficult for us to grasp like we prayed. It could take the rest of our lives to contemplate and still not plum the death And yet there are two points about our Christian freedom this morning that we have to understand before we move on to what Paul's getting to in the bulk of this passage. 1 Corinthians 9, verses 19 through 23. I hope the blanks are more appropriately spaced this week. I did check them. But number A under number one, Christian freedom is genuine. It is not a pretense. It is not an illusion. Last week we spoke about our independence as being illusionary. Our freedom is not. Our freedom is the most genuine, most foundational thing we can cling to because it's directly given to us by Jesus. We talked last week about the fact that our freedom is so great that we can do nothing to participate in our justification. We are free. God has called us to himself. He's given us a relationship with himself, and we belong to him and cannot be lost. It's not something we earn, it's not something we maintain, it is a freedom in Jesus. And you have to understand that. But we're also free from the demands, that's the next blank, of others If you look at 1 Corinthians 9, 19, Paul speaks, Though I am free and belong to no man, I make myself a slave to everyone. To win as many as possible. To the Jews I became like a Jew to win the Jews. To those under the law, I became like one under the law, though I myself am not under the law. So as to win those under the law. To those not having the law, I became like one not having the law, though I am not free from God's law, but am under Christ's law, so as to win those not having the law. To the weak, I became weak, to win the weak. I have become all things to all men, so that by all possible means I might save some. I do all this for the sake of the gospel, that I may share in its blessings. We are free from the demands of others. As you sit there with one another, you cannot demand of each other anything in terms of your relationship with God You're free from one another. You're free from the others in other churches. You are free From all people. Paul says, I'm free from all men. And yes, that may mean that he's saying he's not a a human slave. But it's saying more than that. He's free from the demands that others might place on him And he gets into that earlier in the chapter with his apostolic liberty. He's free to have a spouse, but he chooses not to. He's free to demand support, but he chooses not to. He has tremendous freedom from the Corinthians, but he's chosen to become a slave to them. And we'll see why. But there's a couple of points that I want you to understand as we begin. You see, first of all, we talked in the beginning, referring back to last week, that we are free from the demands of the law. The law has no power for us in justification. Paul's now pointing out in this passage that not only is he free from the law, he is free from the demands of others. No human can affect your relationship with God. No human can hold you away from God. No human can draw you closer. You are free from the demands of the people around you. There is no intermediary between God and man, but the man, Jesus Christ. You're free. You're not their slave. On top of that, they are not your judge, no matter how they want to judge you. And the corollary is no matter how you want to judge others, you are not their judge. In Romans 14, Paul's speaking of a similar sense of freedom And he says in verses 3 and 4 of chapter 14, speaking of dietary laws which had been overturned with the work of Jesus, he says, the man who eats everything must not look down on him who does not. The man who does not eat everything must not condemn the man who does, for God has accepted him. Who are you to judge someone else's servant? To his own master he stands or falls, and he will stand, for the Lord will make him stand. Paul speaking in both of these passages, Romans 14 and 1 Corinthians 9, about a section of laws or cultural norms. They've been put in place. Specifically, he's speaking of the ceremonial laws, the cultic laws that were put in place at Sinai. As God said, this is how you are to worship me You are to eat certain things and you are not to eat certain things. You are to offer sacrifices in particular ways, in particular places. You are to worship me in particular times and manners. And Paul's pointing out in Romans 14 and in 1 Corinthians that those are what he terms in Greek audiocora. Better translation in English is they become indifferent. They're not issues that relate to our salvation. They're not central items. You see, in the Old Testament, there were really three parts to the law. There was the civil law which presents which was was particularly applicable to Israel as a kingdom, and it was how the government was to operate. There were the cultic laws, the laws of how God had said he was to be worshipped. And there were the moral laws. Last week we spoke about the fact that the moral laws continue to be our guide, not for salvation, but they are our guide as to what God is delighted for us to do. They're what he wants us to do. They're not commandments that decide our salvation or our damnation, but they are what God says pleases him, and if we are in relationship with him, we'll obey them. Because we want to please the one we love. But as far as the civil laws, Israel is no longer a kingdom. In the time between the Roman fall and the the judgment of Rome in seventy AD in nineteen forties. And there's still a question today as whether Israel in Palestine today is a theocratic kingdom. But they are the only ones to whom those laws might apply if They are that kingdom. But the cultic laws have been overthrown. Their whole point was to point to Jesus. Jesus is called the Paschal Lamb because he is the sacrificial lamb that was used in the Passover. And all of the things that Paul's pointing to in Romans 14 and in in 1 Corinthians are in this area of of indifferent items because they have been completed in the work of Jesus. There's no longer a need for dietary laws. You don't draw close to God through your dietary laws. You don't draw close to God by worshiping in the tabernacle or the temple. The synagogue is a sufficient place, and now the church. And so there are things that Paul is saying here are indifferent items, and you cannot judge one another on the basis of how you live with those indifferent items. It was no longer appropriate to judge whether or not one could be related to God whether by on the basis of whether he ate meat or not. It was no longer appropriate to judge whether one was related to God on the basis of the various celebrations that the Jews had kept. Tabernacles. Etc. Jesus had overshadowed them. He had fulfilled them. He had done what they pointed to. And you can't judge one another. You are not to judge one another and you are not to allow yourself to be judged. You are free from the demands of others. The difficulty here though, as a side note that I want to step into briefly, is that we tend to be a people who love to take in different items and make them central. So we don't tend to have a problem as to whether or not people today are vegetarians or meat eaters. We don't have a problem with whether or not um Um you do a number of the things that that that were central for the church is it established its identity. Was it a Jewish organization or was it was it something new? Was it something that was broader And last week we were talking about how the Jews had come to re-establish the law as the means of justification, which is a step beyond what Paul's talking about. So Paul's talking even here that it's not only an issue of justification, it's not an issue of judgment or of unity. And we have our own adiopora items today, our own issues of indifference. Issues such as do you drink alcohol? Is that an appropriate thing to do? Is that an issue of salvation? What kind of dress do you wear? When you come to church, do you feel like you have to wear a particular kind of clothing? Or you're not worshiping? Well, if that's the way you feel, if that's your conviction, that's wonderful. Wear what you must wear. Stand or fall before your master, but don't judge the person next to you. In California, one of the professors that I went to seminary with, I also went to church with. We had a progressive church in California where since it was always warm and never winter, sort of like in Narnia, it was always winter and never Christmas, but it was the opposite in California, it was always warm and never winter. A lot of people would wear no jacket and no ties. Sometimes they wouldn't even wear a shirt with a collar. And we began to be known to some degree as a casual dress church. And the professor said, well that's great. I'm glad people can come and worship that way. But he also noticed that there would be people who would come to church that would not be comfortable if everybody Didn't dress up. So although Al would love to have worn more casual clothes and he had no problems with whether or not he was worshiping depending upon what he was wearing, he wore a suit. Not just a jacket and flax, but he wore a suit because he knew that invariably a visitor would come dressed up and feel like they had gone in the wrong clothes. There was a family that visited and stayed with us here in in Maryland as a church for a period of time, and they were relating to me an experience in their previous church They'd been out doing ministry in the community and there was a woman who was a diaconal contact, somebody who needed their financial help and was open to the gospel and was eager to go to church, but she didn't have a dress. She had some slacks and some nice clothes, but she didn't have a dress. And and because of the background of this particular church, she knew that she would go to church and be completely out of place if she wore cans. And so she never went. And the person that was relating the story to me said, But it won't matter. Come. It's much more important that you worship with us and that you praise Jesus with us. But she found out later on in talking to some of the women in the church that had that woman come and pant, she would have been scorned. You see, we have issues where we judge. We have issues that ought to be indifferent. That we elevate to being issues of importance. Another one could be smoking. As we move into our new facility, I detest cigarette smoke I detest it, but you know I hope to smell it sometimes when we go to church because I want people to come and and and be involved with the gospel. And as much as I'll cough and wheeze, I'd sit next to them. Because I think they need to hear the gospel too. And I don't even think that it's going to be one of those issues where if they come and smoke, we're going to we're going to so sanctify them that God's going to speak to them and they're going to stop just because they're coming to church. It's a health issue. It's a concern. But it's not an issue of relationship with Jesus. So Christian freedom is genuine. It's real. We have to enjoy it and we have to allow it. But Paul also points out in verse 21 that Christian freedom is also limited, and that's point B. He says in verse 21 that he became to those not having the law as one not having the law. And then he adds this though I am not free from God's law, but am under Christ's law. One of the things that you might be thinking as you listen to this text and as you listen to me preach it is, whoa, no limits. Law has no point whatsoever. And that's not true. And that is not what I'm saying. Because Jesus says in John 14, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. The point is not, as we learned last week, the point is not that we are justified by our obedience to the law, and the point is not in this passage that we are independent of the law. For the law is God's statement of what pleases him. And as we are freed in Christ, our desire is to please him. And Paul's saying, yes, on issues where it is indifferent I am free to be whatever the people around me need me to be. He is not saying on issues of morality On issues of obedience, where the choice comes down, do I obey God or do I serve the people? I cannot serve without obeying God. For if I become so loose that there is no truth to cling to, then I simply conform and I don't bring. And Paul's concern is not to conform to the world and have a comfortable existence. His concern is to conform to Christ and speak that without barrier to those around him. And so our freedom is limited. It is not anarchy, it is not independence, it is conforming to God So while we are free from the demands of the law for justification, and while we are free from the demands of people, we cling to what pleases God. And that leads us to that statement in bold that if you forget everything else and remember nothing but this, I want you to remember this. The blanks go like this: we are now free to give What others cannot demand of us. We are free to give what others cannot demand of us. That's true of our relationship with God. Because he does not demand. He says, These are what please me. And as I make you a new creature, I know that you will do what pleases me. But God doesn't say, if you fail, you're damned to hell. What he says is, I love you, I have redeemed you, I will help you, I will transform you, and you will be in love with me, obedient to me, pleasing me And seeing my delight in you. And with people, we are now free to give what they cannot demand of us You see, Christian freedom leads to service. And I want you to look at that chart there that's not filled out, because what Paul does In his own life, and specifically in his passages, he follows the model of Jesus. And let me just go down some of the things, a very brief, very inexhaustive list of what Jesus has done. Jesus left heaven. He had created the universe. He had created angelic beings. He had created earth. He had created us. And he was in heaven, receiving the worship that was his by right, from perfect, unstained, unblemished, angelic beings. Who could see him face to face, who could acknowledge his glory. And he left it. Voluntarily He became a servant. You see, he came down and he didn't come to the the the thrones in Jerusalem He went to a stable. He didn't come as a king, he came as a slave, living in poverty, enduring all that we have to endure. He didn't demand the honor that was due him. As he entered in Jerusalem, when he was dedicated at the temple, he could have proclaimed his Divinity. He could have demanded the worship of the high priests and the people as an infant. When he returned at twelve years old, he went to teach But he humbly taught. And the priests and the teachers in the temple were amazed at his wisdom, but didn't make a comment about his authority. He veiled himself. And he accomplished redemption. You see, he performed that sacrifice of both passive and active obedience. Actively obeying the law in a way that we could not, that he might offer a perfect sacrifice on the cross as he passively died, when he could have called down legions of angels. That's the model that Jesus left. And that's the model that Paul followed. You see, Paul was of a of a powerful family. He had political and religious and social status. And he could have stayed in Israel as a Hebrew of Hebrews and enjoyed his comfort. But he left Israel. He left his family. He left all that he could have held on to. For the church. Paul also became a servant. And in this very passage, this very chapter, he's defending the fact that although he had the right to be supported, he chose not to. He could have gone to the churches that he served and said, I need you to pay my way. And he said, no, I refuse. Because then you take my ability to boast away. That I'm doing this voluntarily as a gift. He didn't demand the honor that was due him, and in this very epistle in the Corinthians, he's being attacked. His apostolic authority, his very honor, are being attacked by the church that he began And he does not he does not assert in any way like he could his honor. And he does not demand that they submit to him. He holds forth the truth of the gospel. And hopes for their redemption. And Paul, while he could not accomplish redemption, proclaimed it. And he spent his life telling people who otherwise would not have heard what was available to them because of what Jesus had done. You see, Paul gave freely what others could not demand of him. And that's what he's telling us in this passage. If you look on the back of the outline, it speaks again of Paul's sacrificing his freedom to win others, but then it asks us, who am I called to win? When you're at home this week, I want you to take that third column that says me, and I want you to reflect upon how you want to follow the model of Paul and of Christ. But I want you now to think about who are you called to win? One of the best things in the living proof small group study that's on lifestyle evangelism is a list they want you to draw up that's called the ten most wanted lists. It's the people that you have regular contact with, that you have an affinity for, that you know you can influence And those are the people that you are called to pray for regularly and to actively seek to serve. Not to badger, not to convince, but to serve. Who are we called to win? Now I need we need to look at that not only individually, but we as a church need to look at that as well because we are placed in a particular place. We're in Harrow County, Central Maryland We have a particular personality, and there are certain things that we can do that will be within our stretch, and there are certain things that are not going to be within our stretch. There are certain things that we can change about ourselves that we can legitimately change, and certain things that we cannot legitimately change because it's going beyond ourselves. point. Maybe God will change us more in the future, but but who are we called to serve? And I think we need to identify that. It's also based upon who's here. Frankly we need to call it single. And couples, parents and kids, secularists, humanists, we're here to call those that surround us And we need to think about what we need to do in order to accomplish that. Now this could sound an awful lot like church management, church growth, church marketing. You know, how much are we going to prostitute ourselves in order to be a successful growing church? Another way to phrase that question is was Paul a spiritual communion? Was he doing what he did simply to be successful? Are we being called to do this because leadership of the church says, well, gee, we need to be successful by reaching all sorts of people. And so we need to change. Forget your conviction. Forget what call God has called you to be and do. And if you can answer the question about Paul being a chameleon, yes, then I think there is reason to charge me. But I don't think he's a chameleon. Because what Paul's doing here is really significant. What he's doing is leaving his comfort zone. Paul was a Jew. Paul was comfortable as a Jew. Paul enjoyed being a Jew. He was successful as a Jew. You recall that two weeks ago Alan was preaching on Philippians. And Paul was pointing out his pedigree. And Paul wasn't uncomfortable with that until the road to Damascus. For he realized that he'd been giving his life to something that wasn't worth giving it to We have to ask ourselves this morning, are we doing what we do because we have a conviction that it's right? Are we doing what we do because it's comfortable? Again, freedom is both genuine and limited. We need to be willing and able to decide what it is that we're called to change on that is indifferent. We also need to be very, very clear on what we're called to hold firm to. There are issues of morality that we cannot change. We cannot proclaim that homosexuality is acceptable as a lifestyle because the Bible is very clear. We cannot proclaim that abortion is an acceptable form of birth control because it's very clear that it's the taking of life. We cannot compromise one iota on morality. There are a lot of things that we do in this church that would be very easy to change if we didn't have them as convictions. And would be very popular with the people around us. But we must hold fast to what is right. We must hold fast to what cannot change. And if you ever believe that we have begun to change on issues where we must hold fast, issues of morality, then your first and foremost duty is to go to your elder and to question them. But if you're unwilling to be challenged to change in an area of indifference, your first duty is to get on your knees. My first duty is to get online. And you are to see whether or not your freedom has become your comfort zone. And whether or not God is seeking to shape you in a different way. Paul was willing to change his comfort zones and he left Israel. He went to the Gentile world. He was willing to live a lifestyle that was much different from what he'd grown up with. He didn't have to keep kosher. One of the worst things to a Jew under the Jewish system was to eat in the home of the Gentile. And yet Paul consistently began to do that because he knew. The fellowship around a table and the opportunity to reach people with the truth at a table when you share their food is incredible. So he changed. He sacrificed his comfort. He never sacrificed morality. Paul also wasn't concerned about whether he was approved. The only purpose I know for a chameleon to change its color is the self-defense. Comedians like the rest of us don't like to be attacked and they certainly don't like to be eaten. I know I don't believe that Paul was enough of a masochist that he enjoyed the attack. But even in the in the section that follows our passage today, it's clear that he was not fleeing attack. He was not fleeing the forces that wanted to assault him. Actually I think it's earlier. He talks about the fact that he is unwilling oh, pardon me, it's last week's sermon. Galatians chapter five. He speaks about the fact in chapter 5, verse 11, but brothers, if I'm still preaching circumcision, why am I being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been abolished. As for those agitators, I wish that they would go the whole way and emasculate themselves. Paul is never willing to flee a fight. He's not willing to defend himself by sacrificing even on the indifferent items. He's not a communion. He's an emblem. He is an ensign. He is the flag. The lightning rod that draws the attack. Because he believes so strongly that what needs to be done is to preach the truth of the gospel without the encumbrances. That aren't necessary any longer. And so Paul is making priority decisions without sacrificing on principle. We have to ask ourselves what barriers do our comfort zones build? We're comfortable with worship in a certain way. We're comfortable with dealing with people in a particular fashion One of the things that's been something that I've observed more frequently lately is in spite of the fact that we have more visitors, we really see ourselves as a close club. And we speak in a spiritual shorthand Here's the old joke about the group of friends that knew each other so well over such a long period of time that they no longer told the jokes. They simply called out the numbers. And everybody laughed because they remembered the joke. We can't be that way. We can't speak in a shorthand on experiences that we have shared. And share that deep intimacy simply because we know each other, because if we do that here on Sunday mornings, we have left out a large number of people We have to speak, understanding that there's a number of people who don't understand us, who haven't shared our history, who may not have shared our relationship with Jesus. But who have come because they're hungry. And as we move into the building next week, that's going to be even more significant because we will have visitors that we will have no idea how they even found out that we exist We have got to think not only of our comfort zones, but of theirs. Well, let me ask this question. Paul asks it in verse 23. Am I free to refuse to serve? Am I free to say no? If this is really freedom and nobody can demand it of us, can I say no and be accepted? Can I be the person I want to be and live in my comfort zone? Well, there's a couple of questions that have to follow that one up. First of which is what prompts my refusal? Why don't I want to do what will please Jesus? Second question that can be a better statement of the first is can I love God if I refuse to serve Him? For you see, God loves the elect. And there are a lot of elect who are not yet brought in. And God intends to use us as a church to be one of the agencies to bring them in And if we pretend to love him by loving ourselves and refusing to love them, there are legitimate questions about whether or not we've participated in that freedom. There are legitimate questions about whether or not that is our relationship with God. Paul says it so strongly, he says this. I do all this for the sake of the gospel that I may share in his life. You see, Paul's really asking the question, if I don't become a servant, and if I don't freely give what others cannot demand Do I have a part? And that's a question each of you have to answer for yourselves, and I have to answer for myself. But really briefly, because I've gone over time, I want to look at the last section, chap section three, the implications for us. And I'd I'd love to have almost another message on this because it's it's there's enough here for us to go into. But the first thing we have to do is we have to focus on a both and. We have to focus on God and on the lost. That's going to have implications for our worship. Again, we can't use a religious shorthand that's comfortable and understandable to us and saves us time at the expense of pointing out to those who are worshiping with us that they're not a part. This is not their home, and they don't belong. Music in the vernacular. I love the old hymn. Though sacred head now wounded will stir my heart till the day that I die. And can it be will bring tears every time I sing. But we have a people who cannot understand that vernacular. Dress in which people are comfortable to come and join them. And that means a a variety You know, there's very few things that I would say are going to be parameters for what's appropriate in worship. Is it going to lead us to focus on Jesus or is it going to be immodest and draw our attention away? If it's modest and it's focus it's allowing us to focus on Jesus, it's appropriate. If it's immodest, then it's making a statement, and we may have to address that. But those are two different issues. Casual does not mean immodest. We are to fulfill our commission. We have been given two commissions in this in this section, one of them is verse 22. Where Paul says this. To the weak I became as the weak to win the weak. And then he says, I have become all things to all men so that by all possible means I might save some. And that's reflecting what the Lord has told us as he ascended. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. We have the privilege of staying and making disciples. We have to do that. We have to pay the price. There will be a cost to us in our small groups as the groups either grow, divide, or send people out to start new groups because as people come in they're going to need to be in fellowship. There will be a cost of going out of your way to greet new people. Sunday is a precious time to be able to visit with your friends. You may not see them the rest of the week. It may be impossible to connect on the phone. But now the priority is not to enjoy a good dinner, but to feed the starving. People are coming who need to know us and we must welcome them. We must sacrifice. We need to practice hospitality. We're a busy people and it's a difficult thing to do. But the best place for you to greet new people is in your own home. We need to welcome them. And we have to expect competition, the staff ministries, and for the space of ministries. We've avoided a major brewha with Wednesday nights where Christian Service Brigade has three groups, pioneer girls have several groups, and hoops, all would like to use the gym at the same time. But we're willing to compromise because we want to see God use us as a people to reach others. And we can't do that if blood is flying. We also have to be careful who will play on basketball court, but But then lastly we need to expect the rewards. One of the greatest rewards that we can expect is found in Matthew 25, verses 21 and 23. And I can't say it better than than Matthew says it, so I want to read it to you. His master replied, Well done, good and faithful servant, you have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master's happiness. And to the second service he says as well, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master's happiness. As we are faithful, God will be pleased with us, and that is immeasurable. We can also expect the rewards of the joy of having new siblings. We have yet to see what wondrous things will come to CCC as we receive new people, the new gifts that they'll bring, the new opportunities for ministry, the new vision. But I think even more significantly, like Paul, we will have the confidence that we share in the gospel. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you for the calling that you've given us to freedom. And Lord, we ask that you would work in our lives that we might be freely given to those who have no demand upon us. And Lord, most especially we ask that we would give to you freely by serving you to accomplish the purposes that you have called us to accomplish. Thank you. In Jesus' name.