Good morning. As I uh have reflected on this last week, I wanted to start this service, the sermon, with a thank you. Last week many of you gathered together to bid my family farewell. And before that, many of you had sacrificially given gifts to express tangibly your compassion, your concern, your affection for us. And I just wanted to thank you. And let you know that those gifts were multitude. They're actually going to be very, very helpful for us as we go out in a week from Monday to look at homes. We'll be able to cover our entire trip, our house-hunting trip, with the gift that you guys have given. So thank you, thank you very much. Turning from that thought, I want to turn to the Word of God. And so I want to open us in prayer as we look at 1 Peter chapter 1. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Almighty God, we come to you because you are, because you are alone our hope. And because you bid us to come, you invite us, you call us, indeed you command us into your presence. And so we come. We come with expectation, we come with hope, we come as we are. And so we ask that you would meet us, that you would open our eyes, that you would open our ears That you'd open our minds and our hearts and that in meeting you in your word this morning, you would transform us. We pray this in your precious name. Amen. Last week, those of you who are here know that we looked at this passage. Um I'm going to read it in a moment, but last week as we looked at it, we looked at what it says about who God is and what he's done. That's right to do. But but it's not complete because God has given us relationship with him, and so we need to see this word not only And in a focus upon who God is and what He's done, but in a focus on our relationship with Him and how that relationship is is given to us shaped and and recognize what God in that relationship calls us to. And so as we look today we're we're looking more at the issue of of what this passage talks about in terms of the truth as it is applied to us. So let me read this passage. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope, to the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. As we look at this, as we recognize the truth, that God is speaking and telling us One of the things that I've been working through with the classing this semester is the whole issue of lies that we believe and truths we do not believe. And as we look at this, there are several things that we tend to think, respond to, that are not really accurate. Okay. Where was I? That's okay, we're back. There are many things that we believe that are are are not true. And Scripture confronts us with those unbeliefs. Scripture confronts us with the need to recognize the truth And as we begin, I want to begin with this wondrous thought of God's mercy. Peter writes, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who through his great mercy And and if we don't take account of the mercy God has demonstrated, the mercy that He has and is demonstrated because He has that mercy, we we lose Pretty much everything that follows. What is God's mercy? God's mercy is that He the Father sent His Son to live an obedient life To die a death he did not need to die, to redeem a people that he loves with passion. And to demonstrate that power and that gift of new life by rising from the dead and and and leading us to heaven. Please, as you listen to this passage, as you listen to me, keep that amazing, astounding, mind-boggling truth before you. Because that's the foundation of all that Peter is going to say. And so one of the things that as we as we come to this passage, we're told that according to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope. One of the things that we tend to believe is true is that we are who we are. That's just who I am And and that may be a period, but it may even have a following statement that says you'll just have to adjust to it. We may even be so audacious as to say God made me this way. But that's a lie. God created us in the garden, perfect and without sin. We fell into sin, and God has actually recreated us. He's given us a new birth. We've been born again. And so Scripture tells us in 2 Corinthians 5, therefore if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creation. The old has passed away, behold, the new has come. In Ezekiel 36, chapter 36, verse 27, God promises, I will put my spirit within you. And cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. Galatians chapter 5, beginning in verse 16, going to verse 22 and 23. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and ye will not gratify the desires of the flesh. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. Patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. And we say that's just who I am. I won't change. I can't change. And God says, No, I have changed you. I've given you the fruit of the Spirit. I've given you the presence of the Spirit in your life. I've given you a new life. I have redeemed you. You cannot help but change. How dare we stand before God and others and say, that's just who I am How dare we be hopeless as we long for change and believe that's just who I am? I can't change. I don't have hope. I'll never be more. How dare we? God has said he's changing us. God has said he's given us new life. God has said he's given us new birth. God has given us his spirit to sanctify us. We will change. We are changed. That's part of the hope. New birth to a living hope We struggle. Where is your hope? What is the ground of the foundation of your hope? Is it on a thing? Is it in a person? Is it past or present or future? The lie that we find ourselves wrestling with here is probably one of two lies. The first of which is life is simply to be endured. Life is hard, and then you die. Well, that's of the same vein as that's just who I am. It's a fatalism, it's a hopelessness, it's a statement of powerlessness. Life is to be endured. And it may be even something that we take this passage and say, well, but but Peter says That we have an inheritance and that inheritance is safe and secure and that inheritance is our focus. And and and we we have a God who's keeping us, who's guarding us, and so the issue is just endure, just wait. Good times are coming. The other lie that we struggle with is get all the pleasure you can get. Find pleasure where you find it because because it's really Up to you, and it's in a sense few and far between. Find the pleasure you can find, focus on that, enjoy that, and endure. But, brothers and sisters, God says to us that He's given us new birth to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. How dare we think of powerlessness? Look at the power that God demonstrates when he raises Jesus from the dead. Power. Power exercised by the person of God as He cares for us. And we settled for iPhone four And we settle for the next computer upgrade, or we settle for the next car upgrade, or we settle for the next game upgrade. You kids can't escape this. We settle for trinkets and baubles. And we find ourselves placing our hope on the joy that we'll receive in in the technology or in the comfort or in it maybe a promotion. It may be a house. It may be a relationship. But we find joy where we find it and think that that's enough. But it never is. It's never intended to be. It's not even icing on a cake It's a giveaway. We have hope. And we have hope because we have the person of God who has set his heart on us, who loves us, has redeemed us, and cares for us in this fallen world. If we could know what God knows We would choose what God chose. It's not our circumstances It's not even our knowledge. It's not the inheritance, although that's wondrous and grand. It's God who is the source of our hope. Who loves us unshakably and is in control and is giving us his care. Let's move on to the great power. God, our Father, by His great power, keeps us safe. The problem here, as I see it, as I've seen it in other people and as I've studied it. is in what we mean by safe. We we tend to believe that We're safe if we're comfortable. We're safe if we're happy. We're safe if life is good And so if if our circumstances deny that God is keeping us safe, we believe that God has failed. We believe that God is not doing his job because my circumstances don't measure up to my definition of safety. Who's God? When I believe that lie, functionally, I believe that I'm God. I'm the judge. I'm the one that defines safety. I'm the one that defines success. I'm the one that defines com And I judge God. And I tell him he has failed. How dare we? How dare we? God does not promise us comfort or ease. God does not tell us that our circumstances are going to be fun and Satisfying. God tells us that He will keep us for our inheritance that will be revealed in the last time He is guarding our inheritance. He is guarding us Chapter 13 of the book of Hebrews. Keep your life free from the love of money and be content with what you have. For he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So we can confidently say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? Do you hear that? God is saying it's not your circumstances, it's not your money, it's not those things that you would otherwise be content with. It is me. I'm your hope. The Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? God's great power is clearly revealed. It's revealed by creation. It's revealed by redemption. It's revealed by ongoing providence. God's purpose and power is unquestionable. And this passage is trying to, it's not trying, it's succeeding. It will bring us to understand the truth that already exists and how that must shape our perspectives. Let go of the lies. Hold on to God. He is your helper. You will not fear. And it's not just what man can do to you, it's it's that your circumstances don't define you. Your circumstances don't tell you whether you're loved or not loved. Your circumstances don't tell you whether God is powerful or not powerful. God is doing more than you can understand. And God says, I love you. And God says, I love you at the cross and at the tomb. Cling to that. So how do we live now? How do we live now? For some of us we may come from a tradition where where we have the mindset that that what Peter's saying here really is calling us Through the various trials to endure. Oh, I'm sorry, but that's the wrong passage. Here we go. That's 2 Peter. He is going to talk about that we we will be stretched. He's going to talk about following this passage that we will be tested by various trials. But he's not telling us to wait. Peter's not communicating to us that in our hope all we do is focus on the inheritance, recognize that we're safe, and gut it out. There's a movie that I have watched many times The main character was a meteorologist, and Pete Winston after the first service told me he thought that was wonderful. It's his favorite movie. And and that the fact that the meteorologist would get credit in this congregation was a wonderful thing. But that's not at all the point of the story. Oh, I'm sorry. I hate to do that. The story is about a man who's looking for a better job He's got a job he's going to go to, but in b in the time before he goes to his new job, he has to go off and do this off-site broadcast as a weatherman. And so he's busy thinking about his new job. He's focusing on his new job. He hates where he is. He hates what he's doing. And he just can't endure this delight. He's impatient. He's waiting because he must, but he's impatient. And and so as he does this broadcast, he he he stays the night because there's a storm and and he wakes up the next morning, but it's not the next morning. He wakes up at the same time he woke up the day before, he wakes up to the same piece of music that he heard the day before, and he realizes that he's living the day he lived before. And so he goes through this Change. At first, his life is all about getting out of this loop. He tries to kill himself in all sorts of creative ways. Then every time he kills himself, the next conscious thought he has is it's six o'clock and he's hearing the same music and he's back to the same day. And so after a while he realizes he's not going to be able to kill himself and end the cycle, and so he begins to think about what do I do? And he devotes himself to his pleasure. He realizes that he can do anything he wants because as mad as people are at the end of the day, the next morning they're going to wake up and it will be yesterday. And so he goes through a period of time where he's throwing himself into his own personal pleasure, but he finds it hollow and empty. And so he ultimately comes to the point where he says, This is just not what I want to do. And he grows. And so he begins to devote himself to his betterment and he takes piano lessons and he take he takes uh opportunity to learn poetry and he does all sorts of things. to better himself, but he finds that bettering himself is still yet unsatisfying. And so he progresses and he begins to realize that that he's able to use his time to develop himself as one who can serve others. And so he finally begins to really think about what's going on outside of his sphere And he looks at other people not as tools to use for his pleasure or for his growth, but he looks at people to be served. And so he begins to save the kid who falls out of the tree and he saves the old man who's dying of hunger and he he saves other people. And one night he goes to bed and he wakes up and it's a different song. Because it's tomorrow. Brothers and sisters, are are you living now simply for then Are you enduring and simply waiting? Because I will tell you that's not enough. Scripture tells you that's not enough. God calls you to mourn. God calls you not simply to endure, but to serve And so this passage begins as Peter talks about the God and Father of our Lord Jesus with reverence and worship. Blessed be the God and Father. So the service we offer as we begin to see God more clearly is to worship Him. And that's certainly an essential component of knowing Jesus and knowing the Father and knowing the Spirit. We cannot know them without praising them. We cannot know them without worshiping them. And and so we come and we come together, we come together as a group on Sunday. We worship individually and corporately in families. We join with communities and we worship. But the scripture is filled with condemnations of worship that do not lead to service. So, what does our worship compel us to do? Absolutely anything that God calls us to do. We're worshiping God, and when He calls us and commands us, when He says to you, love one another as I have loved you. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. That's a call to service. If we love Jesus, we cannot ignore his call. We can't simply worship and wait. We can't simply believe and wait. We're called to serve. We're called to build his kingdom We're called to do everything we can in the time he gives us. One of the things that's absolutely essential for me to be able to move forward in that kind of service is to recognize that. I've received grace. In chapter one, verse thirteen, Peter says, Therefore, preparing your minds for action Being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. In all the English translations, there is a future component to that. I don't believe the Greek requires that there be exclusively a future component, the grace that will be brought to you. What the Greek says is a present participle, the grace being brought to you in the revelation of Jesus. We've just seen in 1 Peter that the revelation of Jesus has happened in his first coming, we know that there will be a greater revelation of Jesus in the second coming. But the truth of the matter is the grace that we've received, we have received. It is being brought to you. And so if we're looking for something more, we deny the ultimate value of grace that we've received. When you buy an iPhone for You know that there will be an iPhone five. We live in a world that is continually obsolete. But grace is never obsolete. Grace is always ultimate. And the grace that you've already received in coming to Christ and belonging to Him is a grace that can never be trumped. It can never be surpassed. It can never be bettered. You already have more than you can possibly ever dream of getting. There's no need to wait. There's no need to hope for something more. You have it all. And everything else isn't even icing on the cake, it's just noise. You have the grace of God given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. And so what do we do with that? What do we do with that? We don't need to wait. We should enjoy that grace. We should live in that grace. We should move in that grace. That grace should move us to worship and to service. I believe it's in this context that we should understand the parable of the talents. Master was there. He gave his servants talents and he went away. So the first he gave five talents. And that servant so loved his master that immediately, it says, he went away and invested his five talents. And over the time of his master's travels, he earned five more in order to serve and to please his master. The man who had two talents immediately went away, and over the time that his master was traveling, he earned two more talents. Because of his love for the master. Because he knew there was a day coming when his master would come back and would be able to receive the fruit of his efforts and to recognize that it came from a heart of love. The third servant received one talent. And immediately he went away, thought about what he could do, decided that what he would do would be to bury the talent so that when the master came back he could get what he'd received. Because he loved himself. His whole point was to protect himself from the master's wrath. He did not love his master. Brothers and sisters, how could you not love God the Father? How could you not love God the Son? How could you not love God the Spirit? How could you worship them in less than truth without service? The calling that we have from this passage is first and foremost to worship and to understand, but secondarily, the call is to recognize the transforming work of God who is changing you. And giving you the opportunity to demonstrate and express your love for him by serving him. And looking forward to the day of his return when you can speak to him your love. 1 Corinthians 13, verse 13 says, So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three, but the greatest of these is love. By faith we come to new life. New life gives us hope, but hope brings us to love. Love Jesus, please. Jesus, we come to you because you are the one who bids us come. You are the one who has redeemed. You're the one who has loved us well And because you love us, we are free to love you. Lord, I pray that you would move us today. To recognize your call, to recognize the freedom we have to serve you, to build your kingdom, to bring you honor To love you well. And I ask, Lord, that we would not be the same. Change us. Give us the freedom to recognize the new life that we have received and the hope that we have. Empower us. We pray to your ministry and to your service. In Jesus' name. Amen.