Chapter four, verse twelve, the text this morning, that the Lord Jesus gave his gifts, some to be various offices and pastors and teachers included. To prepare or to equip God's people for works of service or works of ministry so that the body of Christ may be built up. Let me remind you, since it's been a little while since we've been in Ephesians. May 11 was the last time. Let me remind you a little bit of the context of that. Remember that what Paul does in this book is he divides chapters 1 to 3. as your new identity in Jesus Christ. Who you are and what you have as a new creature in Jesus Christ by virtue of his death and resurrection. You have that by faith, whether or not you feel it every day. You simply have it. By virtue of your identity, by your union with him by faith. Then in chapters 4, 5, and 6, Paul talks about how you and I can experience this new identity by walking in faith. And the experience of that, very significantly, he does not begin by talking about your private personal walk with Jesus. He begins it by talking about your place within the body of Christ. He begins corporately and then moves to the individual, contrary to what most Americans would do. And so he begins with body life in chapters 4, verses 1 to 16. And do you remember that as we talked about, uh you see in your little bulletin outline there at the top? The summary of the basic flow of his thought in verses 1 to 16. He starts with the humility of Christ-like love in verse 2. Then he moves on to that experience of our body life being based on the unity of the triune God That our unity is based in his unity and our unity which is in him in verses 3 to 6. It is expressed in the diversity of our gifts in verses 7 to 11. and moves to the purpose of our maturity in Christ in verses 12 to 16. You remember that he stresses the unity of our saving grace. You see that in a larger print there. The unity of our saving grace In verses 3, verses 2 to 6, where he says, be completely humble and gentle, be patient. Bearing with one another in love, verse 3, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body. One Spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all You and I have been saved in exactly the same way as John Calvin, as Martin Luther, as Augustine, as the Apostle Paul. as the prostitute in inner city Baltimore, as the crack addict in Columbia. Exactly the same way. No difference. We are not one inch closer to God and Jesus Christ through our efforts and our character than any other person, saved off the streets, saved out of dissolution, in any other possible manner. That is the unity of saving grace. We are all bound together in Jesus Christ, and our merits are his alone. However, the diversity is in the diversity of what I call serving grace. So Paul goes right on in verse 7 with but To each of us, grace, serving grace now. It's a different slant on this. This is not saving grace. To each one of us, serving grace has been given as Christ has apportioned it This is why it says, when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train, gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. We saw how that is the source of this grace. It is the power of the incarnate. Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, who became man for us, descending to the lower earthly regions, taking the form of a servant. Who after his resurrection was raised from the dead and now is seated above all the rulers and authorities, powers and dominions he described in verse 1. That is the source of your spiritual giftedness. It is not that you have some innate talents that are somehow uh that call attention to you and your abilities. But when you minister, when you seek to meet the needs of another brother and sister in love, And that is done in the power of the risen Christ. It's to him that the glory is given, not to you. It was then he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers. The offices that he describes there as the preparers. Two, prepare. Verse twelve, God's people for works of preferred. Service so that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the stature, of the fullness of Christ. This is the most succinct statement in all of the New Testament about how the church is to function. This is the manual for Columbia Presbyterian in how we are to operate, brothers and sisters. There is nothing more fundamental, there is no more clear distillation in all of Scripture than these verses about how we are to function. The pattern is that the grace comes from Jesus through the leadership that he has ordained to you to equip and to prepare you for ministry. You are the ministers, we the elders are the equippers. That doesn't mean that we don't minister, it doesn't mean that you don't equip. It means that we basically are the pace setters for that and we establish the structures and the leadership So that equipping can take place and so that ministry is facilitated. And so there is not an absolute dichotomy here. That's clear from the rest of this epistle, as well as others that you read from Paul. But we are to set the pace and we are to establish the structure so that you as a body are liberated by the gospel and the power of the Spirit of God to equip and to do ministry. John Scott used to say, the biblical model for the church is the body, not the bus. And by that he would then go on to describe, he said, in a bus you've got one driver. You've got a couple of navigators to tell them where to go, and you've got maybe a couple of mechanics along to keep the thing moving, and the rest are the passengers who pay the fare and comment on whether they like where the the bus where the bus is going or not Uh you know, they paid their fare, they're along for the ride, and they'll you'll get their comments, but they don't do much. They just sort of sit there on the bus And Stott said that is clearly not the New Testament pattern or model for the church. It is rather the body. The body described in verse 16 From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, growing and building itself up in love as each part does its work. Each part does its ministry. And so what we are to do as the elders, the leaders, the staff pastors particularly is to equip you. It is It's absolutely vital that we keep in mind that that is our primary function and that you keep in mind that your function is the ministry. Now, this word prepare in verse 12 is a crucial word, and I want to focus on that in the rest of my time this morning. You look there at verse 12. That he's given these pastors and teachers, those are the elders today, as well as the evangelist people to bring the evangelists are those who equip and train us in bringing people into the kingdom. The pastors and teachers are those. who are equipping and helping us to mature people in the kingdom. Now, that word prepare is a word which also could be translated equip. It's a very interesting word. It's a key word. You could translate verse 12 literally that he has given pastors and teachers to equip God's saints, those are his holy ones, his set-apart ones. It's literally to equip the saints for ministry. Works of service is also the word ministry, so it is to equip the saints for ministry, or the NIV to prepare God's people for works of service. I want you to just understand though. Those are just alternate translations of exactly the same phrase in the Greek. It's to equip the saints for ministry. That's a more literal translation, actually, of what that verse is saying. That word equip, as I mentioned, is a very interesting word, and it has three shades of meaning, three sides to it that I illustrate there by this triangle. Now, if what I'm saying, going to say now sounds at all familiar to you, uh you uh may be one of those who was around here a few years ago when I did a series on this and I expanded what I'm going to say in a number of messages. I'm going to sum it up. for review for those that you have heard it and those of you who've been here just for a few years or months or weeks or whatever that have not heard it so that we're real clear on what Paul's talking about because that's how we operate as a church. I gotta switch mics. Fortunately gave Ken a little warning on this. What I want to do now is to show you, I'm just going to go down to the overhead. And you're going to fill out yours as I go along on this one. Alright? I've got to do this one-handed now, too. Alright now. This word equip in Ephesians 4. 12 has three ideas to it. The first idea, on the left side of the triangle, is the idea of restore. Paul says that the job of the leaders is to restore you for ministry. That idea of restoring has two parts to it. Each of these has two parts to it. The restoring has the idea, first of all, from sin, and secondly, from suffering. You see that illustrated. In each case, I'll give you a verse that uses, now notice I'm going to be going six verses here, two for each of the sides of the triangles. Be absolutely clear in case I don't mention it real specifically each time. In every case, the word that is used, whether it is The word restore or the other words is the exact same word in the Greek as you have in Ephesians 4. 12. The first case is Galatians chapter 6. Verse 1, where Paul talks about if anyone is caught in a sin or a fault, you who are spiritual are to restore that brother or sister. also being humble realizing that you might be caught in the same kind of thing. The word there restore that person is this word equip. So that part of the function, you see, of what we do in the body is the restoring of one another from sin. So that you're in your small group, you're in your cell. And some guy mentioned, maybe this is the the men meeting hopefully in the subgroup of this, uh saying, you know, I'm having some problems with the porno on the internet. Well, you don't just say, oh, that's nice, I'll pray for you, but there is a restoration process here. It's a gathering around that Paul talks about. Here's a guy that's being caught. That's the idea of Galatians 6. 1. He's caught in this. And so there's a surrounding. There is a restoration, a holding to accountability, a helping this brother to come on up, to be restored in Christ. Where someone is talking about they have a problem with gossip and criticism, you know, and you say, well, uh, you don't just say, you know, that's tough, we all have that problem. How can I help you in that What can we do? If you really feel like the Spirit is speaking to you, this is something that's a priority for you to repent of, to change. Yeah, I really convicted about this. There's a rest restoration process, you see, that's going on in that. This word restore is a word that was used in the book of Ezra six times to talk about restoring the walls and the temple. In Ezra, you read about how the Jews came back to the land and they restored, they built up the walls and the temple. It's the exact same word in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the Septuagint, as you have here in Ephesians 4. 12. It's the rebuilding process, you see, the restoring. The word was used of mending nets that were torn. The word was used of mending and setting broken bones. That's the idea of this word equip in Ephesians 4. 12. It's to restore something to what it was intended to be, how it originally was, to mend its brokenness. That's why it also has this idea of restoration from suffering. 1 Peter 5. 10, you also have this idea. Where Paul or Peter there talks about the fact that the grace of God is abundant. That grace that comes to us, he then says Which God gives to us. Uh let me let me read that one to you. Forget the notes if I just you have the Bible. Hopefully that'll help. First Peter um Chapter 5, verse 10, the grace of God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, will himself restore you. And make you firm, strong, firm, and established. You see, there it is God who is restoring you from what? He says, after you've suffered a little while. So you are as a Christian getting beaten around, you're getting discouraged, you're finding that that spiritual warfare is tough stuff. God is restoring you, but he uses his body. And you see, the way he uses his body is that you're in some sort of a fellowship where you are comfortable to talk about that So that involves a face-to-face kind of interaction within the body. So that as you then share that this has been a rough week and I've been having a tough time Somebody then points you to Jesus. God can restore you. Let's pray together now that God will restore you from this suffering, from this trial, from this difficulty. That's the function. That's the idea of Ephesians 4. 12 You are being equipped, you are being restored for ministry out of the sin and out of the suffering. That's the first idea. Second idea. Is the uh John's getting a little nervous over here because I don't see the clock, you see, now, and I'm just gonna have to guess what I'm doing before I get back up there and finish this thing. Second idea is the idea of supply Uh the word equipped for ministry, is that how you see that? It's not I don't want you to get seasick by my moving this triangle around too much. The idea of supply is to supply in, first of all, faith. Faith, and secondly, obedience. Terms of faith, first Thessalonians three ten Paul says there, he's talking about coming to visit the Thessalonians, and his purpose, he says, is so that night and day we pray most earnestly that we may see you again and supply. What is lacking in your faith? That word supply is the same word Ephesians 4:12, to equip. You see, the idea of equipping saints for ministry has to do with supplying you what you need for ministry. What do you need? You need faith. There is nothing more fundamental, more basic to the Christian life than faith. You came to Jesus Christ and received him into your life by faith. You walk daily to know his peace and his joy and his power. How? By faith. So there's nothing more basic in our small groups, in what we do together, in what we do as leadership, than to build your faith. Our worship services are designed to help you to increase in faith by seeing Jesus and his power. My messages are designed to help you to increase your faith, seeing the sufficiency of Christ. That is supplying you for ministry, for your own life as well as for your being able to minister to one another. So that we point one another to Jesus. He is sufficient. He's able, whatever the situation, to supply what is lacking in your faith. That's the idea. The other idea here is to supply you in obedience, to supply what is necessary. And very interesting. Paul uses that. In Hebrews chapter 13, it's one of the people's favorite benedictions. I'm actually going to preach on this later this year. But uh because this is so rich, you know the one that goes, may the God of peace, who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead that great shepherd of the sheep, our Lord Jesus. May He equip you with everything good for doing His will working in you that which is well pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ. You see, that word there, may he equip you with everything good, is this word supply. May he supply you with everything you need for doing what? His will. That's obedience. So, this idea of Ephesians 4:12, supplying, equipping you for ministry, is to equip you, to supply you with what is necessary for obedience. What's necessary. To know Scripture, so you know His will. To know a sufficiency of His Spirit in you, working in you that which is well pleasing in His sight, to remind you that He's sufficient and able to do that to help you, to hold you accountable. That is what we do, you see. It is supplying you with what is necessary in your faith and in your obedience. In order to serve and walk with Jesus Christ. That's the idea of Ephesians 4. 12. That's what we are to do as a leadership. Set the pace, provide the structures that that can happen within the body. Make sense? Alright? Third thing. Finally. Is to train you. This word is also used to speak of the idea of training by two things. First of all, by word. Secondly, by life. It's used in terms of by word in 2 Timothy 3, 16, and 17. Good thing I I put the triangle in permanent ink and the other stuff sort of coming off. The obedience didn't sort of write this on here, sorry. Hebrews 13, 20, and 21. By word, 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, by life, Luke 6, 40. Read in 2 Timothy 16, 3, 16 and 17, talks about The Word of God, all scriptures, God breathed, and is profitable for correction, for rebuke, for rebuke and correction. Let me give it to you exactly. All scripture, as God breathes, is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be thoroughly what? Equipped for every good work. It's the same word, Ephesians 4. 12. What is that saying? The word equips you, it trains you It trains you through that process of teaching, correcting, rebuking, the getting you back on the track to know the way to go. So that's our job, to be training you through Scripture, sermons. Middle hour seminars, the various other things that we do that are designed to get you into Scripture, to equip you by that Scripture. But the scripture itself is not going to do it. We just not give you all Bibles and pass them out and say, there it is. But it is also done by life. Very interesting verse. In Luke chapter 6, verse 40, the Lord Jesus uses this word. And he says this: a student is not above his teacher, but everyone who is fully trained will be like his teacher. That word trained, fully trained, is the same word, Ephesians 4. 12, equipped, supplied, trained, you see. How's he being trained there? By his teacher, by his life, you see. He's saying that when any person is uh in contact with his teacher That training process of the teacher's values, priorities, the way they live, their whole worldview is imparted to the disciple. They become like that disciple. They imitate them. That's the idea, okay? Had enough of that now? Now, you see what we're doing, if you look on the back of this thing finally, is to see that the process is that we as elders then are seeking to through the cell leaders, this is the structure that we have now primarily to be helping them in learning the word, in understanding the dynamics of life-to-life effect, to be able to help you. I don't need this one next year. Good. Thanks, Ken. Back to this one. To help you to then be in contact with the Word and in contact with other Christians that this process will be going on. So you see that in the how there, you see what we're intending to do. That in Sunday morning worship, what we're seeking to equip you To supply you with faith and what is necessary for obedience, seeing God's Word, being able to see the sufficiency of Christ. Through the Lord's Supper, we come to see Jesus' sufficient, our standing and our assurance in the gospel. of grace and all that He has supplied for us. That equips us, you see. The coalition events with the other churches in the community as we gather together, understanding the kingdom of God is larger than Columbia Presbyterian. Praise at the pavilion in September, the various prayer meetings, the various ministry opportunities. All these are designed to equip us with the other saints so that we have a bigger picture of the Lord Jesus Hear his word and respond to him. In terms of the seminar structure that we have as a church, the middle hours, the courses, exciting courses lined up for the fall that we have to help you to get into scripture, to understand what God's purpose is for you and how you can accomplish that in various ways. How to study the Bible, how to live as as uh dads and as husbands, and various other things we're going to be talking about. What we're calling the weekend getaways. I don't know if that name will stick, but that's what we're calling right now Weekend getaways are simply opportunities Friday night and all day Saturday to take one basic topic, basic topic of basic grounding in discipleship. or how to study the Bible, or some aspect of marriage, or some aspect of discipleship in some way or other, and that will just take this concentrated time, get away Hit this thing, make some decisions, do some follow-up, and be able to get grounded in some of those basic areas of the Christian life cell leader meetings where we whereby we are supplying, training, equipping those who are leading the groups so that you'll just throw people together and say, well now you guys work out how it is you're going to do it. But we're saying we're trying to give some help, some equipping as leaders for those that are going to be also facilitating this ministry going on in your groups. Or in the groups themselves. We're working on Bible overview. We gave uh pushed this uh uh Daily Chronology Bible. That was the first attempt at that. I don't know how many of you are still going in. I'm not gonna even ask But uh over a hundred people started that on January the first. How many are still going on? To get through and to understand, you know, from Genesis to Revelation in chronological order with some minimal notes uh the whole Bible uh to be able to see how the various parts fit together. We're doing other things. There are other tools that we're working on to help you to be able to get a basic grounding in the teaching and the uh content itself of scripture so that within your group you're doing that as an individual study. That's one one on just just you with somebody that's helping to encourage you in that. Or then there's the one-to-one partners, prayer partners, people that you link up with, you say, here's somebody that I can relate to and I can help this person encourage them in their faith, supply what is necessary for obedience. in their faith, the rest of these things we've talked about. And so we linked up together to meet together outside of the meetings, just one-to-one. Or in some cases in the groups, like in our group, the men meet together weekly to encourage one another. Going through Stu Weber's book, Tender Warrior. How do we apply that to our lives as husbands, as fathers, to be able to, together, you see, encourage, to disciple To supply, to train, to equip, to restore one another from sin, from suffering, in our faith, in our obedience, by the word, and by our lives. This is the idea. I hope that you can see it, get the big picture. Where are you in this whole thing? Let me give you an example of how it works. Just this last Discover's class, you saw just uh was uh two weeks ago, uh John Vandenhoebel stood up and talked about how God had used his parents and Vicky's parents in their lives. To help them in walking with the Lord Jesus, going on with him. John said that when he uh read the paper that y'all got sometime, you know, discover spast out, every member ministry This is just simply talking about what we're we're talking about here today. That uh he got excited about that. There had been a vision he had had for some time of a ministry he wanted to uh see happen and got to use him in. And uh he said that was the end of it. No more excuses. There it was. This is what God was calling me to do. That's how you see this idea that you see in the uh in the bulletin board as well as in the prayer request of a five-day club for inner city kids using this facility prayerfully, hopefully, this August was just birthed It was through seeking to take that family, John and Vicky, Whitney, equip them, give them a place where they can grow as Christians. God puts in their hearts a dream They bring that before the body. They do the ministry. You say, I'm not going to be doing that ministry. I don't know if that'll call some of you to do that ministry. But all of you, God is using, God can work in you. Maybe it's working with one other person, a brother or a sister, somebody in your group, whatever it is. Jesus Christ, the risen Lord, in his power, is giving serving grace to you as we equip you to do the ministry. Amen? Let's bring it before the Lord. Lord, this is exciting to think how you have constructed your church to work. And Lord, I think of someone who said it would be fascinating to try it sometime. Lord, we want to follow your instructions. And you know, Lord, that we are just We're just still feeling like we're in kindergarten or first grade learning how to do that. That is our brothers and sisters, Abit Redeemer and Manhattan has said anything that's worth doing is worth doing poorly. Get started and learn as you go. And that's what we're trying to do. So, Lord, we simply want to place ourselves at your disposal now. Some of us have sin we need to be restored from. We bring that to you. But make us serious about that. Tell us that you use holy vessels. Some of us have suffering, trials we need to be restored from. We need to see the God of all grace is able to strengthen, restore, and strengthen us You use your body, but your body is to point us to you. You're the one who does that restoring. We come to you now for that. Lord, you use your body also to supply. What we need to walk in faith and obedience Lord, we pray that you, who alone, can supply ultimately that faith and obedience. Would work in us now. Increase our faith to see the sufficiency of Christ. And you, Lord Jesus, Are able to deliver us from every temptation, to supply what we need that is lacking in our faith for every trial. Increase our hope and our confidence. That you would work in us that which is well pleasing in your sight, equipping us with every good thing to do your will. Lord, stop us in our excuses. And this week we believe that you are able to equip us with everything necessary For doing your will. None of us here can say, I simply can't love my spouse. None of us here say, I simply can't tolerate my situation. I must escape and get out. Whether it's at work or in any other situation. Help us to see Jesus, who is able to supply all that we need to do your will. Lord, help us to know that your word is sufficient in training us. We would be thoroughly equipped, becoming Like those that hold up Christ before us, to look at their examples, to follow. Father, I thank you for the many here who are examples to me of godly living beyond where I am. Lord, we look to you. We're able to do all this and pray that our church would follow the pattern that you have given to us. In Jesus' name. Amen.