Zechariah's song, just before Luke's narrative of the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, is a link between the Old Testament and the New Testament. Try, if you can, to put yourself in Zachariah's mindset for a minute as you think about the language that he's using to try and describe the wonder of the fact that Messiah is about to be born. And so Zechariah takes language, and if you see, if you think about this language, he's using particularly Jewish Old Testament language. And then when Jesus comes, what he does is he takes that language and he fulfills exactly what Zechariah has said. Only he does it infinitely, exceedingly beyond anything that Zechariah could have ever imagined. And he stretches the very limits of language to describe what that is. For instance, In Luke chapter 1, this song we're looking at from Zechariah, in our preparation for the coming of the Lord Jesus, to celebrate that. Zechariah begins, praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has come and has redeemed his people. Now in Zechariah's mind, he would be thinking, of course, of the Exodus. He would be thinking of how God said, I have come to visit my people in power, and how through Moses and Aaron He uh accomplished the plagues, he humbled Egypt, and he brought the people out in power. But could he have ever imagined when he's saying here, God has come and is redeemed that what in fact is going to be the fulfillment of that is that God Himself is going to come. Not God sending some human Messiah, not God sending someone in his place, but God Himself has come. And when he says, and has redeemed his people, here's this one who has come not simply to demonstrate with power that he can deliver his people from earthly bondage. But he's come as the very Passover Lamb to deliver his people from the enemy. You see there, verse 71. Salvation from our enemies. From the hand of all who hate us. The enemy is not simply Rome. It's not Egypt. It's not some human government. The ultimate enemy that Zechariah is talking about is the prince of all these governments arrayed against God. Satan himself. This is the enemy that Messiah has come to deliver us from. And so he'd come to redeem us from him. And then he says that he's done this to rescue us from the hand of our enemies, to enable us to serve him without fear and holiness and righteousness before him all our days. And of course, Zachariah is thinking, as long as we live. We're going to be able to serve Him without fear. Be able to serve Him in righteousness. And all our days, of course, when Jesus comes to fulfill that, is not simply as long as we live here on earth. But all our days are days to eternity, days that are unending in that peace and that fearless service But notice also the word that he uses. We serve him in holiness and righteousness. Of course, Zachariah is thinking righteousness. We're going to be able to keep his law, and we're going to be able to do those things to the best of our ability in a con in a a community of peace. But of course what Jesus does, the fulfillment of this, is not a righteousness that we accomplish. But it's a righteousness that's imputed to us. It's a record given to us that someone else accomplished and then gave to us as a free gift. And that leads us to the third insight about salvation. We've said, as we've looked at this story, that it gives us three insights about salvation. Verse 69, that salvation is a horn. That is. It's a person of power who accomplishes it for us. We can't do it ourselves. Salvation is 100% accomplished for us. Secondly, we've seen in verse 71: salvation's from our enemies. Salvation is always in terms of the flesh and the spirit enmity that we see in this world, and the fact that we're not able to conquer that enemy. We're under the domination of that enemy until Jesus comes to free us. He's freed us from our enemies and ultimately the enemy. And the third thing that we're going to look at this morning in wrapping all this up Is this matter that salvation is forgiveness and peace? Salvation is forgiveness and peace. Now, again, picture what's going on here. Zechariah in verses 68 to 75 has talked about the Messiah to come. Now this is done at John's circumcision. John, his son, is eight days old. And Zachariah must be holding John You know, the the priest has just come and uh this is the occasion of this event. All the neighbors are gathered around, they're coming to the naming of this now, and it's kind of a celebration. Zachariah is holding John, and you can picture him just at that moment. He turns to John and he looks at him. And he says, verse 76, And you, my child, will be called a prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the Lord to prepare the way for him, to give his people the knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins. Because of the tender mercy of our God, by which the rising sun will come to us from heaven to shine on those living in darkness. And in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the path of peace. First part of this Verse 76, Zechariah does something absolutely unique. Here's a father talking to his eight-day son, and he gives him his job description for life. Well, you talk about a sense of call and purpose, you know. Eight days old, here's what you're going to do the rest of your life, son. And John fulfills that purpose. And what is it? Your purpose is to be a prophet of the Most High, for you're going to go before the Lord to prepare the way for Him. You're going to prepare the way for Messiah. That is your one main function in life. Now, how's he going to do that? Verse 77. The way you're going to prepare the way for him, John, is that you're going to give his people the knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins. In other words, these people don't understand what salvation is. They've got a wrong notion. And John, what you're going to do is you're going to correct that notion so that they'll be ready for what Messiah has come to accomplish. And I would suggest to you that we're in the same situation. We need to understand the two things about salvation, see in a bulletin outline. That John tried to impart to Israel then. Number one, that salvation is forgiveness of sins. Salvation in its heart, the very bottom line of all that is involved in it, entails forgiveness of sins. Two things to notice about that. First of all, notice the nature of salvation is personal forgiveness, not restoration of Israel. I want you to write that word again. Forgiveness. Forgiveness. Get that into your mind. Salvation means forgiveness. It's not restoration of Israel. You see, when Israel thought about the coming of Messiah, and when they heard God's word, Zechariah's words, what they would have been thinking is Ah, Messiah's coming. Glory days ahead. Things are going to become like they were when David was on the throne, when Solomon was on the throne. We're going to have peace and prosperity. The Romans are going to be driven from the land. They're going to be crushed under our armies. And we're now going to enter into a time of unmitigated prosperity. What happens then? John grows up, and Luke chapter 3, verse 3 says that John began to preach, and what did he preach? A baptism of repentance, not of the glory of Israel. And John begins to talk along Jordan about what salvation is coming and what Messiah is going to do, and he begins to talk about repenting. Of your stinginess. You've got some stuff that you could give, and you're unwilling to share it with those that have need. He talks about the repenting of greediness, thinking you don't have enough. He talks about repenting of lack of contentment. He comes to the the Jewish leaders come to him and they say, Well, everybody's uh you're you're the big thing uh on the air now, John, and everybody's following you. You're the current trend, so we want to keep in with the people, and we're going to follow along too and see what this is about. He turns to him and he says, You brood of snakes. Who called you to come here? Not exactly an ingratiating way to get himself in on the leaders of Israel at that time. John's preaching, his whole message was saying one thing. If you're ever going to understand the mission of Messiah, you've got to understand that the main problem is the guilt of your sin. If you're ever going to understand the work of Jesus, you've got to understand the problem of guilt. And it's the same problem today, isn't it? Why is it that the health and wealth idea of salvation has taken such hold within America? And you know, I don't see a whole lot of that among the people that I uh closely associate with. But it's staggering how many books are being sold and how many people are on the air talking about salvation in terms of the fact that What it's really about is that God wants to make your life stress-free, wants to give you prosperity, and basically what God's concerned about is to make your life easy. That's salvation. Name it and claim it. This whole idea of God providing for us according to whatever our whims are and claiming whatever promises that apply to making our lives easier. And it's the same kind of problem that Israel had. It's the glory of ourselves in this world, making life easy for me here and now. Sure, I know that I have some guilt But I'm basically acceptable. I need some help in that area. But the real concern I have is that my life would become easier and less stressful. And so what John, what Zachariah is saying, John's going to do, is you're going to show people what the real problem is. That salvation, in its very inception and at its core, involves the forgiveness of sins. And you and I, as long as we are only generally vaguely aware of our sin, we'll never really appreciate the Lord Jesus in our lives, will we? As long as you and I concentrate on what others have done to me, how I've been wronged, how I'm a victim of others' abuse How I labor under the daily nagging of the little things that I've done that are thoughtless to other people, but focus on the major offenses of others in my life. And the bitterness that comes out of that, I will never really understand the work of Christ. The work of Christ is for sinners. Because at its heart, it's to restore us into that right relationship with God and to deal with the guilt problem. So you see today a lot of uh concern. We've been reading recently about getting a hold of Bob Packwood's diary. Everybody wants to read his diary, you know. Uh now, you know, we can stand here and discuss what the motivation for all that is. What if it was your diary they wanted to read? Yeah, I agree. There's somebody in touch. What if it was my diary that they wanted to read? And suppose that diary that you had. Listed everything that you've done to somebody else. All your behavior on all your dates you've ever had. All the interactions you've had with people that you've worked with. All the thoughtless, petty, grudging, vindictive, vengeful things that you've accomplished when you thought you could get away with it. All the self-centered protection, desire to control, the malicious gossip for those that had wronged you. All these things, all the intentions of your heart, it's all laid out there. And then I read it before the congregation. We got this diary. We found it, you know? Somebody left it in the parking lot. See, that puts us in touch with our sin, doesn't it? You see, it's not simply the matter of these little particular things. It's not even the big things that shame us. See, our problem is that we live in a culture that refuses to acknowledge shame. A culture that refuses to acknowledge guilt. And our culture does everything it possibly can to try and eliminate the idea of shame. I mean, isn't that really the heart of the political correctness movement? The very goal of the political correctness movement is to say that we want to be sensitive in everything that we say so that people won't feel shame, whether it's genetic, racial, or moral. So that deaf people are not called deaf, they're hearing impaired. But because there's no moral categories within our society, looters are called non-traditional shoppers. I kid you not. U. S. News and World Report, John Leo's article this week, talks about a syndicated columnist that calls looters non-traditional shoppers so they don't feel shame. And he talked about some of the extremes to which the language has gone and the restrictions on journalism today. Now, why is that? Because we're a people who are overcome with guilt and we have nothing to do with it. You see, we don't view guilt as objective anymore. We don't view guilt as not simply as I started to say, this or that offense But it's the whole pattern of my life, it's the very bent of my heart, that in his very nature is corrupt and evil And because I don't see that as being objectively true, I just feel lousy. I feel a failure. Rather than seeing the real problem is that God is angry at me because of my arrogant rebellion against his law that we just read. Fact is that you and I, when we read that, every one of us ought to look at that with shame and to be able to say, I do not do these things. I have not done them, and even at my best efforts, I'm not able to accomplish that. And then when we see that that's the problem, we see that forgiveness is not simply a matter of feeling better. Forgiveness is a matter of heaven or hell. Forgiveness is a matter of realizing that one day every one of us in this room, you and me, are going to stand before God and we're going to hear a verdict on our lives. And that verdict is either going to say, you are forgiven, I hold nothing against you. Come into my presence forever, son, daughter of mine. Or we will hear. You have disobeyed me, you have blame shifted, you have excused, you have minimized. You have thought at every point it was someone else's problem, and the excuses are now over. It's time to face yourself as you really are. You are under my righteous wrath for the guilt of your disobedience and the intentions of your heart. Throughout your life, depart from me into the company of the demons for everlasting torment. Now every one of us will hear either one or the other of those verdicts over our lives. Just this week, I stood in a place where I had been 13 months ago, the time when my mom was coming into our home. And at that time I stood 13 months ago and I prayed. It was on the banks of the Middle Path River. And I prayed, there, Lord, two things as my mom, who's dying of brain cancer, comes to live with us. Before she dies, Lord, do two things I ask you. Number one, reconcile her to my wife. Because my mom had never accepted the fact that as an only child I had left home and gotten married. It wasn't a particularly personal thing, but it was that estrangement. Secondly, Lord, reconcile her to yourself. My mom had carried gospel tracts. She even had a Gospel of John she had carried since the early 1920s in her purse. But she had never come into peace by confessing her sin and having a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And I said, Lord, it's now or never. There's not much time. And God was gracious to answer the first of those requests. And in a matter of just a week or two after my mom came into our home. She said to my wife that she had been wrong all through the years in her judgment of her. And she asked her forgiveness. And the two of them were reconciled. But on January the 20th, my mom died in our home. And the last thing that I remember her saying to me that was coherent was: get me out of here. And there was never at any point the acknowledgement of her guilt and the need of a savior. And as I stood there this week, I thought, Lord, I said then it was now or never. And it's so hard to face the fact that it's never. You, O God, don't owe salvation to any person. We are guilty. And that guilt is what we bear. The only way to be forgiven. It's through your mercy. It says that verse 79. To give his people salvation because of the mercy of our God. And I thought, what is it to go into eternity apart from that mercy? What is my mother experiencing now? What does any person that you know who dies apart from the grace of Jesus Christ and forgiveness of their sin? What are all the things they could have accomplished in this life? Pile them all up, and then place them on the one side of the scale, and on the other side of the scale, the question of had they been forgiven by God for their sin. And this is as dust compared to forgiveness Salvation is not simply a matter of heaven and hell. It's also a matter of freedom versus bondage You perhaps have seen that picture in Pilgrim's Progress. A pilgrim with a load of sin. Strapped to his back so that he staggers under its weight. Then at one point, Bunyan describes how pilgrims saw in the cross the provision for that sin and its forgiveness. And he looked to the cross, the work of Jesus Christ there. He describes how that bold burden rolled off of his back down the hill and disappeared into the foot of the cross. Perhaps you've seen the movie The Mission, where that is that mercenary soldier who's climbing up that slippery, muddy mountain and on the back of him has strapped all those pieces of junk armor and he's struggling under its weight and he keeps trying to get to the top of that and Robert De Niro's portraying in his uh expressions the agony and the burden of it. And then you remember how when he gets to the top of that, the burden is cut loose from him, and all the joke thumps down into the chasm, and the hilarious laughter. As he lays there in joy at the release of that burden, and the laughter is so infectious, and I can recall that scene, and chills go up my spine as I think of the release, the vivid picture of the release of that burden of his sin. Zechariah is saying, That's what Messiah's come for. That's what he's come for in your life. That's what he's come for in my life. When we acknowledge and don't blame shift and don't minimize And don't make excuses. And don't say, well, I'm not perfect, but I'm acceptable. And what I really want God to do in my life is to reduce my stress and answer these prayers that I wish he'd sort of get cracking on. But when we see that salvation is through the forgiveness of our sins, then we begin to understand the nature of the freedom. that Jesus Christ alone can offer. Because, you know, guilt has a way of robbing us of all the joy of anything else we have. Takes away our appetite. Takes away our enjoyment. What can you really enjoy, no matter what was given to you, if you're living under the burden of the nagging conscience of guilt in your life? So John says, this is why Jesus has come. The source of our forgiveness is the tender mercy of our God. And that's what you see there in the next blank. The source of forgiveness, the tender mercy of our God, not what you and I deserve. Verse 78. He's come to give forgiveness of sins because of the tender mercy of our God, by which the rising sun will come to us from heaven. You think God's going to give you mercy because He's going to see how hard you're trying. You're going to say, well, if you knew my past, how I've been victimized. Then you wouldn't blame me for the things that I do. And because I'm trying to do better, God's going to have mercy. You know, I've tried this much, and He's going to kind of fill up the lack with some mercy. That's not what Zechariah is saying. He says there's only one basis for that forgiveness. It's nothing that you do. It's the horn of salvation that's accomplished it for us, he said. In verse 68 and 69. And so what he says here is that that one who's come to do that, the Lord Jesus. comes because he has fulfilled the covenant. In See what he says in verse 69? He's raised up the horn of salvation, for it's in the house of David his servant, as he said through his holy prophets of long ago, then verse seventy-two. To show mercy to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. Mercy is always linked to the covenant. And what's that mean? How does that provide your forgiveness? What you need to see is what Zechariah is saying there is that God established a covenant with Adam in the garden. And that covenant with Adam said, Adam, here's all the things for you and for Eve to enjoy together, but there's just one command, one stipulation. For life. Don't eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And so you know the story. The one thing they could not resist doing was eating of that tree. And so they broke the covenant. Because they broke the covenant, they forfeited life for death. But God in his mercy established a second covenant. And that second covenant was not with you or me. That second covenant was with his son. And God established a covenant with his son to make him a second Adam. And so Jesus as the second Adam comes under probation, as we saw last week, not in the garden, but in the desert. And this second Adam now comes to become eligible in the fulfillment of not just one command, but all the commands to display the righteousness of God. Under severe testing. And then become eligible to take the curse that you and I so richly deserve for our sin. And when Jesus took that curse Jesus died in your place and my place for your sin and my sin. And by doing that, he exchanged records. He takes your record of guilt and all the things that come to your mind in that diary we talked about. And you receive Jesus' record. And God Himself holds nothing against you. God Himself sees you as pure and clean in His sight. As if you were characterized by the motives and the deeds and the righteousness of Jesus Himself. What a thought. Hallelujah. That's what Zechariah is rejoicing in. He's saying there is coming a rising sun here. Is coming to give us a new record. So secondly, you see that salvation is peace. You see that on the backside. Salvation is peace. Notice again, the nature of that salvation is peace of heart, not peaceful circumstances. A martyr dying under torture for the Lord Jesus Christ, who's in union with him, has greater peace. than a millionaire in his cancun condo who has a guilty conscience and who expects the verdict of condemned at the end of his life Peace is not a matter of circumstances. It's a matter of a right relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And the anticipation at the end of our lives, those circumstances themselves will be made utterly peaceful. Zachariah says, this is what Messiah's come to do. For those living in darkness, The shadow of death to guide our feet into the path of peace. Notice that the source of that peace is not what you and I do. It's the rising sun. Verse 78. The rising sun who's coming now from heaven. He's the one described in Isaiah 9. That rising sun image is pulled from Isaiah 9. The dawn, the morning star of Isaiah 9, verse 2, is called in that chapter the Prince of Peace. He's the one who has come. So that you and I could enjoy all that God gives us, because our conscience has been cleared. I was reading just this week of a Family that has a Christmas tradition whereby after breakfast on Christmas morning, the family all goes into the living room and before they go to any presents, the first thing they do is to go to the stockings. And they all come to the stockings and they reach into the stocking, and each person's stocking holds just one object. An oily, lumpy piece of coal. And as you pull that piece of coal out, every member of the family comes and they say, this is what I deserve. This is what I should be getting. This is what I've earned before God. The problem in our culture is we think God's Santa Claus. He threatens the coal, but everybody's going to get the presence in the end. If we need to pause and to remember guilt's not subjective, it's objective. The reflection is the guilt feeling. What we deserve is the cold. What we deserve is the hell. And as each person confesses, then they rejoice in the fact that God has provided a rising son by his mercy. To give us salvation through the forgiveness of our sins. And then they end with Merry Christmas, and they all go to the presence. But there's the recognition that the presents are by grace. The presents are to celebrate the fact that God has given to us a gift this morning of the life and the record of Jesus Christ in place of ours So this morning, as you think about this Christmas season, are you experiencing the unique peace and forgiveness that Jesus Christ alone can give you? And if you're not, why is that? Is it the excuse-making, the blame shifting? The focusing on the offenses of others toward you rather than seeing the pattern of your life and facing it honestly Jesus Christ has come for those who acknowledge sin and that He alone is the Savior. Let's pray Lord, we want to bring before you right now our excuses Are blame shifting? All those ways that we have tried to feel better about ourselves by shifting the focus to someone else who's worse. And Lord, we're so foolish. Because in doing that, we have robbed ourselves of peace. You have come for those who acknowledge their sin and confess it and do not seek to hide it. And what you have come to do is so far beyond anything we can imagine, you come to give us freely a new record. And show us how in Jesus you hold nothing against us There were people who can go from this room free to enjoy this week because we have been forgiven. Lord, speak to our hearts now that we would not seek to find our own way of forgiveness, that we would not seek to forgive ourselves But that as people with real guilt, we would come before you to receive objective real forgiveness through the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus. We want to behold him right at this moment, sacrificed for us. Lord, I pray that you would lift up Jesus before these people, that each one of us would see him. And that we would stop the excuses and the minimizations to face what we're like and what you offer us. Grant, Lord, your peace. That we can celebrate the rising sun who has come to dispel the darkness of our guilt and our death. That we are a people who can anticipate at the end of our lives, you are acquitted. I love you. Come into my presence. Forbid, Lord, that there would be any who as I have agonized concerning my mom would not have that hope. Help us, Lord, that we might find our hope in you in Jesus' name now. Amen.