But what we are beginning tonight, this morning, and we'll continue through the next four weeks, three weeks, this including three more, is a series on Jesus' last conversation from the book of John. And it's important to understand the context of where this message comes from, because it is Jesus speaking to the church on the last night that he has with the church. And he begins his conversation with the disciples at the Lord's Supper. Let me read the passage, John chapter 13, verses 1 through 18, 17. It was just before the Passover feast. Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father. Having loved his own who were in the world, he now showed them the full extent of his love. The evening meal was being served, and the devil had already prompted Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, to betray Jesus. Jesus knew that the Father had put all things under his power and that he had come from God and was returning to God. So he got up from the meal, took off his outer clothing, and wrapped a towel around his waist. After that he poured water into a basin and began to wash his disciples' feet, drying them with the towel that was wrapped around him. He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, are you going to wash my feet? Jesus answered, You do not realize what I'm doing, but later you will understand. No, said Peter, you shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered, Unless I wash you, you have no part with me. Then Lord Simon Peter replied, Not just my feet, but my hands and my head as well. Jesus answered, A person who has had a bath needs only to wash his feet. His whole body is clean. And you are clean, though not every one of you. For he knew who was going to betray him, and that was why he said, not everyone was clean. When he had finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes and returned to his place. Do you understand what I have done for you? he asked them. You call me teacher and lord, and rightly so, for that is what I am. Now that I, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also should wash one another's feet. I have set you an example that you should do as I have done for you. I tell you the truth, no servant is greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. Now that you know these things, you will be blessed if you do them. Jesus was preparing the church. He had one last opportunity, one last conversation. To prepare the church for the dramatic, climactic, changing events that were going to take place hours from then In this time he gives them the Lord's Supper, which we shall partake tonight. He gives them teaching on humility and service in the foot washing. And he promises to them the Spirit. In chapters 13 through 16, Jesus gives his final lecture. His final opportunity to communicate all that he needs to communicate for the church to be prepared for his death, for his resurrection, and for his commission. One thing we have to understand as we look at this is what little the disciples understood. Certainly they understood that Jesus was their Lord and their teacher, but they didn't understand that he was about to die. Earlier, when Jesus had told them of these things, they would get angry. They would say, no, I will protect you. They promised to do things that they simply couldn't do. They didn't understand that Jesus was going to sacrifice himself. And so he teaches them on that. And he does that in two ways. In our particular passage this morning he does it in in two ways. The thing that he's trying to communicate first of all, and that the disciples didn't understand which we have as second nature, is that Jesus is about to save them. Jesus is about to offer himself in their place, to cleanse them, to purify them from sin, and to restore fellowship with God the Father. And as we look at the foot washing, we think, well, of course, that makes sense. Of course he's washing their feet. Of course he's cleansing them. But remember, the disciples didn't understand that. And so try and put yourself this morning into the mind of the disciples. Become for this morning Peter. As he reflects upon what Jesus does in the foot washing. But what does he do? Again, he saves his people. He's come, and the first blank is Jesus saves his people. He's come to save. And to us that might become second nature. Of course Jesus saved. He's the Savior But for them, that wasn't second nature. And so recapture the excitement as you see Jesus saving in the foot washing and in his teaching and in the cross. What does he do? Well, first of all, his actions demonstrate this. That's the second line. He's demonstrating the salvation he is procuring by his coming and his death. What does he do? Well he reclines at the table. You recall in the beginning it says that he had sat down to the feast. He had reclined at the table. But then he gets up, he rises from the table. He rose from the comfort. Now he'd had a long day. He'd walked the dusty roads between the cities. He was probably very hot, very tired, dirty. And he laid down at the table. In those days they didn't just sit like we do and got comfortable. They actually laid down on pillows. Now in our household we worked very hard to prepare the meals and to get things ready for the kids. And as we finally, as Anne and I finally sit down at the table, the last thing in our mind is getting up. Now those of you with young kids will understand that as soon as you sit down, and only after you sat down, Will the children point out that the salt and pepper aren't there, or that they don't have a napkin, or oh we forgot the drink, or they don't really want this, they want that, can you get it for them? And if you're anything like Ann and I, your attitudes when your children ask you for things after you finally sat down and gotten comfortable is incredulity. What? The last thing you want to do is get up. You got really comfortable and you're finally sitting down in a padded chair for the first time in about three hours. Jesus had walked all day. He'd had to help his disciples prepare the feast. He'd had to teach. He had ministered. He had served. And it wasn't even his disciples that said, Oh Jesus, could you get us this? It was Jesus who got up voluntarily, left the table, left his comfort, left his place of honor. And serve. And I think that's a very important picture of what Jesus did in leaving heaven. For you see, Jesus not only left the table for a temporary time, he left heaven for thirty-three years. He left the worship. He left much that we can't even conceive of. Well not only did he get up from the table, but he took off his clothes. He humbled himself. He let his honor go. He took off his outer clothing and he wrapped himself with a towel. He took on a servant's attire. The same way he had taken on a human body, had become more than simply God in a body, but had become God and man together in one person. Because that was necessary for accomplishing the salvation he came to accomplish. So Jesus rose from the table, he laid aside his clothes, and then, wonder of wonders, he washed the feet. He took up a bowl of water. We're told in in verse five that what Jesus did was that after he had disrobed himself, had put on a towel, He poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet. You see, the disciples needed some cleansing. And this was such a a horrible job. I don't know if any of you have ever walked on mountain roads or dusty paths with sandals before, but I had a summer as a camp counselor where they really refused to allow you to have open-toed sandals because of two things. One, your feet would get so dirty your parents would never pick you up and we'd be stuck with you all summer. And two, because there was a danger of pine needles going into the feet. But feet that walk on dirty roads can get very dirty. And it's not a pleasant job to wash them. It's not pleasant to even wash your own feet in that sort of a circumstance. But Jesus washed his disciples' feet. He cleansed them. And the nature of this so surprised Peter that he refused to allow Jesus. To touch his feet. The statement Jesus was making was so clear to Peter, was so clear that he refused to allow Jesus to humble himself to the point of washing. Peter's feet. You recall how John at one point, John the Baptist, spoke of his relationship to Jesus. He said, One is coming of whom I am not worthy to untie his sandals. It was such a humbling job that servants and slaves washed feet. John realized how great Jesus was and said, I'm not even worthy to wash his feet. And this is the one who is washing the feet of Peter. The servanthood of Jesus is difficult, if not impossible, for us to grasp. But the truth is That if Jesus didn't wash Peter's feet, Peter would not be one of Jesus' people. Jesus says in verse 8, Unless I wash you, you have no part of me. Jesus isn't talking about dirty feet. Jesus is talking about the ugliness, the filthiness, and the horrible stench of humanity tainted by sin. And Jesus is portraying to Peter most clearly that he needs to be cleansed. Not only of dirt, but of sin. And what Jesus is doing is laying the groundwork for the coming crucifixion. Jesus is preparing his his people for the fact that he has to die and depart from them. So that they might have a relationship with God. The last thing they want is for Jesus to go. The first thing they need is for Jesus to go. And Jesus is picturing that deeper cleansing that has to take place. Jesus in pouring the water pictures the blood that he is about to shed. Jesus in taking the dirt on the towel that he bore, continuing in verse 5, drawing them with the towel that was wrapped around it Jesus not only took the dirt on himself, but we're told in 1 Peter 2, 24 that Jesus did something even more amazing. We're told in 1 Peter 2, 24 that He Himself bore our sins in His body, on the tree, so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. The towel pictures Jesus taking our sin upon himself. But then again, once Jesus is done, he returns to the table. In verse 12, it says that he when he finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes and returned to his place. And that again foretells what is about to take place as Jesus rising from the tomb, takes on his glory once again, and in a glorified body meets with his disciples, and in a glorified body ascends to heaven. He takes back the glory and the honor which are due him But in the meanwhile, he's made a tremendous sacrifice. And if we can capture the reality of that sacrifice, as the disciples did on that evening, it'll be shocking. If we can begin to realize again the love that Jesus portrays for us as weak, sinful humans, to die for us, to bear in his own perfect body our sins. It'll be shocking. And were it not that God had changed our hearts, we would in our own pride join Peter. And say, No, I'm not worthy of you doing that And like Peter, we'd have to realize later on that we're not worthy of him doing that. And he doesn't do it because we're worthy. He doesn't because he loves us. But more than demonstrating the salvation that Jesus accomplishes, he also teaches of it. Again, in verse 8. Peter says, No, you shall never wash my feet. Peter understands the role here. Jesus is master and Peter is student. And he doesn't feel comfortable with the reversal of those roles. He really clearly has a picture of who Jesus is. And he understands who he is. And so he's not comfortable with allowing those roles to be reversed. Today I think maybe we have not so clear a picture of the roles, but we do have a picture of the idea that it's nice to be served. And so while we are willing to accept what Jesus has done for us without much question, we have a great difficulty like Peter in reconciling the fact that he is master, we are student. And yet he serves, and we are served. The message that the verse that Ken read this morning was that Jesus said of himself, I did not come to be served, but to serve. And that's a very uncomfortable thing. It's a very uncomfortable thing for one who is of a lesser status to be served by one who is of a higher status. And the prime example of this is Jesus. But Jesus teaches that mankind is not capable of coming to him on his own. Again, Ken had a good illustration this morning with the woman who wanted to get right before God so she could be with God's people and worship. But the problem was she wanted to do it in her own power. And Jesus is pointing out to Peter in this that he cannot do it in his own power. He's pointing out to us that we cannot do it in our own power. If we are to be saved, it is by Jesus. It is a passive thing. It is a changed heart that acts The actions that we look for come only because God has already changed us, not because we can do anything in our own merit Mankind simply is too ugly to dwell in heaven. Mankind simply has no power to cleanse or to beautify themselves. And what Jesus is about to do is absolutely necessary. He says to Peter, if you don't let me do this, if you don't free me to serve you, then you have nothing with me. And a lot of times we're going to get into later in this session the dealing with the issues, a lot of times in American culture we tend to think That we have something to offer to God. That it really wasn't necessary for Jesus to die in order to save us. It was necessary for him to die in order to be a moral example. To be an older brother, to sort of give us the boost to do the thing that we know that's right, so that we can serve God. But let me disabuse you of that this morning, because if what Jesus did wasn't absolutely necessary. Then there is no loving father. There is a sadistic master. If his son didn't have to die in order to provide salvation for those that he was called to save, If the death itself wasn't essential to salvation, then there is no point. There is no love. There is only a sadistic master who allows his own son to suffer unnecessarily. And Jesus is no longer a loving Savior, but is a fool because he did what he didn't have to do, and he cost himself a price beyond comprehension for no purpose. If Jesus' work wasn't absolutely necessary, if his suffering wasn't essential, there's no point to it. Jesus had to die because he, as he says in the next chapter, is the way, the truth, and the life, and it no one can come to Father but through him. Well, not only is Jesus safe, He commands. Twice in this chapter and once in chapter fifteen he commands things that are impossible. He commands the church to serve. Now it's important for us to note one thing here, and that is that it's not just the disciples who receive these commands. Because if it's the disciples, then I can feel free to not worry about what he says to do. If it's only to the twelve that he says, What I've done to you now do amongst yourselves, then I don't have to worry about what Jesus says, because I'm not one of the twelve. I can sort of find an escape clause. But Jesus doesn't leave us that clause in this passage. Because what he is doing is he's speaking to the church that he is about to leave behind to do his work. He's speaking to us. He's speaking to his people. On the last night, Jesus is speaking not only to the disciples, but to the church as a whole. He's preparing the church for the job that he's leaving it to accomplish once he's gone. And if you want that final nail in our coffin, in chapter 17, Jesus is giving his high priestly prayer. And he speaks of his intent for all who come. In verse 9, he says, I am not praying for the world, but for those that you have given me, for they are yours. He speaks of all his people. In verse 20, he makes it even more clear. He says, My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message. That all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May they also be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. In Jesus' mind, through these four chapters, is the church. It's us. It's each of us. We're called to serve by the equivalent of washing feet. We're called to love by the equivalent of how Jesus has loved us. We're called to bear fruit, because all whom he chooses, he chooses for the purpose of bearing fruit that will remain Those are the commands. In verse 15 he says, I have set you an example that you should do as I have done for you. That's an incomprehensible task. Jesus, what has Jesus done? He's come. He's left the glory of heaven. He's risen from the table. He's left his glory, his power. He's come as a servant and he's come humbly. He's loved with a motivation and a love that can't be matched. He's served in ways of humility that we can't conceive of. There's an old statement, I don't mind being a servant, I just don't like being treated like a servant. And as you do things to bring honor to Jesus and please him, think about that. Do you mind being treated as a servant? You shouldn't because that's what we are. That's the role that Jesus has given us. There was a brilliant Oxford student back in the 19th century who was called insane. He'd graduated from Oxford, had a wonderful career doing whatever he wanted to do, and could name his salary. But he had chosen instead to become a missionary to Africa. His faculty and his fellow students had tried to dissuade him by doing things like calling him insane, trying to point out to him reality and what he was turning away from. But he instead spoke of the analogy of a bridge. He said, in a bridge there are many stones which are buried in the foundation I'm simply going to be a buried stone in the foundation of a bridge. And his response was, I am content, certain as I am, that the final result will be a Christian Africa. He willingly humbled himself, sacrificed himself in some ways that he might go and serve. Jesus came and humbled himself, he gave to the ugly, to the sick, and to the ungrateful. He died for those who killed him. He sacrificed himself for those who turned on him. He was treated most certainly as a servant. Not only are we to serve, but Jesus says in the same chapter in verses 34 and 35, a new command. I give you. Love one another as I have loved you. So you must love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Are you prepared this morning to love as Jesus has loved? Completely and sacrificially? He also says in chapter 15, verse 16, You did not choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you to go and bear fruit, fruit that will last. The plain truth is that today Jesus has commands for all of you here who are his children. Impossible commands. Commands that we cannot begin to fulfill. Are you ready to serve? Are you ready to leave this room and go serve one another? To serve the lost? Are you ready to love one another in the way that Jesus has? Giving of your time, giving of your possessions, giving of your very body. In order to serve one another and to be known as disciples? Are you ready to bear fruit? Can you bear fruit? Look at your own lives over the last week. What fruit have you borne? The honest truth is that we can't do this. We simply are unable, in the same way that we're unable to bring ourselves to God, we're unable to fulfill any of these commands. I've had a long time to think about this and I've had a long time to get very frustrated with it. I've had a long time to reflect upon the fruit that I see in my own life and to become fearful of it. Because frankly, what we're being done, what's being done here is we're told to live on a Mercedes-Benz lifestyle with a Hyundai budget. We're told to do the impossible. It's almost in a way the same perverse sort of character that you find in some of those old tests that used to be handed out, where the biology experiment was to create the world. You can't do it. We're told to do something is impossible. And we need to struggle with that because that's what the disciples were faced with. On the one hand, they were told they needed salvation and could understand that because that's a nice thing to be given. Difficult as it would be to face a future without Jesus, salvation is a nice thing to have. But then as soon as Jesus tells them of salvation, he tells them of service. And commands that they serve in ways they can't do. None of us can do it. And there's a tension. But Jesus doesn't leave them with that tension because he promises a helper. The back page number three says Jesus empowers the church. And that's exactly what he does. He's already pointed out to them how insufficient they are in their own abilities. By giving them commands they can't fulfill. But more so than that, look at the examples of the behavior of the disciples prior to Jesus' arrest. One disciple is so wonderful that he goes off and he sells Jesus for 30 pieces of silver. Well, that's Judas. He's not a believer. Have you never betrayed Jesus? Have you never dishonored him? I certainly have. One of the strongest disciples says, Jesus! I'll lay down my life for you. I can just see Jesus looking across the table and raising his eyebrow and saying, Yeah? Really? Tonight, Peter, three times, before the cock grows once, three times you will disown me. You'll lay down your life for me. We don't have the power. Peter didn't have the power. Judas didn't have the power. None of us have the power except Jesus. And Jesus goes in order to give that power. Jesus teaches them the power that is going to come and he does so in the course of the conversation that evening. One of the things that I find a lot of American Christians do is they'll look at a chapter and sort of that's enough, that's that's that's the entire thought. That's trying to be presented. And please don't do that with this passage. Read this as a conversation. Read it as Jesus' last conversation with his followers. Because if you miss that, you can read chapter 13 and see the commands and never see the Spirit. And if you don't see the Spirit, you don't understand what Jesus is trying to say. Jesus is saying in chapter 14, verse 18, that he would not leave them as orphans. He's going to leave, but he won't leave them as orphans. In verse 26, he talks about the helper who will come to equip and empower them. In chapter 15, verse 4, he says, If you are in me, then you'll do the things that I've done. You'll have the power to do the things that I turned you to do, he says. Remain in me, and I will remain in you No branch can bear fruit by itself. It must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. You see, Jesus isn't giving commands that are impossible to do without an incomprehensible power in order to accomplish them. Jesus gives the commands, yes, but he gives the power. And the frightening thing is so often we live in our own power We strive to do the things that Jesus has commanded and feel good when we accomplish them because it is we that we think that have accomplished them. And it's not true One of the minor prophets says, It's not by power nor by might, but by my spirit. And if you leave this morning thinking that you can begin to accomplish any of the commands that Jesus has given, apart from the Spirit. And you've not heard the word of God. As a matter of fact, it is so staggering to think that God gives commands and a power That you can go through various cultures. There was a Buddhist monk in Ceylon at one time who was acquainted with both Christianity and Buddhism. And he was asked what was the difference between the two. He replied, there is much good in each of them, and probably in all religions. But what seems to be the greatest difference is that you Christians know what is right and have the power to do it. While we Buddhists know what is right, but have no such power. And if you think that's one culture, the late George McCune, who was a missionary for many years working in Korea Made this statement. He was quoting a Korean who had spoken to him and said, We've had a code of morals. We've known what we ought to do and what we ought not to do. But we've had no power to do what we knew was right. When Jesus Christ came into our lives, we then had the power to do what was right. And again, a man named Ludwig Nomansen was a pioneer missionary to the Batak tribesman. And he was told that he could stay for two years, during which time he studied the customs and the traditions that ruled the people. At the end of that time, the chief asked him if there was anything in the Christian religion that differed from the traditions of the Batak. We too have laws that say we must not steal. We have laws that say we must not take our neighbor's wife nor bear false witness. The missionary then said, My master gives the power to keep his laws. The chief was startled. Can you teach my people that? he asked. No, I cannot, but God can give them that power if they ask for it and listen to His word. The missionary was permitted to stay an additional six months, during which time he taught just one thing: the power of God. At the end of that time the chief said, Stay. Your law is better than ours. Ours tells us what we ought to do. Your God says, Come. I will walk with you and give you strength to do the good thing. At the time of this writing, there were 450,000 Batak Christians with their own independent church organizations. For those of you who do not know Jesus this morning, the one thing I want you to realize is that Jesus saves. For those of you who do know Jesus, the one thing I want you to realize this morning is that Jesus empowers. Don't leave this church. Having worshipped Jesus, having focused upon him, and thinking that you have to do the work in your own power But please, don't leave forgetting the work. Because you see, Jesus is saying in this entire conversation, one thing. Salvation demands God-empowered service. If you are saved, you will bear fruit. Jesus says that you cannot remain in Him if you don't bear fruit. You can't bear fruit if you don't remain in him, but the two don't exist together. You cannot remain in him and fail to bear fruit. How can we serve Jesus? And again, this is not in order to comfort ourselves, it is to please our Master. It is to give Jesus a delight in us because we have fallen in love with Him. But how can we do that? As we reflect upon the Jesus who has saved us this morning, what can we do concretely to serve him? What can we do leaving this church before we come back this evening for the Lord's Supper service that will please Jesus? What service can we offer to him in his power? That is an answer that you'll have to find with God. I can give you all sorts of examples of things that need to be done and places we have to serve, but my time is ending. And I think it's best for God to communicate that to you. Let's close and pray. Lord Jesus, as we reflect upon who you are, we are astounded. I am astounded that the sovereign creator would come and live amongst us. Would humble himself, would serve in menial ways, would demonstrate his love in so great and clear a vision. Lord, help us not to lose sight that you are the God, the Master, the Teacher. Help us not to lose sight of your love for us, that we might serve you not out of a desire to see glory for ourselves. Without a simple desire, heartfelt, to please you. And Father, we do pray that we would be focused upon you and know you so clearly. And know Jesus so clearly that our desire would not be to remain comfortable in our cloistered environments worshiping Jesus. But as your heart breaks for the lost, so would ours. As your heart breaks for those who are weak in faith, so would ours. But as we see opportunities to teach and to serve and to love and to demonstrate your love. That we would be consumed with taking those opportunities to please you. Help us, Lord, to have a clear perspective that we might know that it is you that we must please, and that you've given us even the power to do that. The Jesus name, Amen