This is an exciting day for us as we celebrate our ministry in Sandown. Just to give you a little bit of context, I think most of you know what we're we've been doing, but Since 2005, we've been partnering with New Song Urban Ministries to help to bring restoration to the West Baltimore community of Sandtown. In two thousand and six, when we were starting our second habitat house, I was looking at our congregation and seeing the enthusiasm and the um money that was coming in and the way that people were really um engaged with um being stretched and getting out of your comfort zone and and and being involved in this ministry in Sandtown. And I was thinking about how else we could tap our congregation. We have a lot of people, a lot of resources. and just wasn't sure what we might be able to do in addition to the habitat houses that we were involved with. So I went to the leadership of New Song Urban Ministries and just said, you know, we've got a lot of people and a lot of resources. If you were going to dream big, what would you dream? And they said, well, you know, New Song Urban Ministries is this multi-orbed ministry, the Newfoundland Community Church is at the hub and out of that come all these other ministries that are established, a school, health clinic, job placement service, arts program for students, and many, many, many ministries. And the answer to what their dream was to me was that they had the other part of New Song Urban Ministries that had never been developed was economic development And they simply said to me, this is the scariest and hardest thing to do. So we have all these other ministries going and doing very well. But economic development is just not something we've been able to to even um contemplate. So I came back to our congregation and looked at all the people that we have here who have all kinds of business expertise and and other resources. And so out of that came a small group of us that began meeting in 2006 every week for over two years. to help them to launch a business in Sandown. And Stephen Holloway entered into that. He's a member of our congregation. And he has a really um amazing story to tell. um of what God has done through CPC and in the community of Sandtown to bring hope and joy and restoration. So I'm going to let Stephen tell the rest of the story. Thanks, Terry. Good morning. Uh again, my name is Stephen Holloway. I'm uh the the producer and director of the Gary's Goods film, uh Stories of Hope. Um It's great to be here. Finally, um we de what was it, Debbie year, year and a half ago that we first talked about uh showing this film to uh the congregation And uh but we never really had the venue to do it and but now we do. We have this wonderful new facility, we have these state of the art uh you know technology, these projectors and these big screens and everything in the back and and so uh So it um and I and I I don't want to forget that I wanted to thank um uh John Acre who came out twice this week uh here to meet with me to to help hook up the system and make sure the video was showing properly. So I wanted to thank you for his effort and and all he did to work with me to get that to happen. Um but um anyway, um without further ado, uh let me go ahead and present to you the Gary's Goods film, uh Stories of Hope. It was tough growing up in Sandow all my life I was morally on my own and I left but I I found a way how to get back And I see now that some of the some of the kids are leading in to the same path that I was going. So I wanted to c I just wanted to give back. Something that I never got. And fulfilling my dream. I just wanted to get back. After the riots, after Martin Luther King's assassination and on the fires and the other things that ensued, many of the businesses left and never returned. And at that point, Santawn's economic health um took a a drastic plunge and it has never recovered. Sandtown has never again become a place where money is made or spent. My mother raised me here, I'm raising my children here, and that's just been going on for generation after generation. People plan to stay and plant roots Streets fight with how can I make this neighborhood better st The neighborhood is coming together and saying, We want our neighborhood to be a place that is not just known for the statistics on the evening news, but we want our neighborhood to be a place that others know is a place of life and health and hope and joy. We have not lost the sense of community, the sense of caring about one another. Even though we felt that society had abandoned us but That God has never forgotten about us. Never. There's a wealth of joy that people would never ever imagine. When people come from the outside and look into this neighborhood, they may find that there are many people who care. But they are working against odds that are so highly piled up against them. It's been about thirteen years ago that they took the Rex Sun away. That was a safe haven. for most of us as children coming up in this neighborhood. A lot of friends of mine, a lot of sons and daughters turned straight to the street. One of the guys said, I just want a place that's normal. And what he meant was a place where my kids can walk down the street and not have to worry about gunshots or crime and place where I can walk to a store that's right around the street from me. Folks here shop at corner stores. What they know and what they expect is to go into a store with flexiglass, with bars, with a separation. Somewhere along the line that that dream that hope that expectation having got lost. We don't need another liquor store. You know, we need somebody that's going to sell. goods that everybody in the community can benefit from. 250 homes because of you. And this week 20 homes are being worked on because of you. Good morning. I just want to thank you all for coming out. I had the opportunity to speak earlier. Thank you all. But really, just uh keep us up in prayer, keep us up in uh best wishes as we go forward and Building stand down to help it to be the uh community that it used to be and be the model community that it's supposed to be. So thank you. And remember everything is good at 1500. This is really the passion of this community. to reinvigorate center. And it's very important to sustain a community. You need to have commercial as well as residential programs to have business In that community. We in the community are one hundred percent bias We buy everything we need. We own less than one percent of the business. Why should Uh, shouldn't our money stay within the community? Many of the current owners um normally have family and their friends working in the commun and they're not from the community, working in their stores. So there's not too many avenues where these dollars are standing in the communities. A community supplies its own needs. And we won't survive unless we fulfill that. This is a community that has suffered, but in the midst of that you have some who have held on to their faith and that are still the backbone of Gary Palmer is a guy that as you walk down the street with Gary, he knows everybody. He's widely respected by everybody. Older, younger, peers, whatever. Everybody knows who who Gary. I would very much like to be a part of his dream. If I can help, donation, anything, I would love to help you get your dream off the grass. And when I go fishing, I'm I'm gonna get you that fish. All right, black man. Hey good man. I had somebody the kids know that the kids see the kids respect as a male which is extremely important in this community because they're seeing other males doing other the things that's not positive for the community. He helps me better serve my kids. Just by modeling what we want the community to look like, feel like and sound like for the future. I owe them something. I'm still here. I I actually owe these guys something. I ran these streets and did this and did that. Go. I need to do something in this community. It it it's one of my dreams. All right. Now I know this is the moment that you've been waiting for all day. Because right now we get to hear from the one who had a vision for this for a long time. And that is Mr. Gary Palmer. Let's hear from Gary Palmer. Hey Gary. Good afternoon everybody. But first of all I want to say um some of my friends that's not here right now. So I'm getting a little emotional, but I'm gonna keep it going. Um A couple years ago, my mom was incarcerated and left me with my two younger sisters. And um they was teenagers and there was no way I had no way to figure out how we was gonna keep going. I was on this block right here serving. Serving people. I was doing the bad thing serving. A couple guys I ran with. Matter of fact, two gent generations of God. All of them is gone now, but I'm still here. And um I thank God. I just thank God. God, God had a plan. I'm back now. I'm serving now. Yeah. But um God is good. God is good. God bless and I love you all for the support. I don't care about how it's like a little girl dreaming of her wedding day. And everything about it is coming true. That's how the story is perfect. Gary's Goods is the first business that is going to be owned and operated by a Sandhound resident. It's a very, very exciting thing for us. My greatest hope is that people will see that there's still hope for the community. that we still can get to that place that we're all striving to be at. That our kids will follow in our footsteps. It's what we do as adults to determine how the children will be. So I always hear people say the children are the future but I believe that the adults are the future. Kids make better connections when they see people that they know, they grew up with, they see on a daily basis, make those changes in their lives. We um as the leaders, as the adults here, we gotta fill in that vacuum and not say well somebody else has to take care of that. We gotta step in. We want our kids to be leaders and uh to help develop their community so that it will never ever get into the devastation that it has been in in the past. There's a lot of challenges too. And we got 50 more cents to get some other stuff. But then now the store is open, no plastic glass. But we're a relationship with the community is powerful. We're in family and friends and neighbor. neighbors can come and get a good affordable cup of coffee and even sit for a while. But when you come in there is no plexiglass. Some would say, Are you crazy? I'm still in Fantawn, let's not get above ourselves. we are gonna get above ourselves. If the cashier's gonna be safe, the customer's gonna be safe. No plexiglass. We're all in together. It's where patrons can look for and grab, you know, the item that they want. My niece can come in here and walk straight to the Snickers. Buy it and get her correct change. But it's not being able to reach and grab the candy bar as much as it is the dignity that's being afforded once you cross the thresholders. door. That we have what the community wants. The kids, they look forward to coming in here every day. You got certain ones, they have no money. But still the coming Coming here without money. That's that's a blessing. There are people in Sandtown. They're just saying, hey, I just feel like I'm doing what I'm called to do. They don't feel like they're doing anything spectacular. They're just doing what God does. has called them to do and they're willing to put their lives on the line for that. I consider myself more than just a gym teacher. We have to teach our young kids it ain't just the bow violence. You want to win a fight but you don't really wanna win the fight, you wanna win the war. I'm not here just to teach basketball, I'm here to teach life. This is what we're aiming to it. We stop the ball rolling. We let our kids carry off And that's going to build our community. So what you see here is new not just to Sandown Habitat, but it's new to the city. Uh I've learned since I've been here just how How important it is to really listen to the community, to really be neighbors, to not be coming from the outside and try and impose uh a vision from the outside over what people need. People here know what they need. And that has taught me so much. Um I've never seen it practiced like I have here. And it's it's changed my life. One of the key things things for us in our community is um persistence in prayer. We don't have much, but um we've got each other. No matter what we've gone through, we're gonna be here for one another. We've shown that to each other. God does the answer prayer. Thank you. Um Yeah. Filmmaking um is definitely a collaborative effort. It really does take a team to uh to put these projects together. Um and there um There are so many that uh were part of this film that helped it to make it possible. And I'd like to just acknowledge a few of those uh again. Uh particularly Alan uh Tibbles who um who's a m who gave me immense encouragement and uh support uh throughout the entire project. Um and uh to Patty uh Pisada Rao and Antoine Bennett who are now the co directors at New Song Urban Ministries um who helped open so many doors for me to go in and and do some of this filming and particularly interviews, uh setting those up and was always so so willing to work with me even on short notice. And uh to Debbie Coke, um, who is um sort of a behind the scenes champion of this film, one who I could always count on, I could always go to uh for advice and for help Um and she was there throughout the entire project with me. And uh and and of course uh uh Gary Palmer, who is the owner of Gary's Goods um, who put up with me so many times and allowed me to invade his personal space and um and uh was always so so very kind. Um he's probably one of the most unassuming people that I know. Um and um So I'd like to take some questions uh that you might have about the the film, um, but I'd like to um first give you a little background about about the film and how I got involved. Um This um Stories of Hope was an opportunity that came through another opportunity that I had back in two thousand five to produce an independent film uh called In Still Small Voice, which w was originally called Still Calling. Um that was how it was f first released. Um the film is a collection of interviews um of Christian artists who from variety of disciplines uh reflect about what it means to be an artist and a Christian. uh and to work as such in the culture where Christian artists are largely uh discredited, um, alienated or ignored. Um And about four years ago I showed this film to uh Catherine and Tom Brote, who then shared it to uh with Alan Tibbles, who it uh was the f who is the founder of New Song Urban Ministries. Uh soon after uh Debbie Coke approached me and said that Alan wanted to to meet with me and talk about his interest in making a documentary film about the the the Gary's Goods, uh the building of Gary's Goods. And I remember very distinctly that uh first day that I entered Santawn, drove into Santown, I remember pulling down uh North Fulton Street. and um looking around me and very discreetly reaching around and locking the door next to me and then looking straight ahead and pretending like I really was comfortable there. And um and i And and that was the only time I ever had really had that experience going forward um and feeling that way about Sandtown. Um And then ar arrived at New Song of Ministries and and some of the Sand Town team was there, Debbie Koch was there, uh Catherine Bro was there, and I remember Alan saying to me, I want to make a film just like in a still small voice, uh, for the for the Gary's Goods uh story. And uh what really impacted me about Alan though was his incredible uh confidence in me. He hard me he hardly knew me, but he but that confidence and that encouragement that that he showed that day never wavered through the entire project. Um and that was um even when things didn't go quite as planned. And that was uh so special and so freeing to me as a filmmaker. Um and and I I have a lot of miniature micro memories of those days that I was up there. Um, but I particularly remember the first few days and and particularly um the first day couple of days up with g with just Gary and I were filming. And uh I kinda wish he was here. I'd like to to talk to him. I I see him every once in a while, but um I just started thinking about this the other day. He he must have thought I was crazy, all the things I was asking him to do. You know, uh turn here, turn there, look up here, look there, touch that, you know, let's do that again. You know, and but he was so patient, so incredibly patient with me. Um and those were the first couple days. And then there was a day, I think it was like the third day that uh I did my first interview, and that was with uh the late Charles Johnson. And um he It was an incredible interview and I remember I came away from that just thinking that I just caught an incredible glimpse of the beautiful community of life that exists in Sandtown. And that beauty is is is a bit hard to describe other than you w when you when you grasp it, you you just kinda want to hug it but you really can't. Um you want to sort of own it but you can't do that either So you just have to be there and you just have to enjoy it and just do your best to somehow be involved in it and be a part of it. Um the so so many times that I drove up there and w in the days that I spent there, sometimes I'd just go for a couple hours. And and I always remember the one thing I remember is driving away from Santon and um just feeling the sense of refreshment and And and that was that was just a really cool thing. Um, and I still feel that when I go up there today, uh, to visit Gary's Goods. Um so I'd like to take your questions, but I'd like to just say one w more quick thing. Um as with the film that I did earlier in a Still Small Voice and now with s with the stores of hope, my vision for the films were were of course to to make these films to meet the needs of of of new song. But um I thought it was a always just an opportunity to reach out to an audience um with a side of life that is not always portrayed or witnessed within our culture, particularly in the films of today. Um, you know, and that That goal of mine hasn't particularly gone all that well, but it I believe it's because artists have lost their place in contemporary artistic culture. uh today and our our voice as Christian artists have have pretty much been weakened and to the point of almost being non existent. Um and that is an incredibly, incredibly broad subject, and one that I'm not an expert on, but it's one that that I have been exposed to. and the one that I reflect reflect on often, especially when I when I make my films. And and that is one of the goals that I have as a filmmaker is to is to show um Americ uh you know, American culture, just th the the so many things that aspects of of Christian life that we just that they just so often do not see. Um so anyway, um that's about all I had to say. Um If any of you have any questions, I'd love to take 'em. Anything about the film? Sandtown? I mean, okay. Go ahead. Um, yeah, sure. He wants to know who else has seen the film and and what are the I guess the pl the plans for it. Um it was released about a year ago and um I knew someone wants to use it. Um uh though we're still working on exactly I'm not sure what's holding it up there but uh I'm still waiting to hear from them how they want to uh to duplicate it. Um it's it's uh it's of course free for them to use and I think they have used it, but they haven't distributed Uh one of the goals that I had, I mean the first goal I had was to act was to make a film for New Song. That was the make a short film that talked about Gary Scoods and Santone. Um but I shot enough footage that I c it it could turn into an hour long documentary and and so I presented it to um The Maryland Public Television, th they're they still haven't gotten back to me about the possibility of making it a longer form uh film, um at least a half an hour. Um but I'm also asking them for money, which is For Santawn. Mm not that I know. They do they do other films, short films, but they with with another production company. Um Yeah. Um Debbie you could probably talk about that more than I know right now. I didn't decide that you're usually undertaking and still not um bringing I not they're not quite um profit at this point. Um but obviously So you also have a small restaurant, the families would come, um, they talked about a store and I did that uh playing where you could buy um cars and balloons and that kind of thing. Um the dream is there, but uh this is just a huge energy and Could you uh this could you speak to how important it was to have a uh uh store like this that didn't have plastic lines. Yeah. I think we tried to ask and Steve could talk about this as well. Every corner store in Sandhouse has plastic left So when you walk in and you want something, they're a turn style and you tell them what you want, you put your money in, they turn the bank, they and your hand card comes out, and you have no There's no place that they can go to and get healthy reasonably right to a position. So there's a third one opportunity there for that. So walk into a business that is not the high special class and engage with people who are land out is absolutely um this for it. It's such an engaging thing. And in the uh very good open edition And to date the only um problems they've had is somebody broke their puppy five years ago. Um They had some small chocolate things, mostly for children. They're very editing it. But there have been no robbery, which they need to realize and come up and delay And again, you're raised project, and there's no incident of crime or robbery or anything against those who are Oh either but yeah, but it's you can be very visual. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah. Um even or the what role does the uh store that provides the I guess the the building supplies and so forth have served more than just the habitat houses or anyone in standing out of time that purchased out of like a hardware store that house function. Yeah. No, no, you go ahead. The restore in Santown is um a place where Santown residents can come and purchase at a very small cost um materials to work on in their homes, perhaps some upgrades that they might want. I take many carloads of things from p CPC folks who give me things to take. We've taken toilets, we've taken a lot of things to that restore. So people in Sandtown community, not just habitat homeowners, but others as well. um make use of that. What sort of things do they do they want? They don't have a lot of space. So um I went with a whole load of furniture and they were They priced it to move right away. Um their their goal is to there is property that Newsong owns within Santown that has not been developed yet. So their dream is to open a large restore. But right now they can take small items. No, they can take I mean the light I light fixtures, um hard uh you know, faucets, anything that can go in a house. Mirror not mirrors. I tried mirrors and they said no. Um, So you can ask me if you have specific things, I can let you know what they could take. But you can also can go online there and they'll and it tell us what they can accommodate. Just they just don't have a lot of space right now. The school is used as a community center essentially. I mean they have to just a huge number of programs. That building is used pretty much all the time. Um but uh a community s there was a community center that closed so they really do use New Song Community Center where the school meets as for that purpose. We got a handheld mic back here if anybody wants to ask questions from the back. um in Gary from the first days when we sat and met together because when I went and talked to the leadership and they said we really want to try to develop have economic development be a reality here. They knew that Gary was the person for that role. And at the it it we met with Gary every week for over two years and at the beginning of those meetings, week after week after week after week, Gary was silent. And uh we just didn't even know what to make of that and how to navigate that. And maybe Stephen can talk a little bit of what we saw over the course of those couple of years. Sure. Yeah. Um yeah, I remember interviewing Gary for the first time. I think I interviewed him three three times. And the very first time I think Antoine and I uh Antoine was asking the questions I was operating uh the camera and I think we were with Gary for about an hour and a half, two hours, just trying to get something out of him. He was so shy. And and you know, it's pretty normal to be the first time you do an interview to, you know, not have a lot to say. But Gary was parti he would start on a subject and then he would just kinda close off and I'm not sure why that all occurred but but um It was really, really tough in in and some of those song bites are in the very beginning and that was about all that I got out of 'em out of that hour and a half. And then the second time he just started opening up, you know, just a little bit more. And I and I think yeah, I actually did now, I think I did I did him four t interviewed him four times. And each time I did it, Gary just just was just coming out of himself. And you really were getting the sense of who Gary Palmer was. And and what's interesting is that his testimony that he did on the day on the um Dedication Day. Um that was really the first time that I really heard Gary's story as a whole from him. And um And I think that was really the the the point where he was just r he just just really just opened up and and I think that it becomes such an important part of who he is and what he does for the store in the community. I think it was always there with Gary. I think that's why Alan believed in him, you know, in the very beginning that he was the right person to to do to open this first store in Sandtown. And um You know, I just I just watch him and I l watch how he works with with the people and the customers and there's so much incredible respect for him. Um and um And so yeah, Gary really he really came he really came to the call of what what the town needed, uh Sand Town needed, um, by being the owner of Gary's goods. and being there for the community. And he really is risking his life there. I mean there is really is no protection for him. Um but I think in the community there's this incredible respect for him and he has this blanket of protection around him. Uh that I that I just think is amazing. So He he tells me um every time we mention it, every time I talk to him about it, he says I cry every time I watch it. So Oh, she wanted to know how Gary responded to the film and I was I was a little worried about I think everybody was a little concerned that he may maybe didn't like it. I mean I think most of us don't like to watch ourselves on camera, uh, let alone hear what we have to say. But um but Gary What I just said is that, you know, Gary just says that he just cries every time he he s he sees it. So I think that's very touching for me as a filmmaker. that that he would uh feel that way. I wanted to s tell you um my experience watching Steven through these years of all of the hours and hours and hours of his filming And then the um I don't even know how to talk with all putting together the film and in rough form and then working through it. And when I first saw it, I wept. And I called Stephen and said, You got it. And to me I had never experienced a Christian filmmaker who could go in and understand the community. and have hundreds of hours of filming and all these people that he had talked to and observed and been in the community. And for me it was an overwhelming experience to see an artist so able to grasp the heart of a community and and Stephen did it and I I I I just remember calling him and just saying, You got it, you got it. You got it. I I d I just I just want to respond to that. Um one of the things that I've r I've seen in in these last two films that I've made is that There's things that happen in the editing room that I can't quite explain and um I remember um uh when I did the interview with um with Mako Fujimora, um he's a he's a Japanese artist, pretty pretty well known an artist in the c uh Christian community of artists. He um he said in the interview he says we have lost sight of transcendence. And what he meant by that was that we've lost we lost sight of the fact that God is in the studio with us. And and I can attest to that, um, especially in the last two films, but then also in Stores of Hope there were things that just came together that just didn't I I don't know where they came from. They just came together. And um and so I just credit I just credit God a lot for just um you know, I don't know, I just feel that he just put me in the right places at the right time, got me these incredible interviews. I mean people the the people that I interviewed sometimes they did most of them just really opened up to me. And um and um a lot of my questions were very simple and basic and and they just expounded so so deeply and shared so deeply that and gave me such incredible material to work with. Um, but Debbie's right. I mean it's it's a lot of material and and and and and s and sometimes I'm overwhelmed by by all that I have to somehow make into a short film. And you really have to do it, um, in a way that obviously that your aunties is gonna be able to follow your story and and but anyway You know, it's it's not just the filmmaker. It's it's a huge, huge collaborative effort by many people. But I think um you know, in prayer that the Lord is is is there right beside you, working with you. So Um how has it changed the way that you live your Christian life after doing this kind of project? I'm not sure how to answer it, but um like I said, my goal was to to reach a a larger audience. I I I I I think of Source of Hope as a film for not just believers. I think it's it's a film that we have the share to the the whole world. Um I mean especially communities like urban communities like Santown who who um need this kind of support. Um and um And so that's why I presented it to uh Maryland Public Television. I'm hoping that they will air it. Um I think it's really important that people see that faith is a faith is a huge part of what we do and and that and that's a huge part of Sandtown. Uh faith is very much a big part of what they do and how they do things. Um and I thought this th that that story was a perfect way to just show show the world how faith works in people's lives. Um So in a very deep way, I think. Um so for me personally I grow each time I do a film like this. I mean um And I just continually give credit to to God for for just the opportunities that I that I had have had and just just how He's worked throughout the whole production process with me. Um giving me many opportunities. So I don't know, I'm just kind of rambling on here. Any other Stephen, do you think that um MPT would respond to individual um input about just asking, saying we saw this film and we would love to see a documentary and as individuals, uh would they respond to that? Would that help? Um can't hurt. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not sure how that works, but I no I don't know how they feel about it. They haven't given me a lot of feedback back. I mean I when I first when they first saw it they said we are definitely interested. And that's about all I heard, other than I had to submit an application process and a budget and and uh and um kind of a projection of what I thought the film would look be like. uh as a longer form piece and um they keep on promising they're gonna get back to me but I I I don't know It's tough getting money on Amer on a public television. They they they're glad to show your film, but they really like you coming in with a film that's done and then they promote it for you. Um to ask them for finishing funds to do a longer form is is I think is from what I understand and my experience has been very, very difficult to get that money. Um do they like you coming in with with underwriters already or a finished piece? Hey, um one I guess because I got the mic, I got the big hand up here. Um sorry. Uh Steve, I'm just thinking about um the schools like uh you know, high schools, public schools, private schools. This story is, you know, it's a real inspirational story. And I'm just thinking out loud, Maryland Public Television, but I'm just wondering about possible effort to get distribution in the schools and start to kind of fan it out maybe more grassroots like that. I'm I'm just I'm just brainstorming but I it's such an inspirational story. Christian or non, um, you know, an inspirational story for Maryland. So I'm just kind of throwing that out there. No. I I I I definitely appreciate your brainstorming on that. Um Yeah, I I really would like to reach a wider audience too. I I just not sure what form it's gonna take. I mean the f the first the I wanted to make it a available to to Newsong uh for them to use as they see fit. And I think I think it's a the time is is come where we really um really need to start pursuing how it might get out there maybe it in a different way other than than public television. Um I I'm I'm really open to that and Uh the only problem is is that m I have limited time and uh so and that whole distribution uh effort is is a lot of work, a lot, a lot of work. Um so go ahead. um one of the local university colleges because we all have entrepreneurship clubs, we all have uh faith basic organizations and some of those extra money can help you go back help you navigate that whole piece. For what we're doing is both stand down and so Yeah. Um and I could definitely use some help. Um it really all through all aspects of the production it's a collaborative effort and it really does take a lot of people to make a a project successful and to get it out there and the distribution is And the cost of distribution is uh really sometimes half your budget, um, in the effort that it takes afterwards. I mean so many filmmakers g they say, Well, I'll I'll make my film and then it'll just it'll just sell but it doesn't work that way. You really have to get in I've entered into the film festivals, trying to catch a buzz there. Um but I haven't hasn't been picked up yet. Um I'm gonna o enter a couple local ones. Um so the hope to uh to to maybe get on some distributor on board or something or s uh it's um it's what I'm doing right now with the film trying to get it going so anyway. So Steven um I don't know how the film distribution um works as a process. But Watching your film, I mean the real beauty of it is it casts such a vision, um, maybe to people who have never thought about the fact that homeowners in an urban community don't have access to um to the things that we take for granted that we can drive to a store and you know buy whatever we need. Um so do you own the film? Or does Sandtown own the film? I mean who owns it in terms of um 'cause you would like to see something like this, your film, cast that vision Um, even within all of Habitat for Humanity. I mean it's a big organization that's working in many cities and that same kind of need must be there. So you'd like to see it um, you know, be used to to cast that vision to other urban areas of the state of state. Absolutely. And that's what I is definitely is in my when I write up these papers about the film and what my plans are, that that is definitely a part of it. That I really feel there's other communities that could really benefit from seeing a story like this and it that could be an encouragement for others that we I know exist in these communities that want to do something similar but but just really don't know how to start. And and even bringing on board organizations to help those individuals start, like Alan D Tibbles did with Gary. Um that would have never happened without without Alan having that vision and having that trust in Gary. And and Gary was the person. He's the pr was the perfect person for that project. So um anyway. So thank you so much. Let's pray and uh then we'll go to our time of fellowship as we prepare for the Lord's Worship. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for this wonderful story. We thank you, Father, for the vision uh that you have given to Stephen. We thank you, Lord, that it is a recovery of the truth that you are a transcendent God and that you use the gifts that we have given and you inhabit by your Spirit and Word. our creativity. And I pray, Father, you would continue to open doors for Stephen and for this film. We pray, Father, for the ministry of that is going on in Santawn. We pray, Lord, that the kingdom of Christ in Sandtown would multiply and grow. We pray, Father, for Gary that you would bless his business as he seeks to be a source. of community, provide a place where people can connect, where there also can be the story of Christ that brings out renewal and resurrection, not only in his life. But in that community. We pray you would use this film to ignite a movement in urban areas to see, Lord, that you can work in the smallest of ways to bring about real renewal. through the gospel of Jesus Christ, working its way out in word and in deed. We thank you for this time we've had together and we pray that you will continue to bless uh the Holloways and we ask, Father, for your blessing on our worship in just a few minutes. few minutes. In Jesus' name, Amen.