Jesus' words to the Fifth Church, Sardis Are probably the scariest words of all that we have heard so far to these first five churches that are the letters of Jesus to these seven churches in the book of Revelation, at least to the American church of the twenty-first century. Because it's written to a church that looks very successful, looks very prosperous, very busy. But is in fact living in denial and is woefully deceived. George Barna, Dean of American Christian Polsters says that America is oblivio the American church is oblivious to the fact that America is in grave spiritual crisis. Because the church looks alive, prosperous, and well. And when I read these words, I have to Stop and think about my ministry and about Columbia Presbyterian because looks can be so deceiving. And we look very prosperous, alive, and well. But Jesus calls us to examine what's going on in our hearts. So let's look at the usual seven C's, but in this case the order is reversed a little bit First of all, back to our old map here. The tour going around that circle in western Turkey. We now come down from Thyatira about 30 miles, mostly south, a little bit east to Sardis. It's about fifty miles due east of Smyrna. Sardis was a very affluent city. Literally its uh river ran with gold, gold that was washed down from the mountains. It was the throne of ancient Croesus, of legendary wealth. It was so rich that uh in seventeen AD the city was largely destroyed by an earthquake, but was able to rebuild. They had a little bit of help from the emperor who remitted their taxes for five years, and they were able to rebuild the city. Um but it was never fully to the same glory of the golden age before. Jesus comes and speaks to this city. Notice the characteristics of the speaker. Chapter 3, verse 1, to the angel, that is, to the messenger of the church in Sardis. Right? These are the words. Of him who holds the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. Very interesting. Two ways he characterizes himself. Holds the seven spirits. I believe that refers to the Holy Spirit. Very interesting. You know, John never uses the term Holy Spirit in any of his writings. John refers to the Spirit of God by a number of different terms, different ways It seems pretty clear that when he refers to this term, the seven spirits or the sevenfold spirits. Which he does in chapter one in verses four and five, that uh that's referring to part of the Godhead. It's referring to God. Why does he use that strange term, the seven spirits or sevenfold spirit? Well probably It's taken from Isaiah 11, verse 2, where you have the spirit that comes upon Messiah described with seven characteristics. And seven being the number of perfection, it is saying that this one who is the perfect spirit comes upon Messiah. And in Isaiah 11 Messiah is then described as being able to judge as a result of the Spirit, being able to judge the heart, not by appearance. And that's exactly what Jesus is saying he is doing here. So I think that John's making a connection there, that the Spirit now comes with wisdom and power For him to judge hearts. That's what he's saying to you. I see, it's like what he said before. I see hearts. I see beyond. what the appearances are. Then he says he holds the seven stars. You remember the stars he says are the angels or the messengers the pastors of the churches. And that's a great comfort to me because Jesus is saying, I hold you, Alan, in my hand as you come to deliver this message. It's also a real call to examine myself. Am I faithful in delivering this message? Because God is saying He is speaking to you through me to the extent that I am faithful to this message. What a thought. This week, Time magazine, the cover story was on the God gene. I don't know how many of you have read that. One person mentioned it. Interesting article. It's about this molecular biologist, Dean Hamer, who claims that he has found this gene in our DNA that um is correlated, it's it's uh related to how spiritual you are. That is how open you are to a sense of uh the universe and m mystical emotional connections to something transcendent. But what's interesting is through the whole article there is no notion of the possibility that there really is a God who speaks to his creation, creatures made in his image. But it's all something that's kind of programmed within. In fact, Hamer says that he sees us as simply a complex bag of chemical reactions. Um, you know, kind of just running around all these chemical reactions. Everything is, you see, just contained within this universe. The f the idea That God made you in his image and now in this service seeks to address you through, as Tim said Just a weak, frail communicator opening his word to you is an outrageous thought to our culture, isn't it? Do you believe that? That God is speaking through his word to you now? That's what he's saying. I hold the spirit that searches hearts, and I hold the messenger, and I have something to say to you. That makes all the difference whether you believe that or not. But what is it that he has to say? In this case, he doesn't go on with the commendations and the things that are possible. He gets right to the deadly concern That's so urgent that's on his mind. He goes right to it. Verse 1. I know your deeds. You have a reputation for being alive. But you're dead. You look like you're alive. Everybody looks and they say, it looks like a live church to me. Successful, growing, it's prosperous. But in fact, he says you're on life support. Pull the plug and you're done. You are just that close. The church is characterized, as I meditate on this, I believe, by two things. They have a lot of deeds. They're not complete, perfect, they're hollow. But I believe he's saying they're busy You are a busy people. You've got 150 ministries that are going on every night, every day, all this stuff's going on. Everybody's involved in doing things. You've got committee meetings going, committees to manage your committees, all kinds of stuff, and you are tired. Right? Any amends on that? You know you are just running around doing stuff, very active. But secondly I believe he is saying you are slothful. They're saying, huh? How could that be? How can any people that are so busy running around doing so much be slothful? How could we be lazy? No, I didn't say you're lazy, I said slothful. Slothful in the Church Fathers, through the history of the church, is related to the Latin term asidia, which literally means without caring. It's the classic, yeah, whatever. And according to the Church Fathers, uh you can dismiss Spiritual things by hiding them through overbusyness. Spiritual listlessness that is masked through activity. Rosemary Miller, in her book From Fear to Freedom, talks about a time in her life where she says, Because I did not believe that God accepted me on the basis of Christ's life, death, and resurrection. Therefore, I could not face the risk of seeing my sins as my own responsibility. So, having tried to clear my conscience by blaming others I turned on the afterburners and made myself busy with work and duty. Or to use Martin Luther's analogy, I was full of active righteousness. I looked to my outward activity to feel good about myself, and I judged others by my own active standards. I can feel okay about myself because I am busy. I know you're busy, but I mean just so long as people know we're busy. It doesn't even matter how busy I am, just as long as you know I'm busy. I look busy. Because to look busy is to look important. And so we mask a hollowness and emptiness inside by busyness. And the effect of that is um three things that you see there in your outline. Um the focus on activity Rather than the heart, as Rosemarie talks about. Endless carpooling, events Your neighbors think of Christians as people that zing in, zing out, zing in, zing out, you know. And they don't they don't know you, you don't know them. All they know is you're always going to meetings. Very busy. And uh you know I had uh last night I came home and I just walk in the door and a neighbor comes down and says, Would you like to come to a murder mystery we're gonna have? And I just said, Yeah, you know, whatever it is, you know, I'll scratch calendar, spend time with my neighbors Because people see us as Christians as just kind of moving on in activity. Being a Christian is doing stuff. And that's to mask, as Rosemarie says, that emptiness, the hollowness. Secondly We then look to worship on Sunday morning to give us some feeling of connectedness to God. Maybe to be entertained. We need a jolt to get through the next week. A spiritual jolt. So we don't actually sing, we just stand there and listen to other people sing, and maybe envy a little bit the people that seem like they're really into it. Because we're not. And we feel like we're spectators watching something go on. Our families are Dysfunctional, the kids aren't doing well, they resent church, we're just busy running around trying to get through So we um find ourselves more excited about a new purchase than we are about Jesus Christ. And if uh I offered you that you could spend one free hour this afternoon alone With Jesus Christ in his word, with no demands upon your time, the thought of that would be more dreadful than delicious. What would I do with God for an hour alone? That's what Jesus is talking about. There are people who have massed the spiritual emptiness with busyness. And then thirdly, you've compromised with sin because you lack the gospel and the spirit power. You don't you don't have real gospel motivation, you don't have spirit power to resist. the siren song of temptation toward materialism or sensuality, whatever the real world of the Monday through Saturday because that world is so much Or real to you. Again, as George Barnes says, the church in this country is oblivious to the fact that we are in a struggle between two worldviews. And that's somewhat reflected in our elections, isn't it? Why is it that this election is so heated Why is it that hatred is spoken of concerning the opposite side? Isn't it because each side views the other side As a threat to their entire way of life, their whole value system. Now, while it's certainly not true that George Bush reflects The biblical worldview, or that John Kerry reflects completely postmodernism, secularism, there certainly is a tendency of the candidates toward those worldviews. My point is simply that the nation is deeply divided in these worldviews. And that the church, by and large, sleeps in the midst of a spiritual and moral crisis that's going on. I believe that's what Jesus is addressing. He says, you look like you're alive. You are busy. You are doing stuff. But in fact You are just about to expire. You're really dead. So what are Jesus' words? His counsel, his commands, quite simple. Here it is, verse two. Wake up! I wish I had one of those semi air horns, you know, that I could blow at this point, do you know to give you the flavor of what Jesus is saying at I think the picture is something like, you know, you're driving and you're just crossing the rumble strips going on to the shoulder to headed toward the embankment, and Jesus is reaching over and he shakes you and he says, Wake up before you go over the embankment. Wake up! He's trying to get your attention. He's getting my attention. He says, I want you to do two things The first is there in verse two revive the smoldering embers that are about to extinguish Strengthen what remains. There's a little bit remaining. There's a vestige. Strengthen, grab a hold of it. It's about to die, for I have not found your deeds complete. That is, they're hollow, they're empty. I have not found your deeds, all your busyness, all the activities are involved, that are not complete in the sight of my God. And so be honest. Do an honest self-assessment. Get off with Jesus Christ this afternoon. Cancel something. Show that he means something to you, rather than continue on the pace and say, I've just I've just got to stop, I've got to cancel, I've got to back out of this, I've got to get alone with God. I gotta look at my life. Something's not right. Our family's not right. Kids aren't prospering. My life isn't prospering I'm sensing that I'm in spiritual depression. I don't know why I'm doing stuff because I got myself locked into this evangelical subculture and I've forgotten why I'm doing what I'm doing, but it's not out of love and devotion to Jesus, and I just gotta stop and look at myself honestly. Are you willing to do that? You're willing to take that assessment? Get off alone with Jesus or is that too scary? He's inviting you to come because he has something he wants to say to you. And what he wants to say to you is something immensely valuable. You need it so much Secondly, he says, remember the gospel. That's what he has for you. Verse three. Remember, therefore, what you've received and heard. Obey it and repent. Remember Jesus Christ died for sluggards, slothful people who want to run from ourselves, like you and me. He says, stop. Look again at the gospel. Continuing what Rosemarie Miller says in her book Fear to Freedom. After she talks about how she was running in her busyness in order to avoid looking at herself, looking at her sins as her own responsibility She then says she saw the gospel. As a result, she says, but now I understood what Luther was talking about. Quote, in the righteousness of faith we work nothing. We render nothing to God But we only receive and allow another to work in us. Remember, the gospel is not God saved you to work for him, it's God saved you to worship him. And this is what he calls a passive righteousness, a righteousness that's credited to our account through faith. This was Christ's righteousness bought with the price of his blood on the cross. This I received by faith The reason it had been so difficult for me to have a personal faith in Christ was that I had not experienced total forgiveness. But I had now brought real sins, including my attitudes of self-dependence and blame shifting to a real Savior, and they had been forgiven. How awesome it is to be loved unconditionally by a holy, righteous God. Amen. How awesome it is to be loved unconditionally by a holy and righteous God. Do you believe that God has forgiven your sins? That He is your heavenly Father? That He wants you more than anything else to have a relationship with Him, not simply to use you in busyness. Maybe for you it's not to come back to him. Maybe for some of you it's to come into that relationship. Everybody here thinks you're a Christian. You can sing and come and do the things that other Christians do, and only you know your heart. Only you know that it's playing a game and that you're really far from God He invite you this morning to be honest about that. To wake up To grab a hold of what remains. To remember what you've received and heard. Maybe if you're older, that you received and heard many years ago and you've forgotten. Or if you're a teenager to remember what you used to believe in a gentle simplicity about Jesus in your faith five years ago. Which you're now too sophisticated to profess. Wake up. Because he gives a consequence. Verse 3 He says, if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what time I will come to you. I'm giving you the warning now. But if you do not wake up, I am coming. I don't believe that's talking about primarily the second coming, ultimately involves that. It involves his coming to the church at Sardis like he did. The church at Sardis disappeared. Was wiped out. Jesus still is in the business of visiting churches and leaders of churches in judgment. Last week we talked about Jezebel. And Jesus said, if you do not repent, I will come and turn your bed of lust into a bed of suffering, and I will even bring death. And I was reminded afterwards talking to somebody about a contemporary example of Jesus doing that. You probably mostly of you have heard of the story of the five missionaries, Jim Elliott, Nate Saint and others who had gone to the Auka Indians in the jungles of Ecuador back in 1956. They were martyred. speared to death in the Cururae River in their attempts to bring them to the gospel. Many of you would know that in the years after that missionaries went back from their own families, wives and others. And brought the gospel again in great power. The Spirit brought a great turning to Christ of the Aka Indian tribe. Became primarily a Christian tribe. And sometime after that, one of the leaders in that tribe, a fellow by the name of Inui Believed that one of the witch doctors in the area had put a curse on somebody in the body And so he went out because uh revenge was such a deeply held value of that culture before Christ, he went out, as in the old days, to go for the witch doctor to kill him. The witch doctor happened to be away, but his son was there, so he speared his son. And as the son lay dying, he begged for mercy, but anyway, let him die in this blood. The leaders prayed about what to do. They they didn't know how to handle this. How do they discipline them? What do they do? Here's a influential person. Who is leading God's people astray in this and gonna turn them back to the old sins? And so they simply prayed God would you discipline them, do what you need to do. It's beyond us. In less than a week, a couple days later, Inui was down by that Curare River right in the spot where the five missionaries had been martyred. and suddenly was seized with a seizure, foaming at the mouth, died there on the riverbank in terrible agony Jesus still comes to speak to his church and to show that he is ruler. We don't play with sin Without consequences. Even to this day, in the United States, currently, over 50 churches every week close their doors. Jesus says, I will come and I will bring judgment. I will close you up, Sardis. I will close you up over fifty a week. Because their lampstand has been removed. Respective periodical Religion Watch says that in three decades Christianity will be extinguished from Great Britain. There will be no Christian influence, and Christianity will be basically seen as a cult and a memory in Great Britain. You look like there's life, but there's nothing behind it. Scary, isn't it? We look like there's a lot going on. But you know, Jesus then gives to them commendation and encouragement. He says, it's not all of you. And that's true, even in the most liberal churches, uh you'll always find, almost always find, not always, but almost always find A couple or a few believers. He says even to this church at Sardis, Yet you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their clothes. They will walk with me dressed in white. But they are worthy. You notice he says these people are gonna walk with me dressed in white, refers to the white robes of righteousness. Talk about that in a minute. But what particularly notice is these people have not soiled their clothes, they're going to walk with him because they are worthy. Now when you see that word worthy, does that ring any bell for you? You know? I mean what do you when you see worthy, what do you think of? Right? Ephesians, of course. Right? Ephesians four and one. Where you see that uh Paul talks about uh you know, remember as a prisoner for the Lord, I urge you to walk worthy, the word axios, in line with the calling that you received. The word, remember, means in equilibrium, in balance. What's Jesus saying here? It's the same idea He's not saying because they are worthy, because you know they're busy enough, they're active enough, they're doing enough, somehow they have made themselves worthy. No, what he's saying, of course, is that they haven't soiled their robes and they're in balance, they're consistent, their lives are consistent with the gospel. There's an equilibrium in what they profess and how they live. Not perfect, far from perfect. But they are not living a utter contradiction to what it is that they profess. And then he goes on with the gospel. The consequence. In verse five, he says, He who overcomes will like them be dressed in white. I will never blot out his name from the book of life, but will acknowledge his name before my Father and His angels. Three things that Jesus promises there to the person who is willing to wake up to look at reality and to remember and grab a hold of the gospel that they had received. First of all, Jesus says you will be dressed in white. You will be dressed in this white robe of righteousness. Now that's referred to a number of times in Revelation. The idea there is that it is something that you are given, it is not something you work for. Chapter 6, verse 11, quite clear. They were given their robes of righteousness. Secondly, it's something that you put on to hide your shame and your nakedness by the righteousness of Jesus to cover you. That's the picture. The reason it's white is not because of the color, it's because it's clean. That's quite clear in chapter 7, verse 13, it says they washed their robes and made them white. Chapter 19, verse 14 says they were dressed in robes that were white and clean. So the idea is that they're pure. It's like a wedding dress, you know, it's white to show purity. It's like what you kids just sang to us, right? The robe that's spotless and pure, that's what you were singing. See, that's the picture So it's that you will be without any shame or guilt before him. Not because of what you've done, because of what he's done. That's what sets you free from all the activity all the going and doing that becomes empty? Secondly, he says, I will never blot your name out of the book of life. There is a book of life Is your name in that book? I mean, you could look. If you could see that book, you would either see your name there Or if it's in alphabetical order according to all the languages and everything, you go and you look down and you say, uh-oh. If your name's not there, I'll tell you, nothing else matters Do you remember when you were a kid and you were in school and they would post lists on the bulletin board, you know, and maybe that you made the team, here's those that made varsity, here's made JV, and here's those that made nothing These were the ones cut or here's the ones that passed the test and here's the ones that plunked and here's the ones that maybe got on the honor roll and here's the ones that didn't make it. Or here's the ones that got the scholarships and here's the ones that didn't And so you would live with some anxiety, you know, because you've got to check that list. Am I name am I there? Was my name there? Now what does that compare? To saying there is a list of those who will be in heaven for eternity, and if you're not on that list, you're in hell apart from God for all eternity. Who cares about any other list? Compared to that list in the book of life. Are you in that book? If you have the robe of righteousness, because you know that yours is nowhere sufficient And you take Jesus by faith. He says, I will never rub your name out of that book. You are secure. So you're not only shameless and guilt-free. But you are secure and safe because of that book. And then thirdly, he says, I'll acknowledge his name before my father and the angels. Not only is there the robe which covers you and the record which makes you safe, but there's the relationship with Jesus Himself. The relationship where Jesus comes before the Father and he says, Alan Harris? Oh, yeah, I know him, I acknowledge him. He's my friend. We have a relationship. And his spirit acknowledges that relationship that he has with you in your heart because you can cry, Abba Daddy. There's a relationship. Jesus knows you. He acknowledges you. Isn't that precious? You know, a couple weeks ago, I took my grandson Riley up to Sugarloaf And uh first time he was there and we're walking along, it was a beautiful day, and we just were walking along the pond that's there And you know, just chit-chatting about whatever. And he he just stopped at one moment. He was holding my hand and he looked up and he said, I love you, Grandpa Now, you know, that didn't make him my grandson. That didn't change anything about the relationship. But his acknowledging to my heart and my saying, I love you, Riley, was so precious. Jesus acknowledges you. Do you acknowledge him in your heart? He who has ears to hear Let them hear what the Spirit says to the church. Last Sunday after one of the services, somebody came up to me and they said, Pastor, Just so you know, there are some of us here who have ears to hear. Pray for me. I've been involved in some compromise in my life, and I need God's power to break from that. And we pray. Is God speaking to you this morning? He who has ears to be honest About what is the quality of your relationship with Jesus Christ this morning, apart from all the activities. Hear what Jesus is saying to you now. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. We come now to be honest. Some of us, Lord, have gotten into a subculture of activity. of behaviors that are really counterproductive. We don't know what it would be like to have a time with you that's quiet and sweet and peaceful, to go from it feeling forgiven. To have a clear sense that I have, I'm covered, dressed in this robe of righteousness that Jesus has given That robe that he doesn't need, his robe is a robe that displays his glory. For his righteousness is intrinsic and mine, I need that covering. Lord Jesus, show us our need Lord, I pray that there would not be anybody here whose name is not written in the book of life. What a terrible, terrible, unthinkable thing. But to know that you acknowledge us, you know us, and you are not ashamed of us. You want to cultivate that relationship. Lord, may we quiet our hearts and find the time today to get alone with you, but for you to speak to our hearts. To come and meet our emptiness with your fullness, that we might revive what remains, that we might remember the gospel and rest. In joy and peace to treasure you with all of our hearts. Amen