Isaiah chapter 55. Before we read the scripture, I want to tell a little story which might uh help us to see what we'll be looking for in this passage. It's a friend of my father Named Millard Fuller. He made a million dollars by the time he was 25 years old. He was brilliant in his business of construction. And he was miserable. His wife I'd left them to go home with her parents. They had had some Christian background somewhat, but uh Christ was not the center of their lives if they were even converted, as they acknowledged later, they were miserable. That million dollars didn't help a bit. They came to know the Lord though, and he gave away every bit of his money. All one million dollars. And they went to Nigeria as missionaries of sorts to use his his um expertise as a construction businessman to help work with missionaries and people in Nigeria. When I got back from Okinawa, I was in the Marine Corps, was on leave at home, they had just come back furlough and were staying at our house for uh several days and here was this lady who had been a millionaire with her husband going through our old clothes which we saved my father work in the inner city with uh with many people who were very poor and clothes that we would give away to people that were very poor and here they here she was going through these old clothes looking for clothes for her kids. And it seemed kind of ironic. This woman who formerly had been a millionaire going through old clothes. My mother asked her, have you ever wished you didn't give away that million dollars? She said never. Our li the money meant so much to us and we know that it would today, that we are the happiest we've ever been. And I never regret it. Don't even wish we kept a hundred thousand. She was in our scripture today We're going to see, and I want you to look for it as I read it, that the only thing that really does bring purpose and happiness and true satisfaction in life is the Lord Jesus Christ, as the fullers found out. Let's read together. And I have adapted to your culture here, and I'm reading from the NIV. I'm going to preach from the NASB, but I'm going to read from the NIV. Isaiah 55, beginning with verse 1. Come, all you who Are thirsty, come to the waters, and you who have no money, come buy and eat, come by wine and milk, without money and without cost. Why spend money on what is not bread and your labor? On what does not satisfy. Listen, listen to me, and eat what is good, and your soul will delight in the riches of fare. Give ear and come to me. Hear me that your soul may live. I will make an everlasting covenant with you, my faithful love promised to David. See, I have made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander of the peoples. Surely you will summon nations you know not. And nations you do not know, you will hasten to you, because of the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, for he has endowed you with splendor. Verse six Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him And while he is near, let the wicked forsake his way, and the evil man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord, and he will have mercy on him and to our God, for he will freely pardon. Let's pray. Our Lord God, we pray your Holy Spirit to visit us, to make your word very clear to us, to apply it to our hearts, to show us new truth that we might fall. More in love with Jesus Christ, that we might all know Him, who He is. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. What doesn't satisfy? What doesn't satisfy? As we look through this passage, we're going to give exhibit A as what the Bible says. What is an exhibit B is what the world shows us. First, what doesn't satisfy worldly things. I put bad things down there. What I want you to change it to worldly things. That'd be a better word. First worldly thing might be materialism, like Miller Fuller and his wife found out. It really doesn't satisfy. Verse 2, he says, Why do you spend your money on what is not bread? Why do you spend your money on things that don't really satisfy? What the verse is he's asking the question, why do you give your life the things that don't really count, the things that don't really fill that emptiness inside? One of them that people try to fill the emptiness with is materialism. Lots of money, things. Solomon had lots of things. Exhibit A of the Bible. And he talked about all the gardens in Ecclesiastes chapters 1 through 3. You can read about it. He talked about all the gardens he had. He built big houses. He built all these things. He had lots. He was happy. Was he? What did he say? All of this is Vanity. It's striving after wind. It doesn't satisfy. Exhibit B is the world. They know this too. Lots of examples of people like Miller Fuller that tried to find happiness and purpose and they think Having a little more will be that satisfaction. Andrew Carnegie was asked, How much will be enough? And he said, A little more. It doesn't satisfy. Some people try booze and drugs and things like that to satisfy some. Solomon talked about that. He said, I'll try wine and make my mind dance in the pleasures of men. He talked about that in Ecclesiastes. You might read this on your own. That's Exhibit A. And you know what he said about that? Same thing. It's vanity. and striving after one. It's temporary, it doesn't last. How about Exhibit B? Doesn't the world find out the same thing? Oh, when I was in the Marine Corps I couldn't believe how many people would try to drown out the troubles with booze and many With drugs. You look don't you know many people like that? Don't you young people know people like that? Does it satisfy They like one of the uh proverbs says about the drunkard, he will seek a little more. It doesn't satisfy, it doesn't fulfill. It doesn't take the Bible to see that, although the Bible certainly teaches that it does. Many people try Sex and and a promiscuous lifestyle, thinking that will satisfy. Uh It doesn't. Exhibit A, the Bible Solomon Solomon and many other places tells us it does. Solomon speaks how he had concubines, the the pleasures of men, he calls him and he and he listens. Many striving after women. Does the world know that too? Exhibit A here might be People Magazine held up. Here are the people that look to as uh the ones who are really happy and you read the pages or any other magazine like that, and I don't see happiness, I see misery. Divorce after divorce after divorce. Kind of like the woman at the well. She wasn't satisfied or he wasn't or something, but he she still wasn't satisfy. She still needed the living water. That doesn't satisfy the I read an An Land Anne Landers article several months ago about a girl. There's been some discussion about in the article in the previous articles about uh A looser lifestyle. And this girl wrote in and said, didn't claim to be a Christian, didn't even mention God, but she testified to the agony in her life. Because when you break God's laws, when you do worldly things trying to Find happiness and pleasure in life, it just doesn't work. The testimonies are legions of people, many who don't know God, who see that it doesn't work, it doesn't satisfy. But you know There are many others. You look around. How about uh fame, popularity? How about that? The Bible says that didn't work for Solomon either. He talked about how he had all this power and he was important. He said that was vanity and striving after women. Exhibit B We see it too. How about Michael Jackson as he dances his way to the bank? Is he happy, would you think? Many people look to him as an example. I We know on the basis of Exhibit A that he's not. I don't know where he stands with God. But you look at less than twenty years ago, the four Beatles who came to the United States and everybody looked at them. Where are they now? What are what kind of satisfaction do they have now? Where is is Mitch Jagger and numerous others who have overdosed on drugs and had other problems? The world doesn't satisfy. We see it from the Bible and we see it from life. It doesn't. Why do you spend your money on what is not great and on things that don't really satisfy? But you know, it's not only worldly things that don't satisfy, but good things don't satisfy either. In and of themselves. How about hard work? It's a principle we even see in the Bible, isn't it? To work hard. How many people do you know who are workaholics? When I was in the Marine Corps, I couldn't believe that the Marine Corps is almost like a religion. some people and and men would give their whole lives to their jobs. Exhibit B didn't work. Didn't make them happy. Many families and marriages on the rocks because men tried to find their fulfillment in their work. You know many other good things uh uh that that are just like that. Solomon talked about that. He talked about the man who works so hard and he stays up at night thinking about his job. Does that ever happen to any of you men? Any of you women It's happened to me before, I must confess. And he says that too is vanity. And striving after women. How many people lose themselves in their work? Another good thing, how about sports? I was an athlete in college, I loved sports. But this Olympics really caught me with all the joy and the hoopla and the fun. How many of those people really had satisfaction, I wonder, now that the medals are on the shelves and all those years of work, eight years for some of 'em? How quickly it passes. The Japanese runner on one of the pre Olympic shows I saw, he I thought he might win the Olympics, the marathon. He was in the lead towards the end. Some of you may have seen this. They showed the film. He came into the uh into the final quarter mile or half mile track whatever it is and all the jet is in the Tokyo Olympics so all of his home his nation national people are cheering for him and he's in the league but a guy passed him Coming around the track. And then a second guy passed him coming around the track. He came in third in the world. Do you think that ought to satisfy him? He committed suicide some time later. Not just first. In his country, not just first in the Far East, but out of four billion people on the face of the earth, to be number three wasn't enough. He killed himself. Good things don't satisfy or things that we might think of as good in themselves. How many people in good things try to find happiness and purpose in life? Thought of another example of just how even things that we don't think of as evil, like video games. Now I must say I had to give some pause whether to include that under A or B. But I decided to be gracious and put it under B. But took my little boys this summer to one of these places where you eat pizza and you have all these video games. And that was our first or maybe second time, but I gave the meets four tokens, played four games. Do you think the level of satisfaction was greater before we went in there or after we went in there? Man, I couldn't get them to stop. They were daddy, we w they were sadder after they played their four games than they were before. There's never enough. You always want more. These things there are so many things that aren't bad in and of themselves, but people all around, you know. I would laugh, but it's not funny. People are trying to find their satisfaction in mighty things, some worldly, some good, but they don't satisfy. But you know, it's not only worldly things. Or even good things. But you know what I found in my life, and I had to wrestle with it this week as I prepared this message: that church things or religious things don't satisfy either. myself as I'm new to the ministry we've been in here a week and a half now how easy it can be to find my satisfaction in preaching, studying the Bible, not to know God, but teaching Sunday school or for preaching or because we're supposed to witness for Christ or how many people and ministers and Christian workers, committed Christians like many of you, replace knowing God Lord with doing his work. Rather than we know the Lord, and his work flows from knowing him. Many examples, and I've seen in my own life, and we need to be still and know that he is God. between even the religious things. They don't satisfy either. There's only one thing that satisfies. Think about that laughter. We won't develop it because I just really hit me as I prepared this. And I don't know. But I bet some of you can make some application in it. We're so involved in it. and pro life and teaching Sunday school and all of these things, are they replacing what really does satisfy? What really does satisfy? Point two on your outline. Well we know that God is the one that satisfies Hm we see that in our text here. Verse one. Spiritual blessings, hold everyone who thirst, come through the waters. You who have no money come by and eat. He is using allegorical or metaphorical language to show us that the that the living weather and that if you're thirsty that you need spiritual refreshment that these other things aren't going to satisfy. You see in verse 2, why do you spend your money on what is not bread and your labor for what does not satisfy? If you're thirsty, you need spiritual water. If you're hungry, you need spiritual food. We see that here in Isaiah 55. Down in verse 3, he says, Incline your ear and come to me. Delight yourself in abundance. or NIV and the riches affair, listen that you may live. God says that He satisfies. He is the one that really can bring true satisfaction. And you know, the NIV helped me on this because some of the translations Don't have soul in there, but notice in your NIV, it lists under verse 3. The end of verse 2, and your soul will delight in the riches of fear. Give ear and come to me. Me, hear me that your soul may live. See, all those other things we talked about. You warn me. All those other things that we talked about, do they satisfy a man's soul? See a man is body and soul. They may satisfy satisfy the body. But they don't satisfy the soul. And it's done in NASB, didn't pick that up. I checked it in the Hebrew. But it literally does say soul. And you come to God and he will satisfy your soul. Those other things don't. God is one. That must satisfy your soul. Come to him and you will live. Isn't that what our confession says? Anybody know the first question? I know there's one person that does. What is the chief end of men? To glorify God and enjoy him forever. That's why God made us. To enjoy him and to know him. Pascal said there's a God-shaped vacuum in the heart of every man. People try to fill it with the point one with all kinds of things. Foods, drugs, all the rest, good things, religious things, but those things don't satisfy. None of them will. He said, and this was a quote that had great impact on my life when I came to Christ. He said, God made us for himself, and our hearts are restless until we rest in him. And I was trying to find my rest through a lot of good things, some of them, some bad. Sports and joining the Marine Corps. That really didn't satisfy. There are lots of things, and they didn't satisfy only a relationship with a living God. But I said earlier that Christ satisfies. Do we see Christ in this text as some who satisfies. He has to be. Look over at your bulletin insert on John, the responsive reading that we read. And I want you to look at this with me and see the parallel between Isaiah 55 and this passage here. Remember, Isaiah 55 asked the question, why do you spend your money on what is not bread? And in your first paragraph there, Jesus says, Do not work for the food that spoils, but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of man will give you. Not the food that spoils all these other things we've been talking about, but he wants to give us something that really will satisfy. What is that? He looked down at the third paragraph from the bottom where it says, Leader, for the bread of God is he who comes. comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Remember the question in Isaiah 55? Why do you spend money for what is not bread? And I have an idea Jesus had that passage in mind when he says these words. And they say to him, Sir, they said, from now on, give us this bread. And the last line, Jesus declared, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry. He who believes in me will never be thirsty. I really wonder what we think Jesus was thinking about Isaiah fifty five where it says, Ho everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. You who have no money, come by and eat. Why do you spend money for what is not bread? And he tells these people, notice they ask the question, Lord, we want this bread and what are they? think he was talking about like Sandy said? He had just fed the 5,000. The woman at the well? She says, Lord, give me this water. What kind of water was she talking about? She didn't know what he was talking about. And Jesus says, these words, everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become a well in him, a spring of water welling up to eternal life. Jesus Gives us the water. He is the bread. He is the one that really satisfies. Think of John ten, where he says, I come that you might have life and might have it abundantly, that it might be full and meaningful. Isaiah fifty-five. The uh New American Standard says abundance uses the same word. NIV says he wants to give us the richest affair. That's what Jesus wants to give us. That's what he promises to those who come to him. It has to be this way, doesn't it? Jesus said, you know, we the first point was God. Is it enough just to believe in God there? No. It has to be through Christ. John fourteen six, Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. Why does it have to be that way? Verse eight and nine of our passage of Isaiah tells us, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways. higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. I'm sure that we have a astronomer in the congregation, he could tell us how far away the heavens are. I don't have time to give an illustration of that, but you look and you study to read the bigger the the telescopes and The more we study, the farther away we find the stars are. How far away are they? Infinite, it seems. We have infinite sin. That's a picture of our separation between us and that holy God. And what do we need to bridge that gap? Infinite. Sin demands infinite forgiveness. And Jesus Christ was the one that did that. Infinite forgiveness. For your family de family devotions, you might check Psalm 10317 and compare this with your kids, because they're using the the same picture to show the opposite. Says, How great is God's mercy? As high as the heavens are above the earth. So great is his mercy to those that fear him. Infinite sin is bridged by even greater infinite forgiveness in the mercy of God, even the Lord Jesus Christ. Think about that. We need the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one. Where are you finding your satisfaction, dear friends? Is your satisfaction in worldly things? Is it in good things? Is it in religious things? Or are you finding your satisfaction in the Lord Jesus Christ? That's why he came. Now is this simplistic Some Christians, I think, make it simplistic. You believe in Christ, you come to Him, you'll be happy, happy, happy all the time, you know. There's a man named Polycarp who was brought in the amphitheater one hundred and something AD. He was a disciple of John and they he was about eighty years old and they said, Polycarp, you denied Jesus Christ. Polycarp First he had a sense of humor because he they told him they wanted him to say away with the infidels and all of them, you know, the the non-Christians are in the stands cheering to throw under the lines, let the lines in. And that old man Polycarp had a sense of humor. of humor. He said, Away with infidels, and he waved his cane across the amphitheater, so he had a little sense of humor. But then they asked him, they demanded, they said they're going to let the lines in if you don't deny Jesus Christ. Carp said these words that have had an impact on me as I think about them. He said something like this How can I deny the one who has been so faithful to me for these four score plus years of my life. So man Polycarp couldn't and they decided because of his belligerence they didn't let him be eaten by the lions. They burned him to death. Now do you think Polycarp was happy, happy, happy, happy, happy But exhibit A says he is satisfied. And there's a difference, isn't there? Between being happy, happy, happy, and being satisfied. I have a dear friend who was paramount. From the neck down. He has suffered greatly a diving accident. He says that Johnny stole his story. And he's in a wheelchair. Bryns became a Christian through that experience. And Bryns is one of the most satisfied people that I know. He loves the Lord dearly. He suffered greatly. And Bruns is more satisfied than many people that we I won't mention many names, but some many people that the world would look at us thinking you're very satisfied. And I think the root of it, I've discovered something in my study here, the Hebrew is valuable sometimes. You know what the word is in Isaiah fifty five when it says, Why do you spend uh when it talks about satisfaction? on things that thus do not satisfy? You know what th this gives us insight into what it means to really be satisfied, because the word is Shabbat. What word do we get from Shabbat? Sabbath. And what does Sabbath mean? Rest. See that gives us a picture of what it means to be truly satisfied, to have the rest of the Lord, the kind of rest which only He can give. That's what the Lord wants to give to us by believing in Him. No, this isn't simplistic. Not at all. Not only does Exhibit A tell us that to come to Jesus Christ does bring satisfaction, but Exhibit B does also. We find in the world people that have suffered and have problems like this. Many of you have problems that when you trust in Jesus Christ, that he does satisfy. It's not simplistic, although it can be made simplistic. It's true. He really does. Who can be satisfied? Oh, one other thing, one other verse just to maybe make a note of. Look at Matthew eleven. Jesus says, Come unto me, all ye that labor in heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Think about that a little bit. And that same Jesus what did he say? In the world you will have tribulation. They they're not contradictory. We can have satisfaction. Who can come and be satisfied? Real quickly, we'll just look at a couple of these. You might investigate some of the others on your own. Think about them from this passage. Anyone can come. Well, there's a whole sermon here. Don't worry, I won't preach it. We see in the NIV it says all. New American Standard says everyone. The Lord calls. out and gives the free offer of the gospel. If you're here today without Christ and you don't know this satisfaction that we're talking about, that the invitation is to you. All may come. Everyone may come. Whosoever will may come, says Revelation. But after having a very wide application, then he becomes narrow, doesn't he? And he says, anyone who is thirsty may come. It's a metaphor for desire earnestly, just like we use thirsting and hungering after something. Thirsty? Are you thirsty today? Are you here because you're thirsty for Jesus Christ? Maybe you weren't when you came. I pray that you are now. Have you ever really been thirsty? I the thirstiest I've been was when I was teenager, young teenager I I guess and we went camping out west. And we're from the east and we're used to lots of water. We have some streams to drink out of and we were at Mesa Verde, semi desert. And we went on a hike, my dad, me and my brother, and we hiked around. Uh we had a ten mile hike plant. And we went a went along our way and we had two canteens and we started getting pretty thirsty. And we found out on the map those dotted blue lines, you know what that means? That means they're not streams all the time. And so those uh our our little purification tablets didn't do a brilli of and we got thirsty. And we ran out of water about noon and had a good way back to go and it was hot and we were thirsty, my mouth was dry. We unpacked our lunch and guess what my mother made? Peanut butter sandwich. Incredible. With only a little bit of jelly. It was offered. You know when you I I remember that vividly, all the times in the Marine Corps I was thirsty when they couldn't get us water or something. I've never been as thirsty as I was that day. They say you need a gallon of water in the desert per day per I was so thirsty. Every minute guess what your mind thinks of? Water. Water. A minute doesn't go by, you don't think about water. You desire earnestly water. Do you desire Jesus Christ? Is he something someone that you really want to come to? Are you thirsty for him? Are you seeking him? Another thing we don't have time to go into, put it down for family devotions maybe to talk about. Ephesians five eighteen. Don't be drunk with wine. What happens to the drunkard? He's thirsty for his booze. And what happens to his thirst for booze? Does it get less or does it get more? It grows. He gets thirsty. But be filled with the Spirit. What happens when you get a taste of knowing Jesus Christ? And we you get thirstier. Think about it, that's something to put down maybe to discuss sometime. There's a good analogy there. Those who have no money and Qualification for coming to him. You who have no money come buy and eat. Now I noticed some of you who were dozing when I said those of you without money thought I was talking about you and you kind of woke up there for a minute. You without money. He's not talking about real money though. He's talking about spiritual money. Here's a New Testament truth of grace portrayed beautifully in the Old Testament. Who are the ones that can come to drink of this water, to eat of this bread? Not the ones that come and say, Look how good I am. Think of Jesus, the story in Luke eighteen. He tells of the uh the two men who came to pray, the one guy stands there and says, I'm a I'm a good Presbyterian, I belong to Columbia Presbyterian Church. I tithe, I give an offering as well as a tithe, I do all these things. thing. And then the second guy comes in and he gets down on his knees and he says, he can't even lift his head to heaven, Jesus says. And he says, Father, have mercy on me, a sinner. Which one of these men was justified? Jesus said only one went back justified to his house. He didn't say which one, but we know which one. Not the one that thinks there's anything in himself. You who have no money, who know you're spiritually bankrupt. The psalm is there. Him we say, Nothing in my hands I bring, only to thy cross I claim. Can't pass it up. Look at the responsive reading. You see this right in here. Salvation by grace, not works. The second paragraph, Congregation. Then they asked him, What must we do to do the works God requires? Jesus answered, The work of God is this: to believe in the one that he has sent. Isaiah 55 says the same thing. Justification by faith isn't a New Testament doctrine. is an old testament doctrine. It's the way that God has worked from the beginning after the fall. Because no one can merit eternal life. None of us are good enough. The separation is as high as the heavens are above the earth. We need mercy that is as high as the heavens are above the earth. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ, the living water. You who have no money, come buy and eat. All through the Bible. Think of Oh indeed, I'm running out of time here. I'll just give you the seed thought for you to think about. You who seek in time. The implication of verse uh six seek the Lord while he may be found. There's some of you that may have been putting it off, coming to him. There's some of you you Christians who may be aware of God. And you're putting on really coming back to Him and walking close with Him. Being satisfied with Him. Seek the Lord while He may be found. Call upon Him while He is near. The implication is He may not always be near. Think of the story Jesus told in Matthew 22 of the feast. Real great parallel to Isaiah 55. He invites invite them all to come. I go out and invite them to come, and what happens? They don't come. They are commanded to come though because the king goes out and has them killed for not coming. And then he says, Go out and fight anybody. The highways and the byways back to point one of this section. All anybody may come. Wish we could say more about that. E. Those who repent can come. You know, so many people today, you read so many books with the gospel in them, they don't even talk about repentance In Isaiah 55, we see both aspects of repentance. In verse 7, let the wicked forsake his way. Repentance is we're going one direction. And the Lord says, we've got to turn and go the other direction. To turn to Christ is to turn from the world. We can't turn to Christ without turning from the world. And acts, what is the operative word in their sermons for coming to Christ? It's not believe, it's not accept, although there's all ways of talking about coming to Christ. The word which they preach is repent. That's the word. It's of the will to get Yes, we believe when we repent, we but we must turn. The negative aspect, turning from, the positive turning to Christ. And the last come. Those who come. I'd like to us to read this together. From the NRV. What a beautiful invitation. Let's read it. Everyone that has the NRV, if you don't just follow along, I want us to read verses one and three in unison and ever so slightly say the word come just a little bit. louder, just emphasize it just a little bit. And see the strength of the invitation we have here from the Lord. Let's read Isaiah fifty. Have the NIV. If you don't have the NIV, just follow along. And uh Isaiah fifty five one and then verse three. Come, all you who are thirsty, come to the waters. And you who have no money, come buy and eat, and come buy wine and milk without. money and without cost. Verse 3 Give ear and come to me. Hear my soul. Soul may live. Okay, there are five comes in that passage. Now, finish up right here. Turn to the last chapter of your Bible. Revelation. Chapter 22. And let's read verse 17 together. Revelation 22, 17. Look at the parallel. Between Isaiah 55 and this last book of the Bible, one of these last things in the Bible. Verse 17, let's read it together. The Spirit and the bride say, Come, and let him who hears say come. Whoever is thirsty, let him come. And whoever wishes, let him take the free gift of the water of life. Do you see the parallel? Do you see the beauty of the scripture? revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Today are you without Christ? Maybe there's someone here that that hasn't found their satisfaction in Jesus Christ. Won't you come and give your life to Him? Someone here will be glad to talk to you, I'm sure. what it means to come to him. Or maybe you are a Christian. But like a prodigal son, you need to come back to your father and find your satisfaction in him. You know last week we looked at teaching our children to know and love God, to love him, to be satisfied with him. And the last point there was we can't teach them if we ourselves don't know him and love him with all our heart. And that's what this message is about today, is being satisfied with Jesus Christ, finding our satisfaction in him alone. developing that thirst for Him, that we would know Him, follow Him and love Him. May God help us to do it. Let's pray. Our Lord, we do pray your Spirit would apply these words from your book to our lives. And may we come to you in a deeper, more committed way as we grow to know you better. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.