I planned a two-week series on prayer for last week and this week. Because I believe that that is a very significant area that the Spirit wants to teach us as a congregation. But as you see from the sessional prayer request this week, I am not going to be here next week because I'll be speaking at an University Discipleship Weekend. And so I decided rather than to break up the series to do that in March. It also happens that at this time in our Columbia Bible Institute, the adult training that we have on Sunday mornings, 10 o'clock over at the barn, that in my class in 1 Samuel, I'm beginning the life of Saul. And so I thought that I would give to you an introduction today, altogether, on the life of Saul. And I would hope, frankly, that this might whet your appetite. To join us as we continue to look at the insights concerning God's principles in action as we see them illustrated both by those who follow them and in the example of Saul who did not follow them. And what we can learn ourselves for our own lives. We'll be doing this by looking at the chapters in some detail to take a look at the life of Saul. God teaches us often by way of contrast. For instance, in the weeks ahead, we'll be looking at five major character contrasts that were fatal. in Saul's life, that we can also be subject to. One of the major themes of the book of Samuel is the contrast between Saul and David. And that's very obvious. But then that's not so obvious to us is another contrast that the Bible gives us, and that's between the two Psalms in Scripture Saul the Old Testament king and Saul the New Testament apostle, better known to us by his Christian name, Paul. And so I would like to take a look this morning at these two psalms and contrast them forwards, to take a look at how they were different and what lessons there are for us in that difference. Both of these men were from the tribe of Benjamin, both named Saul, both began life rather well off. But ended in rather opposite directions. One a success, and the other an abysmal failure, finally taking his own life. What do we have to learn? for the contrast to the lives of these two men. This morning I'd like to contrast first their appearance, and then secondly to contrast their hearts That's why you see the outline on its side this week, so that you can see that contrast side by side and get the thrust of it more clearly A basic theme of 1st and 2 Samuel is given to us in Hannah's Psalm in 1 Samuel chapter 2. Remember that originally 1 and 2 Samuel were one book. And so Hannah's Psalm is a laying out of the theme, what God wants for us to understand about the whole book of 1 and 2 Samuel. And so I'd like for us to turn to that, for our scripture this morning, and to look at that theme, keeping in mind how it is illustrated then in the life of Saul, then take a look at Saul In the New Testament, how he described his life as an example of what characterized him in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. These two scriptures now then let's take a look at side by side as we look at God's Word. First of all 1 Samuel chapter 2. Then Hedna prayed and said, My heart rejoices in the Lord. For the Lord my whole and is lifted high. My mask, don't serve my enemies, drive the light in your deliverance. There's no one holy like the Lord. There's no one beside you. There's no rock like our God. Do not keep talking so proudly But let your mouth speak such arrogance, for the Lord is a God who knows, and by him deeds are weighed. The bones of the warriors are broken, those who stumble are armed with strength. Those who were full hire themselves out for food. Those who are hungry hunger no more. She who is barren has borne seven children He who has had many sons, times away. The Lord brings death and makes alive. He brings down to the grave and raises up. The Lord says poverty and wealth. He humbles And he thought raises the poor who Seats them with princes and has them inherit a throne of honor, but the foundations of the earth are the Lord's. Upon them he has set the world. He will guard the feet of his saints, but the wicked will be silenced in darkness. It's not by strength that one prevails. Those who oppose the Lord will be shiny. He will thunder against them from heaven. Where will judge the ends of the earth? He will give strength to his king and exalt the whore of his anointing. See clearly there the principle. God will bring down the proud and he will lift up the humble. Paul, the apostle, whose name was Saul, reflects on his own life in strength and weakness, exaltation and humility. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Let's look at those verses. After 1 Samuel 2, 1 to 10. Now 2 Corinthians 12, 1 to 10. Paul, formerly Saul, says, I must go on boasting. For though there's nothing to be gained, I will go on to the visions and the revelations from the Lord. I know a man in Christ who 14 years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether it was in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And I know that this man, whether in the body or apart from the body, I do not know, but God knows, is caught up to paradise He heard inexpressible things that man is not permitted to tell. I will boast about a man like that, but I will not boast about myself, except about my weaknesses. Even if I could choose to boast, I would not be a fool because I would be speaking the truth, but I refrain. So that no one will think more of me than is warranted by what I do or say, to keep me from becoming conceited, cause of these surpassingly great revelations. It was given to me a thorn in my flesh, a messenger of Satan to torment me. Three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect In weakness. Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me. That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong. These passages illustrate the heart of the contrast between Old Testament Psalm and New Testament Saul. These contrasts also are illustrated in every one of us here in this room But every one of us here has either the heart of Old Testament Saul, religious but unsubmitted. Or the heart of New Testament saw, for whom to live was Christ, and to die was gained. Let's examine our own lives, parts, and values As we look at these two men, their contrasts and their ends. First of all, notice that Old Testament Saul was naturally appealing. Naturally appealing. There's a danger, you know, I think, in the kind of Sunday school image that we have from Saul. We tend to picture him as a slobbering madman chasing David with a spear up and down the hills of southern Judah, don't we? We think of a guy as a kind of a raving maniac. And we have this view of Saul that is quite grotesque and very distorted. In fact, it would be much more accurate. To think of Saul the way you would think of Tommy Sillick. Now I've I've sort of thought about this of who does Saul remind me of? And I mean that with all seriousness. If there's one person who I would think did most capture what Saul would be like, It would be Magnum, Tom Sella. Now, if if you don't get all the uh movie magazines and all the other stuff and watch television, you may not appreciate uh something of what is involved in that image. But I'll tell you it's a powerful one. You can't look at the gentle and appealing Tom Sellett with his uh dash and his bird. Uh you know, a bird who's just genuinely likable. Even the men like Tom Sullivan. I mean he's even said that, you know, he doesn't want to come across too cool. You know, he's just really good looking, tall, muscular. A nice God. That's what Saul looked like. That's what he acted like. That's a much more accurate image of Saul than the popular one that we often have. We look at 1 Samuel chapter 9, for instance, in the description of him at the very beginning of his career. And what are we told about him? 1 Samuel chapter 9? We're told that this fellow, Fish Of the tribe of Benjamin had a son named Saul, an impressive young man, without equal among the Israelites, a head taller than all the others. New American Standard says that he was the most handsome dude in all Israel. That's a little paraphrase on it, but it says handsome twice, the most handsome guy who was in all Israel. In chapter 10, in verse 23 and 24, when Israel comes to take Saul as their king Samuel stands up in verse 23, brought him out, stood him among the people. He's a head taller than anybody else there. Samuel said to all the people, Do you see the man the Lord's chosen? There's nobody like him among all the people. You know, look at him and say, yeah, that's the way we went. Boy, he's our picture of a hero. Saul was very, very appealing. And that's important for us to realize in a day that places such emphasis upon physical appearance and image, isn't it? Saul had everything that our culture says is important. Now uh I don't know what you think of Robert Bradford, but uh my wife always thought he was rather appealing too. And I remember thinking, you know, well Robert Bedford is uh what's he got? You know, though I don't know. Uh and I I remember one time when uh I I was greatly encouraged to find out that some friend of ours had actually stood next to Robert Redford. Stood next to him at an airport, happened to be there, he was getting on a plane, she was getting on a plane, she stood next to him and hooked over him, yeah that that was Robert Redford, all right. She came back and she told this friend, told my wife, you know, uh, Robert Redford really is anything. I mean she said even Alan's better looking than Robert Redford. So I wasn't quite sure how to take that at the time, but I decided to take it in the best possible light, and so it was frankly encouraging to me. There was also an indication to me about how much emphasis we put on appearance and image made me feel more valuable to be compared in some sort of a favorable sense with Robert Edward. And we placed so much emphasis on this. And Saul was a guy who was envied because he had what we looked for and what we valued. Not only was he handsome and strong, but the Bible tells us he was a very capable leader, a man with great permission. Everywhere he went, he succeeded. He slew the Amalekites, the Ammonites, the Philistines. The Bible tells us that everybody who really was somebody, who was valiant and grave, attached themselves to Saul. Because he attracted people. He was a man who, as we look at him, was a man who was eminently appealing. Now, contrast that for a moment with New Testament Saul. You look at the Bible's picture of New Testament Saul, and what are the head? We have just the opposite of what you might see on modern screen. Paul tells us in his Christian name In 2 Corinthians chapter 10, how people looked at him. One of those rare glimpses that he gives us about his image. And what's he tell us? Well, Paul tells us that these folks in Corinthians he says, some say his letters are lady and voiceful, but in person, he's unimpressive. Nothing to look at, nothing to write home about. In fact, tradition, some traditions have it that he was sort of short and bald, that he was a rather unattractive person. That he uh in various other kinds of ways, I'm not saying that being short balls unimpackable, I'm just saying that in various ways he did not fit the image, the cultural image Do we have of a Tom Select or someone like him? In fact, Paul says not only was he physically unappealing, unimpressive, these people say, about him. And it's probably good that he doesn't go into exactly what that meant and how he looked. But he also says to us that he was seen as nothing of a leader. He was not persuasive. He was not elegant. Eloquent. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2, where he's talking about his uh his ministry among the Corinthians, he says his speech was not persuasive Wasn't especially wise or sophisticated or eloquent. He goes on in that verse I just read in Second Corinthians 10 10 to say not only is his physical appearance unimpressive, but his speaking amounts to nothing. How'd you like somebody to say that about you when that's your full-time occupation? He ain't nothing to listen to either, you know. This direct slight a big shot. He ain't nothing to look at, and he's even worse to hear. Now that's the image that Paul had. New Testament Saul. Now uh which one would you rather be? Thanks, yeah. That's kind of a silly question, you know. Who is it that you'd envy of those two? Basing on the information that we have here so far, there's not a doubt in anyone's mind. There's nothing to envy that you see in Paul, New Testament Saul. In everything, there seems to envy in Old Testament Saul. But that's the appearance. The Bible tells us in 1 Samuel 16, 7, that man looks on the outward appearance, but that God looks on the heart. Now, therefore, let's take a look at the hearts of these two men. So we come to the second point. Old Testament Saul exalted himself. To appreciate that, you must realize that he began very humbly Saul, in fact, is so humble that when they called him to be king, he hid in the baggage. That'd be diggy mount. That's always gonna fight it among some bags and saying, uh, who me, King? No, you got the wrong guy. I I certainly don't have the capability of being king of Israel. They practically had to drag him out and force him to be the king. And then even when they coronated in this coronation, uh The Bible tells us that there were some people who despised him. They were jealous of him. What did Saul do? The Bible tells us he kept his peace. He acted wisely. Because later on when Paul vindicated himself as the king, when he uh rescued the men at Jabesh Gilead and had a mighty victory over the Aaronites. The Bible tells us that at the celebration, Saul gave the glory to God, and he said, Now those fellows that uh have rejected me before, some people said, let's kill them. Saul said, no, no. Let's forgive him. I don't want to take any vengeance. He began as a humble and gracious and likable man. But power tends to corrupt. And Saul could never handle power. When you and I begin to be told how great we are, our biggest problem is beginning to believe in ourselves. Beginning to believe what others may say about us, and beginning to think that we are something in our own strength. And that's what Saul began to do. He began to believe that he really had all the things that people told him that he had. That he really was someone to be envied. And so the Bible tells us. That in chapter 13, at one point when he was waiting for a battle and people were leaving, he took to himself the prerogative of offering a sacrifice as a priest, something that God had said he couldn't do But he exalted himself into the priesthood because he had to do it. His image as a conqueror was at stake. Chapter 14 tells us that after he went after the Philistines, after his son Jonathan had, in the strength of the Lord, carried out a very successful raid Saul says, I want to go after my enemies. Chapter 14, verse 24. No longer are they simply God's enemies. Now Saul takes it on personally. They're my enemies that I'm going to conquer. In chapter 15, when God says that he is to wipe out the Amalekites, and he disobeys the Lord in his incomplete obedience in carrying out that command. When Samuel goes to look for him, what's he doing? Well by this point now he's setting up a monument to himself. You know, instead of the Washington monument, now they got the Saul monument there in Israel. Saul's raising that up in order for people to know how great he is. Then you remember the situation where David comes and slays Goliath. And the maidens of Israel saying, Saul has slain us thousands, and David his tens of thousands. By this point, Saul's ego is so inflated that when he hears that, he's enraged, enraged with a bitter jealousy that David, this young shepherd, could be compared as a mightier warrior than Dim. And that jealousy begins to burn in his heart and like a cancer eats away at him until it finally destroys him. Why? Because Saul always had to be first. Religious? Yes. But his will was never conquered. It was never submitted to God because he had to be first. Now, if you trust that with New Testament Saul New Testament Saul, on the other hand, began as a very proud person. In Philippians chapter 3, Saul in the New Testament tells us that he was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. Regarding the law, he was blameless, that he could boast of all his accomplishments in the flesh, that he had a great deal to boast about of all that he had accomplished as he began. But then the Bible tells us that he met Jesus Christ on the road to Damascus. But Acts 9:5 tells us that when Jesus Christ met himself bowed, and he said, Lord, what do you want me to do? He was able to call Jesus Lord, and the Bible begins to unfold for us how he meant that Jesus was Lord. And his life was transformed. And we see through Paul's life an interesting progression into stages of humility, a three-stage progression as you trace through his letters. One of his early letters is in 1 Corinthians. In chapter 15, verses 9 and 10, Paul refers to himself as the least of the apostles, and even an apostle only by the grace of God. Later on, some years later, in his letter to the Ephesians in chapter 3, verse 8, he now calls himself the least of all the saints. No longer simply the least of the apostles. Now Paul says, when I compare myself to other Christians, I marvel of God's grace to me, and I must be the least of the saints. Then at the very end of his mind, guiding in 1 Timothy toward the end of his life, writing in 1 Timothy Chapter 1 and verse 15, Paul says that he's the worst of sinners. And do you see the progression of the estimation of his own heart before the Lord? The more he gets to know Jesus Christ, and the more he submits his will to Jesus Christ, the more he has seen what Jesus Christ has done for him. the more he comes under the cross. And the lower his estimation is of himself and of his own capabilities apart from Jesus. So not only one who is a persecutor of the church who comes to be the least of the apostles, the least of the saints, he says, I'm the chief of sinners. And he says, the amazing thing to me is that God even had mercy on me. Now you contrast the results of this in these lives. First of all, Old Testament saw. The results of his exalting himself. or that he was humbled by God. First Samuel chapter two that we read earlier Notice there what Hannah says is a basic principle of God. This song is a song of praise, it's a song of warning, but it's also a statement of some basic facts of life. And Hannet says, one of the basic facts of life is in verse 3, that don't keep talking so proudly or let your mouth speak such arrogance, for the Lord is a God who knows, and by him deeds are weighed. Those of the warriors are broken. Those who stumble are armed with strength. Verse 9. The end of verse 9. It's not by strength that one prevails. And those who oppose the Lord will be shattered. He'll thunder against them from heaven, and the Lord will judge the ends of the earth And he will give strength to his kingdom and exalt the glory of his anointing. And Saul, in his exaltation, took three steps down to destruction. First of all, in chapter 13, when he had first exalted himself as a priest, he's rebuked by Samuel, and he's defensive. Satan says, as a result, your rule will be cut short. You will not establish a dynasty. There will be no more heirs after you are on the throne. Your rule will be cut short. Then his life continues, and after disobedience concerning the Amalekites, Saul comes again and he says, Saul, you failed the test. And at this point, Saul is rejected as king. This kingship is going to be removed from him. And then you see at the end of his life, Saul, a broken and bitter man, going to a witch. And the witch calls up Samuel from the grave. And in a very strange passage in Scripture, where Saul says, What's to be my end? Samuel says, Saul, God has become your enemy. You're rejected by him as a person, for you've rejected him throughout your life. You never would submit your will to God, Saul. And now it's too late. But he's rejected you. And Saul was a crushed man, condemned to hell. He had many warnings, and he resisted them all. Could it be that there is someone here this morning whom God has been warning Volding you again and again concerning your unsubmitted will. And time is running out. You refuse to submit yourself under the hand of Jesus Christ. And the Lord has graciously been chastening you and warning you and trying to bring you to the end of yourself. You're religious, but you're not submitted. You resolved yourself instead of Jesus Christ. God says the basic fact of life is. That I will exalt myself. And if you seek to exalt yourself before me, you'll be crushed. You'll be humbled, and it will be your destruction. Contrast that with New Testament song New Testament Saul is an illustration of the principles in 1 Samuel 2 that Hannah declared in verse 1. My heart rejoices in the Lord. For the Lord, my wooler, my slave, is lifted high. Verse 8 He raises a poor from the dust. He lifts the meaty from the ashy. He seats them with princes. He has them to inherit a throne of honor. For the foundations of the earth are the moors, and upon him he set the world. He will guard the feet of his saints. But the wicked will be silenced in darkness. For he will give strength, verse ten, to his king, and he will exalt the lord of his anointing. Tracing New Testament Saul's life, you see three steps up. You see Saul, New Testament Paul, declaring as a basic principle of his life in Philippians 1. 21 to me, to live as Christ. And to die is to gain, to gain more of Christ. Then he goes on to elaborate in chapter 2 that basic principle that Hannah has referred to here. For he talks about the mind that we should have, which was the mind of Christ, who, though he was the most exalted of all beings, God Himself and equal in all his prerogatives with God. says that Jesus humbled himself, became a slave, obedient to the most accursed death that the Romans could possibly conceive of. being hung naked with nails pounded into his hands and a thorn crown crushed upon his head. Jesus Christ was humble beyond what you or I can begin to comprehend. So that God is highly exalted in him. For Jesus Christ was humbled not because of his own sin, but because of your sin And because of my sin. But that sin gets only placed upon him when you submit yourself to him and ask him to take it. And Paul says, just as Jesus was exalted in his resurrection and in his ascension, so all those who humble themselves in coming to Jesus Christ. And submitting their wills to him also are lifted up, exalted in him. So Paul then writes later on in his life, in 2 Timothy 4, 6 to 8. Toward the very end of his life, he says, I fought the fight. I finished the course. And therefore, he says in 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 6, I've been poured out like a drink offering. The time's come for my departure. I fought the good fight. I've finished the race. I've kept the faith. And now what does he have to look forward to? Now, there is in store for me a craft. A crown of righteousness, which Lord, the righteous God, will award me on that day. Not to me only But also to all, all of you here in Columbia Presbyterian, all the saints and all the tyrants through the ages, all who have longed for his appearance. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, we have the third description of this exaltation that comes to those who humble themselves under Jesus Christ. Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, in verse 16, therefore we don't lose heart. There outwardly we're wasting away all this appearance, these bodies that are The soul appealing now. Farah Fawcett was on the cover of every magazine a year or two ago. Where do you see Farafosset on any magazine now? Bigit Bardot is 40, writing her memoirs. It's also fleeting, Paul says. It's out your body. This appearance, this image, these values that are rooted in this world pass so quickly. Outwardly we're wasting away. And yet inwardly, he says, we're being renewed day by day. Our life and military troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory. That far and waste and all. And so we fix your eyes, not along with sea Not on the image and the appeal. This world says is so vital. Well on what is unseen? That's difficult, isn't it? N Fix your eyes on the unseen. To value what you can't touch. What is seen is only temporary. But what is unseen is eternal. Let me conclude by specifying a couple of lessons for you and me out of these two songs. First of all, I would suggest that all mature self-evaluation and evaluation of any others must be based upon character, not appearance. You see that so powerfully illustrated in these two men. One crushed to hell. The other he was crowned in heaven. And we look as a man that we would envy. And we find the values so pleasing. We look at those who we think are important and valuable and big deals in this world, and we have to remind ourselves that the Bible says man looks at the outer appearance. God, what's the one? And so when you think about the value and the importance of another person, don't use the shallow measure of Old Testament soul. Use rather the spiritual measure of New Testament Psalm, a heart for God. To look at character. rather than simple appearance. And when you evaluate yourself and you think about who you are, think lightly. about your appearance, in any comparison with the heart that you see God developing in you. Oh, if I can only freeze up as a people, to have God's eyes to see us as people. Do we not be held in the bondage of this world's values so placed upon physical appearance and image? But that we can find delight In looking at character, the character of Jesus. And that character of Jesus as it transforms us into a spiritual beauty. Secondly, I want for us to notice from this that a heart exalted, however subtly Before Christ will eventually be amazed. And a humble and submissive heart will eventually be exalted. That's simply a basic fact of life. I stake my life on the fact that that is true. Do you believe, really believe in your heart of hearts, that that is a basic principle of this life? And are you living as if that's true? It really divides your values. Beware of a religious devotion and an unsubmitted heart, an unsubmitted will before Jesus Christ. I talk to a lot of people in my office In my world, in my profession as a pastor and as a counselor. I talk to a lot of people who are religious, who call themselves Christians But have never submitted their will to Jesus Christ. It's good to know that God is there. To have Jesus as a kind of fire insurance policy against hell when you die. But you've never submitted your will as Saul for him to be first. No wonder this morning. Could there be someone like that here in this room? Religious? Devotional? Able to speak easily about the Lord and His work in your life? But you have never submitted your will to make Jesus Christ first. The end of Saul was destruction. Not because he wasn't religious enough. But because he had never been transformed by Jesus Christ. Beware of ambition Beware that subtle temptation to exalt yourself in your goals. And simply praise God for the success, which is your success, not His success in you. For the Lord has promised Whoever will exalt himself will be humble. But if you humble yourself under the hand of Jesus, if you seek him and his work in you, To transform you, to remake you. However imperfectly it may seem right now, simply humbling yourself before Him. For me to live as Christ and to die as Him. Then I does not see. Nor has your imagination begun to conceive With the exaltation that God has in store for you when he lifts you and me to reign with his own Son, Jesus. Let's pray. Lord, it's kind of scary when we look at these two men. And we have to frankly admit that if we were to have one as a friend, we'd probably be uh most attracted to Old Testament. Saul. There's a lot in him that's very appealing to us. And we think of New Testament Saul. A man who is very unimpressive in how Lord just speaks to us about our values. Lord, transform our values. Transform us so that we value character more than appearance. So that as we look at ourselves and as we look at others We value a humble heart more than an image which speaks of success. Humble us, Lord. Humble us because we have found that in many subtle ways we have succumbed to the temptation of that image. We want to appear successful. We want to be appealing. We want to be exalted. Not for Jesus, but so often for ourselves. Humble us, Lord. We would bet. The Lord Jesus above everything, who was humble for us. Humble our hearts, Lord, humble us before yourself. Humble us that we might be exalted in Jesus Christ. Lord, we thank you for the work you're doing in us If there's any here that you have not begun that work in, we pray that this day they might submit and find the forgiveness that comes in Jesus. Father, continue to your work in the rest of us. That we might become more like New Testament Saul, and less and less like Old Testament Saul. Have your way, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.