Okay, I admit it, last week was a rough message, wasn't it? Be honest, I can take it. Remember we did the overview of Ephesians chapter four verses seven to sixteen, God's definitive plan for church growth. With the charts and the graphs and all the rest of that. It was rough. I had one first-time visitor came to the door and said, thank you for that challenging message. Another person wrote on a gray slip, Alan, please speak more slowly. And one person that uh came that knows me a little better and said uh Alan, I came in to that service with a little bit of a headache. I went out of that service with a major headache I asked for feedback and I got it. Thanks, gang. I also got some positive feedback on that, but I realized that we covered a lot. It was an overview But I can't emphasize too much how important I believe that this series within Ephesians is. This idea of how the church is to function. I believe that so much of what we see is the lack of power and effectiveness in the Church of Jesus Christ today, is because we don't do church the way the Holy Spirit says to do church. He gives to us the way the church is to function. And then we have these entertainment and evangelistic campaigns and the educational institutions and the rest of that. Without the disciple-making institution that the Lord Jesus established in Ephesians chapter 4 and how the leaders are to equip the saints, and we wonder why we're not seeing New Testament effects. in what we are called to do, in making disciples and impacting our communities. We're seeing three of us went up to Redeemer Church in Manhattan, Redeemer Presbyterian Church of America. And we were impressed how these people are trying to do the kind of thing that we're saying. And God is blessing powerfully, richly in that. I don't know how many of you saw on the Columbia Flyer this week. Long Reach Church of God on the cover. How many saw that on there? Some of you, if the rest missed that, uh go check. I don't know if it was on the Howard County Times or not, but it was on the Columbia Flyer And it was very clear a statement of uh what they are doing in their cells and this one family that had adopted this other family and helped them, brought them to the Lord apparently. And uh all that God was doing through that. I I really believe that we would be staggered right now to think if we were to know what the Holy Spirit might do through Columbia Presbyterian and other churches that are seeking to follow this model of Ephesians 4 in the years ahead, if we are faithful to this by the power of the Spirit, not in the flesh. But by the power of the Spirit to be able to see what God would do as we follow this model. Somebody say amen. Believe that. Okay. Well that's why I took all that time. Alright? So now what we're trying to do is get the big picture. We're going to move back now in piece by piece. We saw that the key verse last week of Ephesians is chapter 4, verse 1. As a prisoner for the Lord then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received. After having learned to sit in Christ, with Christ in his finished work, we are now learning how to apply that work in our daily living. We begin by learning what it means to walk in our place in the body. Paul does not begin by your own individual, private walk with Jesus Christ, the American idea of an individual Christian. Me and God occasionally I'll associate with Christians or I'll come to this church 'cause they got a good band and they got some other stuff. But you know Basically, it is my own individual private walk with God. That's not what Paul talks about. He talks about the unity of the body in chapter 4, verses 2 to 6. How we are joined together, how we learn how to be patient one another, forbearing one another, making every effort to maintain and guard our unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. And all the ones that he speaks about speaks in verses 2 to 6 seven times uses the word one. And uh three times he speaks of all, that we are joined together. Then verse 7, you're smacked in the face with this big butt. But to each one of us Grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. After verses two to six, five verses on unity. He now switches to diversity. He now is going to speak of the fact that Christians, while we are joined together, belong together, One faith, one baptism, one God and Father who is over all, through all, and in all. We are not clones. We are never intended to all look like each other. But God has brought about this beautiful interweaving of diversity within unity. And so now from verses 7 to 16, he speaks about the diversity, the uniqueness of each Christian and how we are to contribute to that body. It's unity, but not uniformity. In verse 11, he speaks of some various gifts. Some were this, some were that. And then verse 16, each part doing its work. So verse 7 is beginning a discussion about spiritual gifts. Spiritual gifts, a very popular topic, something you hear a lot about today. What are your spiritual gifts? What are my spiritual gifts? And Paul focuses on that in verses 7 to 10. That's what I want to look at today, this question of spiritual gifts. I believe that verses 7 to 10 of Ephesians chapter 4 are probably about the most overlooked verses in this chapter. If you think about it, you might look through chapter. For verse 1 to 6, and you understand okay unity. That's very clear. Paul's talking about the unity we have in Christ. Then you go to verses 12 and 13, the purpose, building each other up, ministry, equipping. You know, we all come like Jesus Christ, that's fine. But why in the world does he stick verses seven to ten in here? It's you know, it's one of those verses that you read it and then you say, yeah, whatever, now let's get back to the point, you know Well, I believe that there is a mine of wisdom in verses 7 to 10 that you and I need to understand if we're to have a correct understanding of spiritual gifts. And I believe this is There's some wisdom here that is often left out of the discussion of spiritual gifts. So I want to consider that with you today. Look what he says, beginning in verse 7. Hear God as he speaks to us through his word. But To each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. This is why it says, when he ascended on high, he held led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. Now you see, you look at that and you say, now what is so crucial for me to understand there? And why does he stick that in there? Why does he quote this verse from Psalm 68? What's all this got to do with spiritual gifts? Well, the first thing to notice in what Paul says about spiritual gifts in this section is that he doesn't call them spiritual gifts. Do you notice that? That's why some people miss that this is about spiritual gifts. What does he call spiritual gifts in this section? He calls them grace. Verse 7, to each one of us. Grace has been given. Now you can substitute in there to each one of us spiritual gifts have been given. But that's not the term he uses. He's talking about exactly that. But he says to each one of us, to you, to me, grace has been given. A grace that is given to serve. And so I call this grace gifts. The word is grace, but it is in the context of giving, and we'll look at that in a moment, but I call it grace gifts or serving grace. I want to ask two basic questions about these verses this morning in order that we'd understand a little better this matter of spiritual gifts. First of all, What is the meaning of the grace gifts that you see there in verse 7? And then point two that you see on the back, what is the source of the grace gifts? to understand a little bit about that. Now as we begin this, let me ask you, just for your own reflection, what are your spiritual gifts? If you were to write down on your little outline there in two or three items, what would you put as your most prominent grace gifts or spiritual gifts? uh that God has given you to serve the body. Do two or three things come to mind or do you say, there we go again. I wish you wouldn't ask that question. Anybody ask, I never know what to put down. I don't really know You know, I guess it's helps or something like that, you know. Well you always get helps in teaching, you know. I mean I d you know, I taught a Sunday school class once and, you know, we didn't lose kids, so I guess I got the gift of teaching, you know, or You know, if somebody needs a meal, I guess I'm able to do that, so I guess that qualifies for mercy or something like that. But I don't really have any sense that here's something unique that God has given to me. Well, of course, we had a class on this a few weeks back that Steve Green, Dave Nase taught that was to help you. Now, how many were here were in that course? just so the rest of you see what you miss. A little more than there, but you know, okay, so some of you are in it. Most of you were not in that course. Well, that was a very popular course. 6070 people uh came to it, um, and that was because I believe that you find Christians who are exercising and knowing what their spiritual gifts are generally are enjoying a significantly higher degree of satisfaction in their Christian lives than people who don't. If you understand your gifts and you are employing them in serving the body, you are experiencing God's power, you are experiencing a fulfillment. that you would not experience if you do not really have a clue about what you are to be doing. In fact, I would believe also that the opposite is true is true, that people who don't know what their spiritual gifts are or how to e uh to exercise them, generally experience stagnation in their Christian life. A lack of a sense of God's power, of purpose. What am I here for? What am I doing? How is God using me? So I believe this is an extremely important and practical topic for each one of us, that we would know what our gifts are and be able to use them more purposely and fully in the body. First of all, then, what is the meaning of the grace gifts then? Verse 7. But to each one of us, grace or grace gifts have been given as Christ apportioned it. First of all, it's important to understand exactly what that verse is saying. If you were to translate it as word for word, a literal translation as possible from the Greek, it would be something like this. But to each one of us has been given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. To each one of us has been given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. And that is for ministry, which he goes on to speak of, of course, in verses 12 to 16. This is given to you. Now again, that's an unusual term, given grace to mean spiritual gifts. How do you understand that? Well, I think the best way to get a handle on it is to understand, according to me, my reading, I haven't seen this anywhere, but if I read the New Testament, I find it helpful To think about four kinds of grace. Now they're similar and they're interwoven, but it's helpful to realize that when Paul uses the word grace, He needs it in four different kinds of ways. There are four different kinds of grace and to help you as you think some of you think I have a helpful propensity for and others think I have an obsession for, they all begin with S. Alright? The first one is saving grace. That's the kind of grace that's most obvious, probably what we most immediately think of when we think of grace, the grace of Christ. The kind of grace that he speaks of in chapter two. He's in chapter one, chapter two, chapter three, but for instance in chapter two, where Paul says, as for you in verse one, You were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world, the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the Spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature. You're dead in your sins, you're following the ways of this world, you're just simply gratifying the cravings of your sinful nature. You're following his desires and thoughts, like the rest. You and I were simply objects of God's wrath. That's what he says. Absolutely helpless. To do anything good, to obey God's commands, to please him, to worship him, to center our lives on him. That was the last thing we wanted to do. We were God's enemies. Then verse 4. But because of his great love for us, God who is rich in mercy, did nothing to deserve this Made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in our transgressions. It is by grace that you have been saved. And that's the essence of it, you see, saving grace. That you, when you were dead in your sins, couldn't lift a finger to respond to the gospel. God reached down by his mercy in Jesus Christ because of his death. And he placed his finger on your life, and he brought life from death. It is by grace, undeserved favor. Undeserved pleasure that God had in you to work in your life and bring you from death unto life. He goes on in Later on in that verse 8 to say, it is by grace that you've been saved through faith, and this not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, not by works, so that no one can boast. If there's anyone here this morning happened in here or is new to Columbia Presbyterian and you're saying, I don't understand that, please put on the gray slip if you'd like to talk about that. It's more important to us than anything else. That everyone here in this room understands the nature of saving grace personally. That you are not resting on your own works, your own in sincerity, or your own intentions to do good that's going to be enough at the end. It is by grace, the grace of Jesus Christ, the grace of God in Christ, that you're saved. That's saving grace. Do you understand saving grace? Is that personal to you? Does that bring a bit of joy just to hear it in your heart again, to remember the gospel? That's saving grace. The second kind of grace that builds on that is what I call sanctifying grace. Now sanctifying grace, after he had said in chapter two, verse eight and nine, By grace you're saved through faith, not yourselves, gift of God, not by works, that no one should boast, he goes on to say, For we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus. to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. That's a sanctifying grace. And that's making us more like the Lord Jesus You have his record of righteousness the moment that you receive him. But then experientially, as chapters 4, 5, and 6 talk about in Ephesians. You learn to live like Jesus, to think like him, to respond like him, to have his values. To take on his character of holiness and godliness. That's sanctifying grace. It's God's work in you so that you are not saved by grace and then sanctified by sweat. You are sanctified by grace the same way that you are justified by grace. But then as you do that, you find that there is a battle. You find that the Satan attacks you, there's temptations, there's discouragements, and that leads to the third kind of grace, which is sustaining grace. Sustaining grace, Paul begins the epistle. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints in Ephesus, the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace and peace to you. From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. As you live the Christian life, you need His grace and His peace to sustain you. He ends the epistle, very last verse: Grace to all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ. with an undying love. Perhaps the classic passage of sustaining grace is 2 Corinthians chapter 12, where Paul talks, if you remember, about that thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to humble him. And he cried out to God three times, Lord, take this thorn, this ailment, this dominating discouragement in my life. Take this from me, Lord. Why don't you remove it? You're all powerful. If you love me, why don't you take this out of my life? And he said. God's response was, Do you remember it? My grace is sufficient for you, for my strength is made perfect in your weakness. That's sustaining grace. That's the grace that doesn't change the circumstances, but that grants to you that peace And that joy that Johnny Erickson writes of so often as a quadriplegic in a wheelchair that sustains the inner person. To have the joy of the Lord Jesus Christ, whatever the circumstances. That's sustaining grace. All these graces are necessary. They all intertwine, but they're somewhat different and when you read them in the context it's helpful to understand what is the nature of the grace that Paul's talking about here But then there's this fourth grace, which I call serving grace, which is slightly distinct from those other three. You see, this builds on them, but it's different from them. This is the grace that God gives in your life so that by His power you are able to affect other lives and change other lives in the body of Christ. This is the grace of God that flows to me through you as his instrument. Isn't that amazing? God uses you as a means of his grace. There's something that he wants to do through your life in the life of another believer that he needs your life to accomplish that. And so he gives to you this serving grace in order that that brother or sister is ministered to in some unique way that God has gifted you distinctively to do that. That's serving grace. Verse 7 of chapter 4. But to each one of us, grace, serving grace, has been given as Christ apportioned it. Remember that this grace is not the same as your natural abilities. It is not your strengths simply sanctified. It is generally Consistent with those parts of your personality, which are the stronger parts of your personality, but it is not the same thing In fact, when you are functioning by the Spirit of God in the grace gifts, you often feel great weakness. You feel that you are not able to do what God has called you to do. But it's by His grace that He equips you to do what you are not able to do. It's not innate. It's what you do in weakness by the grace of Christ to change other lives. Do you see that distinction? Very important. Now, the second thing I want to see from notice from this is that serving grace is determined by Jesus, not by you. He decides your gifts. You don't decide them. Look again at verse 7. To each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. Again, literally, to each one of us has been given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. You don't choose it. Jesus chooses your gifts. You are simply a servant. He's the master, and he gives you exactly the gifts that he wants to give in order to accomplish his purpose in your life. To accomplish it through you as well as in you to benefit others. The grace gifts are not primarily to benefit you. That's what makes the body interdependent. So many of us as Americans think about our gifts very self-centeredly. What are my gifts so that I feel fulfillment and satisfaction, that I have something to offer? In fact, the gifts are not to bring you recognition. They're not to bring you credit. In your weakness, you recognize this is something supernatural that's going on that God equips you to minister. in the life of another person at a point that's inconvenient, in something that you feel over your head to accomplish, but that's where God works through you so that He gets the glory Therefore, you see the first three kinds of grace emphasize the unity of the body. That's the blank to the right. Those all speak of the unity of the body, but serving grace distinctly emphasizes the diversity of the body. It's unique. And that, brothers and sisters, is very freeing. That's very freeing because you are assured that you have a unique place within the body of Christ. You will never know that if you are not part of the body of Christ. But if you are part of this body or any other body of Christ, then you will understand that you have a unique place because you have something that we, the body, need. If you were to be removed, or if you don't participate, if you choose to keep yourself separate from the body, we lack, we hurt. Because God has distinctly given to you gifts, and He's equipped you to fulfill His purpose in the body. On the other hand, we have something uni. And so your Christian life is interdependent with us, with the rest of the body. You will not grow as a Christian without participation within the body. And those gifts are primarily not manifest and exercised. In Sunday morning service. Only a few of us get to exercise our gifts on Sunday morning. But within a cell, within a small group setting, Everybody gets to exercise their gifts and we experience that sense of interdependency. If you're in a group like that, don't you see sense that? What God is doing from some other person in your life distinctly and uniquely? That's the way God intends it. So be careful as I say this to recognize, you know, we as Americans think in terms of specialists, don't we? You know, we we always you know we want to always go be beyond the generalist to the specialist. Who's the expert in this field? And so when we think of spiritual gifts, the tendency might be to think, okay, so what am I the expert in around here that nobody else has a corner on? That's not what I'm talking about. That's distinct. That is not New Testament thinking. New Testament thinking is that basically there's a similar way that we love one another But the way that you love someone, if you have the gift of mercy, is going to be a little different from someone who has the gift of administration or leadership or something else. So there's shades of difference that cause us to be dependent, insights that I will gain interacting with you that I will never get simply reading my Bible in a corner by myself. It's that interaction within the body that will give me a bigger view of God and a deeper view of my own sin and a bigger view of His grace. But it's not because we're all specialists and experts, but rather because God has formed us together with varying gifts to give those insights. Remember, your gifts are not simply your natural abilities. They are what are given to you by Jesus by his choice. You are therefore only responsible to exercise your gifts, not to exercise what are not your gifts. I remember this coming home to me for the first time in a powerful way when I first came on university staff. That was back way back in 1978. I know half of you aren't even born yet. I always hear that. Back in 1978 came on intervarsity staff with orientation of new staff. It was this other fella, Bob, Bob Ludwig. I haven't seen Bob for Probably 15 years. I remember that guy first week at New Staff. Bob and I were so different. We clashed the first day, the second day, by the third day we had to set up an appointment to try and reconcile. We'd only known each other for three days. I mean there's something about that guy just really rubbed me the wrong way. Everything I did, this guy always had a different view, and he would come out something, and I would think, you know, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I was doing the same thing to him And so we decided that we kind of live and let live. Fortunately we're going to work in different parts of the country, a couple thousand miles apart, no problem. Shake hands, go off with a clear conscience, and that's it. Till we were assigned to a chapter camp training leaders. uh at the same camp the same time. It was the worst camp I had ever experienced in my entire life. That camp was a disaster. This was back in um did I say nineteen seventy eight? I'm sorry. 1968. You lose a decade when you get my age. You know what? What's a decade or two? It's 1968 And so this camp was in 1970. And what was really big in 1970 were T groups, sensitivity groups, and all this stuff. And the guy leading that camp was really big on this stuff So instead of talking about, you know, mobilizing and Great Commission, this guy's having us in groups, you know, we're sharing our guts and doing all that, you know, has some value and through things, but The whole camp was this. And there were two people that were just gnashing their teeth at this thing. It was Bob and me. I couldn't believe it. We finally found something we agreed on. This was a terrible camp. And I remember one day we walked out together. And as we saw the bigger picture of what God wanted to do in those students, all of a sudden I realized the reason I was reacting to Bob was because he threatened me. His gifts were so different from mine that everything we did, I was looking at it so differently that I just couldn't abide him. And he realized the same thing. We went out, we prayed for that camp, we prayed in repentance of our own attitudes. We embraced and from that time on we couldn't get enough of each other. But the thing that I learned from that that was so important to me was I don't have to be like Bob, and he doesn't have to be like me, but we need each other. Now we need each other in the crucible of that dance. With you know, that's a tough way to learn it. But the fact is I found out at that point I am trying to be all things to all people. And I will burn myself out trying to do that. Let Bob be Bob. It wasn't a question of his love for Jesus Christ and commitment to him. It was that Bob had a very different orientation toward life because his gifts of mercy were so profound. And I was a little short on gifts of mercy. I'm not sure that it's still the thing that is my prominent gift. In fact, I'm pretty sure it's not. You want mercy? Come to somebody else, you know. I'll try to give, and we all by God's grace are able to give some of this. But it is not the thing that I am the strongest in And so when you look at someone else, the question to ask yourself, for many of us, we are hampered in our ministry. Why? Because there's somebody else you're envying and you want to be like them. You're saying, Holy Spirit, I'm not satisfied with the gifts you gave me. I want gifts like that woman. I want gifts like that guy. And as long as you're envying someone else or you're threatened by someone else's gifts You'll not be able to exercise your own gifts. Jesus apportions the gifts. To each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. Rest in that. Be available to Jesus Christ. Satisfied as the servant to simply say, Lord, maybe I need to go home today and I need to confess to you I have been envying this Christian. And I am threatened by that Christian. And that's because I am railing against you, and I'm not satisfied with the ministry and the gifts that you have given me, my limitations, and my place in the body. Now finally, what is the source of the gifts? You see, in verses 8 to 10, he says, that's why it says, when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. Now, what does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. Well, there's a number of problems in this. First of all, he quotes Psalm 68, 18. Why in the world does he do that? What's the relevance? Secondly He says that he gave gifts to men. Psalm 68, 18 says he received gifts from men, so it's different And thirdly, what in the world do verses 9 and 10 have to do with it, and what do they mean? Very, very briefly, how can you reconcile Psalm 6818, the word received? with Ephesians 4. 8, where Paul claims to quote it using the word gave. Is it a mistake? Paul did not remember it right? We have here an example of an error in Scripture, a discrepancy, minor, but nevertheless an error. Well, it's like many cases I have found in my Christian life, what appears at first to be an error is usually the road to a greater insight. Psalm 68, if you read that, go home and read it today. It's a long Psalm. We're not going to try to do it now. But in that Psalm, you see it's a picture of God, Yahweh, coming from Sinai to Mount Zion in triumph. He has defeated his foes from Egypt through the wilderness, Moab, the Canaanites. He is now coming to ascend on his throne. As he ascends his throne, he receives the booty from those who he's vanquished. They come as in the picture of the ancient Near Eastern triumphal marches. Here's all those who he has vanquished. And all of their plunder, all of the spoils are brought. And you remember how Israel took the plunder of the Egyptians, the Moabites, the Canaanites. And this is the picture. God says he's received these gifts. Now, interesting, Psalm 68 was used in association with Pentecost, where Moses received the law from God and gave it to the people. In order to give something, you've got to receive it. When you receive something for someone else's benefit, you give it. Both ideas are involved. And Acts chapter 2 is the key to understanding what Paul is doing here. In Acts chapter 2, you have in verse 32 that God has raised this Jesus to life. He's the ultimate victor. He is the one who has gone to fulfill the law. He is the one who has kept that law, and in his resurrection, he is the one who has ascended the throne We are all witnesses of this fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, Jesus in triumph. He has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit. That's what he has received because of his victory. And has poured out what you now see and hear. Jesus, therefore, is the fulfillment of Psalm 68, the ultimate victor, who in triumph has ascended the throne of Zion. He is the one who has received from the Holy, from God the Father, the Spirit, in his triumph, to give that Spirit to you and me. So what Paul's doing is he's taking the verse in Psalm 68, and he's saying, that which he has received was intended to give. This is the fulfillment of Psalm 68, that you and I have gifts. And do you see what that means? Your gifts are the gifts from the risen Christ. Therefore, you exercise those gifts in his power. That's why Paul puts these verses in here. What is this business of he descended in order to ascend? That's simply speaking of the incarnation. The fact that he descended from heaven in order in his humility to keep the law, to fulfill it, so that when he rose again and ascended back into heaven He gave to you and to me the spoils of his victory, not material gifts, but what is infinitely more significant and important and eternal, the spiritual gifts that are the down payment of heaven, brothers and sisters. Do you see, therefore, when you are exercising your gifts, you are doing this, and the power of the risen Christ don't dare ever say, I don't have anything to offer or do. It has nothing to do with whether you have something to offer or do. It is the risen Christ who has gifted you because he loves his body and he has a place for you in that body. Let's pray Lord God, how we how we repent of those times when we have said, I don't have anything to offer. For that has contradicted your very nature. We haven't understood that you have given to us the gifts that you've intended, that we would minister in your power. That we would do our ministry, caring for other people in our groups within this body, not in our own strength. but in the power of the Spirit of the risen Christ. Lord, may we experience that and know its truth. Hear us, Lord. Receive us as we make ourselves available to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.