Now you're you're aware after uh you're with the people who communicate like those that they have speaking at promise keepers of your limited gifts and being able to, you know Come and bring God's word, but um I must say I've been really encouraged the last uh few weeks. A number of you have come to talk to me about your uh own struggle, how God's been speaking to you about the fact that uh you want to draw more intimate to the Lord Jesus. Uh a number of you have mentioned about the struggle of how do I draw more closely, relate more intimately to someone that I can't see. I speak to him and you know, uh he doesn't say That's a good idea. You got a good point there. But on the other hand, you know, I mean, you know, somebody will will interact with you, but you speak to God and and there's silence And you come to his word and you look at it and you know praise something and y you sense that, you know, w what what kind of response am I getting? How do I respond in him and trust him, relate to him when I don't hear anything. That's come up a number of times. So I thought I would just mention one thing about that that I've um mentioned to a couple of you as we've talked I would encourage you, if that's your struggle from the things I've said in the last weeks, to use the Psalms. The Psalms are written to help us to enter in with that struggle of worship in the whole gamut of our emotions, in how to express ourselves to the Lord and to be able to then struggle with the fact that he doesn't answer audibly. And how we can then enter into the full gamut of the struggle of the psalmist. Learn the psalms. Learn them as a full category of your emotions. And as you enter into a psalm and use that Don't give up. That's the main thing. We as Americans think, well, okay, I I said something to them. I didn't get any response. I'll go give somebody a call, or you know, I'll go read a book or I'll do something else, distract myself Rather than, I am not going to let you go until you bless me. Lord, I'm going to hang in with you on this. What about it? I find very often the fact that I don't hear a response and I may be struggling and I'm not immediately connecting to some scripture that's saying, well, here's what God is saying to me about this forces me to go deeper into my own soul to say, what is it I'm really trying to say? What is it that's on my mind and heart? What is it you're really trying to get at, Al And then I'll sense that there is a response to the Lord. He is probing, he is allowing me in that silence to examine my heart and to come before him. So don't give up. That's great that some of you are saying that. I'm struggling with this now. That's terrific. Use the Psalms. May that be an aid to you. But don't give up as you don't hear something and say, Well, I'll go do something else. Keep at it. Keep after the Lord. Seek Him. You know, Proverbs chapter two tells us about that struggle. It says, My son, if you accept my words and store up my commands within you. turning your ear to wisdom and applying your heart to understanding. And if you call out for insight, the idea is shouting out, crying out, and cry aloud for understanding. If you look and search for it as for silver, Search for it is for hidden treasure. You don't kind of say, well, you know, there's there's a million dollars stored around here somewhere and eh, you know, if I find it in ten minutes, that's fine. But if not, eh, well, you know, go off and do something else. I remember one time I lost a thousand dollars You better believe me, I didn't just say, well, you know, after 15 minutes I got other things to do. So you search for it as for a hidden treasure. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord And find the knowledge of God. It's something that you search and seek and knock. And so I just wanted to encourage some of you who are saying, yeah, but yeah, but you know, it's kind of getting frustrated. How do I get close to him? Keep at it. That's great. That's God's Spirit working in you. And then keep this one last thing in mind In all eternity, these are the only few years that you will be able to honor the Lord whom you do not see by faith. After the Lord Jesus comes and we're with him, never again in all eternity will you be able to experience what Peter says, whom having not seen you love. And there will be that longing. You know, wow, Lord, there was just that little span of time. I I wish I could have honored you more, maybe. I don't know if we'll have that feeling at all, but but you know, think of it now. There's just this little span of time where you rest in him and draw intimately to him without Seeing him and that honors him because you're taking him at his word. Don't miss that opportunity. Well, having said that, we've been looking at these five prepositions About resting in Christ. To see that we've looked at the with and through and on and uh in To recognize that along with my rejoicing that I am seated with him, that I have life in him, that I in fact build my life on him, that I have access to God through him. Finally, we must realize that we are always under him. We are always under him. In no way are we equals While Paul encourages us to pursue the kind of intimacy of resting in Christ that I've just been describing. He always encourages us to realize that he is Lord and we are under him. There is an utter vast distinction between the flippant familiarity That often passes for intimacy today, and the adoring awe of worship of the Lord. An adoring intimacy, a wondering, transfixed all in the majesty of the Lord Jesus. Where do you see this idea of under in Ephesians? In chapter 1. Verse 9 and 10, you see that last preposition that we're looking at in this part of the series. And finish this up today. In Ephesians chapter 1, verse 9, and he made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ. To be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment, to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head. Even Christ, Messiah. This is speaking of the Lordship of Jesus Christ. He began the letter. Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord. Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ, basic part of his title. The earliest Christian creed that we know of was simply Jesus is Lord. It means that he's sovereign master. And that idea of an absolute ruler is very hard for people in our culture to grasp. When parents feel like they need to negotiate with their kids to get them to do chores, you know. We don't have this sense of a sovereign authority. I speak, you have no choice but to obey And we've lost that notion. We're in an anti-authoritative an anti-authoritarian democracy, a mindset that's that borders on anarchistic You gotta respect me if I'm gonna respect you. You diss me, I'll diss you. And you know, there's this sense that we all operate on a level playing field But that's not the world that the Bible speaks from or to. The Bible recognizes that there is authority. We need to recognize that Jesus is not only the shepherd and the servant who comes to minister to us. for us to go to him as the one who receives us unconditionally, the one who is always there for us. But to realize that as John saw him, he is also the sovereign Lord with many crowns upon his head. The one who speaks and whose eyes are as a blazing fire, who leads the hosts of the armies of heaven to tread underfoot. the necks of his enemies, out of whose mouth a flaming sword comes to slay nations. And on his thigh and on his robe is written the name King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And this is the one that we come to worship and to adore. We today put all the emphasis on Jesus being Savior. And we say, and you know, you need to recognize he's also Lord. The Bible's emphasis is exactly the reverse. Jesus is Lord. The amazing thing is that he's also for us a savior. Do you realize that in the Bible, for every one time Jesus is called Savior in the New Testament? He is called Lord. How many do you think? Twenty-eight times for every single time he's called Savior. Now if emphasis has any meaning about the intention of an author's purpose and what he's trying to communicate. The fact that Jesus is called Lord twenty-eight times as much as he is called Savior, recognizing that his name, Jesus, means Savior. His title, Christ, means Lord. And so the Bible blends together these two ideas. And in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 9 and 10, you have a very clear expression of the fullness of that. Notice what he says there. He made known to us the mystery of his will. Mystery in the Bible, it's used a number of times in Paul's writings, uses it again in chapter 3 a number of times. refers to something which is part of the secret purpose of God. So secret you would have never guessed it unless He revealed it to you. And that's what Paul's saying here. Here is a mystery now of God's will, something you would have never guessed at. And this mystery is according to his good pleasure. This is something he's pleased to do. And what is it concerning? It has to do with his purpose in Christ to be put into effect when the times, that is when history, reaches its fulfillment. To bring all things in heaven and earth together under one head, even Christ Messiah. Do you ever wonder where history's going? Yeah, you study it and you think of ancient Egypt and the Greeks and the Romans and then you come to the early church and the medieval times and the Renaissance and the Scientific Age and the nuclear age and the information age. And you know, you wonder sometimes, are we headed into a new pagan dark ages coming in the generation ahead? Or are we headed into an unprecedented global great awakening in which God's Spirit will triumph in bringing the nations to their knees? Open question, right? We don't know what the next generation is going to bring. But we do know what the last chapter of the world's history book is going to say. We know that that last chapter is going to say that all things in heaven and on earth. were brought together under one head, even Jesus. Amen? Now, you see, that's gotta grab you. Because you don't know what's ahead in the years of your life. You don't know what's ahead for the generation of our kids. But we do know the last chapter. And that last chapter makes all the difference to us because it says that Jesus simply is Lord Now what does it mean when he says in the fullness of times? He says here that this this is going to happen when the times have reached their fulfillment. What's that referring to It's the same phrase that's used in Galatians chapter four, verse four, when God says, Paul says there, when in the fullness of times God sent forth his son. And so this is referring to that fullness of time, the age of Messiah, the time which began at the birth of The ministry, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus, and continues now as it's filling up the fullness of times to the point where Jesus comes again. It's complete. And so God is in the process now of bringing all things in heaven and on earth, all the nations, through the preaching of the gospel, all to come under the headship of Jesus. That's what we're participating in. That's the purpose that's larger than ourselves, brothers and sisters. That's larger than our careers. That's larger than our own priorities. We are part of God bringing together all things in heaven and earth under the headship of Jesus. This is the fulfillment of what he spoke of in Isaiah chapter 9, when he spoke of that one who is the child. who's given, whose the government will be on his shoulders, and his kingdom will have no end, no end to its extent or to its duration. This is the one who's going to come to sit upon the throne, who's described in Philippians chapter two. Where Paul says that God exalted him to the highest place, gave him the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. in heaven and on earth and under the earth. And every tongue confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. This is that process that Paul unfolds in verses 19 to 23 when he says that since his resurrection, he's been seated on the throne above every rule and authority and every title and name which can be given. We are in the process of that. God is doing that by his Spirit right now. We are recognizing and seeing the simple fact, Jesus is Lord. And ultimately, everything in heaven and earth, every conscious power will recognize that either to their damnation or to their salvation. We see glimpses of that, don't we? Just in certain things that capture our attention. Jesus simply is Lord. There's a new movie out, Twister. You know, and everybody's talking about that. They're talking about research and what twisters are and all that kind of thing, you know. Really uh a uh you know you can see trucks flying in the air and cows flying, you know, fifty hundred feet above the ground. You say, now there's power. Just just air How many of you ever seen the effects of a twister up up close? Any of you? I have. In fact, I'll I'll give you an invitation. You want to see one? I can give you one that's just forty minutes from here. Last May A twister touched down for a few seconds in the National Arboretum from Washington, D. C. It touched down in a place called Fern Valley. In Fern Valley, there are mature beech trees and maple trees, some of those beech trees 80, 100 feet tall. For a few seconds, a twister touched down there and took forty-five trees, mature trees, and simply twisted them out of the ground and shot them into the air. Took weeks to clean it up. And you can go down there and you can see the trunks of maple, of beech trees particularly. Beech is some of the most awesome trees. You look at a beech tree with trunks like this And there it just stops. It's twisted off like somebody just unscrewed the top of it about twenty feet above the ground. But what's even more amazing to me is you can go down there and you can see whole maples simply uprooted and thrown. They're they're not there now, they've cleaned it up. But you can see where they were, and then you will see a sapling two feet from it untouched. That's the sovereign disposal of a twister. Something is rooted and destroyed, and two feet away, something's untouched. In the summer of 1993, I was up in Springfield, Pennsylvania. Which is right next to where I grew up. I was trying to take care of my mom's house at that time. And one afternoon uh I went into a hardware store. And I'll always remember that it w it was a uh an experience quite l a bit different from anything I had known. The air was heavier than any air I had ever experienced. Now I've never been in Twister Country. But this was um there was a heaviness to the air that was absolutely oppressive. Uh it felt like the humidity was about 150% And it was just the air felt like it was pressing down and weighing on you. And and everything got really dark and I thought, you know, we're gonna get a good thunderstorm. That's good. I'm going into the store now, so I went in the store and had a lot of stuff I had to get. So I was in there for about an hour and I came back out and in that hour the temperature had dropped over twenty degrees It was in the nineties when I had gone in and it was in the seventies, lower seventies when I came out, in just about an hour. But then I drove over just a couple of miles from where I was, just obliviously shopping and thinking everything's going on, maybe we're getting a little storm here And I was absolutely horror struck in this old community that I had grown up in. Beautiful old homes Trees had been screwed out of the ground and in one case I saw a tree absolutely cleave through a house. The house was split in two. The tree went all the way from the front street to the property behind it Uh houses were torn up, trees were torn up, and then right next to the house that was absolutely demolished, in which there was nothing but a gaping hole or just, you know, Splinters of branches and the rest of that laying there. And they could see they were all twisted out too. That was interesting. They weren't blown over. They were screwed out. There would be the house next door, and the flowers were still blooming. Absolutely untouched, just a couple of feet away. That's sovereign power. And God does certain things to remind us that He is Lord. And when we look and we see in the winds and we see in the various things of nature that Jesus demonstrates to us, you can acknowledge it or you can pretend it isn't true. But the fact is, that's just the touching of my finger in one small tiny portion of one tiny planet in all of the universe that I have made. Imagine the power of Jesus. Imagine such a one with a sword coming from the breath of his mouth to slay nations. Imagine such a one whose power is at the disposal either to be against you in your rebellion or for you in protection. His power is inevitable. His power is incontrovertible. The only question is, are you under that power or are you resisting that power? So the nations will bow. The purpose is given to us three times in chapter one for that. That's according to his good pleasure that he has called us and that he calls the nation. Verse 5, that it's in accordance with his pleasure, he's made us sons. It's that same phrase, in accordance with his pleasure, all things will be placed under his feet. But what's the purpose of it? Verse 6: To the praise of his glorious grace. For those of us who first believe this, verse 12, for the praise of his glory. For those who have been called by the Spirit under His Lordship, the purpose to the praise of His glory. Verse 14 Again and again and again the scripture says, I have called you to myself for what purpose? I am Lord. It's for the praise of my glory And so the only question for you and for me is: as we recognize that all things in heaven and earth will one day be placed under the headship of Jesus, what about my life right now? Is your life Under the headship of Jesus. When you look at this statement that in the times The current times when uh God is putting into effect that and that that refers to his sovereign administration. When the times will have reached their fulfillment, he will bring all things in heaven and earth together unw under one head. Even Jesus, Christ, Messiah, is your life right now. Under that head. In chapter 2, he goes on to describe How for you and for me that means in verse 10 that we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, to do good works. Which God prepared in advance for us to do. So he takes from that thought in chapter 4, verse 1, and says, Now the things that I've told you, this is who you are, and this is what you have in Jesus. As a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy, live a life in equilibrium. Remember, bringing your life into the balance of the scale with a calling that you've received, your life under Jesus. That is the position. Now, in your experience, place your life under Jesus. And so he says in chapter 4, verse 22, you were taught. With regard to the former way of life, to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, to be made new in the attitude of your minds And to put on the new self, created to be like God, in true righteousness and holiness. When you ask your own life, look at your own life this morning. Can you say, I love Jesus? That I am under your authority. One of the things we did a lot of times as promise keepers is to affirm things. I'd like us to affirm that right now. If you can say that with your heart, say with me, not just now, but say with me. Jesus, I love you. I am under your authority. Can you say that? Think for a moment. Can you say that? Jesus, I love you. I'm under your authority. If you can, let's say it together. Jesus, I love you. I am under your authority. That's a wonderful thing to say. What does it mean for us? First of all, is he Lord of your convictions? That's the first point. Is he Lord of your convictions? In Matthew chapter 11, verse 28 and 29, Jesus says, Come all that are weary to me, and I'll give you rest. Then he says, learn from me. Take my yoke and learn from me. You can no more say to Jesus, come in as Savior of my life. I want to rest in you. But stay out, Lord. Then you can say to me, come in, Alan, and stay out, Harris. You can't separate Jesus as Savior from Jesus as Lord. Where do you go for truth and for reality? What do you read? When do you want to get your convictions shaped in those things that you believe that are non-negotiable? Do you see the Bible as an accurate roadmap of life? You know, you ever try to get around in DC? We got a little bit lost on our way trying to get in there on Friday night, but uh Try sometime going around in DC, uh, if you're not familiar with it, without any kind of map. One time I thought I was going out of the city and I ended up at the Potomac River You know, it's very disorienting. And that's the way life is. The Bible, this book is like a roadmap. It's an accurate roadmap Jesus says, come, I Lord, have given to you these words with absolute authority. Trust them. Build your life on them. You can trust what I say life is like. It's not going to mix easily with this world. Antonin Scalia found that out when he said that there are those of us who in our simple-mindedness believe the resurrection, believe what the Bible says. And the Des Moines Register said, Scalia is so far out on the right of the Supreme Court that sometimes you can only reach him by dog sled. There were scathing sarcastic remarks written in a number of the press responses to that speech. This word does not fit the mentality, the wisdom of this age. Which is it that you're going to choose? Are you going to say, I'm going to build my life and my convictions on this? Or is it kind of this when it doesn't cut against something that's more convenient, such as being forced to lie? in my job in order to satisfy a customer, to tell them it's going to be there next week when you know it's not going to be there next week. To promise things that you know you can't fulfill. To do things that are twisting and reshaping the truth just a little bit, because that's the way the world works. Are you under Jesus as Lord? Can you be able to call sin what it is? Can you be able to call lust lust and lying lying? And bitterness bitterness. Not just I'm having a hard time with. Are our convictions about the way we need to live shaped by Scripture? Or by my feelings. What about my values? The second thing there. Are your values under your under his lordship? The Bible says that sex is for a man and a woman in the bonds of marriage without compromise. I recall counseling a couple once in which the woman they were not married and they were sleeping together. And the woman said, But it can't be wrong because I don't feel guilty when we do it And I said, you need to educate your feelings by the scriptures. What do we go by? Our feelings? Or do we go by Scripture? Is He Lord over your values? Are your values being shaped by what the Bible says? Or do you follow what I call therapeutic Christianity? Therapeutic Christianity has its bedrock doctrine. God's purpose is to make me happy. God wants me to be happy. The Christianity of the cross of the New Testament has its bedrock conviction: God wants me to be holy. He's trying to conform me to the image of Jesus. And sometimes that goes against those things which I think will make me happy. But as I trust him, I find that his purposes are always for my joy. Maybe joy that's seen through tears at first. It may be great difficulty, but his purposes are ultimately good. Just last week I drove down to the rehearsal for Paul and Mara in their wedding. And I couldn't resist I got there a few minutes early and so I went over to next door to Covenant Church. I used to have an office down there. And next door to Covenant Church is the home of Albert Benke, who has one of the largest nursery businesses in the state of Maryland. And uh when I had an office there, I used to speak to him about once a week, sometimes for a couple minutes, sometimes for twenty minutes or so. He's the one who got me into gardening. As I speak to him, he would always make the assertion. God didn't make this garden, and this was a beautiful garden. Guy had a hundred thousand pansies in his pansi bed. In his rose bed, there were about a hundred rose bushes Top quality hybrids. He had lilacs lined all around, azaleas up and down the driveway. This this thing was it was a fabulous layout. God didn't do that. I did it We would talk about scripture and we'd talk about the claims of the Lord Jesus. He'd say, I'll never bow my knees. There is no God like you're describing. I went back and last week looked at his property. Albert Banke's dead now. And the property is like a ghost town. Where there were a hundred thousand pansies, there's now just weeds. Where there were beautiful blue spruces and azaleas and rose bushes, there's nothing but a few scraggly thorns and shrubs. Everything is unkempt, it's gone. And all the glory of Albert Benke has passed. But Jesus is store. And Albert Benke knows now What living in this life for all the glory of all the money and the wealth that he had is worth. Because it's all gone. It's all gone. Even the pool. Boards are rotting next to it, and it's gone. But Jesus is still Lord. You think of the word worldling is an old term that refers to a person whose heart is set on and lives for this world. Hear this, the contrast between the child of God and the attitude toward those of this world. Child of the Eternal Father, Bride of the Eternal Son, dwelling place of God the Spirit, thus with Christ made ever one. Dowered with joy beyond the angels, nearest to his throne, they the ministers attending his beloved one, granted all my heart's desire, all things made my own. Feared by all the powers of evil, fearing God alone, walking with the Lord in glory, through the courts divine, queen within the royal palace, Christ forever mine. Say, poor worldling, can it be that my heart should envy thee I think of the words of a person who wrote concerning their life how the call of Christ came again and again. To live for him, unreservedly, wholeheartedly, to let yourself be simply his and live under him. And how the time slips by. Do you identify with this as I read it? A part of me sensitive to destiny has often heard Jesus' call to follow. To see reality from a new perspective, to live generously and mercifully, to do special, costly things which center on the unique and the unusual But to hear is one thing. To respond correctly is quite another. As a teen, I first heard his call I was relieved to find that its impact could be neutralized by reminding my soul that there was time enough to follow after I had been licensed to drive, permitted to date, and had reached the status of a social heavyweight. In later youth, Jesus beckoned again. This time I waved him off saying that I would need more time to mature, to explore alternative worldviews, to discover my own identity. Perhaps after these adventuresome years, when I'm really grown up, I said, when life becomes serious business, I will have more time for religious responsibility. During my college days, I heard Jesus call again. He asked me as usual to go and live, to do and give. But I was armed with a counter proposition. Did he back off until another day, perhaps when I was married and settled down? That it would be easier, I reasoned, to be Christ's disciple when I have a mate who is prepared to pursue the spiritual side of things. But after college, there came graduate school and career planning and job searching. And there were business trips and cross-country transfers and weekend getaways. And sometimes amid the busyness of all that, Jesus once again intruded. Whispering to my destiny the same old subject, the same old call. With sincerity I asked for one more exemption in the decision-making process. Singles, I pointed out, need space. They value freedom, independence, and security. They prefer not to be tied down with long-term responsibility or to someone who tells them what to do. At this point in life, options are a thing to be kept open on a moment-by-moment basis. Well, I think that Jesus uttered something about understanding my thinking, but I'm not very positive Jesus is tenacious about these calls of his. That's why I was somewhat irritated when after I had walked the aisle, taken some vows, enjoyed a honeymoon, I heard his voice again. There will be time after, I insisted with reverential firmness, when my spouse and I have had the opportunity to really know each other. To have some kids, to invest in a house, visit Europe, open Charles Schwab investment account. Then Lord I said, you'll be seeing a lot of us. We will have to offer some s we will have To offer some spiritual life to our children, and they'll need to grow up in a church. But until they're of age, I'll keep my schedule free and my money in ample quantity. Kids did come. As they usually do. And did they cost? Now when I say cost, I'm talking about money, especially that. And also time. Kids are so demanding. And energy. Man, I'm pooped at the end of every day. I said when I next encountered the calling of Jesus, Lord, please wait a little longer for me until we get these kids through college, until I can cut down on my work hours, until I get over this problem of my weight and the frustration in my marriage and this move that I want to make to Arizona. Perhaps after these hassles and the tuition bills subside, then we'll have plenty of occasions, cash, and perhaps with little else to do, some energy that you'll probably very badly need. At fifty-eight or sixty-two or whatever, I've stopped counting. Jesus came to see me once more. I must admit that his call was impressive, but what he did not take into account was that I needed rest, not responsibility I needed freedom, escape from the rigors of the years. Lord, I said, We've done our part. Let the young people take over now. It's time for us to protect ourselves. Retirement, you see, is just a few years away And we need to be sure that we're financially secure. Lord, read the journal. It's a rough time, a turbulent economy. It's only an opinion. But it seems to me that Jesus could headhunt for his disciples among the teenagers, the college students, the singles, those fresh energetic young couples whose kids are just in diapers. And anyway, they're the ones who profit from all this spirited effort. We've paid our dues. And then just the other day, when I turned 78, I began to meditate on why my soul had always seemed so empty. Why I was drowning in such disappointment. Why did I feel as if I had no legacy? And then there was Jesus. Why hadn't he used me when I was younger? Why was there no excitement over the possibility that one day I might stand in his presence and hear his evaluation of how I'd spent my days, my money, and my affection? Today I no longer drive. My eyes don't pass the driving test. And now I tend to forget a lot of what I learned in college and our busy, busy kids long gone and married, live two thousand miles away and rarely visit. I have plenty of time now, should anyone need me, but I'm so alone, and there's little to do No one seems to ask about anything. Who I am, how I feel, where I see things going, why I think as I do, what I can contribute. No one asks. No one calls. Not even Jesus. Let's pray. Lord our God, we realize that you have made yourself, by your very nature, Lord, not only over us, but also for us. But your purposes are good. Lord, we come to you now to repent of our foolishness. And to offer to our lives. At this very moment, without the excuses, whatever it is, Lord, that's in the way, that comes between us and you Lord, take it. We want to cast it before you. We want you to hear us. We want to mean business. We want, Lord, to to even share this with someone else so that we will follow through. Hear us, Lord. Lord, we hold before you Our lives, the needs of our congregation. We pray, Lord, for John Isaac, who's received the news of the contact of his birth mother Has a letter from her and is full with turbulent emotions about whether or how when to make contact Lord direct our brother John and his decisions about that, for Irene and the family with him. We think too, Lord, of Dee Lindsay and Ranfield's sister, who's in surgery right now, as we come before you, and we pray, Lord, that you would stop the internal bleeding that she's had after the birth of her child. We pray for the health of the baby, that it will not be the infection. We pray that the doctors will be able to stop the bleeding. We pray, Lord, as we understand that she and her husband are new believers, you would strengthen their faith, their trust in you, and bring about complete healing. Lord, we pray for Alex Awaski too that you would give him recovery from his ear surgery and restore the hearing, Lord, enable the doctors to do the utmost and For him to adapt and for his folks to rest in you and your purpose in his life and all of this.