Continue now with the series sit, walk and stand and the third preposition that Paul uses to help us in understanding what it means to sit or to rest in Christ. We first of all looked at the preposition with We are seated in the heavenlies with Christ. That is, everything that happened to Jesus for our redemption, death, resurrection, his seating, being seated in the heavenlies. All that happened to him physically happens to us with him spiritually. We died with him, rose with him, are seated with him spiritually, and will happen to us also physically when he comes again to be seated with him. Secondly, we looked at the preposition through last week. We rest through Christ. We have access to God. through Christ, and uh this is only through him, but it is guaranteed through him. We saw that last week. This week we look at the preposition in The phrase in Christ, one of the worship leaders, won't mention which one, turned in their outline this week, and in bold letters it said at the top, learning to sin in Christ. And that was the title for this week. Uh but uh I don't think we need to learn to do that. We know enough about that. Maybe we need to learn how to sin and not carry the guilt, but the fact is it's learning to sit in Christ, not learning to sin in Christ that I'm going to talk about. That's a key phrase for Paul. Paul uses this phrase in Christ or in him uh a hundred and sixty-four times in his letters. Can you imagine that? In fact, in Ephesians chapter one, verses one to fourteen, he uses that phrase in him or in Christ 11 times just in these fourteen verses. So obviously this is a very important phrase. It's a key phrase for Paul. He starts off his letter, the very first verse. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God to the saints in Ephesus, the faithful in Christ Jesus. Verse 3, Praise be to the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. And then verse 7, in him we have redemption. Chapter 2, verse 6. God has raised us up with Christ and seated us with the heavenly seated us with him in the heavenly realms. in Christ Jesus. That's interesting, particularly in chapter 2, verse 6, because it's kind of awkward. You know, you'd expect that he would just end. God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms. But then he tacks on once again, in Christ Jesus, even though it's awkward. Paul goes out of his way again and again and again to show us that everything that we have as Christians, every spiritual blessing All that God has done for us is a blessing that is received by us in Christ and only in Christ. There is not anything that God does for his people, not anything that God does of the blessings that we receive that are not in Christ. We can't talk about some general beneficence of God in any kind of saving way that is not in Christ. So clearly this is an important idea to Paul. And yet I wonder how many of you, just show me by hands, how many of you have ever heard a sermon on what the phrase in Christ means. Let me just see. How many have you ever heard? One person. Great. I'd like to hear that. Talk to Pete afterwards. I I've never heard a message on that, and yet I remember one time when I was in seminary. I was very busy. I worked in the library at nights and I was doing a bunch of stuff and somehow in the bookstore I found this little book that uh by A. J. Gordon called In Christ. It was a busy night, and I made the mistake of reading the first few pages of this thing And that was it. I remember I didn't do anything else that night but read this entire book. I read the whole book straight through. It was so fascinating to see what it means for us to live in Christ. And so if you never heard a sermon and you didn't ever before, you're going to hear one now. So hopefully, any one of those 164 times that you read that phrase in Paul's letters, you'll have some idea what does it mean that I am in Christ. Alright, first of all, let me mention that it's a hard phrase for us because we tend to think pictorially. And this phrase is not spatial first point, but relational. It does not refer to inside, but it refers to in in terms of a relationship What I mean by that is that Paul, when he uses the phrase in Christ, is really using that as a shorthand for the phrase by virtue of your union with Christ. In Christ is speaking of our union with him, of the intimate relationship that we have with him It's obvious that it is not referring to being in. I had my one of my roommates at seminary. I went through a number of roommates there, but one of these roommates and I had was a guy who said, you know, when I was a kid I used to hear at Bible school, that Jesus lives in your heart if you've trusted him And he said, I used to wonder what that meant, that Jesus lives in my heart And he said for a number of years he said I used to actually think if you could open up my heart and look inside there was a little Jesus in There, kind of doing his work. And you know, he said we get these ideas when we think of in. What does it mean that I'm in Christ, that Christ is in me? You know, and we think in terms of being inside. But when you read John chapter 17, for instance. Do you remember when Jesus was praying for us? In chapter 17, verse 21, he prays concerning our unity, says that all of them may be one, Father. That is that we would have an intimate, active relationship together, just as you are in me and I am in you. So he's praying about our unity And that unity is analogous to his being in the Father and the Father in Him. So they're in in each other. Clearly then it's not one's inside the other somehow, but they are in a relationship of intimate union. Just as you are in me and I am in you, may they also be in us, so that the world will know that you sent me. So, fathers in the Son, Sons in the Father, and we're in both of them. And that's referring to a union, obviously not something spatial. Chapter 14, in verse 20 Uh Jesus had said, On that day you will realize that I am in my Father and you are in me and I am in you. So there Jesus is in the Father and he is in me and I am in him and you are in him. Uh one time I I was praying with Kathy and I was praying about how the Lord I help us to know that I'm in you and you're in me and and you know, pretty soon Kathy just started bursting out laughing because she forgot Well you know, who was in who and what was going on there, but you know, it may seem a little complex to us, but the idea is that of union. It is of intimacy. That's the That's the thing that's being conveyed. And so when Paul says in chapter 2, verse 6, that we are seated in the heavenlies And then after he says we are seated with him in the heavenly places, he adds, in Christ Jesus, what he's saying is, by virtue of our union with Jesus, that's our position. Now the Bible gives four analogies to help us to understand that relationship. The first is of the branch to a vine. That's probably the one you're most familiar with. In chapter uh fifteen of the book of John, do you remember Jesus says in verse five, I am the vine, you're the branches. If a man remains In me and I in him. The same idea again, he'll bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. The vine gets its life from its union with the uh the branch gets its life from its union with the vine. There's no life if it's cut off. And so uh it has to do with the union of that branch with the vine, a vital living union. Second analogy the Bible gives is of a body to a head. In chapter four of Ephesians, Paul talks about The fact that we are one body. And he uh refers to the fact that in uh verse twelve and thirteen that God gives gifts so that we would build up the body, and what does the body do? Well in verse fifteen, you see, he says that instead we speak the truth in love, so that we will in all things grow up into him who is the head. So here's the body, and the body is in the head, it's growing up into the head because it's in vital union with the head. The body can't exist. There's no life in a body apart from the head, and that's the idea. We grow up into him and become more like him. Thirdly, third image that Paul gives for uh analogy of this is of a husband to a wife. In Ephesians chapter 5, he says that the husband is to love his wife as his own body, and as Christ loved the church because he is joined to her as one flesh. So there is that intimate union of the husband in the wife, the wife in the husband. There is that union. Then notice in verse 31. Paul says, for this reason a man will leave his father and his mother and be united to his wife. The two will become one flesh. This is a profound mystery, but I'm talking about Christ and his church. And so the union of a man and a woman in marriage, we'll celebrate this Saturday with Mara and Paul, is the picture as we look at that and see what God is doing there. of Jesus and his church, that we are in him and that he is in us. And that that union is expressed in various ways as we walk with him and we love him and express our intimacy to him. But the most amazing, most staggering of all the analogies that the Bible gives is that the fourth analogy of our being in Christ, and it is of the Trinity to each other. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit to each other. Again, did you get what I read there in John chapter 17 in verse 21? Where Jesus said that they may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you, may they also be in us. Our union is to reflect the union of the Father and the Son. They are in each other, and our union is like them, and our union with them is a union that reflects their union with each other. In fact, in verse 23, Jesus says I in them and you in me. May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them. even as you have loved me. I never read that verse without having to pause, staggered by its implications. That the Father is saying that He loves you right now, this morning, not waiting until heaven, but right now, Jesus says, the Father loves you as much as As he loves his only begotten Son, Jesus. And whenever you feel like you are distant from Him, that you are abandoned, that you feel like, does God really care? In my sin? Is God going to receive me? Is he going to accept me? If I am in Christ Then the Father loves me because of my union with him. I am inseparable from him. And because of that union, he loves me as much as he loves his own son. You know, I can't imagine that. How in the world could God love me like he loves Jesus? And that is the stretching the limits, pushing the envelope of the concept of grace. We talked about Jeffrey Dahmer last week. Well, consider the fact that the way your heart is In all of your sin and your rebellion, God loves you as much as he loves his own son. That's the picture that is given to us by our union with Christ. But not only is it relational, secondly we need to see that the idea in our union with Him, being in Christ Is also representational. We are not independent, but we are represented by Jesus in his work. Basic biblical fact Everyone who ever lived is represented by either one or two persons. Everyone who ever lived. The Bible describes that by its saying that we are in them. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, in verse 22, the Bible says, every one of us are in Adam. 1 Corinthians 15, 22, as in Adam, all die. You die because you are in Adam. Every one of us, we've thought a lot about death this past week, every one of us will die if the Lord Jesus doesn't come first. Because we are in Adam. Why? Romans 8. Excuse me, Romans 5, verse 18. Because, it says, consequently, just as the result of one trespass was condemnation for all men. You see, the Bible pictures that in the garden all of us were in Adam. Now that's that's organically true, because if by Adam every person who's ever lived Traces their lineage back to Adam. You know, ultimately you go back far enough, whatever race you are, you originally came from Adam. So through his sperm Every human being who ever lived came. He's at the head of the line. It's like we're all lined up here, you know, this line that goes on for miles and miles and miles. All of the human race And at the head of the line, there's Adam. He stands before God, and he's our representative. Everything depends on him. He's the representative. We are all in him And so when Adam chose to sin wilfully to disobey God, we all, the trespass, Romans says, all came upon all of us, the judgment of that, because of his act. We are represented by him because we are in him. Now that's simply a fact of life. You can argue with it, you can do whatever you want with it, but the fact is we are represented by other people. We see that in politics, we see it in our families, but uh ultimately we see it in the fact that Adam represented us. We're in him. That's the bad news. The good news is there was a second Adam. And that's in both those verses. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. As in Adam all die, so in Christ died. All will be made alive. Now some people take that to mean, oh well that's great. Just as in Adam we all died, so Everybody's going to be made alive. All the world's going to be saved. The whole human race. Everyone is going to be in Christ and ultimately nobody's going to go to hell. Well, that's an example of wrenching something out of context because the very next verse says that those who will be made alive are those who belong to Christ. He is the first fruits, and those who belong to him will be made alive in him. And so the idea is, as it's pictured there in your bulletin outline, Got all those little verticals, that's kind of like there's the whole human race, you see. And then you see that there's another line of some of those. All are in Adam, but then there's some who are also in Christ. And so the good news is that if you this morning recognize that because you have affirmed what Adam did in your own disobedience, in your own willful, going your own way from God's ways. that you recognize you need another representative. You are helpless and hopeless in yourself. But God has sent his own son, Jesus, the second Adam, without sin. In order to pay for your sin in your place, if by faith you say, Jesus, I need you as my representative. And if you say that, he hears that. He says he will never cast you out. He will be your representative, and you will pass from death to life because you are in Christ. And ultimately in that day when he comes, literally physically, you will pass from death to a new resurrected body of life because you're in Christ. See if this was a congregation over Long Reach Church of God, everybody'd be saying, Amen, you know? That's good news, right? Somebody has the hope. All right. Now, lest you think then that this idea of our relationship with Christ and our being represented by Christ If something you write down in your notes, you say, that's nice to know, great, you know, need to think about that. It is not simply a theological construct, because the third point, which is absolutely vital for us Is that in Christ is not just positional, but vital. This is a vital experiential union. After nearly twenty times that Paul uses the phrase in Christ in chapters 1 to 3 of the book of Ephesians. In order to show us that that is our position, that is what we have, every spiritual blessing in Christ, seated in the heavenlies, by virtue of our union with Christ in Christ. In chapter 4, verse 1, he says, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. Work out in your experience. It's this little book in Christ by A. J. Gordon, where I first got that idea that the Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in your experience that which is already true of you in Christ. He he's the one that has that idea in there. The whole Christian life is nothing more or less, ultimately, than by faith appropriating, as Paul says, walking, making true in my experience. that which is already true of me, chapters 1 to 3 in Christ. And so he goes on to talk about how by faith to experience that union, how to work it out. Chapter 5, verse 1, he says, Imitate God. Imitate Christ as he has loved you. Work out that union, you see. In chapter 4 In verse 21, after he's just talked about the wrong way to live, and he says in verse 20, You didn't come to learn Christ that way, surely he says in verse 21, you've heard of him. and were taught in him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. Alright, you know how to live. You know your Bible, you you have it, you read it. This is how to live. How do you do it Well, verse 22, you were taught with regard to your form of way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted in his deceitful desires, be made new in the attitude of your minds, and put on the new self. So Paul says this is a very practical daily thing. You think about what it means to be in Christ. You think of the truth of that. And then you learn how to put off the old life and by faith to put on that new life which is in union with Christ in the little decisions, in the way you react to people, in your thoughts, in everything that you do. It is by vital union with Jesus. It's being in touch with him. And of course, the classic passage again about this is in John chapter 15, where Jesus says in verse 5, I am divine. You are the branches. If a man remains in me, abides in me, dwells in me is the idea. And I in him, he will bear much fruit, the fruit of the Spirit. Because apart from me, you can do nothing. Believe me, if there was ever a week where I experienced the truth of that, it was this last week. It wasn't enough to know the truths of gospel hope. It wasn't enough simply to know that there is a resurrection. It wasn't enough to simply know that God is sovereign. It wasn't enough simply to know that God is wise and he is able to do all the things that he decides in his infinite and perfect wisdom to do. It wasn't enough simply to know with my mind that God is love, and that he loved the sharps, and that he loves his people even in the most overwhelming of tragic events that come to us What I needed and what they needed was the personal touch of Jesus. It was that abiding in him. That drawing as a branch from the vine, the life. Right now, Jesus, right now when I feel like I'm going under, right now, Jesus, I need to know your presence. Have you ever experienced that? A time when you feel like you're at the absolute end of your rope, when you it's hard to even remember gospel promises, and you cast yourself on the Lord. And you say, Lord, help. Lord, I just need to know. I need to know right now that you're with me. And then there comes, sometimes gradually, sometimes imperceptibly, that senseless touch in your life. That sense that he's with you, and that it's all right. That sense that he'll take care of you as a shepherd. That sense that he'll never leave you, he'll never forsake you, that he'll come again to receive you. And I experienced that for a few brief moments this past week when we committed Matt's body to the ground. And there at that service, I'll always remember it, the service of committal is a very simple thing. There's no extraneous words, there's no chatter, there's no personal thoughts. It's scripture and it's prayer. And as I read the scriptures, and then simply led us in prayer I'll always remember Lorna coming afterwards and saying how much that meant. And I can see in her eyes the statement, it's true. It's really true And to know that God had witnessed to her spirit that these things were true. And all Sandy said was, come quickly, Lord Jesus. That's union with Christ. That's the kind of vital union that goes beyond things that we can say about Him. But comes only from the touch of the Savior in my life and in yours. Let's pray. Lord our God, some of us have never perhaps understood What it means to have a relationship with you. That to be in Christ means to have an intimate union. By being joined to your life, to be sheltered by you, to be protected by you. And oh Lord, if it was ever a week. And some of us needed to know that. It was this last week Lord, I thank you for the ways that you met me that I could feel and I could know. Times when Sometimes we feel it very difficult even to pray, but we simply cast ourselves on you, throw ourselves on you. And you meet us. And you grant to us a peace that really is beyond understanding, that's very difficult to explain. But simply a sense that you are there and it's all right Because our life moment by moment is literally being drawn from you And Lord, there's many of us here this morning who need to know more of that touch. And Lord, I pray for them right now. Whatever the situation, Lord Jesus, that you would show them that you are their representative. They have life because you represented them at the cross. Lord, if there's someone here who's not trusting you for that, who's still only in Adam. We pray, Lord, that they would see the desperate need of their becoming one who is in Christ by faith, casting themselves on you right now for salvation. Lord, for those of us who know that, but don't live it by faith. We pray, Lord, work out in us right now That heart longing and thirst to draw from you your life this week in those circumstances that we simply can't handle. We come to cast them on you right now. Lord Jesus, how we thank you that you are there for us. That you will never leave us or forsake us. We thank you and praise you that we have every spiritual blessing in you, that we are seated in the heavenlies in you. That our life moment by moment is drawn from you. That we grow toward you by growing up out of our union in you Appropriating that moment by moment, day by day. Teach us this week more of what that means, we pray. In Jesus. Amen.