The messages carefully, take notes, fill in the blanks, even follow the meditations the week after religiously. Take your turn in children's church and in the nursery. Try the best you can to love your spouse and your kids or your friends. Try to do your duty at work, be honest. Try to help other people when they need help. You're busy and you're tired to prove it. But hey, God's blessing your life, right? So it's worth it. I mean, honor him and he'll bless you. And there's a connection, right? When you seek to follow the Lord and to do the best you can, in order to do what he says to do, the result is you can expect it'll bless your life. Well there's two problems with that theory. The one is what about that brother or sister here that has been dancing as fast as they can to do all these things? And they said, Lord, I just ask one favor. Could you sell our house and provide that house that we've been looking for, that we need that's bigger? Lord, could you could you improve my marriage? I think you're pretty sad. Or or Lord, about our kids, you know, there's there's just lots of disappointment. And and I don't know what I've done wrong, but something's not working out the way I would think it should for a Christian home. Or I can't understand, Lord, why this thing has come into my life now. An illness? Some tragedy? Lord, I thought that I was trying to serve you. Why did this happen? That's a problem, right? If we look on the one side and say, things seem to be going well And I relate that to the fact that I have been trying to serve the Lord. What about when things don't go well? The other problem with that theory Is that we say we believe the gospel of grace. And the gospel of grace says that whatever we get is better than we deserve. Whatever blessings God gives to us are really not because we have deserved them, but because He's been gracious to us. So how do you see that connection? You see, I think what we say is we believe the gospel of grace, but in subtle ways, down deep, we're superstitious, aren't we? We're superstitiously legalistic. I wonder sometimes how much we obey the Lord simply because we love him? And because what he says to do is the right thing to do, and because it is right and I love right, because he loves right and I love him, I will do it. Whatever the cost, I'll do it. Or how much of it is because we're superstitious? I don't do it. Something bad's gonna happen If I don't follow him in this way, have my quiet times, make sure I give my tithe, or do whatever I need to do that I'm aware I need to do. Something bad is gonna happen. And I'll know. As soon as I mash up that fender, it was because I didn't do it. Then you you know something bad happened. You always remember you trace it to whatever it was you should have done. And you know you didn't do. But I want to show by the end of this message, I want to convince you, as I've been looking at my own heart That there are a lot of subtle ways that we are very superstitious and legalistic. We're going through the prepositions Of Paul in Ephesians chapter 1 to 3. Five prepositions by which he helps us to see what it means to really sit and rest in Christ. Prepositions that seek to take us out of that superstition and out of that legalism in order to have a solid foundation in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. The first one that we looked at back before the missions conference in March was the preposition with. We have died with Christ. We have been raised with Christ. We are seated with Christ. In fact, the point of all of that is simply that whatever happened to Jesus for our redemption physically happened to you with him spiritually. You are spiritually dead. You spiritually died to sin with Christ. You are spiritually raised with him. You are spiritually seated in the heavenlies. And we talked about that the last three weeks, trying to unpack what that means to be seated with Christ. In the heavenlies. So I'm not going to go over that. But now this morning, just one week on the second preposition through. To see what it means when we say we really do have access to God only through Jesus Christ. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 18. That's the text this morning. Take a look at that. You have your Bibles there. Ten times Paul uses this word through in chapters 1 to 3. Ten times. Only one time does he use it in chapters 4 to 6. 10 to 1. So it's a preposition that clearly Paul is using to help us to see how to rest through Christ. And none of them is any clearer than chapter 2 verse 18. For through him we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. The both refers to Jew and Gentile. Whatever your background, it is through him that we have access to the Father by one Spirit. No works, no superstition. And yet I wonder if we really believe that You see, Paul's point here is really quite simple. What he is saying, you boil it all down, is that there is no direct access to God. You cannot approach God directly because your sin has separated you from God. In the Garden of Eden, when Adam and Eve disobeyed God, you remember they were driven out of Eden. And as they tried to come back in, there was an angel standing at the door with a flaming sword preventing their entrance. There is no longer access to God and to paradise. And so you come through the Old Testament and you see again and again, you cannot have direct access to God. You're simply unfit. The sharps have a friend in Jamaica who was visiting in Jamaica, visiting a very wealthy family and had a special dinner party. And at this dinner party he found out he could not go. Because he didn't have the proper attire. He wasn't dressed, didn't have a jacket, formal jacket. And so if he wanted to come and have dinner, he had to go out and buy himself a jacket And he was motivated enough that he did that. Maybe calculated afterwards how much the jacket was, how much the dinner was worth, but that's what he did. Because he wasn't fit to come to dinner as he was. The Old Testament makes very clear that you and I are not fit to come before God as we are. And so in the Old Testament, you came through a priest who was bearing the blood of a lamb or a bull or a goat. And it was through that priest and through the blood. Didn't matter whether you were the king or you the servant that swept up his kitchen, you came the same way through the blood. And so the Bible presents Old Testament, New Testament, that you and I do not have direct access to God. Now that may seem very restrictive to you, and it is restrictive. Verse 2, verse 18 of chapter 2 says it's through him that we have access. There's no other way. No other religion, no other philosophy. It's not a matter of sincerity. It's not a matter that you say, but I've tried hard and I do the best that I can. And it's Jesus and, you know, maybe other religions also have enough of the truth that they'll get to heaven. The Bible absolutely contradicts that. Ephesians 2. 18 says it's through him and through him alone that we have access to God, the Father, by one Spirit. But that word is not only restrictive, it's also very restorative. It's very hopeful because it says that we can have access to God. That's the good news for modern man that says that we're hopelessly alienated. There is no access. If there is a God. And if there is a God in the minds of many today, he's some sort of impersonal force that is superstitiously manipulated But this verse says that God is a father, he is a person, and we have access to him through Jesus Christ. Through him Now Paul uses that word, as I said through ten times in chapters 1 to 3. He uses it in two ways to show us this, to make the point absolutely clear. Five times Paul uses that word through to refer directly to Christ. Through him, through his cross, through the gospel, through Christ, those kinds of phrases. Three times he uses the phrase through faith to show indirectly Making the same point that it is only through Christ. The other two are different. One is through the Spirit, and then the other one is how God is honored through us. Now, when we look at those two points, then we see that the first point is showing us what we have through Christ. What we have through Christ. Two basic things that you have through Jesus Christ this morning. Redemption and adoption. The same two ideas we've gone over again and again. First of all, you see that you have redemption through Christ. Chapter 1, verse 7. Take a look. In him we have redemption through his blood. Now, there are two Greek words for redemption. One is a commercial word. It means simply to buy something back. I don't know how many of you remember. Maybe I'll give a few more in a second service. I don't know how many of you remember trading stamps back in the fifties. These old things Little gold or green trading stamps. Look at this. Antique trading stamps. They're not that old. Now these were little stamps that when you went out and bought something, for those of you who weren't around in the fifties, you know I know. When you go out and you'd buy something, you'd get these little stamps. Uh a and uh you know, you bu buy a few dollars worth of stuff, you know, a stamp would be whatever percent of it, you know, one or two or four percent or something. But you get these little stamps and you put 'em in a book. And then you would go to what was called a redemption center. I still remember my mom who shopped a lot at Lit Brothers, so I don't even think they're in business anymore, Philadelphia area, and she would get all these little stamps at Lit's. And I still remember as a little kid that time going to the Redemption Center and she had her eye on this stainless steel electric percolator. State of the art. I think it was probably worth $12 then, be worth $50 now if they still made them. I don't even know if they do. But she got this thing, shiny stainless steel, for free because she got it with her stamps, redeemed it with her stamps. Commercial transaction. That's not the word that Paul uses here. The word that he uses here is not simply redeeming something that you've bought. You know, so you just trade the value. But rather the word that Paul uses here, we are redeemed through his blood, is a word which means to purchase a slave out of captivity, out of slavery. It's a word which particularly refers to releasing someone by a payment from captivity. Roman law said that if you love the slave, You had the legal right to purchase that slave and then give a certificate that said that you had redeemed the slave and was granting him or her their freedom. That's the word that Paul uses here. Jesus made a payment to you and to me in the bondage of our sin in the kingdom of Satan. That's what he says in chapter 2. In our death, in our captivity, Jesus made a payment that was through his blood. The cost for your release and for my release from God's curse and from the bondage of that sin that grips us was his own blood. That means his death. And so Jesus comes and says, you are so loved in his eyes that he's willing to pay his own life. For you. And that accomplishes, Paul says, three things. Each of them has the word through. Notice he says in verse 7, it accomplished your forgiveness. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace. We are no longer in captivity As one who is God's enemy and therefore under his curse, he has forgiven us freely because Jesus' blood was sufficient payment. And because of that, we are no longer alienated to God. We are reconciled to Him. That's what He says in chapter 2, verse 16. Uses it again. And in his one body in and in this one body to reconcile both of them, Jew and Gentile, to God through the cross. by which he put to death their hostility. He has reconciled us to God, that verse says, through the cross. No enmity. And therefore, verse 18 says, we have access to God. We are no longer alienated. For through him, Jesus, we have access to the Father. By one spirit. And that's what we celebrate at the Lord's Supper. First Sunday of each month. We'll do that tonight again. To celebrate as we look at those elements, through this that speaks of Jesus' body and of his blood, I have access. To the Father. And we'll hear a testimony tonight of the power of God's grace in a life of one of our members to demonstrate and to illustrate that principle vividly to us. But there's more. Paul says that through him we have been adopted, not only forgiven, not only allowed into God's presence, but adopted as his own children. Again, look at chapter 1, the end of verse 4. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons. How? Through Jesus Christ. In accordance with his pleasure and his will. And so we've been made sons, you see, adopted as sons through Jesus Christ. Because we are sons, we have access, what's verse 2, what's verse 18 say of chapter 2? To the Father, speaking again of our sonship. Through him, we both have access to the Father, to call him Father, to come to Him as Father, whatever our need by one Spirit. And because he is our Father, we're heirs of his kingdom. Chapter 2 goes on to speak about how he has given to us the promises of the Old Testament. And he has made us heirs. Chapter 3, verse 6. This mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles are heirs Together with Israel. How? Through the gospel. The gospel of the work of Jesus Christ, you see. Through the gospel, you're an heir with Israel, members together of one body, sharers together in the promise. In Jesus Christ, heirs of all of God's blessings, only through Christ, not because of your busyness, not because of your best efforts. Not because of your sincerity, only one way. Through Christ. And in order to nail that down, what Paul does is three times He gives you the means by which you lay hold of that to show that it's not your cooperation in your efforts, but it's totally through faith. Three times he makes that point. Look at chapter 2, verse 8. For by grace you have been saved through faith. That's not of yourselves. It's the gift of God, not of works, so that nobody can boast that they put a little bit more into it, that they deserve a little bit more of God's blessing. That we be careful as a congregation, as a family, to never judge whether a person's life is going good or they're under trial and difficulty. To speak about, well, there must be a correlation between how good they are or how faithful they were. But rather, it is through faith that we have access to God. In fact, we approach God with freedom and conscience through faith, chapter 3, verse 12. Take a look. In Him, and through faith in Him, we may approach God with freedom And confidence. How do you approach God this week? How do you know whether God will hear you? How do you know whether you can come to Him and know that He's going to smile and not turn His back on you? How do you have freedom and confidence? Through faith. Not through claiming what you've done in the last couple of weeks. Not through your faithfulness, your loyalty, your busyness, through faith. You lack peace? You lack power this morning? How is it available? Through faith. Chapter 3, verse 16. Paul's praying that Christ may dwell in your hearts, verse 17. How? Through faith. And I pray that you being rooted and established in love may have power together with all the saints to grasp how wide and how long and how high and how deep is the love of God. We were singing of that at the beginning. To know is love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to all the measure of the fullness of God. How do you get that? Verse 17, through faith, not through your efforts Not through your obedience. All of those things are important. And all of those things do affect your usefulness to the Lord and your joy. In the joy that comes in simply obeying. But it doesn't give you access. It doesn't determine whether things will go good or whether things will go difficult. That's through faith. That's through Christ. You see, he says through faith, because faith, that's the blank there. Through faith equals is equivalent to saying through Christ because faith means that I have no access in my own merits. Faith says that I recognize that all I can do is to come to God through Christ, which I lay hold of by faith. And so when Satan screams at you, failure, how could you possibly think that God would have any part in your life? Let me give you a suggestion. The next time you have those kind of thoughts, don't answer them. Don't answer them. Send them to Christ for Jesus to answer. Satan, I'm not even going to deal with you, man. Take that up with my Savior, because it is only through him that I have redemption and adoption, forgiveness, peace. So you take it up with him, and then remind yourself of the words of Thomas Wilcox, 17th-century Puritan, who said In all of Scripture, there is not one ill word against a poor sinner stripped of self-righteousness. In all of Scripture there is not one ill word against a poor sinner stripped of all self-righteousness. As long as you don't try to defend yourself and answer Satan say, yeah, but I've done, well, but I'm not as bad as, well, but I could have, but I didn't. All of that will get you in a downward spiral into depression. The answer is go to my Savior. I don't claim anything. My only claim is through Christ, I have forgiveness, and I have peace and I have a clear conscience. Through Christ. Faith rests on Christ alone, because we come through Christ alone. Do you remember in John chapter 10? Where Jesus talked about him being the good shepherd. Do you remember also used an image there where he said, I am the gate to the sheepfold? John chapter 10 and verse 9, he said these words, I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved. He will come in and go out. And find pastor. Jesus says it's it's like on a gate. And the only access there is to the pastor. The only access there is to the Father's protection and care is the shepherd. It's through me. You see, because in those days the shepherd was the gate. When the shepherd would bring the sheep in for the evening and put them into some sort of a pen, sometimes it was a temporary enclosure because they were out grazing on the hills, and they didn't bring them back to the barn every night, they just kind of traveled with them They would create some sort of an enclosure. And then the shepherd himself would lie down in that gate to the enclosure. And so the sheep passed into safety through him, through the shepherd who was the gate. He watched and he marked each one as they came through, and then he lay down. To protect them. That's the picture Jesus is giving. He's saying, through me you have life and protection and pastor. Faith then is looking to Christ, believing that I have access to God the Father through him alone. Faith is looking, you see. Faith is not doing something. Faith is simply saying it is through Christ I simply look to Him in order to have life and access to God. For through him we have access to the Father by one Spirit. I said at the beginning of this message, very few of us really believe that, and I wanted to convince you of that. Let's see how you react. Notice in your own heart how you react to what I'm about to say. Every once in a while, there comes along a human being That is so utterly evil that he seems to be more of a monster than a human being. What would you think of a man who would sell drugs to little kids simply out of greed? What would you think of such a man He would then lure some of these little kids into his home. And once he got them in the home, would lock the doors and not allow them to escape. And then perform exquisitely perverse tortures upon their bodies Would force sex upon them, continuing to torture them, and then murder them. After murdering them, have sex with their corpse. And then chop them up in pieces and eat their bodies. Perhaps you recognize that I'm speaking of Jeffrey Dahmer. But how many of us are aware that when Jeffrey Dahmer was sentenced, fifteen consecutive life sentences, in prison, Jeffrey Dahmer began to attend Bible study. And in prison, Geoffrey Dahmer came to recognize the vileness of his heart and his need for a savior in Jesus Christ. Jeffrey Dahmer professed Jesus Christ as sufficient savior for his crimes. He was publicly baptized and identified with the Church of Christ. On one occasion, it was an attempt made by another inmate to slit his throat in chapel. Jeffrey Dahmer was completely at peace. He was not afraid to die. He said, I have peace with God through Christ. And then some short while after that, at the Columbia Correctional Institution in Wisconsin, Jeffrey Dahmer was murdered in a very bloody way. Now, without investigating the nature of his faith, let's simply assume for a moment that his faith was genuine. How do you feel about sharing heaven with Jeffrey Dahmer? How do you feel about the fact that you will worship the Lamb And Jeffrey Dahmer may be next to you worshiping the Lamb. And the two of you confessing the evil of your heart. Are you saying in your, hey, listen, I don't even want to identify with that. Well, we're talking evil hearts I'm talking about my evil heart. I'm not talking about an evil heart like that. Or do you say, I have access to the Father through Christ? And if Jeffrey Dahmer has access to the Father through Christ, praise God. That's the extent of his grace. What's interesting to me is that there was a columnist, Christian columnist, Terry Mattingley, who wrote about that. I didn't see the column, I saw it referred to. Wrote about that. And Mattingley then says he got a volume of protest mail from Christians saying there's no way Jeffrey Dahmer's going to be in heaven Now he said that was rather interesting. The people are saying it's by grace we're saved, but some people are beyond that. I find that particularly interesting because I know that a fellow by the name of James Davidson Hunter wrote a book, Evangelicalism The Coming Generation, a few years ago, in which he surveyed students of inerrancy schools such as Wheaton and Westminster and some of these other schools. And he asked the question, Do you believe that if Mahatma Gandhi did not change his mind before he died? But continued to hold to his own Hindu convictions. Where is Mahatma Gandhi now? He said very few evangelicals would say Mahatma Gandhi is in hell without Christ He said, m most people would say, well, I I really don't know. You know, may maybe maybe God did something there. You know, he's such a great guy and you know such an admirable character and he did so much good. I really can't say that Gandhi's in hell. Now think about that for a moment. Through Christ, if Jeffrey Dahmer makes a profession of faith There's no way he's going to make it. We're not so sure that Mahatma Gandhi, apart from Christ, is really lost. You see what I mean about our superstition and our legalism? If we find in our hearts that there's a certain recoiling and saying, it's just not fair. That's not right. That somebody like Gandhi would be in hell and somebody like Dahmer would be in heaven. What are you saying? You're saying it's not really just through him There's something else. And that something else is what's going to rob you of your peace. That something else is the superstition and the legalism. It will always be blended in when we say, God, how can I come to you this morning? How can I come to you this week? You see, that's the revelation of our hearts. The gospel is absolutely clear, friends. Paul couldn't be any clearer. Through him, through faith, we have access to the Father by one Spirit. Do you believe that? Let's pray. Lord our God, I am so glad that our Father in heaven tells of his love in the book he has written. Wonderful things in the Bible I see. This is the dearest. And Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me, Jesus loves me. Jesus loves even me. And Lord, it's only those ways that we minimize your standards or exalt our own efforts. That robs Christ of his rightful place. We say that it is through him, and yet, Lord, in our hearts we harbor The superstitions and the legalisms that say it is partly through him, and it's also partly through what I do. Lord, reveal to us our hearts right now. Reveal that pride. Reveal those self-efforts. That rob us of our peace and our joy. It comes through Christ alone