We continue our series on Ephesians. The tenth message. See the Dransfield's here this morning. You've been missing all this. The tenth message on learning what it means to sit. in Christ. Remember the thesis of this whole series is that we need to balance the three postures of a disciple Learning first of all how to sit, that is, to rest, in the finished work of Christ, building on that, learning how to walk, living up to our new identity in Christ, following after Christ in his perfect commands. And then as we do, we find we're in spiritual conflict, therefore we need to learn how to stand, to resist evil and the evil one, temptation and the tempter. Sitting in chapters 1 to 3 of Ephesians, then chapter 4 to the beginning of chapter 6, learning how to walk, and then from chapter 6, verse 10 to the end, learning how to stand. And my point is that I rarely see the balance of these three postures in contemporary Christianity. Either there's all the emphasis on grace and unconditional love with little sense of what it means to walk in following Christ in obedience, or There is all the emphasis on the walk without the sense of what it means to rest in Christ. For instance, one of the most popular books on discipleship that's been written in recent years, published in 1988 And it's one of the most popular ones that I see, recommended and used on discipleship in uh current um Christian circles is a book that talks uh about no nonsense, commitment to Christ, and what it means to walk after him in today's society. And the chapter that lays the foundation for this has four points. The kingdom is the model, the cross is the means. The commission, Great Commission, is the method, and Christ coming is the motive. Hey, boy, four M's, you know, it's gotta be pretty good. And uh, you know, it looks like it's all pretty good stuff. But then when you come to that section on the cross as the means, you expect to see something about Christ's finished work that we rest in. But in fact he says nothing about that. This is a clear, solid evangelical. What he talks about is that the cross is the symbol of self-denial The cross is that which calls us to put aside our own agendas and our own demands and to come to Christ as Lord, all good. No question. Great stuff. But there's no sense of the resting in the cross, of what Christ has done for us before we talk about what he does in us. And without that, I submit that we inevitably move toward a shallow, a superficial, legalistic kind of discipleship. Because it'll always be in something that we're able to do, something that we kind of scale down so that we are able to follow after him in a way that makes us feel like we've succeeded at least a little bit. That's what I'm trying to counter against. See, I believe that the Lord Jesus wants to call Columbia Presbyterian to such a radical Call of discipleship, such a radical standard of holiness, that it will be impossible for us to approach it without his Spirit. You see, i if if we can scale things down to where they're manageable, a mediocre Christianity that makes us feel like we're functioning and we're kind of going along, you know, we're doing church Then we don't need the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit. But if we have such a radical view of what Christ is calling us to live Then unless we are resting in his finished work and appropriating that work by faith, we have no chance of beginning to approximate that. But praise God, he has given to us a full gospel so that the Christian life is lived by faith, not by our works. Through and through, every day when you wake up, resting in the finished work of Christ, Lord help me to live up to my new identity seated in the heavenlies with Jesus. And to experience that. Amen? Okay, that's good. Alright, now to do that, this morning we're looking at the fourth preposition. I've been submitting that uh uh because we're not going through verse by verse to Ephesians, that we're looking at themes of chapters one to three on this resting. And one of the ways we've looked at, one of the windows we've used to do that is the prepositions Paul uses, that we have died, risen, or seated with Christ. Then we've talked about our access to God through Christ. We talked last week about what it means to live in Christ. Now this morning, the fourth preposition we're talking about what it means to have faith on Christ, to rest on on Christ as our foundation. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 15, Paul says, for this reason Ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. You see, what is it that he's heard about? It's their faith in the Lord Jesus. Interesting, that word in there is the same word in the Greek that we looked at last week, in Christ. But this is a different sense. This is part of those words. It's a group of prepositions that the New Testament uses that are always following the word faith. Faith in the New Testament has, whenever Jesus is the object of that faith, will have on or in sometimes toward, in, into, or upon, or on. Did I say that one? All those different ideas. The idea is that our faith is on or in or upon the Lord Jesus. And that's what Paul's talking about. He uses a different preposition when he spoke to the Ephesian elders. Do you remember back in Acts chapter 20? After Paul had spent two years giving his life to the training of the leaders of the Ephesian Church, remember he met with them in the lecture hall of Tyrannus? lecturing the scriptures, teaching them the doctrines of the faith, and then taking them out on the street every day to share the faith, on-the-job training, sharing Christ so that by the end of the two years he's he was able to write that everybody in the area had heard the gospel. And then he goes and he leaves, and he comes back on his way to Jerusalem. One final message to give to the Ephesian elders. And he stops at this port of Miletus. It's over thirty miles from Ephesus. And there on the beach, perhaps, he calls these elders, and they all travel over thirty miles to come down and to meet with him there. And in Acts chapter 20, he gives a very moving final message. And in that message, you hear this verse, chapter, Acts chapter 20, verse 21, summing up his message, he says, I declared to both Jews and Greeks that they must turn to God in repentance and have faith in our Lord Jesus. Now in that case it's a different word from the one we have in Ephesians 1 15. That's the word in Acts in two. I've also given you examples of other words, the upon and the toward. That idea of our faith being upon, toward, in, on the Lord Jesus. And the point of that all is simply this: biblical saving faith is not to assent to facts. Alone. That's the first point. It's not an assent to facts, but rather biblical faith is reliance upon a person. It is trust. Trust. You often hear, believe that Jesus died for your sins and you will be saved. That's a false statement. You hear it all the time. Christians say in America, I believe that Jesus died for my sins, so I'm going to heaven. The Bible never gives such assurance. The Bible never says that. Believe that Jesus died for your sins and you'll be saved. Rather, biblical saving faith is believe on Jesus who died for your sins. And you will be saved. You see the difference? One is assenting to a fact. Yeah, I can believe that Jesus died for my sins. I agree with that. There's no necessary life change that's involved in that. The other is placing my weight upon a person. That's all the difference. The reformers wisely taught that there were three aspects to faith They spoke of the three aspects of faith that reflect the three parts of our being as human beings. First of all, they spoke of the understanding of the mind, whereby I recognize the gospel is true. I hear the gospel, and with my mind I say, that is true. I used to think it was false, I used to think it was nonsense. But now it's beginning to make sense. That's true. Jesus really is who he said he is. Secondly, they said that's not enough. You need to go on to the Second part, which is the emotions. There needs to be an assent to those facts, or we would probably say today, a conviction. That is a sense of my need for Jesus. I come to hate my sin. I desire Christ. So with my emotions, there is a desire for Jesus. And then finally they said even that's not enough. There must come that what they called closing with Christ, which is the trust. The act of the will whereby I transfer my trust. The Bible and they would speak of it in terms of weight. I transfer the weight of my trust from myself, my own actions, my own behaviors, other people, self-sufficiency to Jesus alone. I rest my weight entirely upon him. And that's reflecting those prepositions that you have in the New Testament. In, on, upon, into, resting, On Jesus. For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus, you're trusting on the Lord Jesus. You're resting upon the Lord Jesus. And your love for all the saints, Paul says. Now, that section actually goes from verse fifteen to twenty-three. And I believe in those verses that follow this, Paul unfolds implicitly the nature of that trust upon Jesus. And he does it by three images. And so here they are. First of all, faith in Christ means faith in his person. Three P's. Get the P's uh help you. Keep it in mind, all right? First one is faith in his person. Verse 15, for this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in, your trust in, resting upon the Lord Jesus, and your love for the saints, I've not stopped giving thanks for you. I remember you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know Him better. You see, that's tied to that idea, your faith in him, and so I pray that you will know him, the person of Jesus. In whom you've placed your faith and your trust. Now you notice that verse 15 has two ideas that are joined together. And I think it's very important that we see both of them. Look again at verse 15. For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints. Two ideas He joins these together in a very precise way that delivers us from two errors that are common not only in general, but I find in our own congregation, in contemporary Christianity, among Presbyterians, Two rampant errors that we need to be aware of, brothers and sisters. The first is the problem of independence from the saints Notice again, I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints. We tend to separate those, don't we? We say, I heard about your faith in Jesus, period. No necessary connection between that and love for the saints. I can have faith in Jesus, just me and Jesus, and hey, if I go to church or if I'm invited. That's kind of an additional, you know. I may do that if it benefits me, if it helps. But we have what I call there our need for space, don't we? As Americans. I need my space Don't talk to me about small groups. Don't talk to me about being vulnerable to other Christians. Don't talk to me about sharing the needs in my life or having to depend on somebody else to help me to bear that burden. I have Jesus and that's all I need. I want to tell you something. I hesitated to I hesitate to share this, but I feel that it's so relevant that I need to. This week I called a family in our congregation that hasn't been here for some time. And I wondered why I hadn't seen them. And so I called them and I asked them what happened, and they said, well, we've decided to just stop coming And I said, Well are you going somewhere else? No. Are you involved in any Bible studies? No. Kids involved in any activities? No. Was there a problem? Well no, we just kind of decided we didn't need it, we just don't come. And then I I couldn't resist. I I asked, well, how's your relationship with Jesus now? And there was kind of a perplexed pause, like, what's that got to do with it? He said, fine, no problem. You see, there's this idea we have today that those two things, faith in Jesus and love for the saints, are two hermetically sealed compartments. You know, you can have love for the saints if you want, but what's really important is just have faith in Jesus. Paul doesn't ever allow that And I I was upset when I heard that. I was partly angry. I wanted to shake them and say, don't you realize this is where Satan wants you? You're in trouble I was sad. I felt that we had failed. I felt like, you know, what have we done that we haven't communicated, reached out to them enough, or something. But I was really upset from that Don't you see? We need to see that our need for space is a sinful desire. And we need to repent of that desire to keep ourselves private Paul says your faith in Jesus, resting upon Jesus, was linked with your love for the saints. He says that in Colossians, repeats the same idea, says it again in Philemon, give you the references there so you can look them up yourself. This is central to the New Testament. Now, that's the need for space. There's another error. That's the other side of that. that this verse is intended to correct. And that is the need for an un the the unhealthy dependence on the saints. What I call an unhealthy dependence on the saints. If the first is a need for space, the second is a need for the visible. You see what he says there. For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in Jesus and your love for all the saints, he does not say, Ever since I heard about your faith in Jesus and the saints. And yet, for some of us, once we come to realize that we need the body, what happens is there's an overdependence upon the body. So there's stress. There's something that comes up in my life and I'm really frazzled. And what happens? I go to the Lord, I read a verse, and I say, eh, I'm not getting much out of this. I need to go give a call. And I call somebody else and I say, let me tell you my response. And I dump the whole thing out You know, and then two hours later this person's exhausted and they try to help and they're listening and I feel great. I had somebody listen to me for two hours. And it dissipated the need to go to Jesus, you see Now I have felt a little bit of relief. And I wonder why the problem quickly returns. I haven't really found a solution. It's not that I've got the spirit's power now. I just kind of dissipated it by somebody taking some of that tension and anxiety from me. Paul says, I've heard about your faith in, you're resting upon Jesus. That's all you're resting upon. With that, there is a love for the saints, a mutual, healthy kind of interdependence. Whereby we do bear one another's burdens, we do help, we do listen, we do care, we do pray for one another, confessing our sins, praying for one another. All those things go on. But The faith the resting upon ultimately can only be upon Jesus Anything else will ultimately lead to a shallow relationship with Jesus in which he becomes distant and eventually criticism of my brothers and sisters because they have failed to meet my needs. We can suck each other dry, brothers and sisters, but we will not ever do what Jesus can do for us. We need to rest our weight upon him and him alone. Paul says, I pray that you will know him better. That's the first point. The second point is that resting on Christ means resting in his promises The second P Resting in his promises. Verse 18. He goes on to say, I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. In order that you may know the hope to which He's called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints, the riches of the bank of heaven to be drawn upon by the checks of faith Whereby you and I see all that God has provided, the riches of his inheritance for the saints. It can also be translated for the saints as well as in the saints. But it has that idea of it's toward us, it's for us. It is what he has given to us. A an excellent example of this is found in John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. How many have ever read Pilgrim's Progress? Here I you know, a number of you the rest of you got a real treat. Uh used to be, if I don't know if it still is, the best selling book outside the Bible, but uh tremendous allegory of the Christian life that's uh in there about what it means to walk with Christ, a lot of wisdom, very helpful things. In one of the chapter, one of the sections there, Christian and hopeful find themselves in doubting castle as a prisoners, prisoners of giant despair. This goes on for a number of pages, but fortunately, John Scott, in his very helpful book, Focus on Christ, sums up that section. He does it so well, I'd like to read to you from that section about what it means to rest on Christ's promises. Christian and Hopeful found themselves in the grounds of Dowding Castle, whose owner was Giant Despair. He found them asleep and so put them in his castle, in a very dark dungeon, nasty and stinking to the spirits of these two men. Here then, they lay from Wednesday morning till Saturday night without one bit of bread or drop of drink or light or any to ask how they did. The first morning, at his wife's instigation, giants took a grievous crab tree cudgel, a club, and fell upon them and beat them fearfully. The next day his wife advised him to counsel them to make away with themselves, which he did, either with knife or halter, rope, or poison. since they were never likely to escape. On the third day he took them into the castle yard, and showed them the gruesome bones and skulls of victims that he had killed. These, said he, were pilgrims as you are once. And they trespassed on my grounds as you have done. And when I saw fit I tore them into pieces. And so within ten days I will do to you get you to your den again And all that day they lay there in lamentable cases before. And then about midnight they began to pray. They continued in prayer till almost break of day. A little before dawn came the answer to their prayers. Christian broke out in a passionate speech. What a fool I've been, he said, thus to lie here in the stinking dungeon while I may well walk in liberty. I have a key in my bosom called promise That will I'm persuaded to open any lock in Dowding Castle. And then said Hopeful, well that's good news, brother. Pluck it out and let's get going. And so he did, and the door flew open with ease, and then the outer door, and then the iron gate, enabling them to escape with speed Awakened by the creaking of the gate, giant despair rose to pursue them, but he felt his limbs to fail, for this fit fits took him again, so that he could by no means go after them That a beautiful picture of being in despair, some situation in your life, and you're thinking, Lord, where's the answer? Where's the way out? Resting in Jesus means at such a time you say, Lord, where is there some promise in your word that pertains to this need? And to use that motivation, that that anxiety, that despair to get into a concordance or ask some Christian or use a knave's topical Bible or something to find the promises of God. That bear on your situation. I guarantee you there is a promise that's appropriate to that. Resting on Christ means to rest on his promise, the riches of his inheritance, which is for you. And to come to Him and say, Lord, I claim this promise. I'm hanging on to this promise, Lord. I'm not going to let you go until I sense that you're true to this promise I'm resting all my weight upon you. And finally, resting in Christ. Resting our weight on Him. means to rest it on his power. Resting on his power. After Paul says in verse 15, I heard about your faith in on the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints. And he prays that we'll know him, and then we'll know the promises of his inheritance for us. He then goes on in verse 19 to say that we would also know his incomparably great power for us who believe. And that power is the power by which, first of all, he's redeemed us, you see in verse 7. We have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace that He lavished on us with wisdom and understanding. It's that power by which He raises Jesus from the dead, and he says there in verses 19 and 20, that same power of the resurrection is available to you and to me by faith. And so here we are complaining about our lives as Christians, miserable, half-committed Christians. And so often what we're really doing is we'd rather complain in remorse. Than to come to honest repentance by which we hate that sin and say, Lord Jesus, I cannot overcome this. Lord, I ask you now, by the power of your Spirit, Lord, come and deliver me. Do what I cannot do. And to cast all your weight upon him, not your own resources, your own efforts, your own determination. Lord, I simply cannot do it. Then to know his power, the power of his rule in your life. The power of his rule which is destroyed. Described there, you see in verses 21 to 23, that power which is far above all rule and authority, any power that can be named You remember Jesus described that building our lives upon his rule in Matthew chapter 7 Where he talked about the two guys, you remember, one built his house on the rock, the other built it on the sand. That was the foundation. The houses, as all as far as we know, were identical. They were both uh Dutch colonials or something, you know, and they both looked just the same until the storm came. And when the storm came, that revealed the foundation Jesus describes, he who builds his house on the rock is like the one who hears my words and puts them into practice. He who is building his house on the sand is he who hears my words and does not put them into practice. It's a matter of building our lives on his words, on what he says, his commands, his rule. And for so many of us, we have sought to build our lives with a mixture. Part of his rule, part of what makes sense to me, what I think I can do. And we wonder why there is a weak foundation when the storms and the crisis comes. I think of a person by the name of Daniel Wallace Daniel Wallace was an exceedingly zealous Christian. When he became a Christian, for a long time this guy would read the New Testament through once a week, cover to cover. Imagine? I don't know how much you read the Old Testament, but he read the New Testament every week. But over the years, he said he found a tendency to intellectualize his faith In fact, he said, if he was downright honest about it, he had made the Bible the fourth member of the Trinity. You know what it means? You know, you study the Bible, you know the Bible, you memorize the Bible When you read the Bible, you find less comfort in the Bible and more of a sense of it just shows me what I'm not doing. And so, you know, the Bible becomes either ammunition for my position Or it convicts me to show me what I'm not doing the way I ought to be doing it. But little sense of being able, of the Bible being a means to put me in touch with Jesus. Directly. He said it was as if the Holy Spirit had died in the first century with the supernatural sign gifts of the age. The Holy Spirit was irrelevant to his daily living. He'd lost his passion for worship. And then he found out his eight-year-old son. Was diagnosed with renal cell carcinoma, a deadly cancer of the kidney. Very, very rare. Only 167 cases have ever been reported in the entire world. His son should have died, but through two very unusual circumstances. His son was preserved in the initial stages of this and began to go through treatment. Wallace says the next six months were like an emotional wasteland. He said, I went through that time and I desperately needed Jesus. But I had lost my ability to relate to him. I had lost any sense of intimacy with him. I didn't know how to make contact with him. Do you relate? Can you relate to that? You know, the the stress, the the sense of Lord, I need you, but how do I get in touch with you again? There there's somehow there's been so many things between you and me now. These barriers I've erected in my Christian life that now that all the props have been stripped away and I desperately need you, I don't know how to make contact. In that time, Wallace says, God gradually drew me back by stripping away all those things. There were no coping mechanisms he said that would work. To draw him back, for God to draw him back to Himself. And he rediscovered in that, he said, an experience he wouldn't trade anything for. His son's still hanging in the balance when he'd written this And he said, now once again, I understand the presence of Jesus, what it means to rest all my weight on Jesus. He said in going through that, my faith had moved from I trust in to I believe that. And God had to bring him back through the tragedy to I trust in Jesus again. You wonder how to do that? Asking in your own life, how can I come to that kind of intimacy? Where even in such a circumstance a man could write, Jesus is sufficient for me. Know what I would do if I were you? I'd do the same thing that I've had to do for myself I ask myself, what are the coping mechanisms that I use to substitute for Jesus? You see, this image that Paul gives to us is of placing our weight upon Jesus. And you and I have our feet firmly planted in two different positions. We got one foot on Jesus. Resting on him. But there's this other foot that goes to certain coping mechanisms, and we're afraid to take that foot off and place it on Jesus. What is it for you? Is it eating? Is it shopping Is it some hobby that's a diversion? Is it getting busier? Is it getting busier in your work? Is it driving yourself harder to distract? Every one of us, and I've had to examine in my own life, particularly since the death of Matt Sharp a couple weeks ago. Lord, what are the coping mechanisms? And I find they're always shifting in my life. You know, they don't remain just all the same, certain root ones But there's always this shifting to when I'm under stress, what do I go for as a compensation, as a coping mechanism? You want to come to an intimacy with Jesus? Ask yourself, what is it that I'm placing my weight on besides Jesus? Confess that to the Lord. And ask him, Lord, strip that away. Strip that away from my life now. May I repent of that before you have to take it away from me. In order to show me Jesus stands before you here, inviting you to come and to place all your weight upon Him. Upon his promises and upon his power. Let's pray. Ah Lord our God. Every one of us here have our coping mechanisms. Every one of us here have those things that we turn to when we're under stress. When we feel like life has dealt us an unfair, cruel blow, we resist placing our weight on you. Partly because we don't know how to. We've gotten so used to and addicted to the coping mechanisms that they give us a certain degree of comfort. And we're reluctant to give them up. And partly, Lord, because we don't trust you. We're not really sure that you'll come through for us. Show us yourself now, Lord Jesus. Show us how sufficient you are in your person, in all your perfections, in your promises for us That you will never leave us or forsake us, that you have redeemed us, that you've shed your blood for our sin, that you've raised us up with you and seated us with you in the heavenlies. And for all of your power available to us, the power of the resurrection itself, Lord, hear us as we bring to you our coping mechanisms and lay them at the altar of your feet. Thank you, Lord Jesus, that you are sufficient. Meet us, each one of us in our need. In Jesus' name. Amen.