Another message when being seated with Christ in the heavenlies. Why in the world am I spending so much time, so many messages? When this matter of what it means to sit with Christ in the heavenlies, as Ephesians chapter two, verse six says. I hope I you know I don't need to read it. We all know it, right? And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. Why is it that I'm spending so much time on that? Because I believe that it is the foundation of the Christian life, and that unless the foundation Is laid very carefully, then the whole structure is going to be shaky and weak. When they built this ministry center a couple years ago I remember being impressed with how much time they took to lay the foundation for. In fact, they took a couple of weeks just to get the soil right. To make sure that everything was going to be exactly squared, everything was going to be able to have the right consistency underneath, that there wasn't anything, no dry wells or anything like that they hadn't discovered. And they did discover them. But all kinds of things that they had to do to make sure that the foundation was going to be right. Probably half the time of the construction was spent on the foundation And then everybody was amazed, once that was laid, how quick the thing went up. Because the foundation is all important. If the foundation isn't correct, everything build on it It's going to be shaky and unstable. And I believe that is the way with many of us as Christians, because we don't have the foundation of our Christian life, of our discipleship, really clear in our minds. Fixed in Scripture, that everything else that we do is either law-oriented or it's works-oriented, or it's in our own flesh, or strength, or misconstrued, or distorted in some way. And nothing else quite works out. We're gonna be s we'll be spending a number of months talking about what it means to walk in Christ and what God is calling us as a congregation. To be doing some exciting things in the months and years ahead in our discipleship and walk with Christ. But it must be fixed on the foundation. And so I thought because uh some of you might just be wondering, and I don't know here, one more message, why are we doing this that uh it's important that we see How important it is to have our foundations laid properly. We're so wrapped up in the moment, aren't we? You know, we like to think we understand what it means to be a Christian. But if you're like me, it's what's happening in the moment that so often is what is really compelling my frame of mind. How the traffic is going Some sort of run-in you might have had with somebody at the office, a thoughtless, sharp remark, wondering the implication of it, what did they mean by that Maybe an unkind word from your spouse in the m morning before you left, some unreasonable demand from your parents or from your kids. Something that just kind of obliterates the big picture And we can become consumed with what's going on right now? Something I'm anxious about, stewing about, worrying about. And what I'm trying to say this morning is to once again help us to stand back and to get the big picture of who we are and how we stand in Christ. So easy to lose perspective. And every once in a while I think we need to be reminded to be able to to have a kind of a well I guess I I call it a a spiritual scargo tower. Now for those of you who don't know what that means, let me explain it to you. uh when our family, as you know, those who have been around for a while, we go to Cape Cod every summer as much as we can and and when we're there, you know, after we have been driving around in the dunes and the pines and all that for a while Uh there's a need occasionally to get up to Scargo Tower. Scargo Tower is built on Scargo Hill by Scargo Lake in Brewster. You look at the Cape, you know, all right, there's Spargo Tower right there. Now the thing about Spargo Tower is it's about on a hill of maybe sixty or seventy feet, and the tower itself is another sixty or seventy feet And the Cape's fairly flat, and so if you get up there, you can see all of Cape Cod Bay. You can see all the way to Provincetown, you can see all the way to the mainland, you can see out to the sea. And it's just a beautiful experience to be able to get the light of everything. You know, you just see everything laid out before you, and it's beautiful. Now I'm saying that I believe that Ephesians 1 to 3 is kind of like Scargo Hill. You get to Ephesians chapter 2 verses 1 to 7, that's Scargo Tower. Spiritually. It lifts us above the scrub pines, it lifts us above the experiences, the worries, the anxieties of every day, and it lays out before us this is what life is about. Look at it from God's perspective. And so after you've read from chapter 2, verses 1 to 3 about how we were dead in sin and we were walking according to our own ways and flesh, and after Satan under his dominion and then chapter verse 4 but because of his great love by which he loved us God who is rich in mercy has made us alive with Christ he's raised us up with Christ And seated us in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. Now we're going up Scargo Tower and we get right there, next to the top level. And what I'm suggesting Is the verse 7 of Ephesians 2 is the top platform of Scargo Tower spiritually? Because Ephesians chapter 2, after God says in verse 6, notice verse 6 and verse 7 are one sentence. No break. That God has raised us up with Christ and seated us in the heavenly realms. In Christ Jesus, in order that, in verse 7, in the coming ages, He might make known, He might show, He might display the incomparable riches of His grace. to us in Christ Jesus. That look that puts life in perspective It's out of that perspective that our walk, our daily walk in Christ flows. It's out of that perspective that our resistance to sin flows. It's out of that perspective that our disciplines of discipleship, of obedience flow. It's out of that perspective that all of our living and rejoicing and obedience and standing for Jesus Christ flow. And so we need to start, just as we start the Christian life, I believe we need to start every day. Standing on the platform Of the spiritual scargo tower, Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 to 7, to remind ourselves of those truths, but particularly the truth of verse 6 and 7. I am seated with Christ. In the heavenly realms, in order that he might show in me the incomparable riches of his grace displayed in his infinite kindness to me. In Christ Jesus. So, this morning we're going to look at verse 7. As I look at verse 7 with you to kind of finish this This study, this kind of basic on the foundations, notice again that the beginning of verse 7 is in order that. It's a purpose statement And so I've titled this, What's the Purpose of It All? Because I believe that's what verse 7 deals with. Verse 7 is the purpose of all that God has spoken of in verses 1 to 6. Why is it that God, out of His love and mercy, has made you and me alive in Christ and seated us in the heavenly realms? It's important to know the why. Did you ever wonder why God allowed sin and then saved you? Here we stop and just say, well, you know, why did he let this whole thing happen? Why did he do this? What's the purpose of it all? I believe that Ephesians 2. 7 is as clear a statement as you get anywhere in Scripture. About why God allowed sin and why God saved you and me. There's two sides to it. There's the manward side and the Godward side. The focus of Scripture is always the Godward side, so that's first. The Godward side of his purpose, and then our side to it. Notice first of all then the Godward side to this answer. Why is it? That God saved you and saved me. The Godward side is the priority of our salvation, which is his eternal glory. It's the first two blanks. His eternal glory. Again, look at verse 7. He's raised us up in the heavenlies, Christ Jesus, in order that in the coming ages he might show. The word show there is you could say display. He might display, he would put on display. And so you see what Paul is saying here in verse 7 is that you and I are the display trophies of his grace. The purpose of it all is that God might put us on display as the trophies of his grace. This points our focus on him rather than how the traffic's going or who made the last comment To ruffle us or to disturb us. It gets me outside of myself, you see. It gets me to look at what life is from God's perspective This is a very prominent theme in Ephesians 1-3. This whole idea that the ultimate purpose of salvation is for the praise of his glory. Did you ever think about that? The purpose isn't simply to save you from hell. That's important. Very important for you and for me. But that's not the ultimate purpose. The ultimate purpose is not for our benefit, because that's a very small consequence in comparison to the glory of the eternal God. The ultimate purpose, in terms of the priority of the whole thing, is for the display of his eternal glory. You see this again and again, as I say in Ephesians and chapter one, verse three, he begins the whole thing by saying Blessed, praise be to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. We tend to look at wow, that's great, He's blessed me with every spiritual blessing. But he begins by saying, Praise be to God for that. And then in verse 4, He's chosen us in Him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in His sight In love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will. For what purpose? Verse six to the praise of his glorious grace. That's the purpose. For the praise of his glorious grace. You look down in verse eleven. In him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will. With that purpose. In order that, there it is again, purpose, in order that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be for what? For our own comfort, for our own satisfaction. That we might be for the praise of his glory. Where you look at verse thirteen Uh or excuse me. Then uh verse fourteen. Well, or just going on, verse thirteen. Talks about how we were um having believed, we were marked in him Christ, with a seal, the promise of the Holy Spirit. Verse 14. Who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession? What for? To the praise of his glory. Verse 19 speaks of having raised Christ from the dead in order to display his power Then a few verses later, he has raised you and me with Christ, seated us in the heavenly realms for what purpose? To display his grace. So he raised Christ to display his power. He raised you with Christ to display his grace. Then he goes on in chapter 2, verse 10. For we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. That phrase we are as workmanship could also be translated, we are his masterpieces When God looks at all the powers and all the authorities of the universe, and he says, Do you want to see the display of the masterpiece of all that I've done? Don't look at the galaxies. Don't look at all the heavens. Don't look at the amazing things I have done in creating life and the various forms of life and how it reproduces. Look at sinners saved by grace. They're my masterpiece. For we are his masterpieces created in Christ Jesus. And so he goes on in chapter 3, verse 10, to say, when he comes before all the heavenly hosts. His intent was that now through the church, you and me, redeemed sinners, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and the authorities. In the heavenly realms according to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. What an amazing statement. God says, You want to see the display of my wisdom? Look at sinners saved by grace. That's the display of my wisdom. And so you and me, having received the grace of God in Jesus Christ to forgive us and to transform us. The ultimate purpose of that, Ephesians says again and again and again, is for the praise of his glory, the praise of his glorious grace. You see just a glimpse of the fulfillment of that in Revelation chapter 7. If you have your Bible, you might want to turn for just a moment. Revelation chapter 7. You have that grand scene. After heavens and after the earth has passed. You have this scene before the throne of God. In verse 9 and 10, there's a picture of you and me Assembled with all the nations who have been brought to Christ through missions, through the proclamation of the gospel, through the ages, every tribe and tongue. And what do you see? Verse 9, after this I looked, and before me there was a great multitude. That no one could count from every nation, tribe, people, and language standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. They were wearing white robes. And they were holding palm branches in their hands. And they cried out in a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. That's us. That's what we are doing around the throne. And then the camera shifts a bit. And it looks now beyond us at all the angels. And so verses 11 and 12 speak of the angels. And all the angels were standing around the throne, and around the elders and the four living creatures. And they fell down on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying, Amen. Praise and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor and power and strength be to our God forever and ever. Very curious thing here. Verse 13, John says, I'm standing there, and one of the elders comes over to me and he says, Hey, what's going on here? One of the elders asked me, he said, hey, these in White Roads, who are they? Where'd they come from? How'd they get here? What are they doing? This is a scene of worship and beauty and perfection. What are those guys doing here? John says, you know. You know, these are those who have come out of the great tribulation. They've washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore, they are before the throne of God to serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will spread his tent over them. Never again will they hunger. Never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat upon them, nor any scorching heat, for the lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd. And he will lead them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. What is that? But the fulfillment of Ephesians 2 7. That's a glimpse of what Paul's talking about when he says, in order that In the coming ages, he might demonstrate, display the incomparable riches of his grace expressed in his infinite kindness to you and to me. In Christ Jesus. And so you see, what I'm saying is you and I need to get out outside of ourselves, outside of the traffic jam, outside of the petty conflicts. The worries of day to day. And remind ourselves every morning when we get out of bed. That's what's coming. I may not know what the chapters are going to be in the book between now and when the Lord Jesus comes, but I know what the final chapter is. The final chapter is that gathering around the throne, when he spreads his tent over me, and I never hunger and I never thirst, and all is to the praise of the glory of his grace. Get outside yourself, brother and sister, and see reality. Get beyond your own petty concerns and my concerns to see the big picture. And that brings me to the second point: that his eternal glory, that he describes here in verse 7, is displayed through the church in a way that nothing else does. Absolutely nothing else. Again, you notice what he says in verse 7: in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus. This is how it's going to be displayed through you and through me. Now I need to say this very carefully. And hear what I'm saying very carefully. I believe the scripture is teaching here in a very focused way what it teaches maybe a little less clearly in other places. That you and I, without sin and without the salvation that God accomplished in Christ, Would have never known the deepest heart of God. Sin and salvation Were necessary to reveal the deepest heart of God. That no way impugns God to say that He's responsible for sin. But what I'm saying is, in a way that you and I cannot grasp with our finite minds, sin and God's salvation revealed his deepest heart In a way that without sin and salvation, we would have never known the deepest recesses of the heart of God. There's a line from an old hymn that goes, In Christ, the tribes of Adam boast more blessings than their father lost. In Christ the tribes of Adam boast more blessings than their father lost. Now think about that for a minute. What is it that Adam knew of the love of God? How much does Adam know about the love of God? Quite a bit, didn't he? Lived in a perfect creation, a perfect edenic garden And you know, we we see spring in Maryland, you know, we I I say to my kids through the years, I've said, you know, uh, Maryland summers are the price you pay for Maryland Springs. And it's just beautiful, the lilacs, the azaleas, all the things the dogwoods. And that's that's just a faintest glimpse of what Eden, can you imagine what it would have been like Can you imagine having unbroken, unceasing delight in the presence of the Creator and unceasing access to the one who made everything to say, well, how does this work? I I see this many stars, but how many are there really? Well, let me tell you, you know, you're not even seeing one percent of them. Really? What about this? What about that? And just no shame, no guilt, unceasing. Sense of the presence of the Creator in delight and joy. But of course, we know that Adam didn't believe Is God. And he rebelled in disobedience. And in that disobedience, he put himself and you and me in him, in the position of chapter 2, verse 1, dead in transgressions and sins. In which we used to live when we followed the ways of this world, the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. Adam was separated from God, and all of us in him lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath. Then verse four, the butt Now that but not only divides what we were from what we have now in Christ, but that but introduces to you and to me four attributes of God That are only known because of sin and God's grace to us in that sin. Four attributes. His love, his mercy, his grace, and his kindness. Look what he says. But because of his great love For us, you see, a love for sinners. God who is rich in mercy, this love now is not simply a love in something that is lovable. But it's a love that's rich in mercy because we don't deserve it, made us alive in Christ, even when we were dead in our transgressions. It's by grace you see that you've been saved. And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus, in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace, there it is again, expressed in his kindness. To us in Christ Jesus. Do you ever wish you were an angel? I mean, you know, just one of those days when you're laying on the grass looking up at the clouds. I mean really, do you ever think about the advantages that angels have? And they don't get old. There's no death, no sickness, they don't have to have their teeth pulled or any, you know, nothing like that They have immediate access to God's presence, all the power, the things they're able to see, to know about God. I mean, wouldn't that be great? But you know an angel can never know the heart of God, like you and I know the heart of God. Because righteous angels have never sinned. And righteous angels can never know grace. They don't know merciful love. Now, let me give you one of those dim, lame kind of illustrations to try to get a handle on this, because I've been thinking about this. Think about it in terms of marriage. Long, long, long time ago I was dating my wife. Right? I know you weren't even alive when I started dating my wife. And when we were dating, she gradually fell in love with me. And I was thrilled at that. But if you had asked me at that time Is Kathy merciful to love you? I'd say that's kind of a curious way of looking at it. Actually I kind of look at it that she is one girl who has somehow perceived those richer, more admirable qualities in me that most other people have missed. But I hadn't necessarily thought of it in terms of mercy. Now after nearly twenty-nine years of marriage, now you know who all of you that were not born before we were married. If you ask me what is one of the most meaningful things about her love for you, I would say when it is expressed in her grace and her mercy. I've disappointed her so many times. So many times through those years, I have been thoughtless to her. I've been self-centered in our relationship. And she continues to love me. It's her mercy, it's the grace of her love that I would have never known Except by the realization of how I don't deserve it, that has made her love for me so precious. And now you think of what it means for God to love you. What it means for His love to be expressed to you in mercy and in grace. And you begin to get a handle on verse 7 that the purpose of it is that you and I would know in a way that we could have never known any other way The incomparable riches of his grace throughout eternity displayed in a love that was full of mercy. Because you and I never deserved that love and did everything to provoke his wrath. There's also a manward side to this. The other side is what I call the personal side. The side of salvation that displays his infinite kindness, the two blanks on the top and the back. He seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace. Expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus. While the priority purpose is the display of his glory There's also that personal side that you and I will enjoy forever. The discovery of his infinite kindness. You can sum up verse 7 from one angle by asking simply the question: How long will heaven be? Ever think you'd be getting bored in heaven? I mean, let's face it. There's a times you think that, right? I mean, come on. How much can you do and not run out of things to do? You know, and the idea of a an eternal himsing is probably less than something that your heart has beat faster for in some moments of contemplation. How long will heaven go on anyway? And the answer is simply this. Just long enough. To discover the fullness of the length and the breadth and the height and the depth of the love of Christ. And to experience it in your fullness. See, that's exactly what Paul prayed in chapter 3. When he prayed in verse 18, verse 17, he says, I pray, verse 18, that you may have power together with all the saints to grasp. How wide and how long and how high and how deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure. Of all the fullness of God. How long will heaven be? Just long enough to fulfill the answer to that prayer And that, my friend, will be all the coming ages. Remember that pioneer we talked about some months ago? on the eastern shore, who had been given a land grant to all of North America, and then told, Go explore it, my son, discover it. And what it would mean to begin to explore all the way up to Canada and down to Central America to be able to move out to the Pacific And take all of this has been given to me. And then to realize that that's far too limiting. For you could do that in some finite time. But rather, God has given to us in verse 7 to explore the universe of his love. You think of exploring the universe if you were to travel at the speed of light just to discover our own galaxy. It would take you a hundred thousand years at the speed of light to go from one end to the other. And our solar system is near the edge of that galaxy. It would take you 30,000 years at the speed of light just to get to the center. Do you know that in all the ages that men and women looked up into the heavens and saw the stars They wondered how many more there were. How much more is there to discover? You can see maybe 10,000 on the clearest night with no nothing in the air to filter it out It wasn't until 1924 that it was proven that there are other galaxies outside our own. Just in the last 72 years have people realized, hey, this is just our neighborhood. In fact, of the billions of stars in our galaxy, each one of those stars could represent another galaxy. And so when you think of the love of Christ and what God is saying in verse 7, that in the ages to come, that you and I would discover the incomparable riches of his grace expressed in his kindness. After maybe a thousand or two years, you've explored one galaxy of that love. But there's infinite more galaxies of his love to explore. And you and I will never come to the end of knowing the depth of his riches and his kindness in new discoveries of that to us in Christ. But that's not just for heaven. Paul says in chapter 1, I pray the eyes of your heart will be enlightened to know the riches of his glorious inheritance in you now. Chapter 3, verse 18 and 19 is for you to begin to experience now. Are you afraid to believe that? Well, you like that couple? It was in the news many, many years ago. I read of an article, I've read about the article. was found dead in a Los Angeles apartment, died of severe malnutrition, and in their closet they found forty thousand dollars stashed away in bags. Worth perhaps $100,000 today. Or you may be like Hedy Green. Ever hear of Hetty Green? She was known as America's number one miser. Hetty Green died in 1916 and left an estate valued at today's value of nearly $1 billion. Hetty Green ate her oatmeal cold because she didn't want to spend the money to heat the water to warm it. Hetty Green's son had a leg injury. Because she refused to take him to a doctor because she insisted on getting him to a free clinic. It took her so long to find the free clinic. But they finally had to amputate his leg because the infection was so advanced. Hetty Green drank skim milk, not because she thought it was healthier, simply because it was cheaper. In fact, she died arguing about the merits of cheaper milk. You and I have the riches of Christ. And how much do we lay hold of that by faith, to live in those riches rather than in poverty? Let's pray. Lord our God, we've come to you now that we would stand in awe The purpose that you have had for us in our salvation, the purpose for which you have made us and redeemed us. And Lord, we want to begin to lay hold of that purpose, to get outside of ourselves. We pray that you would enable us to do that. We would see that we are for the praise of your glory. And that as we are for the praise of your glory, that glory is expressed in infinite kindness to us in the riches that are in Christ. Forgive us for living in spiritual poverty. As spiritual orphans, we might lay hold of your promises And believe your care for us in every situation of our lives. We pray, Lord, for the Bilkies. And for the time of grief they're going through now in the wake of Willie's death, we pray that you would comfort them, particularly Lisa. With the truth of gospel promises. Lord, we pray for our vacation Bible school this summer that We would live by faith as a congregation, believing that you are able to raise up staff as we step out on faith for two Bible Schools, one in the day and one in the evening. We pray, Lord, that you'd raise up the staff for that. That you would attract unchurched kids, not just kids from other churches in our own church. Give us a boldness and a compassion in inviting our neighbors to come to that. We pray that the power of the gospel would be displayed in the lives of those kids. As they hear of Jesus and they come to believe him. Lord, we pray for Mike Dixon in the Philippines. You're doing amazing things in the Philippines, thousands of churches being planted there every year. Tremendous revival going on there. We pray for Mike as he's there to seek to help to establish a Christian radio station. We pray for these last days of his time there, Lord, that you would accomplish the goals, cause that station to be established, to be able to minister the gospel more effectively to those people. We pray for the Padilla's in Spain this morning, that they would know the riches of your grace, as Tito preaches and teaches. As they hold Bible studies in their home, Lord, we pray that they would have that sense of your power, that your spirit would embolden them That you would lead them about the future. That you would give Kim a safe pregnancy and delivery. Lord, we pray for our own summer projects, for the Slovenia project, for the kids who are coming here that they might hear the gospel. That some of those kids might come to faith in Christ, you would provide all that's needed, the money, the resources for that. And for the kids, for the adults going to Jamaica. Lord, provide that team coming together and all the things that are needed for that, both physically, materially, and spiritually. Lord, you know this Thursday is our National Day of Prayer, we pray that you would assemble your people, both in D. C. and around the country, to pray with humility. For you to do a new work in our nation to turn us from our wickedness, our arrogance, to humble ourselves before Christ, who alone is able to deliver us. From the racial strife, economic problems, the splits, the family breakdowns, and all the other things, Lord, that we suffer from. Deliver us. Lord, we thank you that you hear us. We thank you that you display the riches of your grace in listening to us. In Jesus Name. Amen