Then later he passed written and find unbrokenly rely on a broken connecting. He asked me, What do you think? I said, old horror gold landscape. With a pole with a car, seven landscape. Also there are two islands to one on the right, and the other on the left. My asked later he talked with me. What are you, my lady? Do you not know the people? No, no, no. So he said to you, this is the word of the Lord for the revenue. Not by might, not by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord, our mighty. What are you, Almighty Marty? For the rubber body will become level ground. Then you will bring out the topic and the south and God bless it. God bless it When the word of the Lord came to me, the hands of the rebel that have laid the foundation of this temple, his hands will also be seated. And then you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me pleasure. He despises the day of small things. Then we rejoice when we see the sunlight in the hand of the Reddit. These seven of the eyes of the Lord, emblaze throughout the earth. What are these philosophy and away from the mass of the night? Again I ask, what are these philosophy out if the pride of people's taste could pour off more and more? He replied, Do you not know that these are you not there? So he said, These are the trees who are anointed to follow the world, all the way. Alright, the reading of God's word. And that has considered together first six on this wonderful chapter. So he said to me the law, the word of the Lord, because the word of the Lord is available not by might nor by parents, but by my fear. Thank the Lord Almighty. Barbie is a very familiar body, many of us. But what's it actually say? It's often used to motivate us to say that we've got its property and it's got. How would it attempt to do this? Even I have often heard the same thing with believers. And I believe the big hope is telling Learning that we need to see total things which are to do for things that make hair a priority. Next time there will be the first day of prayer, where I saw the instance in 1983. What priority is that to use? Can you display that with something easily displacable in this case? Would you look at that with a pair of That will be determined by how much we believe Zachariah was just not by life, nor by power, but by my spirit. Continuoid I that will be determined by how much you see. Exactly. There are three things that I want us to see from this verse this morning. We'll be to fill in this chapter again next week. But particularly this morning, I want us to see three things. We need to see first of all as far. Second is really to see how we can when third is really to see how you First of all, we need to see our path all along in this pulpit and art now. We go through this pulpit. We need to see our Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord Almighty. But I'm convinced that many Christians do not fail because they don't really see the task of Christ. We go visions for God's purpose in our life. Rather we have a kind of a maintenance mentality. I think we live from day to day uh living the best I can with a good husband, a good wife, trying to raise the kids, being a responsible single person, trying to have a meaningful life Doing a little bit of ministry as it comes along, we're keeping out of trouble. And as a person, that's the kind of approach I have to a day by day, week by week orientation Because there's a vision about what God's great purpose between and His practice. And because we lack a sense of God's reason, we lack a sense of what the church is. The value zero too. That's a very different situation from drop right here. What is the situation here? Notice the excuse. This is the word of the Lord to derubbable. And here the word is the rubbable. in Babylon back to Jerusalem after those seven years of embrace. And these were people who came back to Jerusalem and family. And so these people saw that the temple, which was the very circular present, was destroyed and in ruin. And they had a vision to rebuild that temple Because God's honor is taken us. And we want to rebuild this temple for his glory. And so these were people with a vision to build the temple for the glory of their God. Because of this, they first of all built the altar and then uh rather easily and quickly they laid the foundation for the temple. And after they laid that foundation, they celebrated and had they stopped read about that in every tablet groups and stopped the joy of two people with God because it's wasn't quite like Solomon's temple, but basically there was a lot of regression. And then the problems began to set up. Persecution, battles, degrade. In fact, it got so bad that after the foundation The building project was abandoned for a number of years. Until God sent around, he enclosed the people and then it was resumed again in 570 BC and And if you feel that time of the law of a foundation and the building of the templates, do we have squatters? No doubt is the covered very basic. The word of the Lord came to me, the hand is one of the hard layers of the foundation of this temple, whose hands were offered to deal with. So it's at that time if you need a later three test. And the greatest goes here. Because the people saw the test. They thought, now that we've made the foundation, the real task is the book. Put them up to people, we can divide. That's the little thing. My eyes. Just a crazy level is really friends. How how concerned are you about evangelism? Probably not a great deal. Unless somebody talks about evangelism and then you feel majority of them. But you probably don't think about evangelism, a great deal if you've never put another person to keep us But let's suppose that we're in eighteen eighty one you would like two people to be depressed. Then how do we feel? We feel more cited to the fairness than we were before. Because you see, before you know you're not thinking about that. Now you've got two people that Jesus came. And what do you think? Say back. Two people that come to Christ together. So we're also probably going to be going to come somewhere along the line. That's two people. That's two people. Look at all my friends and family that have all the hell because they don't know Jesus Christ. And as if we kill them, look at all the Columbia. And as if we see I just laid the foundations. Look at the church between it. Who is a cook to lead a fair way? If we were the coach, I wonder if it's very cool, have been nobody coming to place for our ministry last year. You probably wouldn't be uh thinking about it a whole lot. If there's a little yeah it up and forth, but it's also things that we need to take care of, please. But I know for a past and thinking about this this week I've reviewed and discovered there are at least eight people who have come to Jesus Christ and professionally through various numbers of youth during the calculation during the last year. Eight people. So how's that working? Yeah, it's this point where he wants to look at it, yeah, because he's got that that's what the foundation There's more than 70,000 in Columbia alone, and most of them had no interest in Jesus Christ. It's Jesus. And God called us to evangelize his area God given the glory to pass it. Speaking, the good ones of Jesus says without it there's no life. So we're tempted to be default because we see that we've just laid a foundations. And because of that we've begun to see the task of the game of the church of impact. Then that last is impending me of the word of impossible. Not their name. But I must feel the foundation and development of the condition. But before you see that word of enclosure, you need to feel something. The second thing is we need to feel our reason. We need to feel a reasonable. The problem is we is you and me we're such capable people I think. You know, there's just so many things that we are feeling to be able to do on our end. Why is it so easy to complete that working with our own accusations? I think this morning last year I had a game, you know, I went out and the cars and putting out there for a couple of days and having a little trouble running and so I went out and I prayed, Lord, I came to get that all ready saved. And I went out there and I turned it over about the third time it started up. And if I drove off, you know what my thought was? That was my drive and thought it started, yeah, too good. I know how to start a car, you think you're moving, yeah. All of a sudden it's something Even though it can look even. It's exactly the problem that Israel has, you know, when they went into the land. Remember when God and beauty enemies reminded them that this is what problem. In fact, he uses in Deuteronomy chapter is using not too old, not by night, nor by God. In Deuteronomy Chapter 8, God said, we don't have a problem going into the land. You've been living in the wilderness now and it's very obvious that I've had to take care of how to feed me of manner, I've had to even bring water from rocks. It is very clear who's been the one that's just slaves But then going into a a land that's flowing with milk and honey, you're going to have a lot of prosperity. And you're going to get rich, you're going to have microins, you're going to have all these things of abundance And dependency God says in Deuteronomy eight is for you to forget me and for you sell it. In fact he says in Deuteronomy chapter eight and verse seventeen, you may say to yourself, My power is Power and my strength of my hand have produced this last thing. Those two words the power and strength of the same two words, might and power can capture the It's going to be by my power, my life, and more power and more hair that I've been disappointing. Then he says, remember the word your God will give you the ability to produce that, and put confirms his covenant with destroying the forehead as it is to this day. So you feel really wealth and power, so you feel really electric. You're trying to do that. not by the might and the power of the individual. As it was in the secular world, during a living celebration the religious or the church world. In doing the green connection. It's the same issue. Both are spiritual issues. Not only your middle by your power and maybe play control of an angular But for you to see your life as a whole piece with which you depend on them and Christians for everything you can do with these party. We want to begin to segment your life and more and more we reduce the elements in which we depend on the landing to find there's nothing else. It's nothing on the main thing That's because I want you to see the whole thing with the spiritual effects. It's not a life. Where about hell? You are weak and helpless. You are happy anything. I can't say my mind feel to enable you to do this. Because you are feelings this morning. And why if you don't fail very much effectively You know, if it answers that like this, we never feel the reality of Jesus until we feel the necessity of Jesus. And if you don't feel his necessity in your life, you don't feel his arrival new, because the Lord kind of reaches us to terrify these Discuss our helpless. We didn't trial to remote difficulty in one eyes and we say, Why me? Why is this put me on my back? Have an old thing. I want to remind you of your help with my doubt the label, and I wanted to tell you that it's not by mind. about that, but it's by now too. And that was what he had done initially, remember. Israel had gone from Deuteronomy and they had forgotten the first lesson of God's sake if they need to remember And if they had gone in, they had thought it was their mind and their power that accounts to them. So God put them in everyone. He reduced them to slaves just because they were given evil. And all they slaves again in Babylon. And God brought them out of that slaves. Put them room for them. And not the whip on to them. And they're back now under the rebel in Joshua. And they're back there in the land again. It's very helpful. It's very hard by God helping us. We're ever going to release this company like this. This is more helpful. We're ready to give up. God professor. Because now you're able to turn to me. Lord is free with it by my speech that I'm going to have to This was that the United States had built one of its most magnificent buildings ever constructed. uh about the second most magnificent building that has ever been constructed in the world. And let's suppose that that's only been bombed into oblivion. And now we get to the mention of Uganda, the task of rebuilding. That's about what was before the relevance. He had nothing with which to rebuild the magnificent temple of science. The game because it's impossible. But with that later on it, we're new in. It's late by life. But it's my last will, because I called you to do this, revenue. You've got the wisdom of my purpose. I want this thing where you've got. The purpose of me is also. And because it's my purpose, I How does it learn off our weakness then give up to see God's feel? Unless the first one to see all our weaknesses Not by most or my power, but by my spirit, says the Lord I mean. The Lord has predicted the world as I better the evidence. And that word of God is emphasized, emphasized in a certain way in this word. And in Hebrew there are eight two Hebrew words in Zechariah 4, 6. You know the six of them. We say these words. Hopefully, we say to God's speech. Literally, in the Hebrew, it's sound something like this. So he answered and said to me, saying, This is the word of Jehovah, saying, Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, say the Lord God Almighty. six out of the eighteen days before he could try Jesus. So what is it to be saying possible that God got dislessed He himself is saying that he's going to do this. That would be raised by money. You know, when you think of what Simon had done, he had a hundred and fifty thousand weapons just to cut the four country. Beloved there had a handful for the whole country. God said it's not going to be by that telling them. Because it's not going to be by power. But the word is used to learn our thoughts referred to the Lord's power. The power of them do they place. That's what it's not going to be, that it's going to happen. But it's going to be by my truth. Well this is quite a problem. You feel that your spirit is going to be able to be as powerful and as lightning to do something that seems so entirely impossible, not to say that light is How are you describing that? Meet the Lord all might. So how do I tell you about life, too? And what he's done. Because the Spirit of God restores again and again in the Old Testament, dead power through creation and redemption. Because remember about the time I told you, the Psalm 336. For by the word of the Lord that the heavens moved, and they started hope by the breath of his life. Something we need to understand is in the Old Testament the word for spirit is also the word for breath Before a general game of Y personnel, you have a roadplay and left and spirit And whenever God talks about his breath, he's talking about his spirit, or a number of steps that make us find spirit about He comes to communicate things. And other times when he can go into his spirit, he's talking about the breath of his life. And sometimes when he can fit his time by the word of the Lord they're the heavens lead, they're throwing hope by his spirit. The breath of his By infinite eagerness of God, speaking by the power of the spirit. By God He's made the very rope. What is involved religion? Well if he couldn't to heaven for God is living by the breath of his mind Think about sun, and all this star is yet so powerful that a tin-headed material besides the heat of the sun would celebrate them a hundred miles away instantly. The sun is so large that you could take a million 300 stars in Oak and stick them inside the sun and have a little room left in. That sun is so great, so powerful. It's all average star. And a very dark light is totally black. If you look up into the heavens, you see stars from every day, all over, the horizon of God. Do you look able to see a fire note like that and job and hell up in the mountain? You know how many calls you're able to see in a note like that? You're probably looking at about six thousand calls, sixty-seven thousand calls in about I see the note that I'm looking at now. That now galaxy announced there are about 300 billion dollars. Not even what a billion is, but now we do the thing. If we were to take the back part of the food page and line it floor to floor, wall wall to wall and floor to floor with rolls of use that would be less than one game of range of yeast. There are as many stars in our galaxy as in a 2005 space room that contained loads of yeast. And as a high speed about That's what I've done here. Yep, there are some more within our one corner of the universe. If you were to take the simple 64 miles of space that surrounds the earth that are only ten stars In those 63 miles of state. The nearest left galaxy, our nearest neighbor, and Gramada. With a galaxy which is two million lightly. That is what I think that I know. And I feel it's not. Nothing like our fear and so in Psalm hundred and four that he created the animals by his fear. Psalm 104, verse 30, that when you find your spirit today, talking about the animals are created, and you renew the face of the earth. And we look at the animals and a window and the animals. And the animal fees. I put something that you see just animal every day, the glow square. You hardly ever see them lose their bags. They can take up at a wall, at a coffee. They can do all kinds of gymnastics. I've never seen a cracky grace there, you know? They all seem to be so perfectly at ease in Ballett, labeling the left seeds, and the cross limbs, and a lot of all kinds Yes, there are more than it could be. In fact, if one of them does happen to find us, it is we seem to fly over a hundred feet, laying on the ground and tripping for a completely walk away. Wait from the fire. There's little pretty thin in the fire. Uh burning up at the rate of five months, every three and a half minutes, and I'll do that for three months. Bearing approximately ten thousand minutes over a three-month student. And then dig them all up by their smell Style 10 minutes. Go forward, two digging down, two flow. So to a left and give it right up without even looking. And I'm going to be first things. Creative race periods, money, and finished, and results, and both, and all the creative humans So that's true without all the fear of food, we have to be feared again. He could spill it that up to the screen while it separated the red screen. And God says they're using that that uh human evil that he with a blast of his nostrils. And God says he brings the game of the way that came the Egyptians. God says that my spirits, I covered the truth For my peace will be revealed, for there be glorious into the land, become nine people. Because in the Hitchia 377, women are drinking of the barrel of the dry bones in the Huthia Hand. Then call those bones and gospel count for who would speak the word of Lord and they came together and then smoked came on, but they were still dead God says, I blow with my fear. We came with the fear upon those bodies and the day of life. Again, some minds Let God come up with you, say I will come upon you, my speech, with my spirit, and you will meet. I will do what is good. I will take a people who are dead in good. I will make them around to Jesus Christ. I will give you my spirit, the more fear you thing, the Lord forgive you. Tell me that. I said spirit. Not by learning about our power. But it's kind of curious and raised up the template to evidence. And that is a picture of the globe from the view. Because John tells us that when he became, he was the true temple of God. And as the true temple, and he became following God's presence in experience And Jesus came down and death. Because you and I have no longer to face with that. You and I were last and dead in our sin. But you are under God's person as well, because you've left the way it was. But I've ignored the way that God has seen us. God has said I kept my own He waves him up by his spirit. The Holy Spirit that raised up the temple in the rebellious day raised up the free temple will be flying The few temple of Jesus Christ with allowance to tell you and me that he totally got. And that if you thought Jesus Christ is God You have life and days. That is in these last days of the process of raising up another temple. The living temple that he tells us about in the new temple Then it reasons chapter two, we believe that we are there as his people, are his new country. We are built on the foundations of the pastors and the prophets, with Christ Jesus himself The key peniscons, and in him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the land. And then here you two are being grouped together to become a journal, we are badly. That's what we are doing. Very poor for the minds. And we can never be willing to underestimate the power of the air. So if the work of God at Columbia is going to go first, we would be crazy. This temple which he's raised enough you, the living temple of his people, you and me and the other thing with you It's not going to be by man. It's not going to be our school, it's not going to be by several plans of the settings. It's not going to be by our committees getting together and making a strategy that we accomplish in our own place. It won't be by many. That's true of you. If you can't be fine today, if you're not able to find out where to do it, you can do it. And if there's something in your life, some film that's overcome in you. Some life has given you in an area of your life And you've tried again and again and again and you've memorized verses and you've gone to conferences and you've read books on it, you've got everything you can think of. God has created the star of earth. The soul who created the island of life. The broad Egypt. You've got to work in your life to give you that victim over that strength. Just like the way we have to use a life before you can. Come before anything, make it and simply say, Lord, I shall be anything. I recognize the past. I've got the child of view to make my small thing. I recognize my future. Hopefully the season, but he's able to be in our case that the future I have chosen. But God has given to us to face tooth, even in these last weeks. He prayed for facilities for you. And God has not fallen as anything to God. We never know where to turn to the crisis of our overcrowded funding school scientists and very 200 degrees movies. John had a made a phone call to a place that had already said no. It's not our mind, but I feel like I who are in the habit of friends. You see the task about a cycle of each place? The path of the Great Commission applied to Colombia? The government to make the cycle within Colombia applied to him. That's a overwhelming for you, particularly if you begin to see that as laying a foundation around it. The word is not a lot of fixed for me. That's a money. We have no hope of public or anything except you. And we know how to do it as well.