It's just another example I think of the fact that uh we are a very active church. Um eight or more people involved in putting those together is a labor of love. Um number of people yesterday out at the uh fair Manning that table that we had, particularly those who were there to tell them about the brigade ministry, the pioneer girls ministry, those who were there simply to share the fact that there's living water in Jesus Christ. Various ministries that are represented. New small groups that are beginning this fall. Today, new Sunday school classes beginning, and all the teachers and the assistants that are involved in that. All kinds of things. Last night at Evangelism. Explosion dinner, uh where we uh kick off the new semester. We're having five teams now that we're praying for to go out and to share the gospel, uh committing themselves for sixteen weeks every week to go out and share the new music, Jesus Christ. There's an awful lot that's going on. And that's why I think it's so important that as we begin this, that the one thing that you and I need is to remember why we're doing all this. stuff to look to Jesus Christ and to be reminded firstly at the beginning of this cycle of the year of the love of Christ. To remember that we're not doing these things only For the people who asked us to do it, or for those who gave us the opportunity, we're doing it because we love the Lord Jesus. I would say that our church has an unusually high proportion of people who are very active. And very involved in ministry. Some of you are not so involved in ministry. But it may be because you're new in our midst or new city area. Others of you are not involved in ministry because you don't know the love of Christ. Because you haven't met that one whose love so transforms your motives that the one thing you want to do most of all in the world is to be able to show him how much you love him for all that he's done for you. Whatever you need this morning. Maybe you come saying, Yes, I really need to be reminded of the love of Jesus. I've grown cold in that. I've gotten involved in duties and rituals. I need to see that again. May God show it to you. If you're new, may God give you that thirst and that desire. If you don't know Jesus Christ personally, may He show you that that love is extended to you too. Let's pray for just a moment. before we look at this love. Lord Jesus Christ, I'm overwhelmed when I begin to think of your love. But I pray, Lord Jesus, that you will make yourself real to me As I seek to hold you up, and as you will make yourself real to these people, because you don't want them to leave thirsty and holy. You don't want them to leave with immediate understanding of the depth of your life. And Lord, I know that I am totally unable to be able to do justice in holding that up. And so we ask for your spirit to work, that we might see Christ. We pray in Jesus. Amen. In order to do what I've talked about, remember we're taking three weeks to look at 1 John chapter 4, verse 10 to 12. Last week we looked at the completion of God's love, and we saw that amazing statement. That just as John says in John 118, no one has seen God, but Jesus Christ made him known, coming in the flesh. So John makes a parallel statement in 1 John 4, 11, and then verse 12, no one has seen God. But when Jesus Christ comes in us and we love one another, He lives in us, and his love is completed in us, and the world sees Jesus Christ through us. Now this morning we want to focus particularly on verse ten and we want to look at the nature. of God's love. That we when we read that verse to you. Follow along in your Bibles as I read this. 1 John chapter 4, verse ten. This is love. Not that we love God. But that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. We want to look now then at the nature of God's love. The nature of agathe. Verse ten says, This is Agatha. In its very essence. This is it. It's not there's any one verse you want to look at in all the scripture. To find out what is the very essence of Adopte, of God's love, of Adapte love, this verse is the best one that I know of because it says in the verse, this is Adopte. This is And the verse breaks down very conveniently into two points, and so follow those along and your brothers and outline. So we see that the verse tells us, first of all, what a drop of love is not. And then secondly, what what agape love is. First of all then, what Agape love is not. This is love. Not that we love God. Very important to Before John tells us what love is, we understand what it is not. See, that's very brilliant to me to know that. Because I know the deficiency of my own heart. And if I are to look at my own heart, go look at the heart. I'd be very disillusioned. I feel under a great deal of pressure because I know what is in my heart falls so far short of what my ideal of what love ought to be. But John starts off bringing me up. He says, This is love, not your love. Not that you love God. It's a John telling me right from the beginning: if I want to understand love, I do not look at myself, I do not look at The love of man, I do not even look at the most exalted thing I can see on earth, the love of the person for Jesus Christ. I do not look at a person's love for God. I will never fully understand love by looking at other people's love. By looking at anything on this earth. This is love, not that we love God. You'll never understand it that way. Charles Burton, Prince of the Christians of the 19th century, son of his own conversion, I must confess that I would have never been saved if I could have helped him. As long as ever I could, I rebelled, I revolted, I struggled against God. He did this for five years, right old age of ten to fifteen. When he would have Me pray, I would not pray. Lord even had me to listen to the sound of the ministry, I would not. And when I heard and the tear went down my cheek, I wiped it away and I defied him to melt my soul. But long before I began Christ. He began with me. Herein's lost. Not that we loved or sought after God, but that He loved us. Not that we could ever enlist Initiate love toward God. Always love is his initiation toward us and our response to him. On the other hand, as you see the second point, it's not a disinterested love. some old trees, it's uh it's an old word that the Puritans used to use to refer to love which was not self seeking. A love which didn't seek what it could get, but simply what it could give. And my love is not disinterested. I'm always looking. for what I can get in my love. I think the closest thing we may get to in this life to understand disinterested love is with our children. We see that we have to pour out love to them. So many times we wonder if we're going to get anything back. and positive and they get discouraged and see them as ungrateful and meaty or whatever else. But then even then they look for so much, don't we? We're resentful if we don't see them come through the way we hope that they will. Or get us the Strokes and the feedback that helped to encourage us, and it was really worthwhile. Human is love, not anything I could see by looking at a person. At least sometimes we as people look at God's love as a well. And that's a mistake. We see it as very deep, we see it as full, we see it as something which uh is profound, as deep as a real, but it's something that we have to draw out by being good. It's all down there to be had, but I've got to reach down with my bucket by being good, and then I'll know something about his love. But the Bible says that God's love is rather like an artesian spring. An artesian spring, you see, one Once you hit it, it bursts forth as a fountain out of internal pressure of itself. You don't have to draw it out, it just flops forth of its early pressure. And that's a much more accurate picture of the love of God. Not that we reach down with our buckets and try to draw it out by our love or by our beauty good or anything else that we can do, but by the internal pressure of God's holy mother nature, He Loved us first. Now what is then the document? Let's look at this a little more closely. It's not that we love him, but that he loved us and sent his son. As an atoning sacrifice for our sins. This then is love in its fairest essence. You say I want to see what God's love is? The Bible says the only way you'll really see that. is to look at the cross. You see, the Bible never separates God's love from the cross of Jesus Christ. And when religion and churches and people try to talk about God's love, And separate that, draw a line or a chasm between that and leave out the cross. They haven't really described God's love. They've indulged in superficial rubbish, sentimentality. Because the level God as God Himself describes it, says, This is God's love, but he loved it and he sent his son. You cannot separate those things. If you want to know the love of God, you've got to go to the cross to see that love. You can now understand that. You've got to look at a man there with his hands pierced by nails and his feet hanging on a cross. Because he knew that that is the only way to keep you out of hell. Then and then alone. the essence of the love of God. I think that this is one of the ways that the current self-love doctrine really fails us. Does us a great disservice. that says to us uh that we were valuable enough for God to love us. But did you see the first quote there that I have, the love that God has is for a person who cannot benefit me in any Any way. That's the first of three things that we're told about God's love in this short verse. If a love which cannot benefit me, a love for someone who cannot benefit me in any way. Steven Osborne in his book Uh The Art, I think it is, The Art of Learning to Love Yourself. A Christian book put out by a Christian publisher says this There must be something truly wonderful about us if he God can love and accept us so readily. So there's a great concern today to boost people's self-image. If you talk to any counselor, they'll say, look, the main problem I deal with people that come to me is that they don't love themselves. They have a very low self-image image. They believe that they're garbage and they believe that they're worthless. And so there's a great attempt today to boost people's self image. And Christians have written many books on the same kind of thing, saying that we're God made us and God don't make jokes, and so we must be valuable and God redeemed us and therefore we must be valuable because God has redeemed us. I want to suggest the land aside the doctrine of creation for a moment, but to argue that way cuts right through what grace is. The best way to do that is to give the illustration that this fellow does, Paul Brown back, in his very excellent book, The Danger of Self Love. He says to argue that way is to argue in terms of transaction. It's to think the way I think that I do into a store and I want to buy something. When I want to buy something, I want to get my money for it. I want to pay for something that's of equal value to the money that I put out. And so if I get something of less value, I've been cheated. And I want to buy something It's worth to me what I have had to pay for. But the whole message of the scripture, and focus particularly here in 1 John four ten, is that there is no comparison between what God paid for us and what in fact we will earn as he puts it in his book. The idea is simply this. In business the price paid is related to the worth of the merchandise. But with the principle of grace There is no relationship between the purchase price and the value of that which is purchased. As Martin Luther once said, I am not God did not purchase me because I am valuable. I am valuable. Because he purchased it. You see, it's grace. It's the fact that God desired me. And my focus is on the admiration and the love that He has. Not saying, I must be pretty hot stuff because God wanted me so much. You see, the whole focus of Scripture is philocentric. It focuses on God's love rather than today's focus, which is anthropocentric, focus on how great I am. And so we need to revel in this verse and be freed up from wondering whether I am worth enough, rather simply reveling in grace. Here in this life. Not that I love God. Not that I was so valuable, not that I was such hot stuff, but that he loved me and sent his son. I can't add one molecule to his glory. God existed before there was a universe before there were any creatures and he was quite content. You see this is why the doctrine of the Trinity is so important to him. Because we understand that God didn't need us. As C. S. Lewis said we were superfluous to the universe. And I hope it but you see there's a tremendous freedom in that because I understand then that God me because I benefited him. He somehow is mostly up there in heaven, you know, and he needed somebody to He didn't. But Martin had the sons of love and they had the spirit and there was that beautiful love relationship between them. And they had all the glory that they needed. And if they didn't need it for love, they had the angels that they created. We were superfluous. We don't add to God. And that is the essence of a gospel. It's the contrast between we loving God and him loving us as creatures. Frail, vulnerable, helpless creatures. That's the gospel. He loved us. Because like an artesian spring, his love goes forth to yield to me. Secondly, to receive that his love. enough for one who justly deserves his wrath. Agatha is undeserved love. It's not for someone who only deserves my wrath. Verse 10 it says He sent his son. This is love that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. Not simply did we were creatures who couldn't benefit him in any way. But we were cynical creatures who deserved his wrath in every way. It's it's one thing to think of a healthy man rather than a leper and all disfiguring. But that's nothing compared to God. God's love as a holy God, for us disfigured and ugly, distorted in all of our city. We saw last week the story of John Perkins, that uh black man in Mississippi who was so brutally beaten. By the Mississippi Highway Patrol. If you think of John's attitude, how he could have served justly, uh, had simply a righteous wrath against those who treated him the way they did it. And then we saw how God through his grace in uh showing John Perkins the cross and reminding him of Christ's forgiveness enabled him to love those higher controllers. And we remember that that's nothing compared to Jesus Christ, the knowledge, the union. The week who so gravily had assaulted his majesty, that he deserved nothing but his wrath, and yet he loved us. He came and he gave us life because he had nothing but love to want to purchase. For himself. This is Agape. The Gabbe, thirdly, is a love which requires the greatest possible sacrifice for my heart. That's part of the essence of what Agape is. is. Agatha, you see, is that which gives. And if you want to get to the essence of what good Agatha is, you've got to get to the essence of sacrifice. And we're going to be looking at that more next week as we get to the very heart of God's mind. But let us just say for now that we see here that the way God did this was that he sent his son, the verse tells us. He sent his son as an atonement sacrifice. You see, we have to ask here the question, what did God love with? I mean, what can cost God anything? Say, well, you know, it cost him a state of Maryland. Well that's alright, and I'll make another state of Maryland. Well it cost him a few meltons. Yeah, that's all right, he can make another few mountains. It cost him the whole planet. Well, it's alright, he can make anot Make another solar system, another galaxy. You see, anything that God has at his disposal can't cost him anything because of where that is not, he can reproduce it. But God Himself only had one son. First Lion says that he sent his one and only son into the world if he might live. And when you ever get to the heart of God, you get to his friend. And if you want to really get to what costs God, you get to Jesus Christ. Because from all eternity God lost his son. God couldn't have another son. The Bible itself tells us that. You know that phrase? One and only. used five times in the New Testament and every time it's used by John describing God's Son. And that Greek word is a word that's used to translate the Hebrew word for precious. Dharma. Absolutely He would give. And when God loved you and me, he knew that it would cost him the most precious things that he had. And yet he willingly gave it up. That son And he had shared eternity with and would never again share in the same way. Because from now on that son would be encapsulated in the body of a human being, of a creature. And yet contain his one and only son to take on the film of a man, not just for 33 years, but for all the rest of the returned because he loved me and he loved me. And he knew that that sacrifice was not too great to make. To have you within us. That's the love of God. I shudder even as I say, brothers and sisters. Because even as I say these things, and as I pray them through, as I think of declaring them to you, I can always hardly believe that they're really true. That God would love to be able to do that. me value me that much to give the one thing that he could never produce again because he had never produced it he was his son co-equal with him in eternity And he gave you for you and for me because he loved me that much. You see it out there. You're getting infinite mercy. And I deserve wrath. Now you notice the biblical outline there. I put deserve in the present tense. I talked to a number of people. Some of you have seen this, if you've come before our session. And we'll see the displayed section there on our conviction sheet that talks about deserving God's wrath. Sometimes people will come and they'll say, well, no, that should be in the past tense. I deserved that. But now I'm a Christian. I don't deserve that. And I would like to take issue with that. I think the Bible does not teach that. I think the Bible in fact teaches that you and I continue to deserve that. Here there are some guys that you might have read about in the paper just recently working a plant New York and they won the New York lottery, $41 million. X guys didn't have a whole lot from what I understand the day before. The S Bay was splitting up $41 million. Well, if you walk up to one of those guys in the Saint Edwards, but you were worth before, and now you deserve to have these money. He goes around and says, This money is what I have because I deserved it. He says, No, it isn't. You were given that money. You didn't earn that money sure. You took a risk for it. But you deserve still just what you deserved the day before. You simply received it. And you and I don't deserve anything more than we Have sought to walk with Jesus Christ for 10 or 20 or 50 years, then we deserve the fall. Because God has loved as a gift to us. He has worked in us. And so even though I continue to deserve a One who by my own nature will always seek to go my own way. And never care a fig for God's glory or for his grateful place in my life. God says, that's what you deserve, but you'll never get that. Because my son Jesus is taking his place. Grace in all of your guilt. And now I have given to you nothing but my love. That's all there is for you. List and love. And God's love means more to me. When I remember what I deserve. Rather than again beginning to buy into this idea that I now deserve something better. Because as soon as I've done that, I have begun to say that I have earned something. And again, I've undercut grace. And then I begin to What does it do? What does it do for my relationships? Let me in conclusion suggest to you that this is an extremely practical hearse for us. Because he goes on to say, dear friends, since God loved us, We also ought to love one another. You see, he connects those two things right together. And if you and I understand something of that sacrifice of the love of God, a love given to us who could not benefit him in any way, a love given to us who were simply deserving of this wrath and a love that was given to us as the greatest possible sacrifice to God Himself. Then when we begin to look at other people, we look at them differently, don't we? Take a number of different relationships as examples. The relationship between the husband and the wife. You see, the question I have to ask is, am I just nice to my wife when I believe that she deserves being nice? And she's really nice, benevolent, she's a tremendous person. I would be nice to her because she's nice to me. That's not a big deal. You see, love of Dante is really expressed when I feel that she doesn't deserve my love. Or when I would feel as a husband to a wife and that somehow I'd rather punish her for something that she's done to hurt me. Somehow I feel like she doesn't deserve me being nice to her. And then I heard my Lord, help me to be a model of love to my wife as the head of my home. That's because I've given her the opportunity. You say, No, Lord, I want to punish her because she hurt me. Lord, I want to punish my husband because he he hasn't been the kind of husband to me he ought to be. And that's what I've asked you to pray for an opportunity to understand Something of my love. And I thank you a friend for an opportunity to demonstrate that. Don't you realize you can never demonstrate that when all you love are people that are nice to you? I believe that this There's only three or four times in our life when we really understand a God thing. One is when we first see for the first time in our life the horror of what it means to have defined a holy God throughout our life. And the horror. All of our sins all of a sudden comes fully upon us, and then we see that in spite of that, he loved me and gave the Son as a sacrifice to bring me into his heaven. Another time is when I have poured out my love for another person, and that person has hurt me deeply, and I have the choice to either return in kind or to experience. Agape by the power of the Holy Spirit working in my life towards that other person. Another time is when I'm simply called upon to love something I don't particularly feel anything for. So they have need to know. needs your evidence and I clearly have the resources and the opportunity, but I don't feel like it. Then I enter into a particular experience of a God back. And so if in our homes. We want to experience it out there. Look at every time that you see your husband or your wife. You feel like they deserve your wrath. Righteous wrath, you know. He says there's an opportunity to enter into about that. Same thing with friends. Particularly for single folks, you have deep relationships where there is become almost like a family to you. Someone really lets you. down and you're deeply hurt and you particularly feel the pain and loneliness. And you say, Am I going to try again with that person? Or am I going to indulge in a good old vacation of self-pity? And then all sudden the Holy Spirit says, once you really experience and understand something of the agape of my son. Say, but Lord, I've been looking for that, but you know, don't push too hard. Somebody did push too hard. But I see that opportunity that I'm feeling so long and want to involve in the self-citty. And it's a little bit of agape here in Shibia. When I then see that God has given that opportunity for me to enter more deeply into his life, where you take my attitude toward my kids. Do I simply love them when uh when they're cute, when they are responding and obedient and they're behaving. What about when they're moody? What about when they're self centered? What about when they're totally ungrateful? My case not how would I know anything about that? You know but we all have Some experience like last night, there are little no truth in the following statements. And we see in those experiences the opportunity. Now listen, we'll say you kids laugh too hard. What about you? Yeah, it's one thing to be nice to mom and dad and twin. Enjoy having them with your parents when they're reasonable. What about when they're unreasonable? What about when you have found that they sort of seem like they just sort of go along with the furniture in the house, you know? It's nice to have them there, but don't get in your way. What about those times? You kids can begin to enter more deeply in understanding the love of Jesus as you say, Lord, make me available to return your love for my books. Even when I think they're unreasonable. The people that you work with. Are they people that are just for your convenience, to help you get your job done, and you're so used to it worth everybody just using people to advance their own career? find yourself subtly drifting into that. It's so hard to look at somebody and think, how can I love that person, even though I know he would sort of use me if he could get the chance. To make myself a little vulnerable, to love it and to trust Jesus. In that experience. Well, my neighbors. You know, you have neighbors that you don't know and they want to borrow something. Uh you'll know them when they need something, to watch something, or to do something. And you say, Lord, help me to not see my neighbors as an intrusion, but as an opportunity to experience and to show a godly love, to enter in for the love of Jesus. As I experience what that means, to love, to set my heart in that person. And bless his brothers and sisters in community. What does it mean for us? Does it mean that we see each other? You know, here's a person who uh every time I look at them, you know, there's some other opportunity for ministry, or I see them on your mind. I would rather sort of stay off on the periphery. I'd rather sort of not get involved. But we say, Lord, I'm welcome, laying myself at your disposal. You love me so much. Lord, help me. to express my gratitude in my loving one another, in my seeking to be at the disposal of my brothers and sisters, my whole life, my house, my resources, everything. To grow. We can't do that all of a sudden, but grow in laying ourselves at one another's disposal. We don't see Agatha in its essence in our community. But we can pray to God will enable us to grow it. I think one of the best examples that I've seen, and I hope I don't embarrass her too much, was an example when the EE team went out, and we just heard about last night, the fact that they had gone out and had shared the gospel of Jesus. Jesus Christ and two women in this area who are illiterate. Women who uh you would not look at as women who would be potential leaders, people who can benefit us, uh women who have overwhelming needs. in our congregation uh was willing to have a Bible study. Uh simply to meet with those women, to invest herself with them. People who couldn't benefit her in any way. People benefit us in some way that we can obviously see now, but who knows what God can do. And I remember one day talking to those women, they were up in the office and they needed a ride and uh they said uh they could barely remember but they got the that it was probably just bruth and so I called Ruth and Ruth had some plans and things that she was doing, but immediately she dropped them. And she said, I will work that in to give them the guy that they need. That's a gospel. And as you and I didn't to one another something of that love. It helps us, doesn't it? It helps us to see what does it mean for God to love me. Oh Lord our God. Lord, help us to sing. Open our eyes that we might see your love. That we might not look for that in its essence. By simply looking at one another. Oh Lord. And that we might see beyond those clues and those signposts that you did graciously give to us to see something of one. love of Christ. But Lord help us to look beyond that. To see Jesus. And to see, Lord God, that you save your one and only Son. For me, to die for me, to give up all that he had in his glory, to come for me. Lord, only you can transform our hearts. Even those feelings we might now have of understanding, just something that moves us of you and I, Lord, we know that that would be so fleeting unless your Holy Spirit works in it. We pray who will be that. We might be a people transformed by the love of Christ. Amen.