The title of the message. It's on your board some outline as it came in. Officiation, a word to make the heartbeat faster. And you say, we've got to be serious. I don't even know what it means. And besides that, it sounds kind of theological. Theological jargon's never particularly turned me on. Sounds about as exciting as watching my crab grass for. And yet And nothing. I believe that if we understand the word propitiation, we understand what that means, then in fact it will make our heart beat faster. I'm not going to come almost like dance a dance if you learn stuff if it doesn't. But uh I think that if you understand what the victory issue means you'll understand something of the heart of God's love. Remember we talked uh in this Which concludes this morning, about the fact that as we begin the busyness of the fall, we need a renewed vision of the love of God in Christ. We need to be able to see the connection between knowing his love and why it is because We want to be useful to Jesus this year. And so we have taken a look at first John chapter four, focusing on those verses ten to twelve. And in the first week you remember we saw that his love is fulfilled and made complete in us. But in some astounding way, just as Jesus Christ was the incarnate revelation of God, so when you and I love one another, that love of God in Christ becomes incarnate in us. us. So it's completed in us and the world sees God through us. And then we saw that theory, but you cannot separate that love from the cross of Christ. You saw that the very nature of a Godhead is with threefold. First of all, it loved without any consideration of benefit to the self. We saw how in fact we could never benefit God in any particular way. Add to his glory. Give him anything that he doesn't already have. And yet he's loved it and wanted it so much. We've seen that a dog day means uh that you love a person whether or not they deserve it. And we saw that part from Deserving the love of Christ, we deserve nothing but his wrath. We deserve nothing but his judgment for our arrogant disobedience. Yet he's loved us. And he saw that God says, not only Refers to loving without any self-benefit or loving whether or not a person deserves it, but it loves in a way that's willing to sacrifice. And we saw that God was willing to sacrifice the most precious thing in the universe. The life of the grand son, because he loved us so much. Now how did he get how did he sacrifice that son? And so you see in that first John chapter four verse ten, That he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for us. Let's take a look at that in the context of it now. First John, chapter 12, verse 7, reading through. Verse 12. Follow along in your Bibles as I read. Beginning with verse 7. Dear friends, let us love one another. For love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been Born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love. And this is how God showed His love on easy. He set His one and only Son into the world. world that we might live through him. This is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an attorney Sacrifice for our sins. Dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. If we love one another, God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us. Verse 10 again. How's he loved us? He loved us and he has sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. That word atoning sacrifice, or those two words are in the old King James translated propitiation. And the word propitiation is a word which has fallen into disuse in modern times, and yet it's an excellent word because it captures something of the very heart of the love of God. And I want to open up that word Through the three points that you see there in the bullets and outline. First of all, to look at the meaning of the word propitiation, and then secondly to see the need for propitiation, and then thirdly to see the nature of propitiation. But first of all then is the meaning of the word propitiation. But the exact word appears only here and in 1 John 2 2 in all of the New Testament. And yet it's cognate to other forms of the word, adjectives, verbs, compounds, all these things. appear a number of times in the rest of the New Testament. Well what does the word mean? The very root of the word from which it comes means joyous or gay. To be joyful, joyous, gay, and the verb form of it means to make someone. Joyous, to make them happy. And then that word developed in its use, it's to come to me, to make someone who's angry at you to be glad to see your face once again. Somebody who's angry at you, you make them glad to see your face once again. And that's propitiating them. Now you kids, I tried this out at home, and I know you kids can pronounce it. Say the word together. Now, all you kids, and you're also going to help you out. Let's say the word. Propitiation. Once again, propitiation. You kids all join in on that? Your spirits, I'm going to suggest. Ask you at lunchtime what that really means. What does it mean to propitiate? And you can tell them it means to take someone who's angry at you and make them glad to see your face. Okay, you remember that because you've experienced it. I can show you that you've experienced it. How many of you kids sometime, you know, your mom has just finished washing the floors and she's got all the kitchen floors sticking a span and everything's all nice and neat for the company that's coming, and then you come in and it's just rain and it's all muddy and you come in and you walk right through that kitchen floor with all your muddy you know, just like the commercials. And you got the dog behind you, you know. And so his paws are all running up and down. And so you're playing with them and so the dog's gonna slides around a little bit, you know, and loves it in more. You know, and and then there's a neighbor's dog chasing your dog through, you know, and so he comes through too, you know. And all of a sudden you realize that something's changed in your relationship with your mom. She is angry. Your mom is wrathful at you. And so she comes screaming after you, you know, not quite like the commercials in which there's sort of a smile that's okay, Johnny, but Well I've realized, you know. She comes tearing down the hall at me. I just finished doing that and it's gotta be ready for the people that are coming in an hour. And all and all and all I go, what happens? And as you're smart, you gave your room, you don't argue, you don't defend you at all, forget your page. Just go to your room and you sit down and you write a little movie. And you say, Dear mom, you're the prettiest mom in all the world. And I'm really sorry that I messed up with me. And I'll never do it again. I love you, mommy. And then you go outside and you pick some wildflowers and you make a nice pretty bouquet, and you come inside with That little bouquet of queen ant lace and chicory and a few asters and stuff laying in there, you know. And you take all that and you take your little maiden, you give it to your mom, and you look up and you say, I'm sorry, mom. And what's she gonna do? No, that's not what she's gonna do. Course not. She's gonna take it in her arms and she's gonna say, that's okay. I forgive you. Right? Don't all this? Well what have you done? You've propitiated her. You hadn't never thought that you were doing something so complicated, did you? But that's what you were doing. You propitiated your mom. You appeased her wrath. You placated her wrath. You turned her anger into joy toward you. And that's exactly what this word means. And it's the word that is translated, if used in the Old Testament, atonence. To atone is to propitiate. To atone is to take someone who is. is angry at you and turn their anger into favors, into graciousness. That's what the word means. Now why do we need it? What is the need, therefore, for propitiation? Well, you see it right there in verse 10. This is love. Love that we love God, but did he loved us and sent his son as a propitiation or a total sacrifice for our life. our sins. For our sins. There's the problem. You see, God has said in chapter three, verse four, if you look way back there, there's a couple chapters. Chapter three, verse three, he said, everyone who sins Rate for law. In fact, sin is lawlessness. That means that you and I are sinners, and sin is lawlessness. You haven't got a problem in that. Because marriage, as I think, Look at God's law as some impersonal edict that sort of hangs around the universe over our heads. You know, and there's these impersonal rules that if you break them, you know, somehow you're gonna suffer for it. But we don't see anything personal. About that. But the Bible says that disobedience to God is a very personal matter. You know, if you look back in Deuteronomy chapter 5, where God gives the Ten Commandments, He introduces the Ten Commandments by Say this. Hear O Israel the decrees and the laws that I declare your hearing today. Now those are two very interesting words: decrees and laws. Why do you use two words? Because they both have different shades of meaning. The decrees are the There's fixed, permanent declarations. And the whole idea of the decrees is that it is permanent and fixed and unchanging. But the word that's used there for laws is the spoken burden of a Judge. That which is handed down personally, from person to person, into spoken, living words. And so then after saying that, uh, God says through Moses, the Lord our God made a covenant with us before, but now find the city. It is not with our fathers that he made this. But it was with us, with all of us who are alive here today. It is not just something that's done thousands of years ago, it gets back to those Jews back at that time in Palestine. It is for us. today Moses said that a couple generations from the making of that covenant as he gives this law again and that same principle applies now. God is speaking his word. And that word is a personal word. The Ten Commandments are not only permanent And so when you and I disobey what the Bible says for us to do, we are personally disobeying God. We are disobeying God just as much as if what our dad says you must And you go out and you just disobey, go out and you pray, they ride your bank up and down the streets. And then you back to the thing, what did I say to you? So we need to have that sense of how the Bible speaks. to us. What did God say to us? Not something what's written down there in some dead letter from thousands of years ago. What has God said to us? It's one of references there for you to catch that too, through Deuteronomy chapter. five passions. Look at those later. But even if you've never seen the Bible, God says the same thing applies. Romans chapter one, he talks about those who don't have the Bible. And he says, even those when they do such things, disobeying God, They know that the decree of God says that they are worthy of judgment. And yet they do such things and they confirm or they encourage others who do the same things. Genesis chapter two says we have a conscience that speaks to the church. about what God says is right and wrong. And in our conscience, we are either accusing ourselves, feeling guilty, or we are rationalizing, trying to excuse ourselves. But there is that sense that we are face to face. In a God who has spoken. And that's why there is such a determined effort on the part of people without Jesus Christ to try and de-personalize the universe. To try and pretend that there is no God. There is no one to whom we're accountable. Dad's left, and he's never coming back, and so it doesn't matter if you keep his rules or not. And that's the determined, purposeful effort of man today without Jesus Christ. But we can't get away from the world. in the fact that there is deep down in our hearts that fear because we have disobeyed God. We've disobeyed him when we've done what the Bible says not to do, or we have refused to do what it says to do. And because our disobedience is personal, God's wrath is personal. That's something we don't like to think about a lot. But God's wrath is a personal wrath against sinners. You often hear the phrase, God hates sin, but he loves the sinner. That kind of thinking comes from a study liberal theologian Among others, uh but for example, the theologian C. H. Dodd, who uh learned quite a bit about the New Testament last century, and broad tried to draw a distinction between two words, propitiation and expitiation. Now, those are you know two theological terms that may seem like hair splitting to most people, but there's a big difference between those two terms. Propitiation, as we've just talked about, has this antestis that there's somebody angry at me and I need to appease that wrath to the relationship. The idea of expensive which God and others uh began to promote and which in find in fact you will find in for instance in the revised standard version of the Bible you'll never find the word propitiation there it's always expitiation and some other kinds of translations. That word has the idea that sin is a moral defilement. And the problem is to get rid of the defilement. In other words, the change needs to be in us. Because you see, God is a loving God and there's nothing really to worry about in concerning the relationship with him. The problem is that our moral defilement is blocking his love coming through to us. And so what we need to do is we need to get rid of that defilement. You see still is sort of like a dirty glass, you know, and here's God and he's trying to smile through and he can't see it because the glass is all messed up. And so you get some Lindex out and you clean the glass so that you can see his smile. See that's kind of the idea of expitiation. the dirt so that we can see the smile. It's the idea that our bodies are infected. We need some sort of a giant spiritual antiseptic to come to clean us up. You see, God wasn't an outright liberal. He had a sense of a personal God that he He couldn't he couldn't reconcile the idea that God could have a personal wrath against sinners. That was repulsive to him. And so to this very day, evangelicals have picked up that idea in their evangelism where they say, Well, God hates the sin, but he loves the sinner. And so because God loves the sinner, the problem is here just to get rid of that sin, that multiply that so that God's love for you will continue to be received and somehow you'll you'll be able to appreciate it more. But what does the Bible say? In Psalm 5, for instance, we read Psalm 5 beginning with verse 4. You are not a God who takes pleasure in evil. With you, the wicked cannot dwell. The arrogant cannot stand in your presence. You hate wrongdoing. It doesn't say that. It says, you hate all who do wrong. God hates all to do wrong. That ought to make you You destroy those who tell lies. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men, the Lord have wors. What it means to abhor something, to see that thing as loathsome in your sight. God allows those who arrogantly disobey and are unjust and Pure because his eyes are too holy to behold such rapidness. He never intended his universe, his world to be like that. And he abores those who do it. Read the prophets. And you see again and again phrases like: My wrath is poured out like fire to destroy you. I will bring you to desolation. I have become your enemy. Will wipe you out. Again and again, there are those personal references of God's fixed anger. Now, what is it that it so bothers us about that? We're kind of embarrassed, aren't we? Maybe you're embarrassed as you hear. Hey how we might have some visitors here, you know, you'd just turn them off. I mean, yeah, they'll come and they're not gonna come back. They do that kind of talk. Yeah, and you're sort of embarrassed because uh I think when we hear about the wrath of God we tend to associate that with wild eyed raging hypocritical evangelists who try to manipulate people, try to get little kids to come forward and sign cars out of pure fear and adults to give lots of money so that they'll feel better that God may forgive them. And we're very sensitive in our day to manipulation because we are so surrounded by advertising messages in all kinds of subtle and obvious ways that people try to manipulate us, don't they? And because we're s we're sensitized to that, when we hear a message that speaks of fear, we begin to feel Manipulated. And when we feel manipulated, we're resentful of that. Besides that, perhaps we feel the whole notion's a bit archaic after all, anyway. You know, it's pre-electronic. It's out of a gaslight era. Did you talk about the raft? of God personally against sinners. It's something which just seems to us to not fit today. Yeah, we just don't talk about that today. And besides that, maybe it's a little demeaning to God because we think of graph as irritation. Being petulant, we think of that is not worthy of God, who is able to overlook all sin with his love and his grace. You know something? You and I will never understand the love of God. Until we understand the fixed and uncompromising hostility and wrath of God against those who disobey Him. Until you and I have come to the place where I Stand before the Holy God, who has spoken his word to me and said, This is the way you shall live if you can live in my universe and I say, I'm not gonna do it. All of a sudden I Come to realize what I have said it has. And my heart is smitten. And I can't get low enough before that God as I realize what it means for me to applaud his laws. And for me to realize that he is absolutely In fact, it's necessary for his uncompromising, fixed wrath, and enmity to be directed at me. When I realize that, then when I begin to understand Something of mercy. It's like a cool drink in the desert. But until I have understood the reality and the justice of that wrath, I'll never appreciate the mercy. Oh, brothers and sisters. sisters. Let's not fall into the trap. It tries to make us embarrassed when we think of the wrath of God. Is it that something to mean? Is it that something that we should be embarrassed to contemplate? There it we do not serve a wrath. God, then we simply serve an old grandfather figure who's sentimental and weakening. It is because God's wrath is fixed against sin that there's hope of justice in the world, that there's hope that heaven is not a good thing. But the Bible speaks not only of the fact that God is wrathful against sinners, but also of his mercy. Having seen his wrathful, but see the mercy. The mercy which turns aside his own wrath. That's what's amazing. Listen, in Psalm seventy-eight, you see a glimpse of this in the Old Testament. Psalm seventy-eight is an old Psalm. It recounts in summary form the history of Israel. And in that history, you have again the rebellion and the tyranny, the disloyalty, uh the um the utter obtuseness of Israel after God and In so many ways has shown this love to Israel. Israel has again and again gone away, dispoiled and disobedience. And you have after one of those cases, in verse thirty-eight, God's response says, Yet he was merciful. He forgave their iniquities and he did not destroy them. Time after time he restrained his anger. They didn't restrain it. He restrained it and did not stir up. His whole wrath. Why? Because of the covenant that he had made with them. The promise that he would not destroy them. But his wrath was fixed against those who were outside of that covenant. But he said he did not stir up his full wrath against them. Psalm 85, the first couple of verses. You showed favor to your land, O Lord. You restored the fortunes of Jacob. You forgave the iniquity of Jacob. your people and covered all their sins, you set aside all your wrath. And you turned from your fierce anger. Fierce burning anger. Acts Isaiah 28, when it speaks of God's wrath directed toward his people, speaks of it as his strange word. For by nature, God is loving and merciful and kind. Only reluctantly, never gleefully. That's the distortion you see that we sometimes can picture. Never gleefully, but always with broken heart, God must judge the sin. But he must do it. Again, Isaiah 28 speaks of it as a strange work, that work which he's reluctant to do, but yet not necessary. Lord, when you understand that, begin to think about the problem that you and I are in, the problem that we have. God himself is God is angry at us. And if God is angry at us, there is absolutely no hope. One snap of his fingers, and you and I are snuffed into oblivion. God is angry at us. And who is going to propitiate that wrath? No need from us, or good intentions, or betrayal wildflowers, or anything else, is going to turn aside that. Let's fix implacable hostility against our sin. So who's going to do it? It's just as necessary as is justice. And justice sticks. Who's going to do it? That's where they come from 1 John chapter 4. And that's where rather than reading that and saying, Yeah, I've seen that so many times, sure, I understand So that you and I will have our hearts be faster when we read this as well. Not that we loved God, but that He loved us. He in His fixed implacable wrath looked around the universe and he said there is no one who can propitiate me for your sin and so I will do it myself. And the amazing thing is that you have here something absolutely unique. You have the one who is angry in love coming to placate, to propitiate his own wrath. And so he sends his son. And his son comes as the one who is absolutely perfect and capable of receiving only in divine justice, love, and mercy and a kingdom. And adoption as the one who have killed and lord of lords over all his creation. And that one comes and he gives his life. A propitiation. To satisfy the wrath of God for our sins. He comes at God's own provision. And all of a sudden you realize that this is what God has been talking about all along. in Genesis chapter 3 where it was the first sin of Adam and Eve, and they were judged by God and it was the curse pronounced. And what was the very next thing God did after he pronounced the curse? Genesis 3 tells us that God made schemes for them and provided to cover their shame. They didn't cover it. God was the one who slew those animals and used the skins as sacrifice to cover Adam and Eve's shame. And you come down into Israel and you see after Mount Sinai as a sacrificial system, instituted. And you come down to the Day of Atonement, Yon Kapoor, which is a week for Wednesday, the Jews still celebrated after this day. And when you see a week for Wednesday, Yon Kapoor, you think the Day of Atonement, Leviticus 17. And in Leviticus 17, verse 11, And after God has described all the way the people served to come to him through the shed blood of the innocent lamb, God says in verse 11, And you shall the life of the creature shall eat the blood, because the life of the creature is in the blood, and I I have given it to you as a means of atonement, of propitiation to come to me. God gave the Lamb. When we come into the New Testament, John the Baptist says here Here's the Lamb. Here's the true Lamb. It takes away the sin of the world and takes away the wrath of God. And so Jesus comes and he gives himself a propitiation for You and for me. It's impossible for you and for me to understand what that love entails. But yet maybe just the mere glimpse of it can be felt in a story that I received the Robert Coleman, about a little boy who needed a blood transfusion. A little boy whose sister needed a blood transfusion. See that his sister had a rare disease. came to the little boy and he said that the only hope for his sister was for her to receive a tr a blood transfusion from someone who had had that disease and had conquered. Two years before the little boy had had that disease and he had conquered it and gotten well. They also had exorbitant sight in common. And so this little boy was the ideal donor for the transfusion for his sister. The doctor came to the little boy and he said, Johnny, would you be willing to give your blood to Mary? Johnny quivered. His lower lip trembled, he hesitated, and then he smiled and he said, Sure, to my sister. Shortly after that they wheeled the two of them into the hospital. Mary thin and won, Johnny, robust and healthy. They didn't say anything to each other. But when their eyes met, Johnny simply grinned. And when they put the leader On his arm, and his grim quickly faded. He watched the blood flow through the tube out of his arm. When the ordeal was almost over, he trembled and he said to the doctor, When do I And only then did the doctor realize why Johnny had hesitated and trembled. He had thought that to give his blood for his sister meant giving up his life for her. And yet in that brief moment he had made his great decision. And the Heavenly Father said to the Son, My Son, these people, the people that I love, Have no hope to escape my wrath, except you give your blood for that. And the Sultan, without hesitation, said, Sure, Father, for Alan. For Judy, for Ken, for Brandy, for Tom. Sure, Father. I'll do it for them. But what if you without that this morning? Could you in your right mind refuse such a love given for you? Let's pray.