Uh we're gonna extend Advent. I'm gonna preach uh uh related this week. Uh Pete's gonna kinda round things off next week for us. We're extending Advent a couple of weeks um because we want to help you apply the good doctrine that you've learned because we Think that's uh important. We're gonna be spending most of our time in Philippians chapter 2 and verses 1 through 11. Um It's a classic text on Christ's incarnation. I'll tell you in advance. We're not going to cover it all. It's going to be a sketch, a little bit of a flyover. but hopefully um helpful um enough that you can get the point that god was after when he gave this text And that is about humility, actually, our humility. Remember, this passage is given because there was a problem in the church in Philippi. The problem was they weren't humble. And so God's trying to help them learn how to be humble And so this is why this passage is here. So let's hear God's word from Philippians 2 and verses 1 through 11. So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit Any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. who, though he was in the form of God, did not count a quality with God, a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself By taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death Even death on a cross. Therefore, God has exalt highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Then also I'm going to refer somewhat significantly to 1 Peter 5 and verse 5, so let me read that as well. Likewise, you who are younger be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another. For God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we lived in a culture that breeds pride. Prizes it, teaches it, exalts it, maybe particularly In the geographic area where we sit right now. Help us, uh Holy Spirit, help me. To see the danger, the ubiquity, the insidiousness The harm that our pride causes, that we would turn away from it in repentance. And embrace humility as we embrace our humble Savior Jesus. We pray in his name. Amen. The simple, and it's extraordinarily simple, the extraordinarily simple point of Philippians two, one through eleven. Is that Christ's humility can and should lead to our humility. That's it. That's the simple point. There's much more reason why that is and how it can push you that way and how it ought to draw us towards amazement, and we'll do all that. But the very, very simple point is that Well, why is humility so needed? Well, here's again, very simple equation. Pride is the root of all sin. Pride is the root of all sin. Can you own that for yourself? Is that, do you see your sin that way that it flows from pride? Conversely, humility is the ground from which all gospel virtues emerge. It's the ground in which those virtues grow up. And so seeking humility is the path of Christian maturity. As I prayed, we're going to spend some time thinking about the ubiquity, the everywhere-ness. Of our pride, but also the hiddenness of it, the insidiousness of it, the danger of it, and also its cure. Why? Why pick this as a New Year's sermon? Why pick this to cap off AD? Humility befits us. It befits us as creatures. We are tiny, limited, broken things. Humility befits us as adopted children of God. Granted rights as firstborn sons, we ought to be utterly humbled that that's the kind of grace that we get. In light of what we actually deserve. Humility befits us as servants. As ones who go to serve for the good of others to glorify God and not seeking something for ourselves. But only humble people do that. And as sent ones. Humility befits us as sent ones. As we go, the direction that we get in Peter is we go and give an answer for the reason for the hope that we have Within us, we do that with gentleness and respect. We go as humble people. The people who study why people don't believe and what they think about Christians is that we come across as proud, not humble. That's a problem. Humility befits sent ones. Now, I'm just putting those in your mind. We're not going to cover all those today, but I want them there so you can grasp why it's so important for us to camp on this today. Today we're going to do two things. We're going to look at the problem and the cure. We're going to look at the problem of pride and the cure for pride. Why? Well, let's let C. S. Lewis acquaint us with why this is so important. Here's what Lewis says. If anyone would like to acquire humility, I can, I think, tell them the first step. The first step is to realize that one is proud. And a biggest step too, at least nothing whatever can be done before it. If you think you are not conceited, it means you are very conceited indeed. Now we're going to look at both the problem and the cure. Here's why. If we only focus on the cure, then you and I might not realize just how big of a problem we have. If we only focus on the problem, we might lose hope that there's a cure. And so we will look at both because the goal here Is transformation. That's why God gives us Philippians 2. You want a transformation for them, he wants it for us as well. Well, let's dive in then. Let's first hear the call to humility. I will come back to verse 1, I promise. But let's start in verse 2 of Philippians 2. Paul's talking about, we're going to come back to this gospel sandwich that begins and ends this passage. But verse two, complete my joy by being notice the same here. Of the same minds, the same love. So what does that tell you? Paul writes letters to churches that are having problems. You can detect, sometimes he tells you overtly what the problem is, and other times by what he talks about, you're like, ah, this is what the problem was. Well, here's where the problem is. Right, they weren't they weren't evidencing these things. Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accordant of one mind. How does the what does that look like? How does that happen? Verse 3. Do a few things. Do some things. Is that what it says? Says, do nothing. That's a lot of things. Do nothing from selfish ambition. Nothing with a focus on me and what I can get out of it Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, from pride. From something where I'm high on myself and that I want you to see that and recognize it. Do nothing. From selfish ambition or conceit. The way it's put in Peter But it's interesting to me that that Peter's the one that writes this. Fascinating actually. He says partway through verse 5 of 1 Peter 5. Clothe yourselves. That's actually a really beautiful image. Right? We in our culture were very important of looking at all of your clothes, looking at my clothes, right? We always see how people clothe themselves. This is a fascinating, fascinating image, a beautiful image. That this is what people would see. Is this how people experience you? Some people experience me. Clothe yourselves, a beautiful image, all of you, with humility. That's fascinating. That that would be the clothing that we would put on. It's the way that people would experience us. And humility is experienced, and this is super important, we'll come back to this later, relationally. It's an attitude of heart that shows itself outwardly to people. It's seen and experienced by people. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another. Right? It's a way that's observable to other people. It's something that people can see and experience when they spend time with you. An internal that shows itself externally in relationship. Why? Why is this so important? For God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. That's a quote from Proverbs 3, I think. God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Why does God give grace to the humble? We'll think about why it's dangerous to be opposed by God in just a second. But why does God give grace to the humble? Well, in honest humility, the humble ask for grace, and so God gives it Hebrews 4 talks about coming, drawing near, it's an exhortation to come near, to draw near to the throne of grace, to receive grace in time of need. Well, when is the time of need? Always. The humble realize that the time of need is always. It's every moment. Is my time of need. God let's think a little bit about this Kind of scary thing here. God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. That's a scary proposition that God opposes the proud. I have to say that. And remember that these words are directed, both in the original and here, towards professing believers. It can be true that in one sense God can be for us, like Romans 8. 31. We've thought about that before. And yet in some areas of our lives God can be against us because of our unrepented of and thus unmortified pride, that we're not killing our pride. Frequently, I have found that God uses affliction and difficulty to reveal areas of pride in my life. That's what He's after. Why would God do that? Why would God come up against us? Why is pride such an affront to God? A couple of passages from Isaiah will clue you in. Isaiah 42, 8. I'm the Lord, that is my name, my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols. And in case you didn't get the point, six chapters later, Isaiah 48. 11, for my own sake, for my own sake I do it. For how should my name be profaned? My glory I will not give to another. Let me make the connection here for you with a Paul Tripp quote. Paul Tripp says, We're always in a glory war. In every interaction, there's the seeking of glory. But is it God's glory or is it my glory? That's it. In every interaction. Is it about God's glory or is it about my glory? Pride seeks glory for itself while humility seeks glory for God. Pride says, I want to be recognized as someone. Pride says I want to be recognized as someone. Now you know I can simply desire attention. Or recognition as someone who's who's valuable, who's successful, who's a good performer that can even just be to myself. I was repenting of that this morning. Just wanting to be a success to myself, so I could feel okay about myself Or, in the quiet parts of our heart, we can secretly, or even overtly, seek admiration, or even just respect from people That's one insidious way that pride exerts itself. We'll come back in a minute to more ways that pride raises its head because it doesn't always show up like that. It shows up in lots of different ways, but that's one way. Let's think for a second, why is pride so dangerous? Why does God put his finger time and time again in the scriptures on pride? Why is it so dangerous? Well, pride is the prime reason why people don't repent and believe the gospel. The last penny to fall for me in becoming a Christian, oh, thirty-three years ago, plus was to be able to own for myself, yes, I'm a sinner that needs forgiveness. I need Jesus. What kept me from getting to that spot of being able to admit the truth about myself that was obvious to everyone else but me? Pride. I didn't want to think of myself like that. I did not want to face that I was a sinner without hope. What we use for our um vows when people come into membership, I don't have hope except for the mercy of God. You see, pride will keep you from believing the gospel at all. And pride will keep you from going deeper into the gospel of that daily pattern of repentance and faith. It will keep me from that. That's why pride is so dangerous. It'll keep you from ever repenting and believing the gospel. Even as believers, pride can keep us from enjoyment of God. It can make us keep our distance from other people. Pride is the cause of conflict. And crucially, pride disables us from serving anyone else, at least for God's glory. Why? Well, pride is self-love. It's self-seeking And as such, it serves as a block. It keeps us from loving God and loving others for their sake. Pride serves as a block from that. And you might remember that the core two responses to the gospel are to love God and to love neighbor. And pride blocks me from both of those. That's why it's so dangerous. That's why God tells us through Peter. Peter, fascinating. The one who teaches us about humility. The one who maybe who is best equipped for it. Because we see so many times in the Gospels where his pride is so manifest. And then God lowers him and humbles him so that he exhibits humility instead of pride. Peter teaching us about humility and pride. That's why God tells us that we should clothe ourselves, all of us, with with with humility. Well, what does that look like? What does it look like to clothe yourself with humility? At the first, it means that I'm actively daily repenting of my pride. The pride that's present in my life, that's present in your life. So the first is to repent, and the second, well, you're going to be surprised by this probably, is to believe. It's to believe anew on Christ. It's to seek humility via amazement. We're going to look at that last, but it's to seek humility via amazement. How do I end up lower? That people can see it. And that it's the way that they experience me. And it's through amazement. Well, let's think a little bit. We're going to get there. Let's spend a little few more minutes thinking about the manifestations of pride because I think it's just important. That you see all the places that it hides. So I've said pride's ubiquitous in our hearts, but it does hide, it lies, it's insidious, but it's also dangerous. Which is why it's important to think about. It's dangerous where it's unrecognized, where it's unrepented of, where we're not killing it, starving it, giving no quarter to it. Because pride hides, we need to ask, where is pride's secret in my life? Some pride is very obvious, right? You have an interaction with somebody like, oh, such an arrogant person. Right? So some pride is obvious, but do you realize the person who's making that comment is also exhibiting pride? Can you see that? So because pride hides, we've got to know where is its secret in my life? Where does it need to be brought into the light? Years ago in the church that I pastored in West Seattle, we put together a resource because there was a it's a long convoluted story, but we created a resource that's called addressing pride in your life. It's something, it's actually the first thing that I gave to your elders. To work through before I was ever doing this work. Because I think that it's important for elders to lead in this. But it's not just elders. Elders are just supposed to be gospel-humbled, maturing Christians What elders, the traits for elders, besides being able to teach, are simply, you look at those traits, they are just what maturing Christians look like. It's what you all ought to be seeking for. And so you all, the elders and everyone else, we ought to be seeking to address pride in our life. We'll put a link to the in the video. Description on YouTube will put a link to this document. It's called Addressing Pride in Your Life. Alright, so I'll take care of that with Melinda. Alright. For now, that um embedded in that document is uh something that was written by another pastor uh that's called the Fifty Fruits of Pride. Fifty. Ways that pride can show up in your life. I encourage you to read it. It will be humbling. As it should be, because we all show lots of pride. Let's think of a few though. Low self-esteem and inferiority complex. How is this an evidence of pride? Because the quote that so commonly I say, others say is, boy, I really wish I could measure up. Then I could feel okay about myself. And that's pride. Competitiveness In the information booth, we've got more copies of the Freedom of Self-Forgetfulness, which is what I thought of, and if you don't have a copy of that yet, you should grab one. Why is competitiveness a problem? This is a quote from that booklet. And this is Keller quoting Lewis. Pride is the pleasure of having more than the next person. Pride is the pleasure of being more than. The next person. Competitiveness. People who are critical or judgmental or simply think of themselves as insightful. Well, you know what internally, do I say to myself, this never happens with me by the way. Um I that was clearly sarcastic if you didn't pick it up. Um Well, uh I have the wisdom here, and so let me tell you my wisdom and enlighten you so that you'll know what I know. On a different plane. Christians who give little time or effort towards reading the word and praying. How's that an evidence of pride? Well, it reveals that I think I already know what I need to know, so I don't read the word. And I also think I have all the strength that I need to do what I want to do. And so I don't pray. Instead, I live independently and think that's okay. I give very little different topic service of Christ, nor do I witness of Christ, or very little. Well, because uh life's actually about me, isn't it? Don't you think so? I think so. And so if life's about me, then I don't primarily think about and PD will help you think I think about this next week about being sent ones, but that I don't primarily think about my life. My family life, the way I spend my time, my money, my energy, my prayers, my relationships, I don't primarily think about my life as a missionary. I primarily think about that my life is well it's well it's about me and to feel good about myself. That's what my life is about. But of course, that's pride. That self-glory, that self-focus, to nothing from selfish ambition or conceit What about conversation? How do you see? We thought about one way that conversation evidences pride. Another way is that the conversation always ends up, wow, it just ends up always coming back to me. I end up dominating conversations. Again, this never happens with Matt. So I stay away from this. It's dangerous. I dominate conversations because everyone should hear my wisdom. Or I can just kind of keep that to myself and be critical inside of my head and say, well, I'm holding back from talking. But I still have the wrong heart. Proud heart. That's a few ways If we repent of our pride because we've heard God's call to humility, when will we know that humility has begun to reign? So let's think a second about understanding the proof. Let's understand the proof of humility. The proof is interpersonal. Look with me at the second part of verse 3 and into verse 4. Second part of verse 3. But in humility. So not nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but strong adversity, right? What's the opposite? What's it supposed to look like? What are we shooting for? What are we supposed to seek? But in humility. Well, what does that look like? What does humility look like? Count others more significant than yourselves Humility looks like being radically other centered. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, we do that naturally. We're always going to look to our own interests. but also not just to your own interests, but also to the interests of others. We'll come back in a minute to think about how you can have a heart for this, to have an interest in others. The proof of humility is interpersonal. Much of our pride reveals itself in relationship or lack thereof, actually, for some people A heart attitude of humility causes us to focus on others instead of only on ourselves. We show that we've answered the call to humility by choosing consciously to serve others. without expectation of admiration. We just serve them for their sake. We don't serve them to get something out of it for ourselves. We just serve them for their sake. Well, how does that happen? How does anybody do that? Given how difficult it is. Well, I think the first step is to own our incompetence. See, we you reside in an area that I think is particularly dangerous. People come to this area, they work the jobs that you all do because they are hypercompetent. I was just in a conversation last night. Somebody graduated University of Maryland. Their grades weren't great. They couldn't get a job in this area. Why? Because they were not hypercompetent. They had to go get a job in a less desirable area. This area focuses on being competent. The gospel says you are incompetent. And so it's at war with the very culture that you live in, that you believe in, that you were raised in, that you likely raised your own children in, and even the way that you think about church. It's all around competence and the gospel says you're incompetent. I am incompetent. They're at war with each other. Paul 2 Corinthians 3, 1 through 6, great passage. It's what I typically preach when the a new minister is being ordained. Paul, Apostle Paul says, We are not sufficient in ourselves. John 15, 1 through 5. Jesus talking about the vine and the branches. He kind of gets to the punchline in verse 5, and he's like, apart from me, you can do some things. You can live a lot of life apart from me. It's just fine. You'll be great. Is that what it says? In the spiritual realm, apart from me, you can do wonder We even say it softly because we don't like it. We're allergic to it. We're actually repulsed by it. We're like Okay, I mean that's what it says. But we don't embrace it, we don't rejoice in it, we don't grab a hold of it. Instead, we hold fast to our pride. And to our competency. And it's a great danger, friends. It's a great danger How does somebody end up like this? That they look to other people's interests for their sake? You know, that's the heart behind sharing the gospel with somebody. That I get to focus off myself and how nervous I feel, and they think I'm like a radical or whatever, and I just love them And humbly speak the word of grace to them. I focus on them, not on me The only way this happens is if we desperately rely on the Holy Spirit. That's the only way that humility can reign But boy, you gotta fight for that. You have to seek it We have to be enticed towards this because pride is what's natural, it's what's admired, it's even sought in a broken world. I was listening to I like to listen to sermons and pastors and preach the week I preach them to hear how other people put it. One uh pastor that I've listened to hundreds of times I listened to him on this passage, and he said, humility wasn't even a virtue in the ancient world. Ha! Humility is not even a virtue here. We're not the ancient world. God here shows you though how to seek it. And while mortified, killing pride so that humility might reign requires effort. The primary effort That it requires is asking the Holy Spirit to show you where am I proud that I might repent of it in all its forms in my life every day. Ask the Holy Spirit to show you and expect that He will and expect that you will be surprised. When I read that 50 Fruits of Pride the first time. There was one area among those that I had never even pondered in my entire life. There were quite a number that were absolutely present that I was well aware of, and that others had sought to acquaint me with. But there was one that I had never even pondered. And it had been a problem my entire Christian life Ask Holy Spirit to show you where pride is present, to give you the courage to repent. Seek humility, independence on the spirit, heart and word and action. Well, what's the motivation for seeking humility? Because we're in a glory war, we have to. The lust for our own glory is so strong, it's got to be replaced by much greater glory that satisfies. And that's what we're taught here: is where's the greater glory that I can attach my heart to? That's not my own glory. And so we seek humility via amazement. Maybe you've heard this quote from Robert Murray McShane, Puritan pastor many years ago. He said, For every look at yourself, take ten looks at Christ. For every look at yourself, take ten looks at Christ. And that's really so the problem that God's trying to solve in the Philippian church, and he does it through uh Holy Spirit inspiring the Apostle Paul to write these words. The problem is pride. The answer is humility. How do we get there? We get there through amazement about Christ. And what we get here is really a gospel sandwich. So verse 1 and then verses 5 through 11 kind of give you a gospel sandwich around, if you will, the middle of the Oreo about seeking humility. So verse 1, if there's any encouragement. Where? In Christ. Any encouragement from being included in Christ, any comfort from the love of God, any another marvelous phrase here. Any participation in the Spirit. That's a really neat, neat way of expressing this, that the Holy Spirit comes and changes our hearts and then stays. Though he's not like a flipper, right? You know, a house flipper comes in, does his work, leaves, you discover later all the shoddy work after you've bought the house. That's not the way the Holy Spirit works. He comes in, he changes our heart and regeneration and the new birth, and then he stays. That's our hope. That he stays, takes up residence. So that we can rely on him. It's the way Paul puts it, it's any participation in the Spirit. A wonderful phrase. Any affection from God, any sympathy that you sense from God. So, Gospel Sandwich, so verse 1, go down to verses 5 through 11. Think about Jesus. Why would you have the interests of others at stake? Well, this minds that you ought to have among yourselves. It's yours in Christ. And what did Christ do? What was Christ's life like? Here it is, verse 6. Who though he was in the form of God, this is Paul trying to talk about this God, man, 100% God, 100% man, difficult to even put into words, but here we go. He was in the form of God, he did not equal He did not count equality with God. That's the 100% God. A thing to be grasped, to be held on to exclusively. He let it go. He chose to go, as you'll see, down. He emptied himself. He goes down. One of the congregants I had in West Seattle, as she was growing into this, she said, ah, I've got the phrase that helps me understand what this is all about. And I'll share her phrase with you. Put yourself on the shelf. Put yourself on the shelf. Not in the exalted place, but in the empty place. Because this is what Christ does. He goes down, he empties himself. How does he do that? By taking the form of a servant. Down to servant. Being born, the incarnation of Christ. Why in the likeness of men? He goes down. And being found in human form, he humbles himself. He goes down by becoming obedient to the point of death. Down. Even. Even death on a cross. Down. Jesus goes down, down, down. And this is what we have a hard time doing, isn't it? It's going down. Of simply serving. And this is meant to draw us as we see our Savior and what He has done for us, that we go, Oh, my Savior did it for me, I can do it for others. That's the movement of the Christian's heart. Because Jesus went down, therefore God now Jesus goes up, so this is if you did J. Curve, right? You're seeing J. Curve here, right? So God's highly exalted him. He goes up and bestowed on the name up that is the name above every name. So that the name of Jesus he goes even further up, every knee should bow on heaven and earth up and under the earth up and every tongue confess. The end of time that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So the way this is supposed to work That you repent of pride, you seek humility, is that you look at Jesus and you look at what he did for people like me and people like you, and you go. Jesus, you did it. Holy Spirit, you live within me. Enable me to do the same. It's not more complex than that. It's simple. It's not simplistic because pride is insidious. And it hides and lies. The only way this kind of lifestyle is possible is if we're in a minute-by-minute amazement of God. We need to seek to be in awe of him as a creator and sustainer, stunningly grateful for the grace that we've received and are receiving because of Jesus and his work for me. That's the only way this works. It's also one of the reasons that we're given the table We're given the table so that your amazement would be renewed. The table is an opportunity, the Lord's table is an opportunity to stop focusing on yourself. And instead to focus with sober joy upon Christ and all that the table is meant by God to communicate to you. Here you see the depths to which Christ came down to serve you. And in response, he asks you to humble yourself and to serve others. The table is meant to refuel your amazement. And it can't but humble you if you'll let it. If you'll let it. Let's pray that that would be the case for all of us. Father, you know well all the many ways that pride manifests itself in my life. Holy Spirit, continue to show me my pride. That I would turn from it. And I would humble myself in amazement. Because of Jesus. And I pray the same thing from my friends here. Those who are listening online, people who may listen to this years from now. O Father. Help us to see the danger of our pride. Holy Spirit, reveal it to us and enable us to turn from it to kill it. That we might serve those around us. Help us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.