And how can I get your attention after singing heaven of the wonderful place and thinking about the math book there? Appreciate that, Sandy. That's good. Let me also uh add a word to uh what Sandy said about uh Carl Deutschbach being here. I myself uh met Carl Deutschbach uh between I believe it was his time in Ethiopia and the time he And uh I really enjoyed just that very brief time we had together and I would have very much liked to have had more time to have gotten a no crawl a bit more. So I hope that uh if you get that opportunity that uh you can stick around today, um grab a cup of tea or coffee and be able to say hi to Paul who'll be up here. There'll be another opportunity also during that uh time of refreshment after today so you'll have to choose or divide your time but uh we wanna at least give this opportunity. Let's have probably you just put up your hands so people see what to look for. See you know, someone looks like me around here, you know. And uh look for the two handsome guys with the beards, you know One of them's Carl. I don't care who the other one is. Thanks. Have you ever been in a situation where you had a Christian chair some plan or some decision of theirs that they had made. And you're a bit dubious about the wisdom of it. And so you listen to them for a while and then you ask, uh, why are you going to do this? And you get a response An answer which ends all discussions. God told me to do it. God spoke to me. And you try to find out what what that means and you find out the person told why I had some impression. about the Holy Spirit speaking to them. So perhaps they would claim some sort of a vision. Or perhaps they would say that God spoke to me through some experience that I just can't explain to you. I just feel that this is God's will. I feel that the Holy Spirit has spoken to me to direct me in this way. And you find that as you try to raise some questions, Some pros and cons about whether this is a good course of action or a bad course of action. If you find you're coming up against a brick wall for the simple reason that God has spoken to them, and that's finance. You can't do anything. Anything that's going to shape that conviction that even though it's not in Scripture, and it's something very personal, and it's something that may to you be very questionable, they're sure that God has spoken. How do we deal with that? That kind of leading as Christians. Is it a valid way for us to proceed, to say I have this deep feeling, a deep sense of peace about going in a particular direction that the scripture doesn't speak to positively or negatively? And I simply determined that. God has spoken to me and therefore I will proceed. Let me read to you one verse of scripture that I believe bears directly on this matter of guidance. It's in Proverbs chapter 12, verse 15. So take a look if you haven't already turned there and get your bulletin outline out so that you can follow along with this. Proverbs chapter twelve. I'm just going to read this one verse because I want folks to focus our attention from this one verse. one of those proverbs that uh is independent pretty much of the context, and so we just need to look at that one verse, Proverbs twelve, verse fifteen. The way of a fool seems right to him. And a wise man listens to advice. Now, did you ever think of that verse as the principles for determining God's will? There are many principles in Scripture for determining God's will. God's will. Many have talked about different facets of it, but I believe that this is one of the most neglected today. We've talked about three what I believe are neglected principles of the God's will in this series. Remember, we started out a couple weeks ago with the very first principle, seek to know the word. We talked there from 1 Kings chapter 13 about the importance of looking at the alternatives of the way that you could go and then seeing if any of them alternatives violate any verse or principle of scripture. And if they do, then that will cut out immediately no matter who is advocating it. No matter how much, how great their spiritual stature. No the word so thoroughly that you're sensitive to whether a principle of vi or scripture is violated and what you want to do. It's that map of that Sandy was just talking about. Know the master. Know where to go. Know that map so thoroughly that you know if you're getting lost at any point. The second principle we talked about last week was to seek to please the Lord. Remember we talked about from Ephesians 5. The two principles. First principle. Does anybody remember what was the first one we call? What was the first one? Consistent so much for that one. What is it? Consistent godliness, right. Whereby you Do what you know the scripture has said in order to find out what's pleasing to the Lord. And then you add to that the second principle I'm afraid to ask, but I'll whisk my neck anyway. The second principle of what kind of godliness? Hey, you're more. A graph of God in it, whereby you seize every opportunity that you see to serve Christ. And you take that opportunity. So that through that Paul says you will not be foolish, but you will be wise, understanding what the will of the Lord is. is, as you're seeking to please him, he will sensitize you as he unravels his will to you step by step. After last week's message, somebody came up to me since here in the congregation and they said, Well that's fine, but what do you do about the person who who thinks that they have an understanding of Scripture, and then they'll get some particular verse out of Scripture, and that verse will give them a deep impression of the direction that they believe God wants them to go. And they're trying to please the Lord the best they know. They have a deep impression about a direction that they want to go. And when you try to raise questions about that, they say God has directed them. God's spoken to them. That's the end of the matter. How do you speak to that? I said, come back next week, change the series, go to Adam. I hope you're here. Gloria. There's somebody. You know who you are, and I hope you're here because that is exactly what we need to do with them. What do you do with a person who says that I believe, I understand privately God's will. and therefore I don't need to discuss it with anyone. God has directed me to the third principle we have here is to seek godly advice. To seek godly advice. What the fool seems right to him. And a wise man listens to his vice. I want to break that down into three subpoints. If the will of God is only safely known, I underline that safely, that there is safety. In following these three principles about Proverbs twelve fifteen, the Word of God is only faithfully known, first of all in community, secondly by confirmation, and thirdly by the teachables. First of all, then the Word of God is only faithfully known in community. I believe that one of the greatest plagues of the modern church is the fact that there are so many people who have no meaningful fellowship, no regular involvement or attendance. at a local church. There are no small group Bible studies. They don't have any particular close association with any Christian. And yet you ask them about their personal relationship with Jesus Christ, they'll face fine, couldn't be better. I have a great relationship with the Lord. I know he's my Savior. He leads me. He directs me. And all the emphasis is on their private relationship with God. It seems to have very little if anything to do with any other people. So they're not in community. They have no sense of community. They have no sense of need of being with a covenant community of God's people. It's all private. The Proverbs 1215 says that a fool, the way of a fool seems right to him. But a wise man listens to advice. So advice must be given in the context of community. The four you see is the person who says, I don't need others. I've got a private relationship with Jesus Christ. rights. The fool is the one who says that relationships may be a hindrance to my upward mobility in my careers. For I may have to move frequently, I may have to do things that will contradict being able to have close relationships. And that's more important. And so I don't want to get too attached to people. I don't want to become too involved. I hate obligations. You see, I have my plans. And I know what I want to do and I don't want to feel tied down by anyone else. I don't want to feel tied down by commitments. And so these kinds of people call themselves Christians, but they move on the periphery of Christian groups. They visit, but they don't stay too long. You get next to them and you find out they'll talk about spiritual things very freely. But then when you try to get them involved in a small group or in some sort of accountability structure, immediately they're gone. Because they believe that their relationship Jesus on their own is sufficient. They don't need community and they don't need advice. Now I must say that one of the greatest delights of my ministry here at Columbia Presbyterian through these seven years has been to see people So to have that kind of a framework that is certainly uh reinforced and reestablished by everything in our culture, particularly a lot of the Christian TV and Christian media, uh that will sort of feed this idea. that you can watch, you can spectate, and you can grow like that on your own without the hindrance of other kinds of commitments. To see people who come in to our fellowship with that kind of review, and they're ready to move on after a couple of years. That's been their whole lifestyle. And to find out that they say, I have found a community here. I have found here something different. I have found here people who care for one another. I have found here people who reach out and they learn to hold me accountable. And they've helped me in my Christian life. And what a thrill it's been to hear time after time from people saying, I think I'm going to settle down here. I think I want to make this my community. I think I want to put down some roots in my life here. And I'm not saying God can't move me on, a Christian never has that option. But I want to stay until I sense God has moved me, and that's not only determined by me, but also with the community. I don't just come walking in one day and I announce to the people that are in my fellowship, but God has spoken to me to move on. But that we deal with that together. So to see people who have come from the mentality of me and you to a mentality of we. Because community is really a mindset, isn't it? It's a mindset that I belong to these people. And they belong to me. And we're helping each other to grow in Jesus Christ. And in order to follow Christ, I need you. I have something that perhaps I can offer to you by the Holy Spirit. And I want to take that a step further in this, to allege to you that God's will is determined in community. God's will is safely determined. Do you ever think about how the Apostle Paul was called to be a missionary? So could he uh read in his quiet part one day out there in Arabia and somehow God just spoke to him and said, I want you to go off to Asia and all these other parts to be a missionary? missionary? Was it a deepening impression that he had? A feeling that grew on him by the Holy Spirit? Was it vision that he saw? Was it something like that? Take a look at Acts chapter thirteen. Take a look. Acts chapter thirteen. In Acts chapter 13, the first verse or two describes the church there at Antioch. From the church at Antioch, there were prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon called Niger, Lucius the Cyrene, Minaeans, who had been brought up with her, etcetera, and Saul. Racially, ethnically, culturally. While they were worshiping the Lord in fast, things, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. Well it's interesting to me you don't even have the Holy Spirit here speaking Saul Barnabas. Who's he speaking to? He's speaking to the community. And so after they had fasted and prayed, they placed their hands on them and they sent them off. And the two of them sent on their way by the Holy Spirit to Jeremiah. And said to be there just like this. How is the leading of the Holy Spirit made evidence in Saul's life, Paul's life, Barnabas's life? It was through the community. on us to send you to this work. And so our church discourages anyone from ever going into some occupational Christian work or even to seminary or their own. We say if you have that kind of aspiration, come into the community. Let us test your gifts. Let us put you through some training. And let the community then send you to what you're going to do. It's why we have the internship program. Why we have a couple of people who are testing their gifts and you see them from time to time doing that. Getting into an elder training program. Because the community determines in a large portion the major functions, the major decisions of a person who's part of that community for God's will for their life. There's a tremendous Security of that. And you're part of a real functioning community. But many Christians are missing this. Do you ever stop to think that if Paul had stayed off in Arabia and had never gotten involved in that fellowship, he might never become a missionary and written what he did for us in the New Testament? Thank God couldn't have happened. I mean, you know, God planned about his gonna we are nothing. But look at it from the human side. Paul became the missionary that he was because he was in a community. Because he associated himself and committed himself to be accountable to a group of Christians. And that's how God called Paul to be initiative. I believe that there are many people today who are missing God's best for them because they refused to be part of the community. They're very off the walls from one idea to another idea. And after five, ten, fifteen years they wonder why their lives aren't turning off of Jesus. And they become disillusioned. They may even become very critical of the Christians who don't support But they have never submitted themselves to a community with God to direct their lives. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes. The wiser seeks advice in the community. The second point of this is that the will of God is known, safely known, by confirmation. Confirmation of others in that community. Just getting a little more specific now. Where the fool seems right to him. A wise man listens for confirmation of his way by advice. He listens to advice. You see, if you are thinking of something that God is doing uh leading In some particular direction, or you have a significant decision to make. But I believe that God's purpose, God's normal way for you, is for you to have that way confirmed by others in the Church of Christ. Not to simply do what you say. But to have confirmation in it and refusal to do that can be disastrous. There was a couple who were very involved in their local church, had a rich ministry in that church. God was using them in some exciting ways. But they went to some uh evangelists meetings. There was a revival going on in their town. But they went up after the meetings and the revivalists was having prayer with some people and he prayed with them and in his prayer he prophesied that God was going to call them to be missionaries in the Mid East. You know what their response was? The next day, the fellow put his house up for sale, resigned from his job, said to his family, God's called us to be missionaries in the Mid East. He went to his pastor, the wife went to the pastor. In tears, saying, Why is God doing this? Everything seemed to be so fruitful here. I love our church and our community, and God's giving me a ministry here. And now my husband's uprooting this whole thing because this revival has said God's calling to be a missionary in the East, and he's content. that's God's will. But he never sought confirmation from his own community. Except he tried everything to dissuade them. And ultimately they left. They were disappointed that those who were in their congregation They were spiritual enough to also agree with God's will. That they alone, on the basis of one prayer of one man who has never seen them before, prayed in their life. Because that was that they left, they sold their house, he quit his job. turned down by every mission boy. They never did go to the Mid East, but they became very disillusioned and cynical about Christianity. Because they had violated Proverbs 1215. That wasn't inevitable. Why did that happen? Why did God allow that to happen? God says that the way of the fool seems right to him. But a wise man listens to advice, listens to confirmation of the way that he thinks the the right way to go, ready to listen to whether there's confirmation or lack of confirmation. And I can give you a number of other examples of Christians who have determined in their minds to go a direction and they refuse to have that confirmed. So they went off in a way that proves disastrous in future years. I think that the idea of being part of a community looking for confirmation is something that goes beyond simply our being in a community and willing to listen to us. It's a mentality that says it matters to me that I have your understanding and that I have your confirmation in my life, somebody particularly that I respect as a Christian. I believe that the Mormon Luther that God calls to stand apart from all Of his peers, and even Martin Luther did have those that agreed with him and confirmed him. But a man who we may look at as standing against the whole tide, and we sometimes like to think of ourselves in that romantic context, that gives me a certain spiritual stature, but I stand against the whole tide. whole time, I know God's will. That is a very, very rare person. And I think it's very presumptuous to think that we can violate Proverbs twelve fifteen and not have consequences. To give me serious And sometimes disastrous. I think of a dear friend of mine, a pastor in the ministry, some of you know, part of a community, but he believed that God had revealed to him some truth that none of the rest of us saw. We pleaded with him. for months. Look at the scriptures. Understand this. Why is it that if you're saying that so clear in scripture that only you say it? The result was with that that he said our entire denomination was wrong was violating scripture for apostom that he now has the only true church in the state of Mary that he says exist. So that couldn't be possible. The Proverbs 12:15 says the way of the foolish is right in his own eyes. The wise man listens and is very cautious in godly counsel, directs him in other way than what is in his own. See God, I believe, wants to direct us in using one another in our lives. Proverbs fifteen, verse twenty-two says But with many advisors they succeed. Looking for a number of people who may give certain a sentence saying, Well, I I I understand that. I I don't see anything that that seems to contradict some principle of scripture, maybe the that I have forgotten, but that you remember, that bears on this? You need a number of people. Proverbs twenty four, verse six. For waging war you need guidance. And for victories, many advisors. What a spiritual warfare. That's the matter warfare, you need guidance. So if you're going to have victory, you need people to advise you. You don't just go off on your own. Finally, the third principle is that the world God is safely known by the teachable, by those who are in community, by those who seek confirmation, and by those who are teachable in getting that confirmation. Again the verse says, The way of the fool seems right to him, but a wise man listens to advice. See we've taken that verse and we've rewritten that verse so that we may consider who's the way the way of the way the way of Of who is right in his own eyes. The way of whom is right in his own eyes. So our culture now says it's the way of the person who is spiritually mature, close enough walking with God, that he's able to discern. God's will without any help from anyone else, thank you. He's able to walk so close to God that God leads him through his own quiet mind. He's self-sufficient. So God's able to direct his own life through his own sensitized feelings and antenna that have been. tuned in to the Holy Spirit. But what does God say about the person whose way is bright in his own eyes, apart from others? Proverbs 1215 says that's full. It doesn't say that's spiritually intuitive. And that guy's a No. Says the bad person isn't teachable. Because the wise man listens. They're not always agreeing with the advice. We are ultimately responsible for what we do before God. And there have been times when in our session has cautioned somebody from the direction that they're taking. But we can't give you scripture that says this is wrong. And so maybe you're right. And we will pray for you as you go through this. But our counsel is to go very cautiously. Because there's something about it that just doesn't seem like the way of wisdom to us. And since we can't give you scripture, it contradicts what you're doing. Okay. And every Christian's got to decide in those kinds of situations. But you do know in your own heart whether you're teachable. You do know, for instance, by whether you have ever changed your mind by listening to someone else. What's your track record? How many times have you been going in one direction and then God has spoken, you feel that you have been uh following the Lord's will, and you have tried to check that out with other Christians. And they have cautioned you. They said, I really think that that's a wrong direction to go. And you've heard two and then two And you said, you know, even though it's not a black and white issue, I'm going to stop because I respect the counsel of my brothers and sisters. Have you ever done that? See if you've never done that, then you may have to ask yourself, what do I Willing to listen and then say when I listen to you, but I'll just keep right on going and I can say, But I listen. Are you willing to change? I think one of the most dramatic examples of that that I know of was in the life of Billy Graham. Did you ever hear of how Billy Graham got into his radio and TV? ministry. It was back in 1950. Big Rand had been conducting crusades for a few years. And since Los Angeles they had been very, very successful. And his name was a very popular name back then. He had been on radio, they had never been on Netflix. with radio, of course TV was just beginning to come in. One day he was uh between crusades and he was visiting with a pastor in New Jersey. And the fellow was sensitive to Billy's knees and he said, I think you need some time off. Then we just take the afternoon walking around Ocean City. And so they drove the children down to Ocean City, New Jersey, and went into a diner for lunch. While they were sitting in the diner there for lunch, this fellow walked up, who's who looked at Billy Graham, and the eyes got that big, and he said But he said in the last week, God has laid on my heart a tremendously deep conviction that you should be on network radio, that your message should be going across the airways of this country. And he said, I was thinking about that and I was so concerned about that as I was praying for you this morning that I couldn't work and I decided I'd just come down to this diner in order to just distract myself and rest a little bit before I go back to work. And here you are. And he said, Surely that must And what did you do with it? Of course, this fellow was taking Billy to the diner says, Does this often happen to you? Usually they come in for problems, but he said, This is a little different, but it's not easy. And Billy Grant said, I have absolutely Absolutely no interest in that her greeting. We don't have the money for it, I don't have the interest in it, I don't see that it's a priority in my life, but it's of absolutely no interest. Thank you very much. It's all that I'm gonna pray that God will convince you of this because until he didn't have the math. One week later, he was in Northern Michigan. He was up there for a crusade and two men came to see him. One was uh Walter Bennett, who had his own advertising agency in Chicago. The other was a fellow by the name of Fred Dyer. Who is his associate in Philadelphia? These two fellas came to Billy and he said, that pastor you talked to in New Jersey is our pastor. And we are convinced also that it's God's will for you to be on network radio. We can see tremendous potential of this. message is the gospel of Christ. Now you're gonna remember this back in eighteen fifty, this wasn't your ways weren't flooded with this stuff. So we see a tremendous potential for you to preach Christ on network radio. We'd really like to persuade you to be willing to do this. I have no interest in doing it. I am not going that direction. You're wasting your time. That was the end of the matter. One week later, they visited him in Montreal, North Carolina, and it's home. They knocked on the door. He said, You guys are really persistent. They call on in, they said, We want to show you again why we believe God's leading in this direction. They said down, Billy listened to them. He said, no, I'm still not interested. So weeks they testered him with phone calls, telegrams, every opportunity they could see of them. Listen. Understand why we think this is God directing them in this way. Now you've got to understand, Bill's not inquired them all this way. He doesn't see anything in scripture that's led it in this way. All he has are three men who say that they are trying to walk with God and have a deep impression they ought to do this. So the question here is is Billy willing to consider it. That's the only reason. There are a lot of the stuff you see will be circumstantial in this, but the one thing is was he willing to consider it. They finally challenged him on it. They said, Are you willing to do this in order to know God's will? Then he stopped and said, No, I'm not sure I have it. So let's pray then. And they prayed. He really said, I believe that if God really wants us to do this, it's so significant that He'll make it absolutely clear in some way that this is what He wants us to do. And so He prayed and he yielded his will to the Lord and He said, Lord, I'm willing to do this. If this is what you want us to do, show us in some convinced. anyway that this is the way you want us to go. So they got up after that fair meeting. And Billy was so concerned about this that the uh well another factor in this is they had found out that they could use they could do seven weeks for a ninety two thousand dollars. The boy Billy laughed at that. He said, I I can't even conceive of ninety two thousand dollars just back in eighteen fifty. So they said, Well now we found out that you'll take twenty five thousand down and seven thousand a week after that. So if you can get the 25,000 maybe can get the rest by people hearing you on the radio. You see the booming. That lady had a crusade. But in that crusade, let me quote to you what he said to the people. He said, I want all of you to pray for me tonight. I'll tell you why. For the past few weeks, two men from back east have been following me all around the country with the idea that I ought to go on a radio network every Sunday and preach God's message to the whole country. Now these are fine men, good Christian men, and they feel that this program is God's will. God's plan for me and my ministry for Him. Now I haven't been very favorable towards this idea since it first came up. The main problem is that it cost a lot of money, much more than I have. But if I ever did have that much money, I'm not sure I'd spend it on a radio program. Now the question would faced here with is what is God's will. Don't worry, I'm not going to ask you for money. But I am going to ask you for your prayers. I'm going to ask you to pray for me tonight, asking God to let me know what He wants me to do. That's all he said. Come on. That night after the crusade, we went back to the office. And there were always, you know, the uh offerings that were given to the crusade. But there was a separate box there that night, and in that box there were all kinds of slips of paper and checks. And they all had notations on it for the Billy Grant Radio Ministry. They counted it up and it added up to twenty-three thousand five hundred dollars. But Bennett and Binar came in and they said, That's it. God couldn't be any clearer. There it is. We'll give you the other fifteen hundred. So they said, No, you can give me the other fifteen hundred. So we prayed for twenty five thousand. If God wants it, God will have to do it. So they followed us home that night, still arguing. That is absolutely insane. You can't get I got home that night and Doug said, Look, fellas, I've been talking to you for a long time, I want to go home when I'm tired. I want to go in. He stamped the door, he picked up his mail. Well, and just as they were saying goodnight to him, he opened the first envelope, and near the envelope was a letter from a farmer in Oregon. The farmer said, I couldn't make your crusade because I'm too far from it. But I'm enclosing a check for one thousand dollars for what I hope will become someday the military. Now that stopped it. 24,500. The next two envelopes he opened were each a check for $250 for his ministry. Bilogram said, okay, fellas, come on in. You got a lot to do. And that was the beginning of the Bill Graham Radio and TV ministry. Now, apart from all the questions of signs and circumstances and how God leads to that. And I included that because I don't rule out that God can lead us through some special circumstances. The point that I want you to see is the willingness to listen to godly counsel. This one is going one direction. And he had no interest in that. Then he said, I am willing to listen to godly counsel. And as a result of that, he changed his priorities, not for what he wanted to do, but because he sensed that God was directing his life, that he was willing. The second question is for you and for me, are you willing for God to lead your life, to change you, to turn you around, do the counsel of other godly Christians who will have input into your life as you submit that, the first two messages, to Scripture. That's the important thing. But you see, I think the root problem for us is that we have this privatized idea of determining God's will on our own, and that's based on our need to achieve. To achieve on my own the difficult I have in receiving from other people. And the real problem at the very bottom is pride. It's the pride, the need to show off that God leads me independently, that God speaks to me. That God Direct my life. And that makes me feel more important when I believe that God has spoken to me. Does it feel that temptation? That sense of spirit spiritual exaltation that comes in your own life when you believe that God has spoken to. See what Proverbs says? Chapter 14, verse 12 says that that is the very attitude of the person outside of Christ. The Proverbs 13, 12 says there's a way that seems right to a man, it's right in his own eyes. But in the end, it leads to death. You see, if you the direct direction that you were taking in your life had not listened to somebody as they shared with you the gospel of Christ, The way that you were going would have led you to death. But God directed your life through his word, and in most cases, through others, you shared Christ with you. And if you heard that, you stopped going your own way. You stopped in your pride saying, I know how to run my life, I know how to direct my life, and you stopped. And you said, I've got to listen. I've got to pay attention. And as you listened, you humbled yourself. to change your direction. That's repentance. And you came to Jesus Christ. If there's somebody here today who's never done that, Proverbs 1412 says, the way that you think is right will lead you to death. Jesus Christ alone offers you life. But you've got to humble yourself and you've got to say, the way in my own eyes, my understanding of how to live, is wrong. I'm willing to give that up. I'm willing to follow Jesus Christ. I'm willing to confess my sin to him. I'm willing for him alone because of what he did on the cross in the sacrifice of himself to take that sin and to release me. To free me, to give me life. out of my death. And once he does that, he turns you around and he leads you into community. He leads you to himself and you develop, as you understand your simple heart, a healthy distrust for your own judgment, a healthy distrust for your own feelings, and you know that you can be sure of something and yet be absolutely wrong. And so you're willing to follow scripture in Christ. And you realize you're dependent on Him. And therefore you're willing to be dependent in some measure on the community, for God to direct your life through that. He'll humble you by showing you that you're not sufficient to yourself, as He's done to me so many times. In fact that very series was not my idea, it was Jerry Boss's idea. Suggested it to me some time before he left to preach a series on God's will and tried to persuade me why that would be right. And I agreed with him. We have to be willing to listen to one another, because we realize that we're not complete in ourselves. But our trust in the Lord Jesus Christ needs a humbling of ourselves and a dependence on him and willingness to be guided, receiving data from his people. And so some will follow up by those three principles that we talked about. The three tests of God. Will. First of all, the test of the word. Does it violate any verse or principle of scripture? Secondly, the test of the willingness. Does it unfold out of a consistent godliness and an aggressive godliness? Wanting to please him and taking the opportunities that you see. Very currently does it flow, and is it consistent with the wisdom of godly advice? Are there any mature Christians who are warning, denying And a warning is against this direction. Am I willing to follow Christ and be directed by him in the way that he feels? Because my life's not my own. It belongs to him. So I want to be not foolish. wise understanding what the will of the Lord is in my flesh back.