An area of primary practical concern to Christians is the question, how can I know the will of God for my life? The question that comes up again and again and again. It's amazing, in fact, if you stop to notice. How much of our prayer is taken up with just that question? A very proportion of our prayer deals with this question of how to know the will of God. Lord, show me your will and discuss. matter. Lord, lead me which way you want me to go. Don't have to think of how much of your praying is along those lines. Lord, show me whether I should make this phone call, whether it's going to help Or whether it's going to hinder me. So show me whether I should accept that invitation to serve on that committee. Then is that going to be a distraction or is it going to be something that will really help? Or show me whether I should lead that Bible study. They take a lot of time and preparation and step around and say, You want me to do that order? Is that just my own thoughts? Lord, uh, you know this job is really getting me down. And there's a lot of tension. I I don't I'd like to change. Should I try to change God? Should I seek to leave with God? Should I try to get out of the tension? Or what do you want me to just stick it out where I am and teach me something new? to do in this situation. Well Lord, here I am going along and no big problems, but bonus God offer comes to me. And that would involve our moving from Columbia, moving our family, moving our church. I switched ministry and all kinds of things that I can't perceive that you know about. Lord, should I take that job or should I turn it down? What do you want me to do? Lord, lead me. Lord, show me where you want me to go. Your word doesn't tell me, John and Jones. So what do you want them to do? Well that what about the land situation for us as a church? Show us where you want to have us to build. Lord, show us what facility you want for us to have. Lord, show us what you want us to do for our Sunday evenings in the fall. What will be the best use of our time in building up the Saints. And in our call together as a congregation, what do you want us to do with Sundays in the fall? Lord, show us who you want to be elders and deacons from this congregation. Show us as a sacrifice. Show them that you're calling them to serve in this capacity. How much of our prayer is taken up with, Lord, show me your will. Lord, lead me in this direction. Show me which alternatives I should do. choose. In my own case, I've become recently somewhat frustrated, I guess would be the best word, with how much time I spend on presbyterial and denominational committees. As I've begun to think about that use of my time, I've asked myself, is this just a selfish irritation with the fact that I'm sitting out a lot and it doesn't seem like any personal return particularly on it? Is that simply a selfish attitude? Or is it the Holy Spirit prompting me to re examine priorities in where I should be spending my time. How do I decide that kind of question? How do I know if the Lord wants me specifically, for instance, to resign or to not stand for re election when I Presberial Committee for Home Missions. Valuable committee. Does a lot of church planting work. We have three or four new works just beginning now, just have started up in the last couple of months. But they take a lot of time. Now, how do I know whether God is leading me to stay on that and to invest in that, or whether he's saying get out of that. How do you determine God's will? These three weeks now comparing to be able to study on that. Obviously it's Three weeks will not be at all merely an exhaustive study or a complete study on principles of how to determine the will of God. But I also figure that most of you have read something or heard something on this topic and said this is not the first teaching you've ever heard on it. What I would like to do in our three weeks together on this is I would like to focus on three principles that I believe are the three that I see most neglected by people that I've counseled with who are seeking to turn the will of God for their life. So there's a deal with three things that I've I believe we need to seek for if we're to try to determine the will of God that will for His that He has for our lives that's not revealed explicitly in some verse of Scripture. But when we're asking a question we're not Sure, what the scripture speaks to, we're not sure just what to do. Have we determined to know what God's will is? And the first thing we deal with today is to seek to know the word. The first thing to seek is to seek to know the word. And to demonstrate and illustrate what I mean by that, what I want to do is to select I've selected a somewhat mysterious and intriguing story of the man of God. Now, I don't know how many of you have had your fire time in 1 Corinthians 13 recently, but I imagine that this story is probably not very familiar to a number of you. And so turn to 1 Corinthians 13. What did I say? Corinthians. I'm still back in my series on love, sorry. First King. I wonder why you're giving me that strange note. First King, 13. Okay? 1 Kings 13. See, it's been a while since I had my quiet crown there, too, and I don't even say the word. 1 Kings 13. It's there, you know, Samuel spin between Samuel and Chronicle, and you'll find it there uh in the uh little third of your Old Testament. First Kings thirteen. The first verse of that says, By the word of the Lord came a man of God. And I want to remind you as we read this, because we're reading the word of God. This reading of Scripture is not a preliminary to the message. It's the most important part of the message. And because the section is probably not familiar to a number of you, follow particularly closely as we read this story. So that you'll be familiar with it as I draw from it the principles that will help us in understanding the will of God for our own lives. So, 1 Kings chapter 13, first 25 verses, I'm going to read it. By the word of the Lord, a man of God came. From Judah to Bethel, as Jeroboam was standing by the altar to make an offering. He cried out against the altar by the word of the Lord, O altar, altar, this is what the Lord says. A son named Josiah will be born. To the house of David. And of you he will sacrifice the priests of the high places who now make offerings here, and human bones will be burned on you. That same day, the man of God gave a sign. This is the sign that the world is not the same. The Lord has declared. The altar will be split apart, and the ashes of it will be poured out. And when King Jeroboam heard that the man of God cried out against the altar of Bethel, he stretched out his hand from the altar and he said, But the head that he stretched out toward the man shriveled up, so that he could not pull it back. Also the altar was split apart with ashes poured out according to the song given by the man of God, by the word of the Lord. Then the king said to the man of God, Intercede with the Lord your God and pray for me that my hand may be restored. And so the man of God intercedeth with the Lord. And the king's hand was. Restored and became as it was before. The king said to the man of God, Come home with me and have something to eat, and I will give you a gift. But the man of God answered the king. Even if you were to give me half your possessions, I would not go with you. Nor would I eat bread or drink water here. For I was commanded by the word of the Lord, you must not eat bread or drink water. And so it took another earth, and did not return by the way that he had come to Bethel. Then there was a certain old prophet living in Bethel, whose son came and told him all that the man of God had done here that there. They also told their father what he had said to the king. And their father asked him, which way did he go? And his sons showed him which way the man of God whom Judah had taken. And so he said to his sons, part of the bounty for him. And when they had saddled the bounty for him, he mounted it and broke at the man of God. He bent him sit him under an oak tree and asked, Are you the man of God who came from Judah? I am, he replied. And so the prophet said to him, Come home with me and eat. The man of God said, I cannot turn back and go with you, nor can I eat bread or drink water with you in this place. I have been told by the word of the Lord, you must not eat bread or drink water there. Or return by the way you came. The old prophet answered, I too am a prophet, as you are. And the angel said to me by the word of the Lord, Bring him back with you to your house, so that he may eat bread. And drink water. But he was lying to them. And so the man of God returned with him, and he ate and drank in his house. While they were sitting at the table, The word of the Lord came to the old prophet who had brought him back. And he cried out to the man of God who had come from Judah, This is what the Lord says. You have defied the word of the Lord. And have not kept the commands the Lord your God gave you. You came back and ate bread and drank water in the place where he told you not to eat or drink. And therefore your Body will not be buried in the tomb of your father. When the man of God had finished eating and drinking, the Prophet who had brought him back saddled around before. And as he went on his way, And his body was thrown down on the road with both the donkey and the lion standing beside him. So people who passed by saw the body thrown Down there, with the lion standing beside the body, for they only reported it in the city where the old prophet lived. Thus ends the reading of God's word. Now let's consider some of the things from this strange story. First of all, I want you to notice four stages of this story. The obedience, the deception, the choice, and the judgment. First of all, remember the historical background. Notice that. You see, this is the time just after King Solomon had reigned. The kingdom has been divided. Solomon's son Renobam is ruling the two southern tribes. The rebel king Jeroboam has taken the Ten northern tribes to himself, and he has divided the kingdom. And it didn't take long for Jeroboam to realize that if the ten northern tribes had to keep going down to Jerusalem to worship, that their alliance, their allegiance to him, it And they would soon be reunited with the two southern tribes. And so for pure political expediency, he made an utter revolution, an utter transformation of the worship of God. He established two rival worship centers in Dan and Bethel. And in doing that, Jeroboam led the people in a rejection of the very covenant of God. For God had him indicated the place where he had revealed himself through the ark, through the table of the law that God had revealed to his people. And God said, this is the place you're to worship him. You don't just choose how where you'll worship. There's only one place you can worship it. It is here at the temple in Jerusalem. And so the rejection of that by Jeroboam and those who followed him was an utter rejection of all the promises and the covenants and the command of God. And it's uh Jericho himself is leading worship at Bethel, then God sends this man whose name was never given, an anonymous man of God, up from Judah, to warn them and to prophesy the coming judgment if they can. Continue to ignore the word of God. You see that repeated again and again in the story. The word of the Lord, the word of God. And so this man comes up, a brave man, comes right up to that altar, while the king himself is conducting the Lord's kingdom Hagan. He cries out against the altar of judgment and says that sometime in the future, as it turns out, literally fulfilled, about 350 years later, he the name of the king, was going to lay judgment upon that altar. And just Grand Bom, of course, doesn't appreciate that message. It sort of interrupts his worship service there. And so he immediately cries out, season, arrested. And in doing that, stretching his hand forward, God didn't exist. The authority of that man of thought and his hand shrivels up. And he can't even pull it back. It's paralyzed. And the hand itself withers. And then that king which has so arrogantly commanded the moment. before now humbly retreats the man of God, entreat your God to heal my hand. And amazingly the man of God does it. He prays for it, and the hand is restored. And as a result of that, and And the almond cell splitter is a sign of the fact that God Himself has spoken in this situation. Peter Paul says, Hey, what I'd like to talk to you a little more. Come on back to my house for dinner. I have a nice meal there where I want to give you. something. A very tensile offer from the King of Ten Tribes. Power at his favor always is very tempted, isn't it? And yet, this is a man of conviction. A man not unlike Caliph that we studied just recently. And he has a choice before him now. Should I go back with the king or should I go home? But fortunately for him, he has an explicit command of God. You see it there in verse 9. I was commanded by the word of the Lord, you must not eat bread, or drink water, or return by the way that she came. Apparently, Bethel was put under the ban of God. That's that Bethel is so wretched. It is so turned against me that for you to even eat a meal of fellowship there would be to condone what's going on there. You must not do it. And so his answer is very, very clear. You see it there in verse 8. But even if you were to give me half your possessions, not such a gift, you gave me half your kingdom, I was not going to ignore what I eat bread or drink water to watch, because God has given me a word, and that word can be. must be broken. So he takes off. So far, so good. They need to understand and appreciate what's going on so far in order to understand and appreciate what's going to come. This is a matter of conviction. Man who follows the word of God. What happens? But then there's this old prophet that Lucif said that. Well, this old prophet apparently had not spoken out against the sin yet. Clearly, he had gone along with it, he had conquered. compromised himself to some degree. No doubt he rationalized the compromise as being that which would enable him to be more effective in his culture. And so he stayed in his liberal church so that he would be more effective. in reaching the people there at Tecka. But in fact, it has silence and his prophetic witness coming. One step led to another and he had compromised down the line. But now he hears this man of God coming, and perhaps he stripped in his heart when he hears this man of God Doing what he knows he should have been doing. And he comes to fellowship with this fellow. Now why? We're not telling why. Perhaps it's to soothe his conscience. To believe that if this man of God will come and have a fellowship meal with me, Then that shows that I'm really an okay guy. Whenever we feel guilty about something, association with godly people is so selfish so assuring to our self-esteem. Maybe if I can get somebody who's godly To agree with me, then that'll help me to sad my own conscience. So this prophet is determined to get this man of God to come back and have a meal with him. And he chases him. He goes after him. And he catches him in a rope. rest. Touches at a little stop there where the man of God is relaxing for a few minutes. You see that in verse 13. And then in verse 15 he issues to him the same limitation that Joe Baldwin issue, only without the gift. Just go back and eat with it. In verse 16 and 17, the man of God gives him the same answer that he gave to Jeroboam. I cannot turn back and go back with you. Nor can I eat bread and drink water with you in this place. I've been told by the word of the Lord, you must not eat bread and drink water here. Or return by the way of the So far so good. But now we come to the crucial point. Now, he goes on. And notice the prophet's answer. No prophet says, Ah, but I too am a prophet. Just like you. And you see, this angel came to me. Nevertheless, this nevertheless, but God spoke to me. You see, and and God came to me with this private vision and this dream and God came to me. And you know what he said? God said, well, I've got a message that superseed with that word of God came to that man of God. I have another message. And this will cancels out the other one. The message is bring him back with you to your house so that he may eat bread and drink water. Now, the man of God has the one of heaven. Which one are you going to believe? Here is an Strong evangelical leader. This guy's not just a believer. He's an evangelical minister, and he's saying, wait a minute. No matter what that may seem to mean to you from the Word of God, I have another message. And this message is a deeper insight as to what the will of God really is for your life. And so which is he going to follow? The explicit word of God given to him. There's a powerful and personal insight of this evangelical leader. But you say, but this guy's got a radio ministry. He speaks all over the country, and hundreds and thousands of people listen to him and they affirmed that the Spirit of God has anointed his ministry and he's on television now. And it's like speaks all over. Clearly God is upon him. They say, but this guy has seminars and hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands have been blessed by God in coming to this seminar. And sure there's some things that I may question of I already saying that he's been so right so many times that surely he must be right in this case also. He's got a good track record. And so surely we can follow what he says. Even though maybe there's some questions we have about his interpretation of scripture. He's been so insightful so many times. You think it's another That'd be horrible, isn't it? What are you going to do? Which one are you going to believe? Very contemporary kind of issue, isn't it? But what does he do? So we read in verse 19 what he did. Verse 13 says, So the man of God returned with him, and he ate and drank in his house. He said, I'll take that private revelation, I'll take that personal vision, I'll take that word of that evangelical leader. over what the Word of God said to me. It was clear and plain and simple. And it went back. So they were even there at the table. God uses the lying prophet himself. Uh to speak the true word of God in chastening and judgment upon this man who has been so gracious and so faithful to Lord as hours before. Because and he simply says, Your body. is not going to return to the tombs of your father. Culturally that translated means you're going to die a violent death away from the home and your body will never be brought home. Until you re heard the story. Leaves from the meals. And a lion eats him on the roof. And mauls him and kills him. And just indicates that it's a supernatural thing, the lion doesn't heat him. Or the donkey, but guards the two of them. And so all the people of the dependence walk past. And they see that dead illustration, which becomes an elitive example to them, of the fact that you do not question the word of God. And you never take any leaders trying to take you away. what the Word of God says. When the word is clear, let no man ever with personal insight seem to change his interpretation to give you further contemporary understanding. God's Word stands. Bethel desperately needed that message. Bethel was trying to take the word of God and trying to update it in translating and contextualizing it into Dan and Bethel's worship areas. But God's word has a stand. And so we draw from this, I suggest, three lessons for our own lives. Number one, we see this on the back of the bulletin. Number one, we need to see that the same God speaks in salvation and direction. You see, God has said salvation is in Jerusalem. Salvation is that you go down to the temple and worship them there. And that was God's promise that he Judah. And the little Was typified by that altar and by the temple and all that was in it. God was going to send his own distinct, unique provision to sin. And that was a promise that led up to the person of Jesus. And so God's word says there is salvation. In one person, Jesus. You don't ever turn or bend or somehow try to make that mean anything except exactly what it means. There is only one way for you and for me to get forgiveness for our sins. It is to go to the person. And if you this morning have never gone to the person of Jesus Christ, you have to have your deepest needs met, your deepest sorrows met, your your sin and your gift taken away. There is no other way, it isn't Jesus plus. It isn't Jesus for only those that have heard of Jesus and the rest have some other way. It is only Jesus. And God's word is absolutely clear on that. And if you turn from that, you turn to your own death. In the name of Jesus Christ, uniquely to come to him. Whatever you need this morning, come to Jesus Christ and He will meet it. I declare that on the authority of the Word of God. Because Jesus said, Come to me. All you who labor in are heaven. related and I will give you rest. But what I need to notice further here is that it is the same God who declares that word of salvation, who also declares the word of direction for your daily minutes. You see, you cannot say but I love John 3. 16 and I love to claim those promises. But you know the precepts are set up constraining. They're restrictive. They said when I read the Ten Commandments and I read those other things that God says, this is what I have to do. Well, I look at those things and I say, Well, yeah, but I just gotta hang on to the promises. And God's forgiving, you'll understand. You see, God had his own servant here killed. So that you would not we see that it's never a light thing to turn from the Word of God. Even to me that might seem rather severe, rather harsh. Doesn't say lost his salvation, doesn't say he wasn't a man of God anymore. God took him to himself. And his life was shortened. And his effectiveness was cut off. Because of one thing, he chose to follow a man rather than the word of God. And so you and I must never separate, never divide God's promises. From his precepts. If we claim the promises, we must follow the precepts in order to know his will. And you see, the crucial point of that is to realize that the vast majority of the little God for your life is already revealed. You don't have to pray and ask for some special revelation to get the vast majority of the will of God for your life. God has already said to go and make disciples of all nations. He's already said to not be unequally oaked, and therefore the Christians are to marry only Christians. He's already said that the Ten Commandments are the rule for our living. He's given us the book of Proverbs to dial us in relationships, the book of James. to help us in many practical situations. The vast majority of the word of of the will of God is already given in the Word of God. And until you begin by seeking and saturating your mind with the Word of God, And save your breath and from the will of God. It's not separated from that. God must first give you the principles and the precepts of his word in order for you to have the tools to show that you really want to follow. His will as you apply that in situations that are not revealed by his word. The second lesson is to see that Scripture is as personal to you as the word of the Lord was to the man of God. You read that four or five times here. The word of the Lord, the word of God, again and again. And the temptation is for you and for me to say, Yeah, but you see, you can't really do all that because I mean God spoke to him. Yeah, I mean God told him, show he dare, come back. You know, God hasn't given me that. I mean He hasn't said, you know, don't go to Colombia or don't leave Columbia. Yeah, I wish God had just come right out and say it. That's all I need. But God hasn't done that. Well, don't ever think that the Word of God was proof. Personal to him, but it's impersonal to you. The word of God is just as personal to you as it was to that man. Just as personal to you as his God Himself spoke it on. Did you ever stop to think that God had you in mind when he had the authors of Scripture put these things down. There is not a single verse in all of Scripture that is written without you in mind when the omniscient Eternal God, who is not subject to time, wrote those things down. God never came and wrote something down and said, Oh my goodness, I forgot John. You know, it really doesn't apply to his situation, but you know, I guess he's gonna have to figure it out for himself. Everything here takes all of this into account. And it be personal. You can take those promises and you can put your name in the verses. You can take those commandments and you can insert your notes at the beginning of those commandments that are given to you to follow Jesus. And besides what he has, you and I have the full revelation of God, and we have the Holy Spirit to help us to understand that word and to apply that word in our immediate situations. It's on how much more fortunate we are than this man. And therefore more accountable. The part of the third thing is to remember that the wholesome of this isn't the first principle that I wanted the three principles for us to understand. The very first principle in any tough decision is to ask yourself the question, does any alternative violate that's literally the word violate, but I'd be easy to figure that out. Does any alternative violate any verse Or principles of Scripture. Does any of the alternatives that I'm thinking about violate any verse or any principle of Scripture? No matter how I feel about it, no matter How many people are doing it? No matter what the evangelical leaders are advocating it, does it in fact violate any verse or principle of Scripture? That's the very first question we ask. on to all the other things. See you from exactly. A woman comes to me and she says, I'm praying about ways to divorce my husband. And I say, What does the scripture say? We don't divorce by something that we're given in 1 Corinthians chapter 7. First Corinthians 7, taken in conjunction with other verses, teaches that if you have two Christians together, those two Christians can be reconciled, those two Christians go for counseling until one of Two faiths must happen. Either they become reconciled and learn to live together in a deeper love than they ever had before, symptomatic love of Jesus Christ, or one of them leaves the faith and leaves his partner. two things gonna happen. And then a delicate situation with a Christian and a non Christian that are married together. And if you have that kind of situation, first Corinthians absolutely clear, if the non Christian partner will live as a Christian, you continue to live together. And pray that God will use your life to bring that person to Christ. If that person leaves your heart down, in that case there can be divorce. But the scripture gives us principles on that. And so when you have a person, two Christians Living together, two Christians who are married, and one pray about whether to divorce the other. We have a Christian who's married to a nine Christian, the nine person is willing to live and stay with the Christian, but the Christians pray about whether to divorce and leave the other Christians. have a violation of this absolutely basic principle that you see here in 1 Corinthians, 1 Kings 13. And that is, does anything in Scripture speak, does the word of God speak to that situation? Well another thing that I hear a lot tonight. People living together outside of marriage. But they say, but we're different. Every single case I've talked to, they said, We're different. Talk to one fella who had been going with this girl and they slept together one night and he said, you know, he said, I found out after that night that I really was married to her in my heart. Oh that was an interesting revelation. A day before we talked you weren't married to her and you were wondering where we'd even continue to go with her. Now all of a sudden you discover that you're married to her in your heart. And there have been a lot of problems in that relationship since my class. I heard of a fella who was uh involved in the whole ministry with a church. A young housewife came in for some counsel to see the pastor. And this fella began to beatless. She had some deep problems. in her marriage, including physical abuse. And this one of the man is counsel with her. And as he counseled with her, he came to the revelation that God has never ordained that marriage. And that God's will for her is to leave that rascal. And went off and married him. But it was also absolutely tragic. He didn't work. He lost his ministry. Eventually he went back into drugs. She was eventually reconciled to her husband. husband, but in that deep scars on that marriage and on her walk in Christ. The Word of God directs us. And we can never take some revelation, some insight from some other person. to supersede that. No special cases. That had usually denied or gave the word. Another example that I hear often is that people will say, I know that I've made this contract, but I believe that God's leading me out of it. And what they really mean is it's kind of inconvenient to live up to my promise now. And I don't feel like doing what I promise to do at some other time. But you know, Proverbs 15. 4 says that a disciple of Jesus is a person who when they give their promise and it hurts will still keep it. That's a very helpful verse. Because it tells you in me by the revealed word of God that if I have given a promise, a contract, or a pledge to do something to a certain point, that I am obligated to keep that, God will not leave me out of that. Non less it's a cynical situation. Until you've got some directives you see. You've got some principles there. By the way, that's also uh some insights to make sure that your promises had a termination point, unless you want to keep going for the rest of your life like marriage. But if it's not that, you've got to set up determination on it so it's clear what you're actually committing yourself to. Because God leads our lives through these things. Well in my own case I look back and I say, well how do I apply this to whether I should provide in the whole mission screen? And I say, I look at the principles of the way of God and it teaches me the churches in God independence, to be in our fellowship with other churches and other brothers and sisters of Christ. And God has it to be joined together with a bondage that are responsible for one another. And so even though pragmatically it may seem to me that I would be much better spending my time by just building up Columbia Presbyterian. That God has called me as a disciple of Him to serve in situations that also will serve other congregations and other churches who would You may never see any personal benefits. Well that doesn't solve what I have to do, but it's a principle from the Word of God. It gives me some direction, it gives me some pause to say I better not too quickly go by my feelings. What is it in your life this morning? What is it in any of the choices, the alternatives, the decisions that you're seeking to make? When you find that you're compelled by your feelings, by some personal positive things like this, by some slow impressions that you've had. That are totally separated from the Word of God and may tempt you to downplay its authority in your life. How well do you know the Scripture? Have you spent that time reading it and understanding its prayer? So that when you come to those decisions, then you've got to be them that has been forming your thinking so that you understand how the principles and the verses of scripture bear on that decision. You can't just ask for God's will out of the moon. What is it for you, for me? But this means, as all of us are seeking in many places in our lives this morning to know, God, what do you want me to do? Jesus Christ, He brought you to Himself by saying I am your Lord. Lots of direct your life as you seek it in his word. First our God, I I just I don't know the hearts of these people. I have enough trouble knowing my own heart. But as we all are seeking various areas of our lives, some of them just kind of uh daily, rather small decisions. that will have very significant consequences on our lives. Major changes. So we pray. We pray by the power of your spirit and in the name of Jesus. That you would speak to your people. Speak to us, Lord. We're a people who don't want to go by our feelings and want to have somebody else tell us what to do. We love it if a as an old prophet will tell us, I had a I had an angel or a A vision that told me this is what you should do with your life. Lord, you have called us to be mature. By your spirit to know your word and respond. Make us a people of the word, Lord. Make us a people People who love your word, who don't divide its promises from its precepts, who who don't see it as impersonal, but cherish it as very personal and for us, living to directness day by day. You would work in us, for each one of us here, whatever those decisions are, whatever the perplexity, whatever the confusion, whatever the turmoil going on in each life. So that you would speak to that by your work. That you would comfort and that you would direct. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.