Mullen and the Mullins were worshiping with us in the first service. Uh are are you still here? Okay. I don't see a hands raised up. But I look forward to Reverend Mullen bringing us a message from Genesis, I believe, next week and then from John, Gospels, the Gospel of John the following week. And so pray for uh for Reverend Mullen, pray for Alan and Kathy, and uh I'm sure that in Northern Ireland somewhere there's a message on Ephesians that has already been uh proclaimed. Praise God. Evan, uh thank you. Um Dana and I shared the privilege of being able to pick Evan and Catherine, his wife and their daughter Karis up from the airport Friday. and then spend the afternoon with them. Um one of the things uh about the airport that you all probably are already aware of, and I am reminded of painfully every time I go is the uh the metal detector. And if you're anything like me, um I'm always about arriving at the airport about a minute between five minutes and one minute before the plane is supposed to touch down. And that's how it was Friday again. And so Dana dropped me off at the door and I ran in. Um thinking I'm just gonna run on down the um uh gate there and and pick 'em up and you have to go through that metal detector. And I had a belt buckle on as I normally do and it beep Please sir, can you go back through? Beep I think it's the belt buckle, you know. Then you get that embarrassing mail scan, lane three. And so you go over and you lift your arms and they turn around and poop it's the belt buckle. They frisk your socks just to make sure. And then let you go And it's uh quite humiliating. Um, you know, you you're not pay taking a bomb or anything, but you've been called attention to and and uh and called to the side Well what if I were to tell you that uh the Evangelical Research Association, top scientists were able to identify and now have the technology that they have created a hypocrisy detector You walk through, and if there is any self-righteousness or hint of hypocrisy within your spirit, boop Alarm goes off, we walk back through. By this time the congregation looks at you and they call an elder over, mail scan, well And good news, CPC has ordered two and they'll be installed at those two entrances by next Sunday. High attendance Sunday next week? Shall we call for? Obviously. Um kind of a scary thought. And obviously that doesn't exist, boys and girls We don't need one. You know why? Because God has given us his word. He's given us his word and his spirit And it's sharper than any double-edged sword, able to separate and divide our soul from our spirit and discern the motives of our heart And I believe that our text for today can do just that. The Lord teaches in parables. You know, when I grew up and and I I hope you don't have this mis impression that I I long labored under. that the parables were taught in some university setting with white shirts and uh barely audible professor with barely um awake students and And droning and monotone dialogue. I don't think that was the case at all. When Christ taught these parables, they were so rich and so filled, the characters So pointed and concise to point out exactly what the Lord would have the crowd particularly gathered there that day by his sovereignty than what they needed to hear. And I believe that's the case. And Luke records that for us. Listen to Luke 18, 9-14 And he spoke this parable with some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and one a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself: God, I thank you, but I am not like other men, extortioners. unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector here For I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I receive And then the tax collector, standing afar off, would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven, but he beat upon his breast and he said, God Be merciful to me, a sinner. Jesus concludes. He says, I tell you the truth. This man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled. And everyone who humbles himself will be exalted. I think it's very clear that the message intended for that crowd that day was not specific and only for them. And that's why it's been recorded on the pages of Scripture for us to see. One of the main purposes for Jesus speaking this parable, Luke lays out This is good for um exegeting scripture and and preparing a sermon and and and preaching on because I don't have to figure out some mysterious meaning behind this text. I simply go to what the Bible says it's there for. And it's therefore to teach all those who trust in themselves that they are righteous and who despise others. I believe that Jesus wants to confront the smug self-righteousness within each of our hearts. And I trust that he can do that. It's interesting that those two things seem to be linked, the self-righteous and the self-conceited Because if you think about it, if you were to set yourself up before a holy God that you could achieve the standard of righteousness that He is pleased with then by consequence you would necessarily have to despise your peers down here on earth. And I believe that's why those two are linked together by our Lord. And hopefully we'll see that today. We would do well to remember the words of James in chapter four of his letter. God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Therefore, he says in verse ten, humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up. Precious promises. Recall also the words of the Apostle John in his first letter. John, 1 John 1, verse 8. If we claim that we have no sin, then we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not found in us. See, when God works his truth in our lives in such a way that we honestly understand that we are spiritually dead and alienated from our Maker. Then it simply sets the stage for reconciliation through Christ Thus, the title, if you will, for today's sermon: Self-Deceiving Pharisee or Severely Honest Sinner. I hope that that question is something that you're currently working on in your Christian walk. I think it's entry-level Christianity. It's what you need to know to get in. And it's postgraduate Christianity because it's how you live. As a believer, as someone who's following Christ, Jesus tells us that at the end of the day, only one of these men went to his house justified. So I think it's imperative for us then to take a look at these two men. That's what I'd like to do is is compare them. on three points. Their confidence before God, their opinion of themselves, and their opinion of others. And hopefully we can see, maybe, that the Lord is uh telling us something as well. First, the Pharisees, confidence before God, obviously trusting in his own righteousness. But it might not seem like that at first, because he begins, Lord, I thank thee. So it seems that he's attributing to God some manner of thanksgiving and recognition that there's something at work there But he soon quickly begins to tout himself. And so it becomes very clear in just a short space of time that he's trusting in his own righteous acts. And he's trying to obligate God to show him favor because of those righteous acts. I thank thee, trying to obligate God. He seems to give God the credit and then he begins to list all his own accomplishments, trusting that somehow God will justify him. Listen to John Calvin on this very point. The Pharisee is not blamed on the ground of claiming for himself what belongs to God. But he is blamed because he trusts to his works that God will be reconciled to him because he deserves it. That's the heart of the Pharisee. The tax collector, on the other hand, is well aware of where he stands before God And how he stands before God is on the basis of the righteousness of another, provided by grace. It's clear when you look at the text what a beautiful thing God has given us, a precise language where the text actually teaches The tax collector stands afar off, and he says this phrase, Be merciful to me, God. I'm a sinner. The phrase there literally translated is be propitiated to me. It's in the passive voice, which means the tax collector is recognizing there's nothing. That I can do. Absolutely nothing that I can do And the word that Christ uses, be propitiated to me, it simply should call to our attention the fact that this tax collector realizes That he is dead in his sins. And unless God does something, he will remain so And so he has nothing else to do but to plead for the mercy of a holy and just and loving God. This phrase, be propitiated to me, or propitiation unto me, is used one other time in the New Testament Hebrews 2 and verse 17. I'd like to read from verse 14, and if you would just listen or turn there if you if you want. Hebrews 2 Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, that's us, we're creatures. We have flesh, we have blood He himself, Christ, likewise shared in the same, that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death. That is, the devil And he might release those who, through fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. That's us. Death, our greatest enemy, looms ever before us, and the bondage to sin is ever so great. And And Christ came in the flesh as we are, so that he could do what we could not. For indeed, listen, the writer of Hebrews continues, get ready to smile and rejoice. He does not give aid to the angels, but he does give aid to the seed of Abraham. Therefore, in all things he had to be made like his brethren, that he might be a merciful and a faithful high priest. In the things pertaining to God to make propitiation for the sins of the people Now, if you paid as much attention in Sunday school as I did, maybe you need a reminder on what propitiation means as well. It is that word that so neatly sums up what it means to be. Reconciled to a deity. A deity who is angry at sin. A deity who is angry with the wicked every day. A deity who is just and will not let sin go unpunished. And propitiation is the word that sums up what it means that someone Who is who can please that deity does so in such a way as to reconcile those two parties that are estranged from one another, that are alienated, that are separate. And that's what Christ has done for all his people. Praise be to God. Jesus Christ is both the sacrifice and the high priest sacrificing himself. And the tax collector recognizes this with the phrase he utters. He understands who God is, and he understands who he is And with a humble heart, he cries out for mercy. Lord, be merciful. Be propitiated to me, a sinner. Praise God. That is what Jesus has done for us. We were dead, unable to pull ourselves up by our bootstraps and get along with the business of following Christ, because dead men Don't know that they have boots on, much less bootstraps. We weren't aware of our condition until God graciously uncovered the gospel for us. Praise God. We should rejoice with the Apostle Paul when he wrote to the Romans in chapter five of that letter. Since we have now been justified by his blood, that blood shed for you, how much more shall we be saved from God's wrath through him? For if when we were God's enemies we were reconciled to him through the death of his son, how much more, having been reconciled now, shall we be saved through his life? And not only is this so, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. Let that sink in. Something that the tax collector, who stood afar off and beat upon his breast and cried out feebly Be propitiated unto me, a sinner, is answered completely in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Praise be to God. See, there's all kinds of moral people in this world. The Pharisee was one of them. And not only did he have this view of his confidence before God that was found in himself, but he also had a a a view Of himself that I think is very telling. His opinion of himself was that of self-justification. The Pharisee immediately launches into a list of his accomplishments. I fast twice a week. I give a tithe of all that I receive. In a nutshell, and again that's the beauty of the parables, in a nutshell, the Pharisee is saying, I do more than what the law requires. You're obligated, God, because I'm pretty good. Now, don't get offended by my next statement, but there's a bunch of good moral people All around this country, a large percentage of which are going to gather in Philadelphia for a convention this week. Who look to their own standard that they adequately and perfectly keep to be right before God when they stand before Him in judgment. You know, I'm not putting down any political party, but I think that it's my duty and obligation to condemn what Christ condemns, and that is a high view. Of a self that says, I can stand on my own before the presence of a holy God. Not possible You see, I I think the problem is that we don't have a correct view of our good works. Remember Isaiah speaking and telling us that our righteous acts are like filthy rags in God's sight? Tim Keller, a pastor who wrote the Gospel and the Heart curriculum that some of you have been through and um hopefully mu some of you will go through. Maybe you're currently in it, but uh He's written about the relationship between our works and justification, quote Tim Keller. The real difference between a Christian and a non-Christian is not their attitudes towards sin. Both the Christian and the non-Christian ordinarily acknowledge that they sin and need forgiveness. The difference is their attitude toward their good deeds. The Pharisee repents of sin, but the Christian repents of his or her righteousness as well. seeing it not only as insufficient, but sinful itself, since it was done in order to save ourselves without Christ. You see, this is what Romans chapter 4 and verse 5 is talking about, when Paul says, But to him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted to him as righteousness It's not that we're not to do good works. We are. We were created in Christ Jesus to do good works. But we're not to rely on our good works to find favor with God The publican knew this. The tax collector knew this. And he humbly self-condemned himself. Before God. He didn't offer anything to God for his approval. He had a sense that God already knew his heart, and he simply came with a severely honest view of himself. A miserable sinner in desperate need of mercy. Condemning himself in anticipation of God's just wrath poured out on him, he begged for mercy. Isn't that the beauty? Isn't that the beauty of crying out to God for salvation? In order to obtain favor with God, you must first freely and fully admit that you don't deserve it. That's the beauty of salvation. Not only did they have a confidence before God that we look at and Their opinion of themselves, but also their opinion of others, I think, is quite revealing. The Pharisee seeks to further obligate God to justify him by reminding God of the despicable element down here on earth, of which he does not happen to be a part of. The I um appreciate the uh prayers that some of you are offering up for me this week. I was struggling with a fever from uh about Sunday night through uh oh long about Friday morning right before we went to get the Pillsbury's at the airport. And um so I did it a lot of work at home, I did a lot of sleeping at home, I did a lot of uh moaning at home And uh one of the things I did though is uh and I don't recommend this, middle schoolers, high schoolers, this is not an exhortation to you, uh but I was flipping the channels, you know, laying there on the couch, fever ridden and feeling sorry for myself. And uh we don't have cable, so we only have six channels, so it's easy to get through fairly quickly. And uh the middle of the day I quite frankly need to reveal this also. There's nothing on TV, by the way. So if you work during the middle of the day, don't worry about it. There's I think that's probably why we're made to work during the day, there's nothing on TV Um and I'll prove that because I stumbled across a show called the Jerry Springer Show. Familiar with it? Okay, good. Um And it didn't take me too long before uh probably thirty or forty seconds of viewing the Derry Springer show before I Boy God, I thank you that I'm not like that guy. A and and you know, then it hit me. That red flag went up in front of my face. That's what the Pharisee prayed. That's what the Pharisee prayed, Tim. He looked down at what he thought was a potential guest on the Jerry Springer show and he said, Lord, thank you that I'm not that guy. I'm better than that. One of the things that I do a lot of times long before preaching this parable is assess my heart and how much I am relying on the grace of God. And it simply is that that when I see sin or encounter sin or sinners What comes out of my mouth or what does my heart think first? God, thank you that I'm not that guy. Or, oh my God. But for your grace, I'm that guy and worse. Oh God, but for your grace, my marriage would be gone But for your grace, God, I wouldn't have children. But for your grace, God, I wouldn't probably know you. And I think we need to remind ourselves with the catechism question we teach our kids. Who are your first parents? Adam and Eve. We do this with our kids. We we lived in a neighborhood in Georgia that had every race known to man on our street. And we'd say Kevin, who are your first parents, Adam and Eve? Who are Jeremy's first parents, Adam and Eve? How about David's first parents, Adam and Eve? Because we want to give them the truth. That we live on a level playing field, and we are all sinners in need of God's grace. You know, we'll we'll make comparisons about anything, won't we? I still haven't asked Steve permission, so I'm not gonna be able to give the illustration now either. I haven't asked Steve a permission, but I'll just give you the the crux of it, we'll compare stuff that we have no control over and still feel good or bad about it, won't we? Ask me and Steve about our laptops one day and then we'll tell you the illustration. Mine's back in Colorado at Compaq and Steve and Alan both have DVD drive and everything that works but Not going down that road. Well we we need to hear Paul's much overlooked phrase in Romans 3 verse 22. Be I love it. He says, for there's no difference. And you know twenty three. Uh For all have sinned and fall short of the glory that we were supposed to be giving to God. But the introduction to that verse is, For there is no difference. And that's what the tax collector understood. That's the heart that he had before God. See the Pharisee He begs for comparisons to take place because then he gets elevated. Maybe you've seen this, maybe you've experienced this, maybe you've done this. People in churches with the attitude that they've already arrived. They're completed. Why aren't you? They come in to worship or sell or middle hour class and they've got it all together. How come you don't? That's the Pharisee's heart. He says, I've already arrived. He would do well to be reminded as well of the Apostle Paul's letter to the Philippians, chapter 3, when he said Paul himself, not that I've considered myself to already have arrived, but I I press on, I strain forward. To reach that prize, to attain that goal, that God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. That's where we need to be. That's where our hearts need to be Listen, mom and dad, since I'm the family's pastor, let me do an instruction for you. Parents, if you want to give your children that soon-to-be-lost art of comparison Meet every time they sin with this question. What would the neighbors think about that? What are they going to say about that at church when they hear about this? Oh, if your grandparents only knew what you were doing You see how what that does is establish in their hearts the important standard is this one. The important standard is a standard that you concoct for yourself and you concoct for yourself and our family concocts for ourselves. And as long as we've meeting our standards and we can find others that aren't meeting theirs. We're happy. But mom and dad don't want to do that You want to point them to the standard of God's righteousness. Because in pointing them to that standard, what happens is they soon realize they're not the God kind of righteous. And they need someone to give them the God kind of righteousness. They need to cry out, be propitiated to me, O God, a sinner. Don't misunderstand me today. Young people, do not get me wrong. We are called to live lives that are above reproach before a watching world. But we can never make the watching world standard higher than the standard that God has set for us in His Word. The publican didn't look at all, I'm convinced. Didn't even raise his eyes I want us to get this point today, if we don't get in the others. The church is the only organization that in order to join You first have to stand up here and with a loud and clear voice publicly admit that you're a sinner. It's the only organization like that on earth. There is none other. So why should we be surprised when our members sin? My prayer, and I hope it's yours, is that CPC will uh be a a a safe harbor A place where we can deal honestly with our sin and live vulnerable lives before one another by God's grace Certainly not glorifying in the gory stuff that we did, but with discretion, um dealing with our sin the way God deals with our sin. Ask you a question. When you come to CPC, do you sometimes feel like everybody else has got it all together? And you don't? You don't have a clue? See, the tax collector could have lifted his eyes up. He could have glanced up when he heard the Pharisee praying And he could have noticed the good works that the Pharisee had done. And then the tax collector would have been guilty of a bad comparison too. Because he would have been comparing himself with a standard that was not God's standard for him. I believe because he didn't do that, he was able to pray the prayer that he prayed. Our Lord didn't come Didn't dwell on this earth, wasn't tempted in every way that we are, and yet never sinned, just to leave you in a state where You feel like you've got to put a mask on before you come to gathering of God's people. He lived the life that you and I could never live. He died the death that you and I deserved rightly to die. And he offers that to you and me As a gift of his free grace. That's the picture that Alan presented last week. As a loving husband sacrificing himself To adorn his bride and complete her, to bring her to fullness without blemish, without spot or wrinkle. That's what our Lord is doing for us. Jesus concludes the parable by telling us that the humble and contrite sinner was the one that went home justified. God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and everyone who humbles himself will be exalted. I want to give you uh and me an opportunity to respond to God's word. I was talking with Evan this week several times about the structure of the worship service and uh he suggested and I think it's great to do is to put our confession of sin uh here at the end as a response to God And I've got four offerings of confession that I'd like to read as we pray together. And then uh when you hear the leader say, Gracious Father, hear our prayer, if you would be so inclined I would invite you to pray with me, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Four offerings of confession, you'll hear, gracious Father, hear our prayer. And then if uh if it's your heart's prayer. uh then than uh respond with God be merciful to me a sinner. Let's pray together. Gracious God, we have rebelled against you, and we realize that we would never come to you on our own. Gracious Father, hear our prayer. God, be merciful to me, a sinner Gracious God, our hearts are prone to wander far from the way that you would have us to walk in. Gracious Father, hear our prayer. Gracious God, we have ignored your word and would rather trust our own wisdom for how our lives should be lived. Gracious Father, hear our prayer. Oh gracious God, we are ignorant, guilty, and weak. And we desperately need you to be our prophet, our great high priest, and our reigning king. Gracious Father, hear our prayer. Amen