There is a tension in the Christian faith that is vital to maintain, and I would submit that it is not the strength of evangelical American Christianity to do it. I'm talking about the tension between what I would call sense and mystery. By sense I mean that Christianity makes sense. It's not a flight into fancy. It's not the religion of the angels of the New Age or the God of the Internet forwards that we've talked about. God of the Hallmark card Christianity. Uh the things that make you feel good but somehow you feel is closer to the world of fairies than it is to the world of high-tech. Modern technology. Now, we also we must always maintain that Christianity is historical It happened. It's interesting to me that in Luke, when he tells about the birth of Messiah, includes the most discussion about angels And yet it is Luke who begins his gospel by saying, Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us, just as they were handed down to us by who those who were from the first eyewitnesses and servants of the word. Let's say I'm writing down what people actually saw happen Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, it seemed good also to me to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, so that you may know the certainty. of the things that you've been taught. In other words, Luke is saying the incarnation happened in history. If you were there in Bethlehem that night and you had a video camera, you could have videotaped God becoming man in the flesh, being born. You could have videotaped his miracles. You could have videotaped the resurrection. It happened. It happened in the same kind of history that we live in. Christianity is rational, it's true. It's not self-contradictory and it's not in conflict with reality. It's not, as Francis Schaefer used to say in the 60s and 70s, it's not an escape from reason to believe the gospel. But having said that, we must also maintain that there is much mystery to our faith. Francis Schaeffer also used to say, the Bible gives to us true truth, but not exhaustive truth. It doesn't tell us everything. Many things we wish we knew are not revealed to us. We don't understand how God can be three persons and yet one being. We don't understand how God in his wisdom and his love not only permits but ordains suffering. We don't understand many of the mysteries that seem to conflict in our experience with what God promises in His Word. In fact, uh these mysteries to expect to understand them would be like thinking that I could take a Dixie cup, I've used this illustration before, and put it at the base of Niagara Falls to contain the falls We simply would be overwhelmed with all the truths of who God is and what he's like. But we American evangelicals are not very good at bowing before the mysteries of the faith, are we? Seems like modern Protestant evangelicals so react to what has been perceived as an abuse and some of you from your Catholic backgrounds know that anything you didn't understand, you just said, well it's a mystery. Then you have to think about it Protestants react by saying, I gotta have an answer for everything. I want to be able to write it down, I want to understand it, I want to be able to grasp it, I want to have an answer. Because if I don't, maybe I feel threatened. that maybe it's not true because I don't have an answer for it. I still remember some years ago talking to a couple of girls who had grown up in our church at that point they were in their early twenties. And both of them had rejected the faith, grown up in CPC, at one point had professed their faith, were part of our body So each case they had finally decided I don't think it's true. And I was talking to them independently, to two totally separate occasions Talking to each one and I asked, what do you see that contributed to your loss of faith? And they talked about a number of different things. But what really got my attention was independently, without talking to each other, Two different occasions, they both said this. One of the things that really bothered us was that in growing up it seemed like Our parents and all the Christians we talked to always had an answer for everything. And it was a clear, dogmatic answer. This is what you ought to believe. This is what the Bible teaches. And I knew it wasn't as simple as that. So I thought they must be bluffing. Because I know they don't understand this. That's not a satisfying answer. And so if they're bluffing on that, maybe they're bluffing on some of the other stuff too. In fact, maybe they're bluffing on everything And unbelief began to grip me, and it grew and grew and grew. And they said, again, in their own separate ways, they said If we could have only maintained some of the mystery and acknowledged that, it would have helped us. That's what I want to deal with this morning, because I believe that Matthew chapter 1, in Matthew's account of the incarnation, you have a beautiful illustration of this balance of sense and mystery. Now if you have uh looked with any particular um studious care at the gospel accounts. You know there's two gospels that talk about the birth of Messiah, Matthew and Luke. If you've ever looked at those carefully You may have noticed that Luke records the birth of Jesus from Mary's perspective Matthew records the birth of Jesus from Joseph's perspective, and that makes a difference in what they cover and how they cover it. So, what I want to do this morning is I want to begin a three-part series, three messages on Matthew. And I want to deal with three mysteries. I want to deal with the mystery of the incarnation this morning. Next Sunday morning, Christmas Eve morning, I want to deal with the mystery of the magi. Who were those guys that came And then thirdly, on New Year's Eve morning, I want to deal with the mystery of the star. What was that star that they saw? Don't have final answers on it, but I think I have some things to offer that as I looked at it began to surprise me and was a bit different from what I had thought before. This morning I want to take a look at Matthew chapter one in verses eighteen to twenty-five. And I would like to Look at this incident as an illustration of the principle that I'm talking about and see how it applies to our lives in some very practical ways. Here's God's word. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ the Messiah came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph. But before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace He had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David Do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. Because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet. The Virgin will be with child And will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and took Mary home as his wife. But he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus. I want you to notice three things about this. First of all, you see in your bulletin outline there. Joseph's struggle. Verses 18 and 19. And then secondly, uh Notice the angel's revelation in verses 20 and 21, and then Joseph's peace, and how it involves both the elements of sense and mystery in the rest of the verses. So uh first of all notice Joseph's struggle that you see there in verses 18 and 19 His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. You've heard that story many times. If you're like me, you've wondered and imagined many times. When did she tell him? Where did she tell him? How did she tell him that she was pregnant? What the angel had said. Try to convince him that this really was not by another man, but by the Holy Spirit? Sure. You know, uh think of when I read that of a bee science fiction movie where the heroine comes in and says that uh she is really seen this alien monster, you know. She's trying to convince the people that she cares about. I really have seen this thing and you know and of course they always respond those things don't exist, you're crazy, you know, it's impossible. You're sitting and watching it and you want to shout at the screen, no, no, no, we saw it. It really is true. Believer, believer, you know, if you don't, you're going to be sorry, you know, and it's kind of how it goes all through the scene. But there's nobody to convince them You know, and so you watch her get all frustrated and nobody believes her. You ever think of how vulnerable Mary was? And she's trying to convince Joseph of something that's impossible. Never happened ever in all human history. You know he doesn't believe her. And nobody's there to tell him. There's nobody to protect her reputation. There's nobody to say, Joseph, she really is telling the truth. Rox Joseph's world, I'm sure, in at least two ways that I can think of when you look at it. First of all, there's the grief and the agony of the betrayal. The torture of Joseph thinking, My Mary, sweet Mary, has been in bed with another guy. And then there's also the disorientation of the deception of it. I remember when I was a young Christian, I dated a girl sweet Christian girl for about a year. And after a year of our dating, she told me that she felt like she needed to be honest, that she had slept with another boy before she had met me. And I remember that the next couple of days were a blur to me. Um I I never vary in my weight, which is Maybe some of you would envy that, but I doesn't seem to matter what I do. I just my weight number varies by more than a pound or two and I'm not telling you that to brag, I'm telling you that to make a point that the next two days, without changing anything of my diet, I lost ten pounds. I never had that before I felt disoriented. I felt like somebody had opened my eyes to see what the world was really like, and it was totally corrupt. You really couldn't believe or trust anybody. Because I felt like if I could be so misled by this person who I thought I knew, I probably really don't know anybody And everybody's a deceiver. I became very cynical for a couple of days. By God's grace, He brought me out of that to restoration, just in my grief, my disorientation. Actually We were reconciled in that. We never really were alienated. It was just something I was struggling with. And I forgave her. And we actually went on and dated for another year or so before we broke up for other reasons But how much worse it was for Joseph. They weren't just dating. They were betrothed. That means they had gone through the Jewish Kiddushin, where the two of them had come in a solemn declaration of vows to each other, of fidelity. Vows that bound them so closely, so so fully together that it would take divorce to break that relationship And yet they would not live together, they would not sleep together for probably about another year while the man went off to prepare a home for them to live. And then after a year, he would come back, and they would have what they called a hoopah. Which was a tremendous wedding celebration. Kinda like Jodia and Eric yesterday for those of us who were there, only it would have gone on for maybe three days So picture what some of us were doing yesterday, feasting and talking and singing and playing and having a great time. Bash for three days and then they'd be together to live together. And so it's during that period of time, the waiting, the anticipation, that he finds out Mary's been unfaithful. And so he struggles with this, tortured by it no doubt. And he has three options. One option is not to continue and just forgive her and get married, because, you see, it's not simply a matter of that she has been unfaithful and he could forgive her, be reconciled, and go on. She's lying. She's saying the Holy Spirit did this. So she's blaspheming. This is now someone who he feels he doesn't know. He can't go on with this. So that's not an option to him. Three options exist. Number one was from Deuteronomy chapter 22, verses 20 and 21. It said that if a girl was a virgin and they were engaged and she was unfaithful during that period of the betrothal That the men of the village would take her and stone her to death to rid the evil out of e out of Israel. There are also severe penalties for a man falsely accusing a girl. Nevertheless, that was one option, but it was rarely, if ever, practiced. Particularly in the time of Jesus. And so he probably doesn't consider that one for very long. But there is another option, a second one, which is a very real option. And that is for him to accuse her publicly and to bring her to trial. At the trial, her evident pregnancy would be established. She would be shamed. There would be a public divorce. She would be publicly humiliated and go off to have the baby for the loss of reputation alone. She's hurt him so bad. Doesn't she deserve to be humiliated? Joseph's struggling The third option is that he can call two or three witnesses in a very private ceremony. He can present Mary with a bill of divorcement. Two or three witnesses are there. There is no public shame. There is nothing but the legal ending of the relationship on the grounds of the infidelity. And she can go off and he goes off And nothing happens but the end of the relationship, it's up to her how she deals with the consequences. Joseph chose because verse nineteen says, Because Joseph her husband was a righteous man, he couldn't follow through marrying a woman who was blaspheming and lying, as well as unfaithful He did not want to expose her to public disgrace, so he couldn't take the option of either stoning or public divorce. He had in mind to divorce her quietly, so obviously the third option. But he's struggling with that. He's struggling with who is this woman? He's struggling with the torture of his own grief and sense of disorientation. And Mary has no advocate. So God steps in, and he becomes her advocate. The second point, the angel's revelation in verses 20 and 21. Joseph is sleeping, and after he considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. Now that's not a dream produced by what Joseph ate the night before dinner that night. It's a vision of an actual angel coming to appear and says, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit She will give birth to a son, and you were to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. So it's supernaturally revealed, and the message itself is supernatural. Because the message involves the Holy Spirit fathering a human child. That human child is given a name, Yeshua. That means Yahweh saves. And the reason is in itself strange, because you would have expected because he will save his people from the Romans He doesn't say that. He will save his people from their sins. And so this is a strange message But coming to the third point, Joseph's peace is established because whatever he can understand or not understand of that message, one thing is clear. Mary is telling the truth, and we can proceed from the Kiddishine to the hoopa with a clear conscience. I can still take her as my bride. She has not been unfaithful to me. Then the rest of the stuff about why his name's called Jesus And why the Holy Spirit fathered a child, a human child, and why that's necessary, and all the rest of all these questions that are raised, he doesn't understand. But what he does make sense out of is that God himself is saying, Joseph, she's telling the truth, and here's what you're to do. Very simple. And he's able to act on that. But with all the unanswered questions, God does not deluge Joseph with the Niagara Falls of information about incarnational theology poured into the Dixie Cup mind. that he has. So he acts on the angel's instruction in faith, and when the baby is born, he bows. In humble all at the mystery. The mystery of God having come in the flesh Now, I would submit to you that you and I need to learn from that principle and that lesson of the example of Joseph. Some basic ways that you and I deal with life. And let me give you a couple of examples. When you come to a passage like John chapter 6, for instance, and you see Jesus giving to you an invitation in verse 37. Where he says, Whoever comes to me, I will never drive away. It's very simple and straightforward. It makes sense. It says, if you realize that you're a sinner And did you need a savior? As we said last week, that what's going to save you is not releasing something inside of you You know, Kathy uh was in New York City this week with her class, said she saw the Christmas Carol by Dickens in Madison Square Garden She says it was an exact illustration of what you were talking about. After the end of the carol, they all sing the song about what is in us is so beautiful we just need to release it and just you know and there it is. And you know, that's the message. If you realize That you need a Savior outside of you to come. You come to Him and He says, I won't drive you away. Come. They said in verse 27, Do not work for the food that spoils, but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. Come. He says in verse forty, My Father's will is that everyone who looks to the Son and believes in him shall have eternal life. And I will raise him up at the last day. Come, see? It's an invitation. You're responsible. Come. However, look at the beginning of verse 37. Before Jesus says, Whoever comes to me, I will never drive away, he says, All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes, I will never drive away. Well, look at verse 44, where he says, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up at the last day. Verse 65, where he says, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless the Father has enabled him So now, what do you tell your kids or your friends or people in your family this holiday season when you talk about the gospel? Do you say? Come to Jesus. You're responsible. Confess your sin. Receive him. Believe on him. He'll change your life. Or do you say, why don't you hang around and see if the Father will draw you and see maybe if he'll give you faith to come? I mean, you know, it's not something you can do. You just gotta wait and see what happens You see, each statement makes sense. You put them together, and it's a mystery. The problem is, we evangelicals sometimes are so repulsed by mystery that we force sense where the Bible indicates we must hang on to the mystery. If you look at those two statements, come to me, and I will never drive you out. No one can come except the Father draws him, as if there are two cords hanging through the ceiling of this room, and this ceiling, and this room contains all that you and I are able to grasp. And you see those two statements. You and I want to try to tie them together somehow. And what the Bible wants us to see is that there's simply two ends To one cord that comes together above the ceiling in God's mind. And we will never make them come together in our mind. We hang on to the sense of each and do not try to make sense out of what remains mystery. And so we call people to respond to Christ. And we pray because we know the Spirit must give them the heart of repentance and faith to believe. We hang on to both. There's other illustrations. You take, for instance, what Joseph was dealing with. You kids can understand that God, at Christmas time, we celebrate and remember that God, in the person of Jesus, became a human being. So that he could live a life that you and I could never live. A perfect obedience. And that he would then suffer Because he would trade records with you, and he would take the record of your life, and he would be responsible for that. And so God would punish him instead of you And he would give you his record of a perfect life so that you could be blessed by God and go to heaven while Jesus went to hell until that payment was made in full. You and I can understand that, and we can rest in Jesus. But how are you going to understand The nature of the fullness of God and the Godhead. When you look at our creation And realize that we are simply specks on the speck of a planet, in the speck of a solar system, within the speck of a galaxy. Within all the universe that is like a nut that God holds in his hand. And that that God By his own will became a speck, one that speck, within the speck, within the speck of all that he had made. How do you put it together? Don't try. It's a mystery, and we can receive it and we can believe. And there are many other mysteries, the mystery of the Trinity, the mystery of evil, the mystery of suffering. I mean you can make sense, can't you, out of Romans 8. 28, that says that God works all things together for good to those who love him and are called according to his purpose That he's got some larger, deeper, good design for things that are accomplished in the suffering and trials that you and I experience. He makes sense out of Second Corinthians 1, 3, and 4, where Paul says that we are comforted in our suffering from the comfort of God so that we can comfort others who are afflicted as well. Yeah, it makes sense. sense, but on the other hand, why don't you just stop the suffering? Then it wouldn't have to comfort anybody. You can make sense out of Philippians 3. 10 that says that I want to know Christ and fellowship with him in his sufferings, and you say Why does it take suffering to know him? Who can make sense Out of a family in western Howard County a couple of weeks ago that send their two teenage girls off to Christian school, they crash into a tree and are instantly killed. Who can make sense out of a young doctor of six or seven children out for a walk and praying on the road last month when he was struck by a car and instantly killed, leaving his wife with six or seven kids. Were of Mark and Stephen Floyd struggling and suffering with Lyme disease and all the struggles of what that means and I remember back in 1973, myself uh went to Urbana, the Great Missionary Convention of University Christian Fellowship. seventeen thousand students there to understand more of what God is doing in the world and how I can serve him Landed at O'Hare Airport and I remember got off and had to go by bus from O'Hare down to the Urbana campus and Um yeah, list of it was a string of buses and I got in this bus and when I got down to the campus I found out that the bus right behind me had skidded off the road, flipped over a couple of times, some of the students on it were killed Some were injured, people I knew. Why would God do that to kids going to a missionary conference to learn about? Why is it that um when we have an upwards basketball ministry here to reach out with the gospel If people come here and park and they bring their kids in for practice this week and their cars are broken into and stuff stolen out of them. Who can make sense out of that? Sometimes we're given glimpses and insights to God's wise, but more often than not it remains a mystery Why there is so much struggle in your family and mine, why the prayers you've prayed for months, maybe years, are still not answered. And you wonder why. Let me close with one final point. Just two verses I didn't mention. You see, between the angel's statement and Joseph's response, you have verses 22 and 23, Matthew's commentary. And in that commentary, I believe that there is a precious principle to help us. Matthew says, all this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet that the virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. Isaiah gave that prophecy that the virgin will conceive and bear a son to Judah in the 8th century BC When they were threatened with invasion from Samaria. And so God gave to them a promise that He would be with them. He would protect them. But Matthew says, but that was just that much of a promise. God had something much larger in mind. He wasn't going to be simply with them as opposed to against them or to help them. He was going to actually one day through not simply a young woman at that point of urgin who would become a mother, but someone who would as a virgin become a mother who would then bear God physically with us So the fulfillment of the promise was infinitely greater than those who received it could have ever guessed. You look at what we looked the last three weeks at Isaiah 50. And you see a picture of a perfect disciple, and you say, that's nice, yes, we need to have somebody here who's who's really a class act of a disciple. And Matthew would say, No, no, no, no, you don't understand. We're talking perfect disciple. Like really perfect And then he's beaten, even though he's innocent. You say, yeah, no, it happens all the time in history. No, no, no, you don't understand. He really was perfectly innocent, and he was beaten beyond anything that you can imagine. And then he was vindicated. Well, praise God, he was vindicated. There is some justice. No, no, no, you don't understand. He was vindicated when he was raised from the dead, and you are vindicated in him. That all of your sin has been taken and placed on him, so that you are now free from any accusation and all of God's richest blessings can be poured out on you because you deserve them, because you belong to Jesus, not in yourself. Now you see, there's a principle there. And the principle is that when God gives us promises, there is generally a period of time where they don't seem to make much sense And you begin to enter into some degree, but then God begins to open up. And in that day when Jesus will be fully revealed You and I will see that every promise was so much more wildly fulfilled than you and I could have ever guessed at And that Joseph, who simply wanted to marry a nice Jewish girl and thought his dreams were crushed, Found out that in fact it was only the beginning of his wildest dreams being fulfilled. Learn from Joseph and be at peace. Let's pray Oh Lord, when you come, it will be like that Christmas morning when our most impossible dreams were more than realized. When all that we have ever hoped for, and so much more, will have been fulfilled more than we could have ever guessed Lord, how we see in your word that you fulfill so much more. Our tendency, Lord, is to scale it down and say, well, how much can we say you fulfilled and let you off the hook as faithful? When you want us to push you to the limits of your faithfulness and to hang on, to accept the mystery, and to know you will be faithful. And so, Lord, for every area of every person's life here where they're struggling, Lord, give them, I pray, and give to me a sense Of the practical promise of the gospel and the simple instructions as to Joseph to live in faithful obedience. And then to accept the m mystery and wait in hope for the wildest fulfillment imaginable. Fill our hearts with the joy that comes from that, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.