So this morning, if you are visiting with us, this morning is going to be a little different. You are a regular attender or a member here, this will obviously be different. Last Sunday I began with what was part one of my reflection on the trip that Robbie and Anthony, Robbie Penningson and Anthony Swan and I returned from. And this week it was meant to be a time when I knew we would have a greater number of people. Everyone's back from their trips. And so I knew I wanted to honestly have the greatest number of people before me so that I could share with you the impact that it has had on all of us who went. So with that said, this morning what's going to do is I'm going to give a brief report with images, which is not something I typically do. And so I want to share with you and describe to you what we saw. And then I will finish the time with a with a brief reflection. I want to make clear to you that all of this is something that I have, for me, I'm absolutely compelled to do. In one of the phone calls that I was able to make to my family while away, I found myself just overcome with what I had seen. And for me not to fear and to testify what has uh what I've experienced and what the Lord has taught me, uh I would not be bringing him due honor, his name And so nothing also I will say this morning is meant to be prescriptive. I don't have answers this morning. I have more questions than I have answers. And Lord willing, he will guide us in those answers of what it is we are called to do in the duty of Christian charity. So with that said, let me begin this morning with what was it called the, let's see where we are. Is it on? What? Thank you. There we go. No, I see. Thank you. So this is uh was meant to be a trip uh for the Global Plant Project, which is A project that we have set up, which is a four-year partnership with a church plant or church planning network. uh somewhere in the world and uh it's a four-year partnership that involves both financial resources and people resources We've been heavily engaged with Grace Harbor Church in Tokyo. We are entering, I believe, the fourth year of that partnership And so we've begun to pray and to look to see what would be the what would the next partnership likely look like. So last year we began conversations with Pastor Geodas. I won't try to say his last name because I will get it wrong and embarrass myself and him. He's a pastor in Greece who has started a church planning movement. We then got to meet a young church planter named Bill Gi Ilery. who was Turkish born, but trained as a physicist in Germany, where he would become convinced that God was calling him to seminary and then church planting. The original goal was to meet Bilgi in Istanbul and then travel to Greece to see what God was doing there. But because of the security situation, we were unable to travel to Istanbul for obvious reasons. So God providentially provided that we were able to meet Bill G in Germany. So if you look at, then you can go to the next slide because this is not working. There we go. So you see here we went to we began in Hamburg, where we met with Bilgi and the Hamburg Project, which is the mother church plant of what will happen in Istanbul. And you see Istanbul there. It's important to know that Istanbul is a key linchpin in all that is happening in the world today, and particularly in Europe as it relates to refugees. Because they're coming out of the Middle East and they go to Istanbul. From Istanbul they go to Greece and they often land on the outer-lying Greek islands. From Greece, they then travel to Italy, they travel to Germany, they travel to Switzerland or Sweden. Also, depending on your country of origin, so for example, vast numbers of Eritreans are actually trying to get into Great Britain and they're trying to do so through the north of France. You may have heard of Calais, France. So to travel to any of these countries, it would be very easy to just talk about churches and church plants. But today, what I want to bring testimony to you is this. To bring testimony about what God is doing in the Church of Jesus Christ in Europe is to talk about the refugee crisis. It is not a uh it's not a sorry, I'm I haven't okay, there you go. Um it uh it is not a a theory, it is not a possibility, it is not a choice. I guess in some degree it is a choice. But they are faced with this every day. So we began by traveling to Hamburg, what seems to be a very long way from Istanbul. But as it turns out, Hamburg, which is in northern Germany, which is the second largest city in Germany, next to Berlin, happens to also be a city of trade and of great commerce. And so it is a place that happens to hold one of the largest populations of Turkish-born people outside of Istanbul. This is what is in sent the central part of Hamburg, it is the place of where people work, where people shop. It is a lake right in the middle of the city. And it brings everyone out. And throughout the day, people are constantly in and around this lake. And it's called Bininalster. And it's one small part of a much larger lake, but the entire city is centered around commerce as it relates to shipping. So this was going to be the first target of what was first began as the Berlin Project, an Evangelical Presbyterian church plant in Berlin. So they birthed what is called the Hamburg Project. Now, here we have a group of church planters that we were traveling with around Hamburg, and Hamburg has uh the major center, which I just showed you, and then an island just to its south called Wilhelmburg. Wilhelmburg is largely a place where trucking companies and shipping companies set up their corporate offices. It also happens to be the place where Germany is set up within schools, a refugee camp, which I was not allowed to take pictures of. But what this church planter is telling us, who happens to be born in Richmond but is not a church planter, but he's working with the church planning team in Hamburg is this. He's gesticulating because he's excited that members of the church have been able to have apartments directly adjacent to the refugee camp. And just two blocks north of where we're standing here, they have their church office as well as their church plant. This neighborhood, it's hard to just show, but this is a four corners, four streets come into place. And each corner is a different world nationality. And they've set up their restaurants, they've set up their shops. There's Italian, there's Turkish, there's Iranian, there's Afghan. You cannot walk outside your door and not run into another nationality and particularly someone who either them themselves or one of their family members. are refugees trying to escape their war-torn or politically corrupt country. And so the pastors and their wives have been able to get an apartment right in this building. Their church is just two blocks away. Now, when I say church, I don't mean a a church building like this I mean churches that have a worship space that is not much bigger than our cry room together with our control booth. It is remarkable to see what they are excited about doing. And over and over again, most of the time when you talk to church planners, they they want to show you, oh, let's show you your building, but they kept showing us where they lived. And why they lived in the center of where the refugees lived and those who they were trying to reach. The Central Hamburg Project is located about two miles away from that other picture I showed you on the lake. and is ensconced in a neighborhood that is known for Marxist and fascist activity next door to the church is a house that has been taken over by squatters who are communists and Marxists. But this community is full of artists and people of all economic strata. and all kinds of languages that you can imagine. And they said, okay, we want to plant a church here. Because what's interesting is It's particularly these neighborhoods where refugees are coming because they're often places where they can buy passports. Now that sounds like a security issue, but it's actually a justice issue for the church. They don't support the selling and the trafficking of human beings. That's not the point. But what's interesting is what uh Satan, who is very much against everything that the church is doing, is that they said, if we start a church here where they're trying to sell fake passports. And where human trafficking is taking place, then what they can do is they can get into the midst of that and say, no, they're lying to you. We want to tell you a different story. We want to help you. And so this is where the refugees come, and this is where uh Germans live, and this is where the refugees are coming, so they said, we're going to plant here. So that's been their goal. Now this is Bill Gilary. So he and I are sitting at one of the tallest spots in Humber. And his passion is to go back to his home country of Turkey and to his home city of Istanbul Istanbul, as you know, is incredibly dangerous right now, and where he wants to plant the church is in the European section, which has largely seen a lot of the a lot of the bombings around some of the uh universities, the airport, as well as some of the historic sites. But he is not thwarted in his vision. He is uh highly educated, which also makes it very dangerous for him to return home because uh for fear that they will want to keep him from going back to Germany, even though he still has citizenship in Germany and in Turkey. They have a baby who's going to be born within a matter of weeks. They're getting ready to finish church planning training His wife is German-born, grew up as a German country girl, and she can't imagine, first of all, living in a city center, much less the center of Istanbul. But as Robbie and I had dinner with them, she said, I know this is not where I want to go, but it's where I know God is leading us. What will that look like? She says, I don't know. But I know God is calling. What I want to tell you is that Bilgi wants to have 500 people around the world praying for his church plant. in Turkey, which, Lord willing, will begin to take place next year. That's something I think we as a congregation can think about doing to pray for this church plant in Istanbul. Because Istanbul is ground center. for ground zero for um where refugees are trying to come and then get onto the continent of Europe. In fact, just this week the European Union has given a couple billion dollars, or a few million dollars at least. to the Greek government because of what's happening in Greece. Because from Istanbul it's not that far, though extremely dangerous, to travel to Greece by boat, which is where we went to next in Athens. I ran across a poem. I haven't memorized it. I've only memorized the first line. And it is this. You only leave home if home is like the mouth of a shark. Why do people put their children? Why do they get on boats that are so incredibly dangerous and overloaded? It's because it's safer to be on a boat in a dangerous sea. than to face the very likelihood of slavery or death in their home countries We can talk all day long about geopolitical issues and motivations, but at the end of the day, this is very real human suffering. And the church is wanting to have a role. But this is what Athens is known for. Everybody knows of it as the home of the Areopagus and the what is that called? The Parthenon. Sorry, the Acropolis. I've seen this so many times, I forget. I took this photograph at sunrise while sitting on Mars Hill. It's a beautiful place. Took your breath away. But I found myself while beautiful locations and iconic images, that is not what stuck with me. What stuck with me was this. This is an abandoned airport built for the Olympics in what's called Glyfata, which is considered to be the Riviera of Athens. It is an abandoned airport by the Greek government, but given over as a refugee camp. Some three to five thousand refugees live here We very quietly and respectfully took some photographs with our iPhones, but we took no photographs of human beings to show respect to them. But this is just one image, but it was this image that caught me. You perhaps can't see it, but at the top above this tent, beyond the chain link fence, is a sign that says Arrivals International. The irony of that, and then to see someone's tent with an Afghan rug laid outside its opening, gives you the picture that they have arrived, but they have no idea where they're going. They've set up makeshift schools where they're teaching English and Greek to these young children. Their schools look like abandoned buildings in the middle of an industrial park here in the United States. It's not a place many of us would even feel safe going to. But it's right out in the open, just a mile away from the most crystal blue sea you could imagine. But there is enormous amounts of suffering. The church plant that is taking place in Glifata has said as a central role of their ministry Is that they are volunteering in this refugee camp to help teach English, to help provide a place to eat, to sleep, and to care. This is Pastor George Tolias, who unfortunately was my translator, not unfortunately because he couldn't do it, but he had to translate me. And uh but we took this image because Anthony and I are standing there and we suddenly realized that George is wearing a California Republic t-shirt and I'm wearing a Northern California t-shirt. How did that happen? I have no idea. But we're in Greece and we're both wearing California t-shirts. But George has a heart for reaching uh those who are living in Glothada. His wife wasn't able to join us for this picture because she was volunteering in the refugee camp. But we had a chance to meet with them the day before, and their church building is I I I kid you not, it's not even the size of our our half of our foyer. But they're filled to overflowing. They're a church plant of the central church plant, uh, and it is that central church plant was uh is 150 years old. It was started by Southern Presbyterians in the United States. They gave it over to the Greeks, and the the Greeks have been pastoring it now for a long time. And that church, with Pastor Geodas, who Lord willing will be preaching here this fall. has now sent out church planters, and this is one. They're in need of a larger building. They have one that they're praying for. They need our prayers. Because the larger the building, the more they're able to serve those who have need. This Is the next set of church planters that we met with. To your right, this is Pastor Tim Kumar, and to your left is Alex Propolis. These three pastors that I've just shown you have all been through the same kind of seminary education that I have. They've been through the same kind of church planning training that I have. But our experiences and what we face as pastors is remarkably similar across cultures. The constant pull of the church to have a gravitational pull inward and not to be outwardly focused. It's an issue for every church plant that we met. But these two men decided they wanted to do something really different. They wanted to plant their church right in the heart of what is considered to be one of the world capitals for anarchist activity. Anarchists are largely seen as those who throw Molotov cocktails and love to spray paint. It is true, they love to spray paint. But they're not violent. As they're often portrayed to be. In fact, one of the safest neighborhoods you can be in in Athens is this neighborhood. So they started the church, and this church is rather small. This is their worship room. It's on the second floor of a house, right in the middle of this neighborhood. And they've had artists in their community to create a space. Because remember, this is Greece, and so they the only comparison, the only framework that people have for church is the Greek Orchidost. Greek Orthodox Church. And I assure you, I don't know if you've been into a Greek Orthodox Church, it doesn't look like this. And so this feels very austere. But to an anarchist, Who doesn't know Christ, this tells a completely different story. So both pastors have joined anarchist reading groups. And now these anarchists have begun to see that actually some of their core philosophy has crossover with the grace of the gospel. To the point where, while they're having open debates with these pastors, they've now said to their friends, if we were to convert to Christianity, we would want to follow their Jesus. Because this is different than what we've heard before. But it wasn't enough to start just a church plant A young couple in their midst, a Dutch couple who joined them, said, we want to do something else. And so they started an NGO And that NGO started very humbly. It started off as a safe room, a safe room where they can invite refugees, particularly and only mothers and their children in, and they go into a waiting list. where they're able to take a shower, they're able to get some lemonade or tea, and they're able to charge their phone, and there is a safe room where their children can just be children and play ball. And it's constantly rotating throughout the day. Over the last couple of years, this has grown to be such an important place that the Greek government has taken notice, and so is UNICEF. UNICEF has given it its official blue dot as a safety zone for children and families. Just around the corner, is a medical clinic that they also started. And Doctors Without Borders said, we want to be about what you're doing. And so they come in three times a week for five hours to provide both medical as well as psychological counseling. Finally, what they said was, okay, so we we're helping mothers and we're helping families, but there's something else that's taking place, and that is the unaccompanied minor. And so they purchased uh or rented a house, and it's a three-story house, and in this house are upwards of 70 unaccompanied minors, no one over the age of 17. And they're teaching them how to read They're teaching them business skills. They're teaching them rooftop gardening because that's the only way you can garden in a lot of these cities. They're teaching them all kinds of skills to equip them because here's what happens: if you arrive on the shores of Greece as a minor, you get your refugee status, but you can't go anywhere for eight weeks. So two months, a lot of these unaccompanied minors end up on the streets, and you end up as prey for human trafficking and all kinds of injustices. But the Greek government has said we want to understand what you're doing so that you can help us. But there's something else we want to do, and no other NGO in the entire country has received this. The Greek government has said to Pharos, which is Greek for lighthouse, they said, we will give you 40% autonomy about who can come and live in this house. No other NGO is told that. They're all told by the Greek government who can stay there and by their lists. But they said to Faros and to this church, you get to decide 40% on the occupancy. Now why is that important? A couple of ways. One, they've seen the Church of Jesus Christ, the evangelical church, and they've seen their care, their love, and their wisdom in caring for refugees. And they said, how can we learn from you? Also, you've shown yourself to be on the ground. So by giving them this latitude, When Alex and Tim are walking the streets of their neighborhoods and they see a young person, a minor, and they need a place to live, they now have the freedom to say, we have a place for you. And this is the story that was told over and over and over again. And as an American, as someone who reads widely, for me the refugee crisis was philosophical. It was, it didn't seem real to me. And so I had to greet it face to face, which I'll get to in a few moments. From Athens, we traveled to Rome, which was our final destination. And there we were able to meet with a pastor who has started a church, which I referred to last week. In the central part of Rome. This is the Castle St. Angelo. This is just a couple of blocks away from St. Peter's Basilica. And on these walkways, we were able to get down here at the river level, but on these walkways are full of tourists. And what everybody thinks of is Central Rome is you think of St. Peter's Basilica, and you think of these great and lovely churches, and they are, yes, they are amazing. But there is something going on under the amazing beauty. of Rome, which was completely unknown to me, but became very helpful. And that was this that Just a few blocks away from where I took that image was this little storefront. And this is called Breccia di Roma, which means the breach of Rome. If you were here last Sunday, I referred to it, I'll refer to it again. They gave it this name because this is has particular Roman significance, because when uh Italy was unified, And came out from under papal rule. The Italian army had to infiltrate Rome, which was the last standing papal state, in 1870. And on September 20th, 1870, they were able to breach Rome, and Italy was unified. But what's also interesting is this is that the Roman Catholic Church owns over 50% of all buildings in the city of Rome. And because, if you aren't aware, the Roman Catholic Church is a sovereign state. And so it has a representative from the Vatican. is on every single bank board in the entire country, and specifically in Rome. That means that to purchase property, one of the first things you're asked if you're seeking a loan is, where is your letter from your bishop or your diocese? And so to purchase this building, they sought bank financing. And that was the first question they were asked And so the pastor said, well, okay, we're not Catholic. We are this And this, we don't have a diocese or a bishop and so forth. And they said, while we hear what you're saying, we even like what you're doing, but your loan will never be approved. And so this pastor, Pastor Leonardo de Creci, I'm not even going to try it. Leonardo. We'll just call him that. Pastor Leonardo. And uh I had to ask him to say it five times. I'm just I can't speak Italian. So um here we are standing in front of the building and so um He is a he did his PhD in on the Roman Catholic Church, though he is a Reformed Baptist pastor, he did his PhD on the Roman Catholic Church because his desire Is not just to plant a church, it's to plant a movement of churches in Rome. And they knew that the only way to do that then was to get private financing. By God's grace, they were able to raise the money to buy that property on their own. But then they needed something else. They needed a study center. This is the sanctuary. 50 people. By the way, 50 people in an evangelical church in Italy itself is huge. And it's taken six years. They don't start measuring whether you're a successor or not. It takes ten years because it the the deep, deep, uh enculturated nature of of the church, but here is where they worship. But they needed a study center. They needed an office. They needed a stairwell to go from the main floor down to the study center. Because to have a study center in Rome as a church is highly unusual. Highly unusual. And so by having books, which churches have like we have, to have books is making a statement that you're serious about the faith. And so they have a study center where they're teaching people and having theological discussions, but they needed a stairwell. It's taken two years to get to this point. The reason for that is the bureaucracy that they've had to get through just to get approvals. Because every time they want to get an approval, they want to ask, so what are you again? There is no, if you say you're a pastor, there is no framework for that word pastor. There's simply no framework. They don't understand what it is. If you say shepherd, that also doesn't have a framework. And so here's what they've done. They know that to be successful in reaching the Italian population with the gospel of Jesus Christ as an evangelical reformed church. They said, okay, as a philosophy, we will not be anything other than dual employed. So 70% of their pastor's employ is is paid for by his own self-employment. He's a professor, so he teaches. And the church supplies the other 30%. All other church funders who are coming on board have to agree to the fact that they're going to have to provide for their own 70% of their own income. Either by raising the funds or working. But what that enables them to do by working enables them for them to rub shoulders with normal Roman people. And to live out the gospel in a very unusual, but actually very New Testament way. And that is precisely what they're doing. We couldn't take images of what is happening with their refugee ministry because, again, the room was full of uh refugees from Afghanistan. And uh it was all men. They're not allowed to bring their wives or family over until they have a an address or residence. So it was all men. Just around the corner from that, they've uh come into a partnership with another church uh and they've given them the use of the building. And three days a week. All day, men are able to come in, they're able to play cards, charge their phones, learn English, and learn how to get a driver's license. We met missionaries throughout our trip. We were able to have time with Ken Matlack, who is the European Coordinator for Mission to the World. And he said today in the city of Berlin they have between 800 and 1,000 people. who have signed up to go through their rigorous baptism class. Think of it as our membership seminar. 800 to 1,000 people have signed up to go through a rigorous theological class. And he said to me, We do not have enough people to tell them about the gospel, which is why our waiting list is so long. Now, not all of those will make it through. But MTW just released an article this week, Mission to the World of the Presbyterian Church in America. They just released an article, a becoming tide of faith in Europe. Because here's what I realized. For many of us, this becomes an issue of geopolitics It becomes a a humanitarian issue. It becomes an issue of of economic uh travails and all kinds of wars and military movements, and it becomes in many ways a discussion. But for them, what I became aware of is that I'm reminded of when we study through Jeremiah. You see, Israel was concerned about the geopolitics of its day. It was concerned about being invaded and taken over. It was tired of its exilic uh status. And Jeremiah said to them, speaking for the Lord, and obviously I'm paraphrasing, is this This is not just a geopolitical issue. God is doing something in this. And what I saw with my own eyes is this We went over. Our goal was to meet with church planters and to visit what they were doing. But what happened Was that I came with my eyes and my hands and my elbows and my knees, I came into contact with what God is doing well beyond just the starting of church plans. What I saw was that God is sovereign over this refugee crisis. And God is directing churches to plant churches to minister to these refugees. Because many of them have reached the shores of Europe, weary of war, weary of the uh The burden of the Muslim faith and of the strife And they're wanting to hear about Jesus because why would this person who's a Christian and I'm a Muslim, why would they want to provide a place for me? And what we began to see is we began to see men and women who are coming to Christ And when you ask them, as I shared last Sunday evening with this one particular man when I preached at an Iranian refugee church in Athens. When we asked him, why did you leave Iran? And he pointed to the cross around his neck. And he was saying, I converted to Christianity, and then he took his phone with Google Translate, and he translated the following sentence. He said, They are destroying my family. So, because of his conversion, They are systematically in Iran going after members of his family. He's seen as an apostate. What's happening is what is for us a lot of noise on the news and a lot of good discussion. The truth is on the other side, but what we cannot see is that our God, who we say is sovereign, is at work. The church is preaching and living out the gospel in very real ways. So I began to ask myself now what? And this is sort of what I came away with. And let me read this passage as we get close here to a finish. Luke chapter 10. Verses twenty-nine to thirty-seven. Jesus teaching those who were asking him. Who is my neighbor? What is my obligation? Jesus, but he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, and who is my neighbor? Jesus replied, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan As he journeyed, he came to where he was. And when he saw him, he had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal, brought him in to an inn, and took care of him. And the next day he took out two denarii And gave them to the innkeeper, saying, Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back. Which of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers? He said, the one who showed him mercy, and Jesus said to him, You go and do likewise. May the Lord bless this brief reflection on his word. I couldn't help but run up against this passage as we traveled and met with these pastors. And I've preached on this passage somewhere in the last 20 years of ministry. I've heard it preached numerous times. I've read about it. I've studied it. And oftentimes we are faced with the question when reading this parable is who? But generally the who is, who is my neighbor? It's not a wrong question, but I must confess to you that oftentimes it's been the only question I've asked of the text But what I realize in this passage is the Lord has been teaching me the first and foremost question that I think I and the Church of Jesus Christ, as a result of what Jesus is teaching there. I come to the end of my trip and I say, is the question who is my neighbor? Because I realize that That is only one way to read this text, and even Jesus' intent. The irony is that when we read this parable, many of us, when we read it, either place ourselves In the shoes of being the good Samaritan or in the shoes of the one who's been robbed, of being the hero or the victim But when you go back to the passage, and as I went back to this passage, I came away with a very different question. Because you see, if I start with who is my neighbor, it ultimately becomes a place of just self-reflection. It becomes, I can easily turn inward. But when I went back to this and I and I came into contact with these refugees and what these churches are doing, here's the question of the who for me. Who are the dispossessed? Who are the poor? Who are the oppressed? And while the first question is not a wrong question, it's not the only question. If I stop at the first question of who is my neighbor, I can easily turn inward. But if I go to this question of who is the dispossessed, Who are the poor? Who are the broken? Who are the hurting? That immediately turns my heart and my eyesight outward. While we were standing there with those two pastors, just steps from where we took that photograph, There was an Iranian family laying on the sidewalk. The mother walked up to us speaking in Persian, and she's pregnant. And they'd been living on the streets for 15 days, newly arrived in Athens. She was on the waiting list to get a shower and for her place for her children to play. But what she was pressing us for, because she assumed I was with them, she in tears, she says, but we need a place to sleep. It was in that moment when I recognized even my own study as a seminarian and as a pastor of these passages has been thorough. In that moment, I began to live it. And I was deeply impacted, and I began to think. Lord, the question is not just who is my neighbor? Or even who am I? The question is, who is this person And these pastors there, do you know, it's so easy to get caught up in what is what God is doing in us as we're helping these refugees. He says, it even becomes the sexy thing to do. But he says it's in moments like that when I begin to see it doesn't matter one whit what God is doing in us. The question is, what can God be doing in the eyes and the hearts of this person that I just came into contact with? And that question floored me. So not only is there a question of who, there is also danger. We think about the duty of Christian charity. There is danger, and that danger is this. The danger is we have these unspoken objections often when it comes to helping those who are poor and needy, and they often exist just beneath the surface. Jonathan Edwards had just, they had eleven, but I can't name those, but I'll name two of the eleven. He preached this to his congregation, from which I get the title of this sermon. In the late 18th century, to his church in Northampton, Massachusetts. At the end of preaching his sermon, he had these 11 objections that people raised to him when it comes to doing the duty of Christian charity. He says, this is one, using his language. We may object to giving charity against particular persons. Because we are not obliged to give them anything, for though they are needy, they are not yet in extreme need. They do meet with difficulty, but not so as they cannot live. In other words, it's the same kind of objection as people give. Well, they have cell phones. So they can't be that poor. Now, many of us in this room have our own cell phones. Many of us have smartphones, which we play pay thousands of dollars for. Imagine going without your your device for a week. Imagine going a week without your device in a country where you do not speak the language. Now what? And you're separated from your family. So, yes, not everyone meets with the greatest of extremes. But the scriptures tell us in Galatians, the rule of the gospel is that when we see our brother under any difficulty or burden, we should be ready to bear the burden with him. The one objection can easily be, well, they're just not suffering enough yet. Another objection is this. We may object to giving charity to someone because, quote, he deserves not because people should sorry. This Old English. We may object against charity to someone because he deserves not that people should be kind to him. He has a temper and an ungrateful spirit and treats people poorly. That's the old objection of, man, they're just mean. Or maybe they have malintent. I don't know what their motivations are. But as Jonathan Edwards reminded his congregation, I remind myself and I remind us. While we were yet his enemies, Christ died for us. The truth is, there are no levels of enity with God. It's just enity. We were all once his enemies. Yet Christ died for us. May God not measure us by our niceness. Or our kindness, but only by the grace of Christ. The final objection I'll mention this morning is I have nothing to spare. We heard already this morning the Macedonians were generous in their giving, even though they had almost nothing. The truth is, as I've lived at different economic stratas, I don't know that I could ever say I have nothing to spare. And yet each of us will find some reason to be able to say that. And this is 911. This time, 15 years ago, in a country that is truly considered flyover country, Newfoundland. Became the temporary home for hundreds of stranded airplane passengers because of the required grounding of all air flights. Planes had to land in Gander, the International Airport in Gander, Newfoundland. When they reached the ground, their pilots then told them why they had to be grounded, and they couldn't leave. Newfoundland and specifically Gander and its outlying villages have very little. And the question became very quickly within 24 hours, what do we do with the plain people? As they called them. Well, one woman told of her testimony to NPR News this week. It's a story I never knew Is that the collective mayors from these different outlying villages gathered the churches and the villagers and simply said, We must provide a place for them. So families, schools, churches opened their doors. They set up banks of phones and said call as often and as long as you need. at no cost. They made meals, they provided their own pillows, they provided their own blankets. They had very little but what they had they could give. When it came time for them to return home, this woman testified that everybody on the plane was crying, young and old alike, because they didn't want to leave. They'd been so touched by the care of this country that very little kn is known about and very few people talk about. And yet they didn't want to leave. And they tried to give them money, but they said absolutely not and resisted all gifts. And while on the plane flight back, one physician said he at dinner with a family that was hosting him said, you know, many students drop out of school because there are frankly there are no jobs. We're Newfoundland. There's no jobs. And that's when the light went on, and so they started a a scholarship fund. And in 15 years, it's grown to over a million dollars and has educated over 250 students in college and postgraduate work. But she said, But it was what they gave us we can give out of our surplus. They gave to us out of nothing. We can always say we have nothing to spare But what everything we have has been a gift. So what do we do? We're already doing a lot. We have the English language ministry, which has been brought into bold relief for me. The Laurel Pregnancy Center. Route one. I want to be very careful. I'm not prescribing any answers. But I will say this. I've been deeply in prayer and deeply impacted by what I've seen. And it's made me ask the question Who are the dispossessed? Who are the poor? Who are the broken in our own community? We will maybe partner with one of these church plants. That will be a decision later on. We can join the prayer teams for these church plants. But what can we do as a church, like the country of Newfoundland, like the city of Gander? What can we as a congregation In our wealth, in our giftedness. What could he do through us without any expectation of anything in return? To show the love of Christ in word and indeed. I don't have the answer today, but I ask you to join with me in prayer, asking that the Lord would give us wisdom. Because it is a duty. Because we have been changed by his grace, and our cups have been filled to overflowing. So Lord, who are we to love? Who are we to serve? Please join me in that prayer. Let's pray. Father, I thank you this morning for the opportunity to testify To what I've seen and experienced. And I don't know fully yet what it will mean, even for my own heart. I don't know what it means for us as a church. But Lord, you're sovereign over these things, and I pray specifically for the ministry of your church in Europe. These church plants, these pastors, who are ministering the gospel in word and deed. Lord, may you open the door wide for the gospel and may lives be changed. But at the same time, as lives are being pacted by the gospel, may you also give them all that they need To love and care indeed, whether it's a pillow or a meal, whether it's an education. And I pray for us as a church As a body together, that you would give us a vision for what it would mean for Columbia Presbyterian Church to ask the question: who, Lord, would you call us to love? And how can we be the hands and feet of Christ in our community? Lord, we thank you this morning Because there are many here, though I recognize not all, many of us here can testify while we were yet your enemies, Christ died for us. And you have filled our cup. Now, Lord, help us by your grace to fill someone else's. In Jesus' name. Amen.