Before laughing and saying one of the most simple smartphones, I was laughing things Coming to Columbia, suspense and suspense that I've had to prefix extensively to my class before I could come to Last week we remembered we talked about how new testaments gives us a number of commands concerning what we could do toward one another. And determinant among the many commands are two things. Do we could love one another? Do we talk about mercy? Or do we sustain one another? continues existence. Many times we need to improve us as we can tell one another. Philip in Galatians chapter five and those three are called you, my brothers, we're called to be free. But do not need your freedom to indulge this incarnation. Brother saves them to life. But I find that this command rather serves one another To be well illustrated and understood by an incident that occurred in Jesus' life, and the teaching of Jesus didn't get the various part of that incident Matthew chapter twenty, verse twenty-five to twenty-eight. And let's play together in our Bible. Matthew chapter twenty. Let's take a look at that incident, beginning with verse 17. Matthew chapter 20, beginning with verse 17. Now as Jesus go up to Jerusalem, he took the trial to fight as a crowd and said to them, You go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed. He prayed to the two fruit and the two fruit of the Last. And they condemned him to death. And they turned him over to the Gentiles, the Lords, and Lions. And precipitates. And if they go, he will be raised for eyes. The mother of Webbine sons and Jesus with her sons and living grandload to favor of us. What is it to be valuable? Because one of these key points of mind put at your right hand and the other at your left in the same way. We don't know what you want yes. Read like a top idea. Will indeed think of my cuts. But the fruit of my life throughout my life is not from the world. These princes belong to those for whom they have been controlled by my God. Now then to tell her about this thing and did it with the two bells. He just tied them together and said, You know that the rules of the Gentiles motivated us. Well how to exercise authority is it? Not so. We've said whoever wants to become great and all you must be your servant. But whoever wants to be safe. Let me reflect. Let us fell at least the last time you could use them. It before it. I believe the lands for the life of the end. If Jesus and his disciples were needed, there are a large clouds out of them. And then there was playing that Jesus is going by they said, Lord, Father David, have mercy on us. God is looking and heaven be silent. But they thought it all they added. Lord, Solar David, have mercy on us. This is a part of the problem. We got a space. Oh, these are perfectly. I wonder if you know what's definitely fairly when this circle is the C R. The occasion of the light is BCC. The light in fact, the illustration of the lighting, Then the other thing to the last week. Think about the obtainment of the reference. In verse 72 we read now who just go up to Jerusalem to try the temple to stand When they're over the women, Jesus is again going to persuade the disciples by revealing to them what is about to explain when they arrive at the reason. Now in order to be able to tell them this not to enlist sympathy, but in order to prepare them and to help their faith. And so And they eat me, or don't have to be easy women and the son of man will be destroyed to the peace beasts and teachers of the body. They will condemn him to death and will turn him over to the gentleman, be masked, blast And the very day he will be waiting for us. A very specific revelations telling us where they have it for him. And it's a good thing that you did this to compare them and not present them in sympathy. Because in fact we know that men. In fact, what I'm able to test this revelation concerning humanity And the amazing revelation that he's going to be raised tonight, but cannot believe you. But the change is down and And all of their mothers come up and they uh seven respects. And uh so they come in verse one as we read the mother of Rebean Fan claimed the grievous within fans and willing down to things was that when my daughter said something, Daddy, did you promise to do whatever we asked? I he's one of all requests, you better not say, Oh sure, whatever you ask And I say people doesn't do that. What is it? You want me to promise what I'm going to do before you ask me even what it is? Don't know I wouldn't I guess uh here I thought maybe uh these could be a snow could now be finding uh radio from the pillow. That's probably And I know you're loving a lot, but they're not too much of asking for them. So if you just respond to them, uh, you don't know what they are It's it's really the most ironic request they could have made about that. Uh not only does it indicate a tailoring sensitivity to what users just said about his own death and his own generation. But it flies right in the face of the life and he's just given to them. Because the very mercy of what will be given here comes through humility. Jesus had just said Notice back in uh chapter nineteen and twenty, in other places in Mark chapter nineteen and verse thirty, we're just uh giving them a parable to teach that many who are first are going to be lost. But many who flinch themselves first are going to be lost. And many of those who are in profit and seem to be lost are going to be the ones made first. And then in chapter twenty, verse sixteen, that we told another parable about these working. We conclude that with so now those who are are in the low position are going to be first and those who are first they're going to be put down last and the Uh these two friends and another coming for an old um who makes that story. Really, they haven't heard what he's been talking about. And Jesus is uh parents who don't use this as a as a leader, having them understand what he's doing. So this is related to making the cut that I've made. Oh, can you do that? Well perfectly can later. If you want to more further with la uh their attention so hard as a cycle. More than they could realize they suffer. But if the Holy presentation to think that they are suffering will merit for them the greatest place in the kingdom, that they will may be made less to that degree that they will be involved to faith. Then I would be it's very good hearing to be here, to use it, to hear this kind of response to your people I really not only just told them about his very quote, he's just poured himself out to them about himself and all them things about his himself. He's gonna be great. The only reason verse 24 that the uh others come in. Clearly somebody sat in the And they're going to this five. And what do we do in verse 22? When the Thomas heard about this, they were indignant with the two brothers. Yeah. Finally there's an insight mistake. Somebody's invigorant with the insensitivity these guys. They're gonna stand up and say yes You intensible incomprehensible jokes. How did you say such a thing after what the Lord just told you about? Is that what they do? Yes. Piper. They're ambiguous because we never too deep into the pipe. What they're ambiguant about is uh that's what we have in mind. The you two guys got to emboss In fact, Luke tells us that after the Lord's Supper in chapter 22, they still argue, all twelve of them, about who's going to be the first in the kingdom. There's only eleven at that point He's going to be the first from the pillars. Okay, their indignation is really not an indignation concerning the insensitivity and the abuse of those two sides But it's rather because they miss out on doing first themselves. Now again, uh it's clearly Jesus is going to be suddenly disheartened if he wasn't before. Now concerning his responsibility. But what did we do? In implementation, we can hear one of the best examples of digital suspenders that say this that we have an opportunity Because he that also was five of this, he will use your lips gently and pacify with an opportunity to peace To teach them a vital and valuable lesson about servant. What did he say? You see the lesson of Sach in verses 25 to 28. And it has three parts to it. First is lost for them a contrast. A contrast between two kinds of greatness These are things basically but in the world there are two kinds of greatness. First of all, there's the greatest But the Gentiles, the world has. And that's a greatness of faith. The greatness is measured by who you can lord over Who you can impress with your authority. A greatness is measured by how many people you got around. Greatness is measured by who jumps when who speaks And what is measures to you kids by who you can have play with you and then just go off and put them down and then come back and have them ask you to play with them again Greatness is measured by who you can swing along and who you can keep down with in your life. Greatness is measured in the eyes of many women especially coming in our culture today. by the fact that I've got to carve out a career that will give me recognition in the world rather than the lonely position from the eyes of the world to play and home to be a wife and a mother A great work is measured by how many people recognize that I'm a big son. He just said that's one being Well he says in verse 25, notice verse 26, he passed through to that. The NRV brings out beautifully the forces of week to because that's literally what he says Not fell with you. Not so with you. And a significant in status and fun. To that be a favor. Jesus will say, Not so with me, but instead, whoever wants to be done among you must be afraid. Where the most people are using prepared to be like me. The word for servants. The one that means a meaningless servant. The kind of person does he have running around doing your chord. Jesus says, that's the person Not only does he draw that contrast, but then suddenly you notice that there's a segment of the contrast. Because then he says, Not only is this person that he's going to be great, among you will he be a servant, but then in verse twenty-seven In fact, whoever wants to be first, you don't just want to be great, you want to aspire to the top. If you want to aspire to the top in the kingdom he says, then you don't only become a servant, you become a slave. The word slavery or a delos was a sealed hand, a person who had absolutely no rights, a person who was the most undesirable of all kind. And had no right whatsoever to protect them. The Jesus said that the world is safe. And the place you take is an alternative Person of slaves, a person with no status, the person who doesn't look for anybody to block around because he realizes he doesn't have the right to do that. The person who got it, who does not, who can I exercise authority over? Who can I serve, whether it's through authority or not? Um but who can I save in whatever traditions I've been placed in this? And you might say to yourself, oh boy, you know, here comes another heavy thing. Uh you know, here comes just uh another one, I'm just still dealing with the things of the the lawsuits and uh this one uh really sort of taps it off. Well i if you view this as just simply another heavy, then you've chewed out too three. Hang on to the end because Jesus has another point to what he's saying. Because he goes on, you see there in verse 28, to give it some time. And that comparison is all important and vital to the understanding of all that this is about. He gives them a comparison in which he says, just out The Son of Man did not come to be saved, but to save, and to give his life for the man. We wonder greatness because greatness is measured by how many people I bought it out, by my recognition, by my credit, the kingdom that I build for myself. Not so among you he says. If you're going to be grown in the kingdom, you become a servant. If you're going to be further in the kingdom, you take the lowest place of a slave. Even as the Son of Man That's interesting that he uses that total thing, that son of many. It's the total that all scholars who agreed comes from Daniel 7. With the word emanated. And where in Daniel 7 is this son of man speed? Well in Daniel 7, verse 13 and 14, we read about the vision that Daniel has For which he has seen the ocean of days and the heat and all of the glory and the fire that he's describing there. And then he says in verse 13, In my vision of Lad I looked, and there before me was born like the Son of Man. And what about that son of man? He's coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the ocean of days and was led into his presence. And the Son of Man was given authority. Glory. Sovereign power. All peoples, nations, and men of every language worship him. And his dominion is an everlasting dominion. He will not pass away. And his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. But the very essence of the Son of Man is that he is a king of kings and lord of Lords, and his dominion will never pass away. And Jesus says, Now I'm the Son of Man, and the Son of Man did not come to be saved. Doesn't make any sense. But when the Son of Man came, he came to yield authority. Authority that would take the Roman government. Jesus says the Son of Man came not to be saved. But to be saved. And it's done. It was hard for us to take it in. The Son of Man will not just be saved. with the fear of this. What does he do with the son of Mayor B? Break the Bad and Pictures. He does dirty begins filled with burnings and love. But he touches them. But he takes hold of them in social. There is a letter. The untouchable of the society Those that he stayed away from and wouldn't even go near him. He was cut this lesson. And he claims them and makes them home. This week I was uh waiting in the hospital examining for something and because I was waiting there, uh a number of people passed up and down the corridor, uh one fella came over and uh sat beside me. A bit of a nervous fat fellow that is just uh kind of very insecurity and looked uh I feel very ill at ease in the whole situation. I found his demeanor and his approach and everything uh rather unexpassive and I had no interest in talking to him. I continued to do what I was doing and as he got up and left I thought I unliked the attitude of the Ford Man. Because there was no one. There was all a class to him and door and father didn't. No wonder he would not touch, not embrace. And I have decided he is worth my attention. I decide he is worth my touching and talking to. And not only did he feel and touch, but we told also that he saw the ignorance, but he appealed to be free in the past. People that I wouldn't really bother with. I I just write them off as unpeachable. No reason to continue trying to have a ministry with each God. And Jesus was a servant And he continued to work for them. He continues to take some of that raw material between the whole such little potential to me. When nobody else was willing to do it, he lost his peace. What about you? How can you just say it's you? No, it saved you. As you say to put a married about how you third but preferred to go to one. But we are all fair before a holy and a righteous God. A God before whom we stand some time, before whom we stand at our mouth closed to protect any innocence of our gift from sleeping down earth. But he realized that he is a guy who knows everything about me. He knows how I've lived and disregarded his whole life. He knows how I've lived a totally self-settled life. He knows how I have not been concerned to honor him and to please him in all the things that I do. He knows that I stand before him naked, pained, and guilty. Please become new. If you do a new and I'll very deeper things, you become willing to make something. Jesus comes and at the very point of your deepest need, he gives his life as a life. He saves you by giving everything that he has and pouring out his life's life. I think it's fine there. Man raised in Australia, out of a very difficult background in home life. He came in his young manhood to know Jesus Christ. He looked north to Batsu New Guinea and he saw the clouds of Valley people who had never heard of Jesus Christ in hidden valley. But then they also didn't go there and be willing to make a beacon for the gospel in those valleys and mountains, the snow mountains, and then that's me now, even in Dana. The sandwich went and under the severest conditions he established the defense. He lived in the most difficult circumstances and most dangerous circumstances that you can imagine among cannibalistic people. came in as the first white man, established communication with them, presented Jesus Christ with us. A people who slaughtered their masculinity with human grace He put the women down to such an extent that the suicide rate was ten times higher than for the men. He supercism held them in great bondage, generation after generation A warlike comfortable people. Oh yeah, what could I see as the rest of his life? And if it's the total of RPD. One time in seeking to go farther into one guy, he was shot with hours five times in his body, he struggled under impalculable eyes to the back to the plants. The founder did arrive at a parent who's taken down to a hospital and survived the weeds. Right side into the game to be cleaned to seek survivors. You heard that after a while he had baptized them under these people and had called on them to burn their fetters. And in a great ceremony, these people burned the fetishes that they had worshipped, and all of these things went up in smoke. And it was a great display of the victory and the power of evil friends, like Sandy, with women to do their favourite. We heard of other cards to the West As yet had not heard or heard the gospel and being encouraged by the victory that God had given them over these period of years, Barrett took a man with him and a number of carriers and one across these mountains, ten to twelve thousand foot passes. tried to establish communications in another village. What he didn't know was that other villagers having heard about the burning of the fetishes of their brothers and sisters Has spread the word throughout the valley. If this white man comes into your village, tell him on some. Before tell him there to preach the gospel that offended him As they arrived into the village, they knew that they were endangered. The men followed them outside a war cries. They followed them over a rope bridge. One of the sailors begged them to cut the bridge so that they couldn't be followed. Mr. Sprise, well that won't possibly because that will alienate them from further contact with the Baster. And we want to do everything possible for women through Jesus Christ. Certainly after that they caught up to them along the river them. The men surrounded him, and they cried out their war cries and began to fire arrows into his fire. One, five, ten, fifteen, twenty six. By the time they were finished, they had caught a hundred arrows in two, and they chopped up his blanks into little pieces. They also did this to his friend the same day, popped up both of their bodies, and carried them back to eat them. They decided not to do that at the in quest of one of their elements And through this, God used an amazing circumstances to bring others, in an amazing sense of events to bring the gospel to those people. This day there are thousands of Gali people who will guys see the chance. Larry that we're That is the rest of the story and see how some black this book looks of the earth by down this hole that I put in our library. understand if we look at a man like that and say, God of this. That's a man who is willing to lay down his life as a chosen and an obscure thing for the world is God of his love for those people. That's not a white matter in this one. You have Jesus Christ because we're the size like heaven. So he laid out his life on a cross, having the map, spent series, great people, so that he would be aware of the man. Because even the Son of Man came not to be saved. Not only then does Jesus notice my notifications. Notice that comments. He has illustrated the lesson because he didn't have verse 2, but as his disciples and he will even go, a large God finds him The two blind men were sitting by the roadside, and when they heard that Jesus was going by, these men shouted, Yes, son of David, have mercy on him. The fat rebuked them. So we can't even have a party anymore about these desert to stay in the peace. We are having a great time. Jesus is in our midst and we're enjoying his company and all we do is these two guys keep yelling out, Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us. Take a cloud power to rebuild things. Try to cut them up and put them in their plane. What did he do? You read in verse 32. Jesus stopped. And he went over to them. And Jesus said to them, What do you like me to do today? Let's use the story of how can our statements it illustrates and precisely states in Marx's ordering of events. concept with the attitude of the disciples and even the fragment to illustrate exactly what he's been telling us. Even the prayer of God to be saved. So a couple of days we stop the party. The party would be uh or the professor and he says, What can I say All the Lord is what I've said. Verse 34 says to Jesus I can have. Why do you want to ask this? What do you call for evolution five? Serve one another in love. Serve one another through compassion. What's the application relevant to us? Yeah. Do you say that you're a life and another? Do you say that uh your whole life seems to consist of nothing but baking conditions? of meals and cleaning and profound people around, of being somehow seeming and taken for granted and doing so many things that seem to have such little significance In the light of the world. You say that you work for the faith. You say that you try to help from other Christians De try to go out of your way to do something possible. To do something that was needed if you thought we have someone else. Because how do you get a word of thank you? Have maybe they recognize you to do it. You say to yourself, I'm disgusted with us Bad enough that I had to go out of my way and just suck my schedule and do all of that and uh nobody even too. Next time I'm not going to be so fooled, let somebody else volunteer. You say that you try to help somebody, a friendly. You try to help the refugees and some neighbors. And nobody's emotions for his body. You've done it. Microsoft is a rather unrewarding test. A menial test. Something that you said yourself anybody should have done that. Somebody had to do it, so I did it. And nobody cares. Nobody's even noticed. I didn't get any credit for it. And gradually as you perceive through these kinds of things, you notice the rejoice being able to leave these things. You notice that uh there's a heaviness to respirate. Uh there's a lack of uh a real desire to continue this kind of uh attitude as you see in Kelai Uh you feel taken for blended, even humiliated, even pain at times, rather unhappy It's rather t out of tech. We come from that person. And meanwhile, you see pray, Lord, give me the mind of things. Lord, make me more my freedom in my life. Don't you feel the late thing? Don't you feel that When we understand what's happening in that context, then serve them and ministry take on a whole new understanding. They can be seen in a whole new light Because what's really happening is that the Lord is enabling you to become what you are. What is that? Good. And alive to Jesus Christ, as he said. God giving you an opportunity To mortify that fire, that self-seeking, that touching onto my right. And he's done that in a grace of entirely one, too. If I do something and I get credit for it, if there's recognition for what I've done, then how do I know that what I did really didn't minister to me in the end? It was me that I got little feet here, I got for enjoying it. When I get late, I know it is It's when I get no recognition that I begin to enter into the mind of praise. Even the Son of Man did not come to the same. You see, it's when I don't get that recognition that I'm not doing screen in having my own ego built up It's then that I can try my notice to see why I really did that. To see if I did it because I wanted to credit. Or because I really wanted to save the name I think of the time that my favorite was interesting when I was uh thinking about a parallel that I needed to write for It was not only to prayer but to my supporters, but also to show them why my ministry was worth supporting. Well, it's a kind of a long time to write that letter. After things were happening at war, it's particularly rewarding. A number of my groups were not going to see great growth and a great time of success. Suppose I weighed that and wondered what am I ever going to put into this letter that people are going to come for supporting? I was trying to make a clip, good old cross thing. Scoresburg state. Something was always happening in Swasburg that I could write about, and so I went up there with great anticipation, something to write into my life. And I went up to Crossbows, it had been drawing Dublin and Sippling and Deeplin in the months before. As I got there I found that uh Crossbow was on the rock two And then I had any struggles and some discouragements when I talked to the president of the group who at that point with a woman and as I talked with her and discussed this And through that whole conversation, I know that I simply was laying on her. This group is not ministering to me. Why why don't you stay up with the group? You know, uh really not uh honoring the Lord and I was simply very happy and then despite the Lord ministering to me. Well as I went back on the train from that visit I It became even apparent to me before anybody said anything that maybe that's what I was doing. Confer perspective that perhaps that was what I was doing and getting linear part. I uh notified the spoken when I got back and I said that. Did you feel like I would know this yeah, there are heavy guns I would go if I tried the whole layer of the US. Yes. Have I come to be saved? Oh yes, I might have passed it in terms of servants. But my attitude was I want to be served in my servants I'm looking for credit and recognition. And when I didn't get it, I laid heavies on the people who were supposed to be serving me. God has to again and again, my ladies. Why do we serve one another? It is because even the Son of Man came out to be saved. And because of my love for Jesus Christ who came and served me Sometimes I want to be safe in some subtle way, a federal recipe. Because if you run on these subtle groups, you know there's two problems with fellowship The one is that we operate on a very superficial level and we don't indicate that we have any problems. We sort of find our case issues and all our problems are in the past and we don't let anybody in on each level But the second problem is that once we get beyond that and we begin to open up about our problems, we begin to admit that we have struggled in the Christian life, then we go to other sides and we begin to focus on our problems. You begin to want to talk about my problems and play for me in this result and let them tell you what's happening in my life And we try to elicit sympathy from the group. And we look at the underseparate group as a place to go to be ministered to And if I find that the people don't listen enough to me, then I say the people drag because they don't listen to me and my concerns. But even a sonic man came out to be true. But even when he poured out his revelation concerning his coming torture and death, the response to the death was not to be clear But he can please. How about people like you? I can't do that in my own place. The only way I can do that is to not look to the people, but to look to Jesus. So look for Jesus and to and to understand that he is the one who himself is the Son of Man, that I want to save, save me. But even when people bow down before Jesus Christ and they worship him, and no attention to that might happen if Jesus then said, Well, that's so good. I'm glad you finally realized who I am around. mean a new pair of sandals and get me something to help me on my way. But Jesus in everything continues to pay. Even if he was wasting Jesus continues to serve you and please. He's gone back to heaven to prepare a place for you and for me. And Jesus Christ has gone to intercede for you and for me. He has a lesson to you and to leave as a part of God. We will have son of life for last to be saved. You and I may hold for Jesus making us. And if we love him, and if we adore him is for what he came to say. God replaced for our heart. God is he to the savings. Gratitude is one who's willing to praise for the billing one to say, not because I do recognize he's praying for us. But because I want to serve. You will serve my brother and sister, not because I want to be recognized, but because I love Jesus Christ to serve you. Even the fellow man to be faithful. Like you faith. And give it one to answer somebody. Father of God. Virgin Jesus. You were equal with God. You had all of the glory of the Father that you just gave us. Because he did not last down to that. He did not call to it. Why do you want to become? He became man But he took on the attitude of a servant. And humbling himself to you, he became obedient unto God. Even the ignanimous depth of a cross. You will think of that You know what I'm saying?