I recall reading uh in the news in the beginning of September about the uh U. S. weapons inspector Scott Ritter. You remember he uh resigned his position because he was feeling pressure from the Clinton administration to not press Saddam Hussein for uh really sensitive secret weapons inspections. Ritter testified before a conferen Congress that uh if there do not continue to be serious inspections The Iraqis will have nuclear weapons within three years and bacteriological weapons within six months. I remember reading that uh article and it ended by saying that was a month ago, now have five months. That was two months before this, there are now three months. Suppose that we read in tomorrow's paper that someone has secret information That was obtained through our intelligence that in three years Saddam Hussein Is planning to attack the United States with nuclear weapons to bomb us, then to invade, and to deport the survivors to the Middle East. I dare say all our concerns about Y2K would be a blip on the screen at that point. Now let's suppose that even further This was not secret intelligence that had been gained, but God Himself speaks and says With infallible authority, Saddam Hussein is going to attack you in three years. He will decimate the United States and those who survive will be deported to the Middle East to serve a Muslim government. Can you begin to fathom the sense of alarm, panic, desperation, hopelessness that we might feel? If you can, you can begin to enter in to the scene of Isaiah 40-66. Because while it's easy for us to read the book of Isaiah and say, well, you know, I don't know what was going on back then, but it's kind of hard to get into it, it's pretty much the kind of scene I've just described. In fact, Babylon is in modern-day Iraq. And so what Isaiah was saying was something very similar to what I've just told you. The ruler out of Iraq is going to attack us. He is going to devastate us. He's going to destroy our capital. Many are going to be killed, and the survivors will be deported back to Iraq to serve a heathen government. At that point, what is it that we would need to hear more than anything else? It's not an escape plan. God has said it's going to happen. So the only thing left is, is there any comfort and is there any hope? Now you understand why when you hear the Messiah every year at Christmas time It begins with the words from the beginning of this section of Isaiah chapter 40, the words of comfort. Isaiah chapter 40 begins, comfort Comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and proclaim to her that her hard service has been completed. That her sin has been paid for, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. And then interwoven into the next 27 chapters of Hope and Comfort to Sinners who deserve what they've gotten. God could have said at this point, don't come whining to me about your troubles. I've warned you again and again through my prophets. You have ignored me. You're simply getting what you deserve. I am being just in doing this. But rather, what God does in his tenderness is to comfort the people whom he is punishing. And he interweaves within these 27 chapters four songs, songs of comfort, that depict the Messiah who is coming. As a servant who is their final hope. These have been traditionally called the songs of the servant, the servant of the Lord. And they appear in chapters 42, 49, 50, and 52, 53. Last year, for any of you who are here, you may remember that I did an overview of these songs of the servant. To show that the servant who is depicted could not possibly refer ultimately to national Israel or even spiritual Israel But rather that the servant who is spoken of in these four songs is a unique individual, and that that individual ultimately could only be Jesus Christ. That in fact, if Jesus is not the Messiah, the world could never have a Messiah. There is no hope in any Savior. Because Jesus specifically and precisely fulfills and fits the prophecies of Isaiah 40-66, particularly in those four Psalms. And not only does he uniquely and precisely fit those, but he contradicted all contemporary expectations of the fulfillment. And that's done because the songs themselves appear very contradictory. You have in these four songs a person who is, on the one hand, the most humble of people. Who doesn't even call attention to himself, but is ultimately exalted above all nations. He is one who is despised and yet worshipped. He is one who is both the ruler of all, as well as the one who is rejected by all. And so you have in this person Jesus, one who is described in contradictory terms that would have made no sense until we see the life of Jesus Christ. We see his suffering described and anticipated in Isaiah, suffering that will exceed that of any other man. And we see that in fact in the case of Jesus. And so as I said last year, whatever else these songs are good for, they're major faith builders in your life and in my life, in whatever we're going through. So now what I want to do this year is to depart as Phil had mentioned a little early from our regular series. Do that every year at the holiday time. To depart from whatever we're going through the last couple years, it's been Ephesians, of course, but to depart from what it is that we're looking at in our normal course of going through a book or topic In order that we might step back, and in this case, from the commands, we've been hearing a lot of commands, a lot of things that have been challenging our lives. And we've come last week to this statement. You were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. And we want to look at that Lord now, in whom we're light. We want to focus once again back on Jesus. And to me, and I know it's true to you, but I'll tell you it's just as true to me, you know. It's I love this time of the year when we can just kind of back off. And just once again look at the person and the work of Jesus Christ. As he's anticipated and as he's spoken of and he's presented to us as the object of our faith. The one whom we love, and why we why it is that you and I turn from our sin? Why it is that we turn from ourselves to serve and to love Him And so what we want to do in these next weeks is to take a look once again, to fall back in love with Jesus. As Phil mentioned, Isaiah 42, the first song that we'll be looking at this year. is a song that is so rich that I felt it needed at least five messages to not be embarrassed that we treated it too superficially. So we're beginning now before Thanksgiving. We'll break the Sunday before Thanksgiving for a Thanksgiving message and then continue on into December with this. Now let me say one regretful word about the outline. If you look at the outline, you may think I had either been trying to be cute, creative, or just plain dumb. This is the process of Word 97 in all its brilliance. I assure you I did not type in 2DEF and the rest of that garbage that you see there. You can reinsert the what it should be as you would expect. It's a Roman numeral 1, an A, B, a C, and then a 2, and an A, a B, and on the back there should be a C. That was on Wednesday. On Thursday, thanks to a visit with Hart de Graff, I learned how to kill that monster, and you should never see that again. But bear with me for this week. Let me once again read this song. Having said what I did, even though Phil read it, I'd like to read it again for us to begin to enter in to the riches. And even in just reading it, hopefully you'll see why it's going to take five weeks for us to cover some of its riches in depth. Here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him and he will bring justice to the nations. He will not shout or cry out or raise his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. In faithfulness he will bring forth justice. He will not falter or be discouraged until he establishes justice on earth. In his law the islands will put their hope. This is what God the Lord says. He who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and all that comes out of it who gives breath to its people and life to those who walk on it. I, the Lord Yahweh, have called you in righteousness I will take hold of your hand. I will keep you. And I will make you to be a covenant for the people and a light for the Gentiles. To open the eyes that are blind, to free captives from prison, and to release from the dungeon those who sit in darkness. You see what we were speaking of last week, light from darkness. I am the Lord. I am Yahweh. That is my name. I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. See, the former things have taken place, and new things I declare, before they spring into being, I announce them to you. This is God's word. Wow. Look at what we're going to be looking at. Isn't that great? I mean it's like looking at a meal before you dive in, right? Well, first of all, what I want to call attention is we will be looking in these five weeks at the uniqueness of this servant. But even before we do that, what I want to do today is to look at the uniqueness of the one speaking. That often is missed as we look at this song in Isaiah 42. But that's too bad because the song is nine verses, and three of them are spent simply focusing on who it is that is singing the song, as it were, to Messiah. This song is sung by verse by God the Lord, and then in verses 8 and 9, the Lord, and he identifies himself as the one who is singing it. And that's very important. One-third of the song is devoted to who it is that is declaring it because of the importance of that. Now, before we did Ephesians, there w there was life before Ephesians, and one of the series that we did was the Names of God. How many were here during the Names of God series? Yeah, yeah, a fair number of you. A number of you have been since that time. You may recall that when we looked at the names of God, that two of the names, the basic names of God that we looked at were the name Elohim and the name Yahweh. And those are the two names that you have in verse 5, Elohim, and then verse 8 and 9, Yahweh. And they are very significant. In the way that God uses those to describe Himself in this song You see that in verse 5, first of all, notice that Yahweh, the covenant name of God, is the name that Isaiah generally uses to refer to God throughout the whole book. And he uses that three times in this song. But in verse 5, you notice that he says, this is what Elohim Yahweh says. And so he's adding to that to distinguish this is Yahweh who is also Elohim who is speaking. And if you remember from that series, that name Elohim, that we translate in our Bibles, God, capital G, small O D, is a word which basically means the sovereign creator. It is generally used to refer to God as the basic meaning is the strong, faithful one, and it is used of God when it describes him as the creator. And you see, that's exactly what verse 5 does. He says, this is what Elohim Yahweh says, he who created the heavens and stretched them out. who spread out the earth and all that comes out of it, who gives breath to its people, and life to those who walk on it. God is saying, When I give you this song, I want you to understand this is not just some poem that Isaiah thought of. This is the Creator of the heavens and the earth who is now speaking this. I speak this with the authority of the Creator. And so he distinguishes in three ways how he is creator. He speaks, first of all, of the fact that he is the creator of the heavens. In verse 5, the beginning, he who created the heavens and stretched them out. That's easy to say. He created the heavens and stretched them out. Very difficult for you and for me to appreciate. What is involved in the power that that one statement, that simple phrase conveys Let me do it because of limitations of time by quoting to you one sentence out of an article that I read recently. Here's the sentence. The National Geographic reports that when the Hubble telescope focused on one of the emptiest areas of the sky and only covered a tiny sector the size of a grain of sand held at an arm's length. So here you have the whole vastness of the heavens, and this telescope is focusing on one of the emptiest places in the sky, the size of a grain of sand held at an arm's length. That tiny sector revealed hundreds of major galaxies, each with billions, not millions, of suns. Can you begin to fathom what God means when he says, This is what Elohim Yahweh says, He who created the heavens. And stretch them out. And then he goes on. Who within one of these galaxies And one of the billions of stars within that Milky Way galaxy, in one speck, a piece of dust circling around one of those stars. Called the earth. I established life, spread out the earth and all that comes out of it. The proliferation and the abundance of the earth and life that God has created. Ever eat oysters? Next time you have a nice large Virginia oyster, I know some of you are yuck, you know, terrible, but I really enjoy oysters. Eat one oyster. Think about this. You eat or an oyster, worship. You look at that one oyster and you say that one oyster in one year can lay 500 million eggs. On average, that oyster can live ten years. They don't move around much. They just kind of attach themselves to a rock and they hang there for ten years. But during that ten years And one oyster will lay five billion eggs. God says, I establish the earth and all that comes out of it. Familiar with barnacles? Go along a seashore sometime and you see rocks. And rocks, you know, when it's when it's below high tide, uh you'll often see barnacles and if it's below uh mean tide, you know, where it's most mostly covered with water, you're gonna see a lot of barnacles. And if you see a s say a thousand yards of rock on a seashore And that those rocks are covered with barnacles, then you're looking at about a billion barnacles. So if you ever want to wonder, you know, what's a billion look like? Think of a thousand yards of seashore with rocks covered with barnacles. In one year, that billion barnacles along that shore will lay one million, million eggs. No wonder there's so many of those little suckers all around. God says, I create the heavens and stretch them out. Under one who spread out the earth and all that comes out of it, and who gives breath to its people, and life to those who walk on it. I wish I had time to Share with you some of the wonders of the mystery of the human body and the creation that God has made. But we are people to whom he says he has given breath. You have not only life, the wonder of life, but the mystery of self-awareness. You are self-conscious, unlike animals and other creatures. You're aware that you exist. You are aware that you're created. You have a God consciousness. You have the ability to worship. The capacity to obey or to disobey. And that's what Isaiah is about. Those of us who have chosen to disobey And therefore have deserved his wrath. He says, I'm now speaking to those of you, my people, who are going to be carried away because of your disobedience. But I speak as the Creator. That's who's speaking this word. That's who declares this prophecy. And then you notice in verses 8 and 9, he describes himself in terms of that wonderful name, the covenant name Yahweh. I am the Lord. I am Yahweh. That is my name. You see, he focuses on it. He calls attention to it. I will not give my glory to another, or my praise to idols. See, the former things have taken place, new things I declare. Before they spring into being, I announce them to you. You remember that we said when we looked at that name, Yahweh, the most important name of God in all of the Bible. That referred to the one who is the sovereign God of the covenant. We recall that that name I said was defined in Exodus chapter 6 and verses 6 to 8. And it's summed up in those three verses by the three R's that we used back at that time. Now we're going to see. Does anybody remember those three R's? Yahweh refers to the sovereign God who does what? Redeems. Yes, one redeems us into a Relationship, yes, too, into a relationship with a reward, the kingdom of heaven. Man, you made my day That's really good to know when you preach these series. Okay. That's the basic meaning of the name. He is the God who redeems us, buys us out of slavery. into freedom, but not only into freedom, but into a relationship with himself, and gives to us a reward of the land spoken of in Exodus, which is the kingdom. Now notice three things about this God in verses eight and nine of Isaiah 42. First of all, notice that this God guards his glory. Verse 8. I am the Lord, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another. This one who created the heavens and who created the earth, who gave you life and breath. Says, I alone am God, I am alone the one to be worshipped and acknowledged. Your life is to center around me, that is your happiness, that's your joy, but I will not share your affections. I will not tolerate other idols. I will not allow my glory to be shared by other Focuses of your affections and devotion in your life. You and I who have the capacity to worship were made to worship only Him. Israel worshiped the Lord. But it was the Lord plus. They worshiped Yahweh plus this God and that God, that point of security. That object of their affection. And God says, I will not tolerate that. It is me alone, I alone, am to be God in your life. And for some of you, there's other objects of affection that have displaced the Lord Jesus. That have displaced God as the center of your life. God says to you in this verse, I will not give, I will not share my glory with another. He then goes on to say, I speak prophetically. Look what he says there. I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. See, the former things have taken place and new things I declare before they spring into being, I announce them to you. Now that is a very important point, and God stresses that over and over in Isaiah. You see, he is establishing in these early chapters of 40 to 66 that he alone is God. That there is no other God but him, no other creator. And so he says, I alone am the one Who can speak prophetically? No other God, no idol, no human being, no one can tell the future. We can talk of likelihoods, we can guess We can have futurologists that say this is what things are going to look like. But you read those, and they're always kind of amusing if you read them 10, 15 years. uh those that wrote 10-15 years ago, you read them now, and you see how vastly far off the mark they are. But God says, when I speak, I speak precisely. I speak the future and I will tell you exactly what is going to happen. He stresses that again in Isaiah forty-six, he elaborates on it there. Take a look at that for a moment. In Isaiah 46, in verse 5. God says, To whom will you compare me or count me equal? To whom will you liken me that we may be compared? Then verse 8. Remember this and fix it in mind. Take it to heart, you rebels. Remember the former things, those of long ago. I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is none like me. I make known the end from the beginning, from ancient times, what is still to come. I say my purpose will stand, and I will do all that I please. From the east I summon a bird of prey. From a far-off land, a man to fulfill my purpose What I have said, that will I bring about. What I have planned, that will I do Now, what is God referring to here? The bird of prey that he's speaking of is Cyrus. Isaiah 42 through 46, this whole section, was written Probably 150 to 200 years before Cyrus lived and ruled. Cyrus was the king of Persia And he was the one who was going to come against Babylon, where God's people, after the attack by the Iraqis, the Babylonians. And they would be deported, carried away. God says, This one, this bird of prey, is going to be your deliverer. I'm going to raise him up, and I am going to send him against Babylon. He is the one who's going to come and to defeat the Babylonians. Babylon was considered an impregnable city. No one could scale, let alone tear down its walls or mount them and mount an attack against them. It was thought to be absolutely invincible. Cyrus came against Babylon with an army, and he observed that in order to get water for this They thought any siege laid against Babylon would never work because the entire Euphrates River flowed under the walls of Babylon. So what did Cyrus do? If you can't go over the walls, you go under them. So one night he dammed up the Euphrates River, and in a surprise attack, diverting its waters, he carried his army on the riverbed, underneath the walls of Babylon, invaded the city, and took it. And after he took it, one of the first edicts was to free the Jews and allow them to go back to their land. God says, I'm going to send this one. He is your deliverer. He not only speaks about what he will do, but notice God actually calls him by name 150 or so years before this man has come. In Isaiah 44, look at verse 28. So God says in verse 27, He says to the watery deep, Be dry, and I will dry up your streams. Little clue there to the attack. Who says of Cyrus, he is my shepherd. And will accomplish all that I please. He will say of Jerusalem, let it be rebuilt, and of the temple, let its foundations be laid. 45 verse 1. This is what the Lord says to his anointed. To Cyrus. Cyrus is called anointed, Messiah. Whose right hand I will take hold of, to subdue nations before him, and to strip kings of their honor, to open doors before him, so that the gates will not be shut Now, this is very important. Have you ever heard of Deutero Isaiah? People talk about, you know, there's 1st Isaiah and there's second Isaiah. Why is it that scholars have come to conclude that there are not one Isaiah, but two Isaiahs? It is precisely because of what I've just read. Unbelieving scholars have concluded that if in fact God had spoken not only of what would happen, but named him Then that conclusively demonstrates supernaturalism. The Bible is a prophetic book. If your presupposition is that can't happen, the only way you can get around it is to say, well, you know, really chapter 40 to 66 was written during the time of Cyrus. It wasn't. It was written 150 or so years before that. You say prove it. I don't have the time to prove it, but here's what I'm going to do Next week, middle hour, one-week elective course, the book of Isaiah. If anybody's interested, we will talk about why Isaiah is one book rather than two. For those of you who are interested, I will do it in the library where we hold the Discoverers class. Next week, middle hour, if you're interested. But now, having established That what God is saying here, you see, if there's two Isaiahs, this doesn't even make sense. Because God is saying, I am going to demonstrate I am uniquely God by telling you what is going to happen before it happens. Of course I'm telling it after it happened, but you know, that's a detail. Well, of course it makes nonsense out of what Isaiah is saying. What we'll do next week is just try to show the evidence that in fact it happened before But God is saying here, I announce to you what happens before, because, third point, C, that you don't have the C for, God acts sovereignly. What he is saying is, I alone am able to do this because I not only see history in one sweep of my omniscient eye, God who is not bound by time, but sees all of history laid out before him at a single glance. Not only because of that, God says, but because I control history. He says in Isaiah 42:1, here's my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one, in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him He will bring justice to the nations. You see, there's no question about it. This will happen in verse 5. He speaks of the one who has created all things, all breath, that he is sovereign And then in verse 6 from that he says, I will take hold of your hand, I will keep you and make you to be a covenant for the people, to the Messiah. In verse 9, again, I will declare the things before they come to pass. Why? As Isaiah 46 says in verses 10 and 11, because my purposes will stand. He says, What I have said that will I bring about. What I have planned that will I do. Isaiah 46, 11. And so 700 years later, a baby was born in Bethlehem, a baby whom Herod tried to kill and was unsuccessful. The one who grew to teach and the Jewish leaders sought to discredit him, and they were unsuccessful. Whom Satan sought to destroy and have him hung on a cross and die. And God says not only was that unsuccessful in eliminating him in his kingdom, but the very crucifixion itself was according to my set purpose. In Acts chapter 2, after the resurrection, when you have Peter describing What had happened. He says in chapter 2 and verse 23, this man, Jesus, was handed over to you by God set purpose and foreknowledge. And you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to a cross. But God raised him up from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. And then when Peter in chapter 4 preaches the gospel, you notice after the excuse me, this is during the prayer of the disciples after that. When they are praying to God, they specifically refer to the songs of the servant Twice in verse 27 of Acts 4 and verse 30, they refer to Jesus not as Lord, but as what? Servant. People look at that and they say, why do they call him servant? He's now Lord. He's risen, he's ascended. Because you see, they had in mind this song from Isaiah 42. What they're saying is, indeed, Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant, Jesus, the Messiah, whom you anointed, you see. Messiah. They did what your power and your will had decided beforehand should happen. And now, Lord, consider their threats and enable your servants, us, to speak your word with great boldness. Stretch out your hand to heal and to perform miraculous signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant, Jesus. What a prayer. Do you see why these disciples could go out with a boldness? It was not fearful of whatever some person could do to them. They knew there was a God. Who's 700 years before it said, I will tell you what I am going to do through this Messiah, and I will predict it because I will accomplish it. And so you and I look back on that prophecy. We see that Cyrus, the deliverer that God raised up, he says, here's Cyrus, he's going to deliver you. But Cyrus is not the ultimate deliverer He's just opening the door to the day of deliverance. Messiah is going to come, and he's going to not simply bring you back to the land, he's going to bring you to a new land In fact, that new land and that new deliverance is so significant that the old Exodus will not even be remembered. In fact, it's not even a new promised land. It's a new heavens and a new earth. And you and I look to Jesus this morning, and we see that he's the one who's fulfilled that prophecy perfectly. How we need to bow before him. How we need to worship. How we need to trust him. Whatever's going on in your life, this is the God who's in control of your life. And if you haven't knelt before Jesus, tremble. Tremble at this God, who's created the heavens and the earth, lest you be under his wrath. For his servant Jesus is a savior from sin and can save you. Let's pray. Oh, Lord our God Give us eyes to see that you who speak the end from the beginning speak because you are sovereignly in control of all things. And you have sent Jesus, and Jesus has accomplished all that you have said. Lord, we affirm our trust in this Jesus. We give you our lives anew, to trust you and to serve you. Amen.