We're studying, you recall, at length now, the secret of contentment. We're discussing it, studying it as it's described by the Apostle Paul, written from rather miserable and frustrating circumstances. In Philippians chapter 4, and so let me again read those verses that we're meditating on through these weeks. Philippians chapter 4, verses 10 to 13, considering particularly verses 11 to 13. I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. I'm not saying this because I'm in need, for I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be a need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation Whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want, I can do everything through Him who gives me strength. Now we're seeing through this these weeks three great lessons from this text. The first one that we have been considering from God's Word is that contentment is something to be learned. It's not something which comes automatically or instantaneously even to a Christian. But it's something that takes time. It's the result of choices that you make. But there's an encouragement in that that you can learn contentment. Paul says, I have learned, verse 11, to be content. Verse 12, I have learned the secret of being content. And by God's grace, it's a secret that you too can learn Whatever you have or don't have in this life, isn't it wonderful to know that you can learn to be content? That really is the bottom line, isn't it? Who cares what you have or don't have if you're not content? What you and I long for is contentment. And that's something Scripture says to be learned, and that's what we're exploring. How to learn that. The second thing that we're discovering, the second point that we're pursuing now during these weeks is that contentment is independent of circumstances. That's the second great truth of this text. He says it again and again, I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances, I've learned to be content in any and every situation. My contentment does not depend on being in a happy situation, in having what I want. You remember we saw Paul's life a few weeks ago and how Full of pain and frustration and persecution and difficulty, his own life was. Beatings and betrayals and pressures. Over and over, disappointment. And yet this is the man who says, I've learned to be content. Didn't even need you to supply that gift to enable me to live in a little better situation here. I was content without it. I'm content whatever God gives. We saw last week to remember that discontentment is sin. Discontentment is not an emotion. in which we are in its helpless grip, or we are helpless in its grip, but uh discontentment is something that we can affect We can choose, we make certain choices, and that affects whether we're content or discontent. Now But there's good news and bad news then. You know, bad news is, as somebody said in the discussion afterwards, now not only am I discontent, but I feel guilty for being discontent. I mean at least before I was just content discontent. I could blame somebody else, I guess, you know, but now I realize I'm the one. And so that makes me even more miserable. And so uh if you are discontent, you're also guilty. Now think about that. But the good news is, because God commands you to be content, you can be content. God would not have commanded it if it wasn't something he by his spirit would enable you to obey. And you remember that in chapter 2 we saw that Paul says, do everything without complaining or arguing. In chapter 4, just a few verses before this one of our texts, he says, Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I'll say it, rejoice. Don't be anxious in any situation, but in everything with prayer, petition, with thanksgiving, present your request to God, and his peace will come into your heart. Well you remember we took a look at 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and saw in verse 10 that Paul says that one of the four great sins for which God punished and judged Israel in the desert was their grumbling against him. It was a sin. That he said caused them to be visited by the death angel, grumbling against God, discontentment. What do you think of flip of Hebrews chapter 13? Where the Lord tells us in verses 5 and 6, keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you have. Simple, straightforward, command of Scripture. Be content with you. Not with what you might get, but with what you have right now. Because God has said, Never will I leave you. Never will I forsake you. So that we can say with confidence, the Lord is my helper. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? What are you afraid of this morning? God says that He is your helper. You have nothing to be afraid of in Jesus Christ if you belong to Him. And so you can be content. Or you think of 1 Timothy 6 and verse 6, Paul says there, godliness with contentment is great gain. And so scriptures command us to be content. Discontentment is sin. Yet you and I have a way of agreeing with those texts, don't we? We don't argue with them. We say, well, yeah, I believe that. Sure, that's true. But we still feel that discontentment is an emotion over which we have no control. If I'm frustrated, I'm discontent, and I can't help that. And so we feel like somehow we're in its grip, and we're not able to choose to reject it. But that's not true. In fact, just a couple of days ago, I experienced an illustration of that in my own life On Thursday night, our rabbit died over at Dobbin 175, and Matt and Phil were kind enough to push it into the mobile station. And so it sat there and Friday morning Kathy and I went over and got it started. Only ran for about 30 seconds, didn't even get out of the mobile station. But Cathy was ahead of me and off she took, thinking I was behind her. And I'm waving, you know, and the car is just dying there in front of Kmart, you know, and blowing the horn and nothing, you know. I sat there And kept sitting there and sat there for about twenty minutes or so, waiting for her dis to discover I wasn't behind her and to come back and get me. Now while I'm sitting there, of course I'm thinking certain things, like, this is not how I plan to spend Friday morning. And uh, you know, I really ought to be at the office. There are things I need to get done and why am I just sitting here? This is ridiculous, it's raining, I'm sitting here with this car, and you know I'm uh and I began to find, you know, my blood pressure is getting a little higher, you know, and Then all of a sudden I thought, now what's gonna happen? I know what's gonna happen. She's gonna come back and I'm gonna blame her for why didn't you turn around and come back and find me and then what's gonna happen? Well then adding to the car not start, then you know there are gonna be some friction between us and so you know the day's really gonna go downhill. And I decided it's ridiculous, it's not her fault. And so I I consciously chose, Lord, I pray that you will enable me to greet her with a smile. Now, you gotta find out whether I greeted her with a smile. But I decided Lord I am going to greet her with a smile when she comes back. And there's nothing I can do about her, so I'm just gonna sit back. So I sat back on the seat and I closed my eyes and I just relaxed. There wasn't anything I could do until she got back. And I thought of that. Now I swear to you, I did not think of that for a sermon illustration. I was it was not in my mind that, hey, this is really gonna be a neat illustration for Sunday. But what I thought about afterwards is I had a choice to make there. I could either take that to the Lord and say, Lord, here it is. I can't do anything about it. You got me here right now. What's it going to do to take out my frustration on my wife? Not gonna accomplish anything. Well, save any minutes, and it sure will add some problems. And so the result of my being able to, at least in my judgment, I thought That's pretty friendly. Was that there wasn't in fact any tension with us. And nothing was lost. And in fact, we had breakfast together and had a good time. And it taught me again, there's so many times in my life when I feel like because I am frustrated, it's inevitable I'm going to be discontent. And I have a choice. I can bring that frustration to Jesus Christ. And I can say, Lord, here it is. What do you want me to do with it? What's the situation? What can I do? What am I responsible to do? What can't I do? I leave that with you. And I can choose contentment in Christ. I can choose to find his peace in trusting him rather than taking on to myself what I really can't do anything about and just getting frustrated. Discontentment is not a modern phenomenon. It's not simply the result of our pressures. Somebody came to get me on Friday, because I didn't have the car, of course. It was in the shop for the rest of the day, or at least unavailable to me. And the person was going to go pick me up had all kinds of things that delayed him, frustrations. And you begin to think, you know, these are all the effects because a copier broke down and there was this and that kind of technical problem. That discontentment is a modern result of our pressure. But it's not. Discontentment is rooted in our hearts. In 1648, a powerful Puritan preacher by the name of Jeremiah Burrows wrote the book The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment. That was back in 1648, as in before the car, before the phone. It was just as rare then as it is today. And in that book, he lists a number of excuses that we give. For not being content. And I've looked at all the excuses he's listed, and I've noticed the ones that I've observed, and I have to offer you here a list of my seven excuses for not being content. Seven reasons, seven excuses that I find that I and others give that says Philippians 4, 11 to 13 doesn't really apply to my situation. I can generally be content. I believe that verse is generally true. But in this situation, uh-uh, it does not apply. Man, I have a right to be discontent And so I want to go through those with you and see if you identify with any of these. And I would suggest that you circle the ones that you particularly identify with. Or if you don't want anybody to see it, you know, you put a little dot there next to it or something, but some way that you can say, yeah, this one I particularly identify with, and this one, well then, you know, and that one, that one so much. And see which ones you do. First one. This affliction makes no sense. This affliction makes no sense. I remember a few years ago when we were having vacation Bible school seeing a car of a family that was not part of our church. were kindly bringing a whole carload of kids to vacation Bible school. Didn't even know who the people were. They're coming right around the corner of this intersection and bam, this other car hit them right in the side. I thought, Lord, why do you have somebody hit somebody bringing a bunch of kids to our Bible school? You know, do you ever think that sometimes God sort of shoots himself in the foot It doesn't make sense, Lord. Why do I have a flat tire driving to church? What does it accomplish? There are things that you and I go through where we think it just doesn't make sense. It makes you angry. That you think, Lord, it doesn't make sense that you're doing this. I can't figure it out. When I'm in those kind of situations, I find something from Johnny Erickson, the quadriplegic, paralyzed from the neck down. who has learned a lot about contentment independent of circumstances. On one occasion she wrote in one of her books, she said, When I cry out like Job, why, God, in what seems like a senseless affliction? She said, I have to remember that like Job, God's answer to me is, you cannot contain my answers. For me to give you the answer to your question. would be to pour million gallon truths into a seven-ounce cup. It would be like pouring a water tower into a Dixie cup. And so it's enough for you and for me to know that God is all wise, and that He is a Father of us in the Lord Jesus Christ. His purpose for us ultimately is good, and he will accomplish that good purpose of making us like his son if we've trusted him. Therefore, I can trust his purpose even though I don't understand it. Because I couldn't understand it even if he did explain it to me at this point. And that's reassuring. And that can bring me a sense of contentment that rests in Jesus. Second excuse. I was not prepared for this. I was not prepared for this. Took me totally by surprise. Seems like an intrusion into my life. Funny thing is that you and I as Christians tend to believe, don't we, that if we're following the Lord faithfully, we shouldn't have any trouble. Trouble is only for discipline to those that aren't following him the way they ought to be. And so we sort of feel that if I'm not conscious of any great rebellion or sin in my life, things ought to be going well. And so whenever something comes, either a sharp immediate irritation or long-term pain, we feel like it's an intrusion. We're surprised by it. Why does this happen? I'm not prepared for this. Well, Paul was prepared. In Acts 20, for instance, he says, I'm going to Jerusalem and I'm expecting to have all kinds of hardships and difficulties as I preach the gospel. This world is cursed. It's an abnormal situation. Jesus Christ is not ruling in righteousness with the world subdued to his control You and I are not thoroughly subdued to him. And so things are all out of kilder still at this point. And because of that, we are in that curse, subject daily. to frustrations and to afflictions. And so if you're not prepared for the afflictions that will come on you this week or have come on you, it's not God's fault. It's your fault He warned you, he told you, it's your problem that you're not prepared for it. You see, you and I value comfort more than character God says, I value character more than comfort in your life. And in order to produce the character, there will need to be those times of pain. Those times when you will be reduced to realize that you don't have the resources to handle this, and you'll turn to me, and you'll learn something of the character of Christ that comes through affliction. And so as you and I learn to value character more than comfort, we will come to expect that there will be trials. 1 Peter says, don't be surprised at the afflictions and the trials that have come on you. They're God's purpose in refining your faith, which is more value than gold. Like gold, it will be refined in the fire. So expect the trials. But expect also with the trials there will be sufficient grace from Jesus Christ to deal with each trial that he brings you into. Third excuse that I hear and give, I don't deserve this. Ever hear that one? I don't deserve this. I've tried to live a good life. I mean, why me? I've tried to be a decent person. Woody Allen, in his film Crimes and Misdemeanors, has an ophthalmologist, Judah. Who is unfaithful to his wife and takes on a mistress. And after a period of time he decides that this is not a very wise move, and so he tries to drop the mistress And it becomes a sort of tame version of fatal attraction. She's not going to take this lying down, although she's not violent And so this fellow goes from misery to misery as he's trying to dump this woman and keep it still quiet so that nobody will know. And at one point he says to his friend, lamenting all that he's suffering, Do I really deserve this? I mean, after all, I'm a pretty decent guy. And so, you know, Woody Allen is trying to show you the dilemma of this thing, in his terms, in a morally absurd universe. Then here's this fella thinking, you know, I mean all I've done was been unfaithful to my wife and tried to, you know, have some fun with this woman and dump her and hey, she don't like it, but do I deserve to have this grief? And it reminds me of myself and of you and me when we think, but God, I don't deserve to have it this bad. I mean, what do you think you do deserve after having stubbornly disobeyed and been ungrateful to a holy and pure God? What is it that you and I deserve at his hand? What do we deserve after having ignored his rules, his laws, having not bowed our knees and hear to him, and tried to run our own lives in our own way? How great really is that sin and what does it deserve? And the scripture is absolutely clear. You and I deserve hell. We deserve God's eternal punishment for that. And anything that's better than that is better than we deserve. We so play and neutralize sin, and we're so used to it by comparing ourselves with others in our culture, that we think if we're better than the next guy, we deserve to have a decent break. And we missed the whole message of scripture that you and I deserve nothing but his wrath. And so if you have come to see that And you've turned from your sin and said, I abhor that. God forgive me for having ignored you in my life. Forgive me for having tried to run my own life in my own way. I see now that Jesus Christ is the only one who is able to run my life, that his substitution by his death on the cross is the only means by which I can escape what I deserve. Then you get through Jesus Christ, heaven. You get the forgiveness of your sins, a new life here and the promise of glory with Him. And then from that loving Father with a good purpose, you and I receive a temporary trivial trial. Don't dare look up to God and say, I don't deserve this. For even what you get, were it the most miserable thing you could imagine. Would be not what you deserve if you have the hope of heaven. And so heaven itself and the hope of the gospel. Is more than you and I would ever deserve, however difficult our situation would be for these few brief years. And yet God is so merciful to give us so much beyond. Don't be so foolish or so arrogant as to whine and complain, but I didn't deserve this. I've tried to be good. God in his purpose is giving you far better than you deserve. And his purposes are good. A fourth reason, fourth excuse that I often hear that we use. Is that other people seem to have it so much easier? Other people seem to have it so much easier than me. We're always comparing ourselves with other people, aren't we? Now generally we compare ourselves not with those who are distant from us, but those who are close to us and have it just a little bit better. I mean we don't compare ourselves with Donald Trump. Somehow you don't identify with him, you know. You compare yourself with somebody at far side, or maybe just somebody who has at least a detached house, or somebody at least who has their own home, or whatever it is that's just a little beyond where you are right now. Somebody whose health is a little bit better. Johnny Erickson says, you know what quadriplegics dream about? She says, they don't dream about dancing. We dream about being paraplegics, because then at least I could use my hands. So she says the discontentment that tempts me It's always to just have a little bit more and to be discontent with why can't I just be like so-and-so? They have it easier. Why do they have it easier than me? And to grumble and to complain against God. If only I were like that, that's not too much to ask, is it, God? And by doing that and envying, we lose the contentment of enjoying what we do have. We miss being able to see all the blessings God's given because all we're looking at is just that little bit that we wish that we had because someone else has it easier. Do you remember Peter in John 21 after Jesus' resurrection? Jesus was talking to Peter and he said, Peter. You're going to suffer for me in feeding my sheep. You remember Peter's response? He'd been hanging around John for three years, you know And the two of them were very close. And it was a lot of comparisons. Peter's first response wasn't, I'm going to suffer. Oh, boy. That's tough. I hope you'll give me grace, Lori. First response is what about him? Looks over the jump. What about him? What's he gonna have? And you remember how Jesus responded to him? He said, don't worry about John. You just follow me. And so you and I need to get our eyes off the other person and need to see the scripture that says that you are complete in Christ. And your contentment is independent of your circumstances. If you're going to be content, it's going to be because you have found the sufficiency of the grace of Jesus Christ in your situation. And as you find that, that'll remove from you the need to try to compare yourself with someone else. And if you're in a more difficult situation, just think of this. The greater your affliction, the greater your opportunity to honor Jesus Christ by his grace being supernaturally evident in your life to give you contentment that the world cannot explain. And so greater affliction is greater opportunity during these brief years to give honor to Jesus by contentment supernaturally attained in trusting Jesus in your situation. Fifth excuse, fifth reason that we give. If only it were a different kind of affliction. If only it were a different kind of affliction, just not this one. If only it was something else. You know what? That's why you didn't get to choose it. God's the one who knows precisely the affliction to get to the root of your sin in your pride and your self-sufficiency in order to bring you closer to Him. And God knows if he let you design it, you'd let yourself off. Some people say, my spouse is unusually hard to love. You know why? Because God designed your spouse to get right to the root of your sin. And because that person's been designed by God to get to right at the heart of what you need. That makes that person all the more difficult for you, doesn't it? I know you're identifying. I see how there. It's true, isn't it? What God does to me is to get to the heart of my particular sin in showing me the ways that I am unable to love Kathy as I should Because God designs the particular kind of affliction and difficulty not arbitrarily, but tailor-made. to the purpose that he's accomplishing in your life. So don't wrong for a different kind of affliction. Be able to thank God for his wisdom and trust the fact that because it's particularly painful, it's because the work that he wants to do in you is a deep work and it takes that kind of depth in order for him to accomplish it. Remember that Paul's thorn in the flesh was particularly designed for him. To humble him so that he would find the grace of Christ sufficient in his situation. And whatever it is in your life, it's designed for exactly the same purpose. That you will find the grace of Christ sufficient for your need and for God's work of making you more like Jesus to be a work that He will accomplish more thoroughly. And you'll love him more for what he's done when you learn to rest in it. So don't waste energy in envying other people's kinds of afflictions But rather turn to Jesus this morning for your need to find his sufficiency in your situation. The sixth. Excuse that we give. Is that it makes me useless to God. But it makes me useless to God. How often we hear that? Oh, if only I had the time, the talents, the gifts, the opportunity, the energy, the youth, whatever it is, the health. Whatever that you have, then I would be able to serve God better. But I lament that I just don't have what so-and-so has And so I'm useless to God. I'm just not able to be useful to Him because I don't have what is needed. Are you sure that in that lament that you're really not lamenting simply a lack of recognition from other people? Or that perhaps you're not using what you perceive as a lack of grace and opportunity in your own life as an excuse to not be faithful with what God has given you. Once on time a woman came to Richard Halverson, and she was lamenting all her limitations. And Dick Alverson said, My dear lady, all God's expecting you to do is serve him where you are. Oh, excuse me. I just thought of this at this moment, so I've got to work it through. He said, My dear lady God is just calling you to serve him in the situation you are. And she said, Do you mean God just wants me to serve him just where I am? And he said, well he certainly doesn't want you to serve him where you're not. Where you are is all you can do. And so that's all God expects of you. Don't lament the fact that you're not like someone else, and therefore you're not useful to God. The faithful exercise, the faithfulness of a pencil pusher or a sales clerk. For Jesus Christ is more significant than the awards of an Emmy or Grammy winner in this world. What counts for eternity is that you and I can please Jesus Christ. Don't look for just the recognition of other people for your contentment. It's a bottomless pit, and it'll never be filled. The final excuse do we give is that what really bothers me is God's absence. I've tried to pick seven that I see most common. Maybe you think of a couple others. These are the ones that I find that I hear and that I find in my own heart. What really bothers me in this affliction is God's absence, and by that I mean I'm discontent because sure I have the affliction, but what really bothers me is that when I cry out to God, he's not there. I don't sense his presence at all in this. He seems to be so absent. He ignores me when I cry out to him in my need. Do you remember Israel at Meribah in Exodus 17 that we looked at last week when their lack of water? When they saw the lack of water, Their immediate question was, is God with us or not? And you see what they were doing was they were concluding that if we have trouble, then God can't be with us. If there's trouble here, God must be gone. Because I am discontent, God must be gone. When in fact, it's just the reverse. God is gone because you're discontent. Your discontentment, which rises out of a lack of trust, has driven away the sense of his presence. And so the only fix on that is to repent of your unbelief, your foolishness, and concluding that because you don't feel him in a situation that you're discontented in, then he doesn't care. When in fact he stands infinitely ready to care right now at this moment to receive you in all your trouble and affliction. If you come back to him, repenting of that discontentment, repenting of those lone thoughts of him that accused him of faithlessness. And to come back and say, oh Lord Jesus, I believe you are there. That you do care. And you will find that in your coming to Him in that simple faith that He will meet you. And that as he meets you, he will give you the contentment that comes from trusting him. Which of these numbers do you identify with? As you look down, which ones did you find yourself most marking? I would suggest that sometime this afternoon or right after the service this morning That you write them in your own words. You may find yourself stating it differently. Well, it's kind of that, but the way I say it is, put it in your own words. And then once you have done that, ask yourself. In the light of what I've heard this morning, do I see a new perspective of foolishness of what I've said? Do I see in the light of Philippians 4 that I am not in need, for I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances I know what it is to have plenty. I know what it is to be in need, but I have learned the secret of being content. In any and every situation, whether well-fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want, I can do everything through him who gives me strength. How do you see the grace of Christ in a new way to be sufficient for your particular need and to drive away the excuses of your heart? Let's pray together. Lord our God, we pray that you would help us to be honest with ourselves and with you. To be able to write these things out and to be able to think about them, to be able to have you speak to us from your word. That this week we might cease to excuse our discontentment. To rationalize and to say, but my case is different. How can anyone be content in this situation? To find that you have promised to us grace sufficient For whatever affliction or trial or difficulty that you have permitted into our lives, Lord, may we be a content people. Cleaving to Jesus Christ and finding in him our sufficiency. May your power be seen at work in us. As you show us the grace of Christ. In Jesus' name. Amen.