Now that the offering has been taken, let me ask, did you really give as much as you were able to to the Lord just now? See how easy it is to induce guilt and shame I was thinking about this and I was thinking, ours is really kind of an age of shame, isn't it? Kind of a decade of shame. Maybe the nineties will go down as the decade of shame rather than all the other things we talk about in spite of the Persian Gulf War to start it off. You know, there's shame all over the place. If you're a white male, particularly of European background, you feel all kinds of shame for everybody you oppressed all over the place and as we come up on the five hundredth anniversary of Columbus Discovery of America. All kinds of people ought to be feeling shame here because of how we exploited the land and the people and there's shame from multiculturists. In all kinds of things that we've done. There's shame because of compulsive and addictive behavior that we're involved in. Shame because of Abuse of alcohol, of drugs, shame because of addiction not only to those kinds of things, but uh may involve compulsive behavior about the way you shop, the way you eat. Bulimia and other eating disorders. Or perhaps it's shame over pornography and an addiction to pornography, feeling under the control of it. You know, we talk about the fact that we lack shame in our culture. And in a lot of ways, we do lack shame. And one of the biggest problems is that in many cases there's a lack of a feeling of shame. I remember a columnist in the Washington Post a few years back saying The real problem in our culture is that no matter what somebody does wrong, you can't make them feel ashamed for it. In fact, uh there is the Son of Sam law, you know, that uh is uh a controversial issue right now, which forbids criminals to make profits off of their crimes. Criminal goes out and he Does a few blood-curdling murders and while he's serving time at state expense, he writes a book on his exploits and then makes a million dollars or so and sells movie rights off of the crimes that he's committed. And this columnist was saying that maybe what we should do is instead of all this uh reparations and just talking about fines and all, which doesn't produce any shame, We should make uh politicians and others who do things that are shameful to run around the Washington monument with their underpants over their head. You know, I mean something that's going to make them feel shame. Because it's very difficult to contrive something that will make people feel shame. And yet in other ways we feel lots of shame. We feel shame because of our heritage, shame because of our addictions. There's an awful lot coming out now, not only I say addiction to pornography, but the things that come from that. Incestuous relationships. Child molestation. And uh whether it's Oprah Winfrey or many others who are now beginning to talk about that It's beginning to come out of the closet, and many people are beginning to feel shame. Those who were victims that felt shame for being victims. And those who are perpetrators. Beginning to feel shame that they never thought they'd feel because they've been exposed. Where the whole issue of sexual harassment that we've been watching uh over the last week in the Hill and Thomas debates almost as it were. But at least sensitizing our culture to the fact that sexual harassment is such a common practice and so subtle and so shamelessly practiced, and yet those now who have been involved in that beginning to feel shame over their activities. And more and more shame being exposed. Do you notice how much you're seeing in the paper now that is designed to help people see that they ought to feel shame over something or intending to produce shame from something? I haven't seen so much of that before. I think that's a growing development. And yet, more personally, isn't it true that for many of us we feel tremendous shame over things in our own lives? We don't need to read the news. We know that we feel shame for things that we've either been a victim of or a perpetrator of. Now what is shame? You see, I define it there in the outline that you have, the problem of shame. Shame is the belief That I can never change the belief that I am hopelessly trapped in my shame, the feeling of hopelessness about myself. Belief that I am hopelessly trapped in the consequences of mistakes that I have either made or of things that have victimized me. Now this is the fourth problem that we're talking about in this image of self-image. Fourth problem that prevents me from enjoying who God made me to be. And what he is doing in his transforming work, seeking to make me, my life to be more like the Lord Jesus. The first one we looked at, of course, was perfectionism. You see them kind of fit together up there, two having to do with my efforts. Perfectionism and addiction to approval. Two having to do with my emotions, the way I feel, blame and shame. And what I've been trying to show is that all of this We don't need to look at self-help books and magazine articles that will help us simply look to ourselves in order to try to feel good about ourselves. That in fact I would suggest that's a dead end. It's hopeless. The Bible calls us constantly to look away from ourselves. It tells us if you look at yourself, you will feel shame. You will feel depressed about what you are like. Because you and I are warped in our natures in how God has made us. We've turned and twisted that. But the Bible says you don't have to be stuck in that because the Bible holds up to us the Lord Jesus Christ and says that we can look at Him. And what I've been trying to show in this series is how eminently practical the gospel is. One of the things Satan wants to do in our secularized mentality of the 90s is to say that the gospel has to do with spiritual issues. That are not practical and immediately relevant to the things that we feel and struggle with day by day. We come on Sunday mornings to deal in an ethereal realm To feel good spiritually, but then we go back into Monday morning and the rest of the week to feel rotten about ourselves, and we have to go to secular help in order to get the um aid that we need in order to cope with what we're like. And what I'm trying to show is that the Bible deals not only adequately, but it's the only adequate, radical solution to our problems of self-image. Because the Bible shows us that in our perfectionism, Jesus' record is the perfect record, and we stand by justification in that record. And therefore are freed from having to be perfect ourselves, but simply to focus instead of our image on pleasing the Lord Jesus because we love Him. That our addiction to approval is solved by our reconciliation to a God who has said that you are no longer alienated from me and disapproved. But you are now free from blame and accusation, and I approve of you. And if I, your God, your maker, your heavenly father, welcome you into my presence and approve of you and delight in you Then what does it matter to you in relative standard to that that someone else disapproves of you? It may hurt, cause you pain, but you are not addicted to their approval in order to feel content. In terms of blame, we've tried to show that whereas we blame ourselves and then wind up trying to criticize others to blame shift The Bible solves that. And what Jesus accomplished in propitiation, when he satisfied the wrath of God, propitiation, remember, an offering to satisfy and remove one's wrath. And the Bible has removed all blame because God has blamed Jesus for your sin. And he's cursed him and alienated him so that he's born and satisfied the full wrath of God. So that you and I do not ever um uh take that blame. We never again are consigned to the judgment of God, that blame has been removed from us. Because Jesus bore it all. And so now there's no blame. And I don't have to blame someone else. In fact, I can take the blame for those things that are mine. And not be stuck with it so that I'm I'm immersed in that blame because I look at that and then I see that Jesus has taken that blame and I'm free in order to let Him teach me those things He wants to and free me up to follow Him. Now we come to shame. Now do you see how all those things are focused on the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ? And so what Satan wants to do in every case for us as Christians is to always get our focus off of the cross, isn't it? To look at anything else about the Christian life, its duties and All the other things that we have to think about in that, but to shift us away from Jesus as a person and his cross as the focus of our thinking. And I'm trying to help you to see that in those areas where our minds drift, when we're not thinking and concentrating on something About perfectionism and addiction to approval and blame and shame, that if we can shift consciously our focus to the cross of Christ That will give to us the contentment that we so long for and free us up from that negative introspection that will produce only depression and helplessness. I hope you're beginning to see that. I really do. Because I know for me, even though I feel like I'm not very far down the path of really understanding fully what that means. That it has certainly been to me the only root solution that has helped me in my life, and I believe that it will be the only one for you too. In fact, the Word of God says that Now, in this matter of shame, how does shame work itself out in us? What are the consequences of shame as we think about what that produces? Well, the first thing is that in shame we have no hope for the future. We simply dwell on our past sins and our failures. In shame, those that dwelling on the past sins and failures produces depression. And the depression produces, by its definition, immobilization. We become passive. We do not, we're not motivated to think about and to try to change the future because we feel stuck. Let me ask you, how much time do you spend thinking about your past failures? Now some of you may be conscious of that and you may say, well I spend a fair amount of time. I could tell you the number of hours a day I do that. Others of us are unaware. We think about it a lot. But we're not aware how much we think about it because it's a vague kind of unease, and our minds kind of drift to it against our will, it seems And so we say, well, I don't think about that a whole lot. And yet there's many times if we're honest, we'll catch ourselves thinking about our past failures, about those things that we believe that have destroyed our lives and our future opportunities because they're irrevocable decisions that have marred us for life. And so Whether it is something that you're aware of that you are consumed by, or something that you may feel like you don't do a whole lot, for many of us, the matter of thinking About our failures, producing shame and immobilization, can be a major problem. Tony Campola has said that it is more important what a person believes is possible in the future Than whatever has happened to him in the past. He illustrates that in his book Growing Up in America, when he talks about a fellow who is a real jerk in a class he taught at Eastern College on Sociology, this guy just Wasn't seemed to be able to cooperate, didn't seem to be able to do the assignments, and he was just doing pretty poorly. And Campola called him into his office one day and he said he just really chewed this guy out. He was angry at him And he told him he was angry because he said, you have so much potential and you're wasting it. And here's all these things you could be doing and the help you could be getting and I'll offer it to you. But you refuse it, and he really laid it to him. About six years later, that fella came back to visit him. He had a doctorate in sociology. He said that day was the turning point in his life because he realized that he had been kidding himself and making excuses that he really couldn't do anything. And all of a sudden he realized they were choices rather than something something he was stuck in. Now it wasn't that didn't catch Campola by surprise. He worked with him through those years to help him on to that. But he said that day was a turning point in his thinking from I can't do anything because I've already ruined my life too. I have opportunities and choices to make. And it's up to me whether I'm going to take advantage of them. That's something that I've thought about. It's more important. What do you think is possible in your future Than what has happened to you and your experiences in the past. And if you feel immobilized, then you'll only live for today and you'll have no hope for the future. And you'll simply indulge in your shame. And because of that, if you're a Christian, if you are in fact trusting Jesus Christ and seeking to walk with him, this will profoundly affect your prayer life. Because if in fact you believe that you are not able to do anything really different in the future, to break out of bad patterns, And things that have marred you in the past, then your prayer life won't be worth very much. Because the way you'll think, this is the second thing there, you see no vital prayer life, the second thing will be that you'll begin to think that God doesn't change people like me. The gospel is for people who basically have their act together. And then they incorporate Jesus in their life and off they go as winners. But I'm one of the losers. And we losers are too far gone for what Christianity is able to do. You wouldn't know, you couldn't guess probably how many times through the years people have told me in my office when we meet together about some problem they have. They'll say something like this: I'm different from the other people at CPC. The rest of the people at CPC, you know, they're all clean and they seem to have their act together and they're able to cope. And, you know, they don't have problems like I do. I'm really messed up. And I'm messed up so much that I feel alienated from those other brothers and sisters in Smith Theater. Some of you are smiling because you know we all feel that, right? And it's true. And we're all feeling like, look, you know, the gospel could help him or her. I could picture that But Jesus really isn't able to reach down into the pit as far as I am to really change me. All I can do is kind of cope. with how twisted my life has been, and seek to somehow in that find a little bit of joy until I get to heaven and hope the change at that point will be radical enough I'll never remember this earth. But going through this life feeling like there's not a whole lot of help for me to really change. God is not able to change someone as radically twisted as me. And so when we talk about things like prayer for renewal, and we say, come this Friday to the concert of prayer and pray for Howard County and God's transforming work, we say I'd like to believe that would make a difference, but I really can't. And why is it? It's because of shame we feel in our own lives. That we feel hopeless about, that has so discouraged us in our prayer life, that we don't pray with expectation. We don't pray with real faith that our prayers matter Because if God can't change me, how am I going in the world to believe He's going to change all of Howard County? If God can't take my life and help me to overcome certain habits and guilt And certain twisted tendencies of which I've either been a victim or an agent, how in the world is God going to change this whole cultural system that is so screwed up? And so do you see how dealing with our shame Is a major effect, a major uh input on the whole question of whether we are able to join together as a congregation to pray in faith for renewal and revival. Now let me just say in passing before I leave that that I would encourage you anyway to come this Friday and Saturday, because the other side's also true. If you come this Friday and Saturday and show God we're really serious about Wanting renewal and revival. I believe this Friday and Saturday is going to be a history-making event in Howard County. I think it will be, as far as I know, the largest gathering for prayer among God's people in the history of Howard County. And so no matter what you're feeling in your personal life, just to be part of something that's so stirring of what God's doing can help to build your faith in your own life that God can change you. If He can bring together Christians from this many different churches. To set aside differences and focus on Jesus Christ and believe that we can make a difference here. Maybe God can change me But now back to this matter of whether God can change me. One last thing you'll notice is the effect, the consequence of it, is that we tend to indulge in self-pity and self-destructive behavior even. We turn inward from shame. We come to love our chains more than the freedom that's possible in Christ. We're like the trapeze artist who's afraid to grab on to the next bar as it swings past because we'll have to let go of the bar that we're holding on to. And we're too afraid to let go. We just keep turning inward and believing all those things that we've heard. My mother and my father said that you are nothing. You'll never amount to anything. You've ruined your life and you're never going to recover. And all the rest of this. And so we believe it. And we say, why try? We just sit around indulging in our self-pity Blaming others, perhaps, blame and shame closely allied, but feeling immobilized and perhaps even indulging in self-destructive behavior rather than to look to Jesus Christ to believe that He could change us. Now, how in the world can Jesus change us? The third point. How can he heal us? Through what the Bible calls regeneration. Regeneration is the biblical doctrine that specifically speaks to this problem. If you haven't already done it, turn to Titus chapter 3. Verses 3 to 7. Let's focus on these verses. Meditate on each word. These are memorable verses. Verses that would be worth your memorizing. Let's carefully and submissively hear what God says to us in Titus chapter 3, verses 3 to 7, about how regeneration is the solution to shame. Paul writes in this, at one time we too were foolish, disobedient, deceived, and enslaved by all kinds of passions and pleasures. We lived in malice and envy, being hated and hating one another. But when the kindness and the love of God our Savior appeared He saved us. Not because of righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy. He saved us through the washing of rebirth and the renewal by the Holy Spirit. Whom He poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that having been justified by His grace, we might become heirs, having the hope of eternal life. I want you to notice a couple of things about these verses. Notice, first of all, how realistic verse 3 is Verse 3 is a realistic appraisal of my situation. That's a little blank there. A realistic appraisal of my situation. I want you to write in that word realistic because I want that to stick with you. The Bible is very realistic. The Bible is very different from New Age thinking. which tries to imagine positive things despite reality in order to make those things happen. The Bible always starts with reality and its solution is rooted in reality. Look at what verse 3 says. It gives to you seven characteristics which vividly portray your utter hopelessness in order to change yourself. This is what you and I are like if we're honest with ourselves. Look at those characteristics. First of all, he says, you were foolish. You were senseless. You did dumb things. Of which you're now ashamed. And as you look at those things, you regret them. You and I have been foolish and senseless, haven't we, in things that we have done in the past. Admit it. Secondly, it says you were disobedient. You are a rebel against God, a rebel against your parents, a rebel against any authority that seemed to cross your will. You said, I want to do my will. I know what will make me happy, and I am going to do that. And you look at that and you've paid dearly for that decision. Disobedience. Thirdly, it says you've deceived yourself. You deceived yourself in that disobedience and the foolishness. You made a world of your own making in which there was no restraint on your will, and thought that you would were able to exercise your freedom, and that in doing that you would find happiness And in fact, instead you have found slavery. And so you see, he follows the deception with the slavery. We were foolish, disobedient, deceived, and enslaved Our deception led to our enslavement, enslaved by all kinds of passions and pleasures. Sometimes I was a victim, enslaved by someone else's passions and pleasures, or in other cases I was an agent. In which I was enslaved by my own passions and pleasures and inflicting those on other people. And every time I thought that I was exercising my freedom, Like a python's coils, the enslavement of those passions and pleasures gripped more tightly about my soul, so that I felt utterly helpless and trapped, enslaved. Paul says, See that, you are enslaved. Nothing that you could do, and I think of that friend of mine we've talked about from time to time, who was a pastor, a man who was esteemed and respected in the community, who lost his church because one little habit after another began to enslave him, so when stress hit He found himself in st in Sears stealing software and then arrested by the police and so panicking, he resists arrest, enslaved by just little habits. Those little things that can grip us in our deception. Goes on to say that we've lived in malice and envy. Our relationships haven't been too hot, is what he's saying. Because of these enslavements and the things that you and I wanted to do. We've envied other people. That word envy comes from the Latin word invidio, and it has nothing to do with videos. In video means to look against someone. You see them and you think dark thoughts against them because they have something you don't have, or they're experiencing something you don't feel you're able to experience, and so the relationships break down because of malice and envy. And you have a trail of broken relationships. The sixth characteristic says that you're hated. People don't like you as much as you don't like them. And your relationships are a trail of broken, shabby disruptions. And then he finishes it off in the seventh characteristic saying that you hated one another. Cynical self-protection, causing you to isolate yourself from other people. Think of John Paul Sartre's no exit, in which hell is other people, he says, and the only relationships, the only kind of cultivation there is of any seeming tenderness between the characters in that play is so that they can drive the knife more deeply in at an unsuspecting moment when the person's vulnerable. Hating and being hated, malice and envy, deception, disobedience. Pretty hopeless verse, isn't it? The Bible says if you and I admit what our hearts are really like, we can fit our experiences into these categories. And then you come to verse 4. And once again, in Scripture, one of those gigantic butts that God graciously puts in. Look at verse 4. But But when the kindness and the love of God our Savior appeared, he saved us. Not because of the righteous things we had done, we were absolutely helpless. But because of his mercy. He saved us through the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Spirit. Now, what's God done? It says there in verse 4 and 5, He saved you. That's the next blank. He saved you. That's on the back here now. Why did he save you? In terms of the cause, he saved you because of his kindness, not because of anything you had done. He saved you how? At the end of verse 5, he says he saved you through the washing of rebirth and the renewal by the Holy Spirit, that is, regeneration. You see, that word rebirth is the Greek word for which we translate the word regeneration. So he saved us through the washing of regeneration. Rebirth and a renewal by the Holy Spirit. Now, why did he do that in terms of his purpose? Well, he says in verse 6 and 7, That he poured this out on us generously through Christ, so that having been justified, we become heirs having the hope of eternal life. Now the hope of eternal life doesn't just mean that you hope you're going to exist and endure forever. Eternal life is a quality of life as well as quantity of it. And so he says, so that you have the hope of a new life, the hope of a whole new life that's available to you in Jesus Christ. Now, what is this regeneration and renewal? What does that mean? What's he talking about in that? It's crucial to understand that. First of all, it's a supernatural act of the Holy Spirit. I want you to write that word supernatural because I want that to rivet in your mind. This is a supernatural thing that God has done by his spirit. He says in verse 5, he saved us through the washing of rebirth, regeneration, and the renewal by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us. The Spirit is God Himself, and He's introduced His Spirit into your life if you've trusted Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of all that which is shameful in your life. Now, do you see that means then that your thinking of possibility in your life takes on a whole new dimension? Because what is possible in your life is no longer limited to what you are able to do. There is now another whole new factor in your life, and it's the Holy Spirit. So, what is available and possible for you in terms of change now has to be factored into the Holy Spirit in your life. What is he able to do? Not what are you able to do? Can you make these changes? But can he make those changes in you And if you look and say, well, the Spirit of God created the world from nothing, maybe he who can change caterpillars and the butterflies and call the world forth into being is able. To change me. Not me producing the change from within, but that he's changed me. We Presbyterians, I think, to need to be more practicing Trinitarians. And take into account the fact that the Holy Spirit is the one who changes us. And that we don't tack him on as something that's kind of a pious statement, we do it by the Spirit. But that we radically understand in our shame that the Holy Spirit has regenerated us. He has given us new life. And if He has done that, He's introduced into us all new possibilities. Of new life and new thinking and new change. That's the second thing I want you to notice is that the Holy Spirit does that by a radical new birth. That's what regeneration is. That's what he says. He saved us through the washing of rebirth, a new life, and renewal by the Holy Spirit. 2 Corinthians 5. 17, Paul had said, if any man is in Christ, he's a new creation. Think of that. If you are in Christ, you are a new creation. Romans 6 puts it this way: It says that if you have died with Christ in faith, by faith you have been joined with him not only in his death to your justification, but in his resurrection unto a new life. And so you now are a dead, alive person. His resurrection power is at work in you. So that These people who Paul described in the seven characteristics we just looked at are the same people he calls upon to live in verse 1 and 2 with the seven characteristics he gives there. Look what he says. Chapter 3, verse 1 and 2, remind the people here to be subject to rulers and authorities. Not disobedient, but to be subject to be obedient, to be ready to do whatever is good. To slander no one, to be peaceable, considerate, to show true humility toward all men. Now you see What the Bible's saying there is that exactly the people described in verse 3 that you and I identified with are those that are called on to live, as verse 1 and 2 says. And so if Paul says to do that, he means you are able to do that. Why? Because verse 5 says you've been regenerated and renewed by the Holy Spirit. And if that is possible, you are a dead, alive person. Being renewed. Now, this is a lifelong process. That's the third point. This is lifelong renewal. Sake say, come on. I've become a Christian. I haven't seen that kind of radical change. I've seen difference But I'm still feeling the shame and the tie, the pull to those same old areas. This is a lifelong renewal. Romans chapter 12. Right after he says in chapter 6 that you are dead alive and live now in a new life, chapter 12 says, renewing your mind as a process. You see, as we walk with Jesus, we are in the process, lifelong process, of having our minds renewed. He saved us through the washing of rebirth and the renewal. That renewal is a process of the Holy Spirit. And so when he talks in Colossians chapter 3 and Ephesians chapter 4, he talks about our being renewed unto the image of Christ, a process. A lifelong process may become a struggle for some of us much harder than others. Long and hard by faith in Jesus And yet the result is guaranteed that every single one of us, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 says, will at the same moment become just like Jesus. Amen. You're guaranteed of that. Because the Spirit has regenerated you, He is renewing you, all possibilities of substantial change in your life in overcoming that shame. Are available to you as you and I look to Jesus, not by our efforts, but by the fact that Jesus intends to change He wants to change us. And he's in the process of changing us. Now, finally, in the last minute or two, how do we look lay hold of this? Very simply, you and I need to meditate on our new identity in Jesus Christ more. I need to meditate on my new identity in Christ. Memorize, perhaps, Titus chapter 3, verses 3 to 17. All that, that's five verses. Come on. Some people memorize whole books and chapters and everything. See, I'm making you feel ashamed again. Isn't that terrible? But you and I can do it. If we're motivated, we say I'm gonna take that thing and I'm gonna take a verse of that and I'm going to just Dwell on that. I'm going to let God saturate my thinking because I delight to think about my new identity in Jesus. Might want to do that. Whatever it is. Romans chapter 6, another tremendous chapter. To focus on in that, to hide those truths in your heart. Romans chapter 6 verse 11 says, Count yourselves now, therefore, dead to sin and alive. To righteousness through Christ. Count yourselves. It's an economic term that he uses there. He means by that. Cash on cash that check on the infinite balance of your identity in Jesus Christ as a renewed person. Count yourself, cash in the checks, and see what God is going to do as you do that. It's a lifelong process of new discovery of the things that are available to me as God is working in my life. But it's available by faith as I look to Jesus and believe He wants to do that. And how do I do that? That's the second thing. B, their practice, it was specific put-ons and put-offs, put-offs and put-ons. What are the put-offs and the put-ons? Put-offs and put-ons in scripture, take a look later on at Ephesians chapter 4, Colossians chapter 3. It talks about how we put off the old man, the old nature. And put on the new nature in Christ. What that's talking about is practicing our regeneration and renewal. It's talking about the fact that you now have a new identity, therefore Take off that old identity. You're still thinking in terms of the old identity. Remember the fellow I told you that had the operation in order to cure his limp and he continued to limp out of habit? He was still thinking as a cripple He needed to change his thinking so that he could walk without the limb. And you and I still think crippled thoughts, tied to our shame. The Bible's telling us Jesus is here to offer to you to walk straight as you think in your identity with Him. That's not New Age thinking, that's reality. To be able to put off, and the specific context there in Ephesians and Colossians is lying and deceit and some of those things and anger and bitterness to talk about. Put those off. It's possible because you have a new identity in Jesus. Put on your new identity. In Him. And so this week I'd urge you to take one area. Say, Lord, help me to put this off and to put on the new nature of Christ. And I will obey you as if that were true. And see what you will do, because I believe that you have taken my shame and you've given me a new identity because of the cross of Christ. And I want to learn more about that. Let's pray Lord, we come to you now and we want to bring our shame to you. Those things that have dragged us down and immobilized us. We want to come now to confess that to you and that we have tried to change even ourselves and we've been hopeless. We want to come now to see. That you have saved us by the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit to understand our new identity in Jesus and what is available to us. Hear us, Lord.