If you turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 15. Actually verse 8, we'll start there. The focus this morning will be on verse three, fifteen, and sixteen. And as you're doing that, I want to acknowledge that this week has been a week filled with both images and experiences of suffering. Any of you who have access to radio or TV have seen all of the coverage that's gone on with the shootings in Littleton at Columbine High School. You have seen people who have shared their terror, their sorrow, their grief. The most poignant that I saw was a young woman who had shared that she was in the library upstairs. and had been there sitting and the gunman came and took his shotgun and shot a student sitting next to her in the face. And turned to her and she pled for, as she described, ten minutes with him not to shoot her. And he passed her by. And he went to the next student who was a young African-American male. And shot him in the face. There's a tremendous amount of suffering and a tremendous amount of pain that we've been exposed to this week, not even looking at the past months. with the situations in Kosovo. As we see thousands upon thousands of of ethnic Albanians trying to go into Macedonia, trying to go into Albania, trying to go into into the region around uh the Yugoslavia and carrying with them all their possessions because their houses have been either taken or burned And I want you to think for a minute, as you as you think of that suffering, what hope What hope is there? What hope do you have to offer? If you were like John Erickson and in the region around Serbia this week, John Erickson is, excuse me, not used to it. John Erikson is in the region around Serbia this week setting up broadcasting stations because he works for the International Broadcasting Bureau, which produces the the Voice of America, Radio Free Europe, and other other broadcasting. programs for the American government. And so he's there walking through the refugee camp, setting up radio stations, seeing those people who have lost everything This evening we're going to have Don Darling share with us his work with the Barnabas Fund, which addresses directly the suffering that takes place of our brothers and sisters in the Lord. in countries that are run by predominantly Islamic governments. And and the reality of that suffering is incredible. These brothers and sisters are standing up for their faith and suffering tremendous. At times persecution. What hope? What hope? Today's topic is from 1 Peter 3:15 and 16: sharing hope with the hopeless. But you don't have to go outside of this room to recognize the suffering that exists. The people sitting in the row with you, if they're your family members, they probably know each other and know what difficulties you're facing, but but you may be sitting across the row from somebody you don't know and you have no concept, most likely the suffering that they're facing. Peter this morning is speaking to us, but Peter wrote this epistle, this letter, to suffering people. And Peter has the audacity to write to suffering people of hope. He is speaking to them about the hope that they have. And not only the hope that they have, but the hope that they then can share. Let's turn and look at 1 Peter 3, beginning in verse 8. Finally, all of you live in harmony with one another. Be sympathetic. Love his brothers. Be compassionate and humble. Do not repay evil with evil or insult with insult, but with blessing. Because to this you were called so that you may inherit a blessing. For whoever would love life and see good days must keep his tongue from evil and his lips from deceitful speech. He must turn from evil and do good. He must seek peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are attentive to their prayer. But the faith of the Lord is against those who do evil. Who is going to harm you if you are eager to do good? But even if you should suffer for what is right, you are blessed. Do not fear what they fear. Do not be frightened But in your hearts set apart Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give a reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect, keeping a clear conscience. So that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ may be ashamed of their slander. Let's pray Lord Jesus, we need you. We need your grace. We need your strength. We need the hope that only you can give. And Lord, we ask you this morning, as you speak to us through your word, you would give us yourself. And through that, Lord, we would have the hope that you long for us to have. And as you grow us in intimacy with you, that you would also grow us in confidence to share that hope with others. For there is a world of hurt that doesn't exist outside these doors, but begins even here. And I pray, Lord, that you would use us as agents of your gospel. To be the healing agents addressing that hurt. Speak to us this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know if you're like me. I suspect that you are, but when I come across intense suffering or the possibility of intense pain, my my reaction typically is going to be something along the lines of recoiling. Because I'll try and fix the pain that's fixable. You know, if somebody comes to me with a problem that I consider manageable, I'll look at that and I'll do what I can to try and make it better. But when confronted with an issue like Littleton, And you see the loss of life, and you see the tremendous suffering and the sorrow and the wounds. Or or you see the images of Kosovo before you The walls go up. The heart is protected. And you don't want to face the reality of how terrible the suffering really is. Because there's nothing you can do about it. There's nothing that you can do The reality of the matter, though, is that Peter is speaking to people who are suffering, and he's speaking to us. And saying to us, we have hope. Listen again. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. He perceives this with a command. Now I don't know if you're like me again, but I've looked at this passage over a lot of years, and for a lot of those years, my response to this passage was that it was an obligatory command, and there is an imperative. But it was something that burdened me. Because the words say, Sanctify Christ as Lord in your heart, always being prepared to make a defense for the hope that is in you, should anybody ask. And that to me sounds like something I'm called to do. And because I think I don't have the resources to do this, I want to pull away. I want to disengage, and I don't want to face what Peter's saying. But I want to encourage you this morning that this is not a burdensome command. Yes, there is a command here, but it's not burdensome. Because Peter begins by that that incredible statement of sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts. Now we have to look first and foremost at what that means. What does it mean to sanctify sanctify? Why does he give us this command? There are two main thoughts to the term sanctify, and I want you to reverse the verses that are there. I want to look first at Isaiah 8. 13. Because the first R that you find on your sheet should be filled out is recognize. Recognize the holiness of God Recognize that Christ is God. Isaiah 8:13 speaks about what it means to sanctify God. In the full sense of the term, it means to make holy. But obviously, we cannot make God holy. So if you look at Isaiah 813, it speaks of how we sanctify the Lord Almighty, and it says, The Lord Almighty is the one you are to regard as holy. He is the one you are to fear, he is the one you are to dread. The phrase regard as holy is the translation for the term sanctify. What it means is that we recognize the reality that God is holy. We respond, which is the second R. W We respond to that as we look at what that means. What does it mean to me that God is holy? Does it mean simply a distance? Does it mean simply that I am to fall down and worship? What does it mean that God is the holy, transcendent, creator of the universe? Well we respond. We see how that term is used with response as we look at God's command to us, the fourth command found in Exodus 20. Verse 8, where he says, Sanctif, remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy. Keeping it holy is again that sense of sanctify. That's the original word there. So when we sanctify, we keep. it holy. We recognize that the holiness already is there, and we respond to that by how we treat the Sabbath. And also by how we treat God, because in Numbers 20, verse 12, God is speaking to Moses. The setting here is that God is now telling Moses, You will not lead my people into the promised land. And he says the reason for that, because you did not trust in me enough to honor me as holy in the sight of the Israelites. You will not bring this community into the land I give them. That's the sense of response, and particularly directed towards God. It is to honor Him. It is to acknowledge that He is the Creator, He is holy, and we respond to Him with an appropriate acknowledgement of the distance. That exists. And of the fact that we're not holy. Who are we to sanctify? We're to sanctify Christ. Christ is Jesus the person. He is the second person of the Trinity, the Son, God the Son, who took upon himself humanity and became Jesus the person. God and man in one person. One being. The key thing I want you to grab from this is that Jesus is self-defining. You can't come to the Bible, read between the lines, and take out of Scripture a Jesus that you want. You can't tell him who he is. He tells you Those of you who are married may oftentimes have found yourself in a situation where you are speaking to your spouse about something and you end up becoming, you know, almost critically surprised. You've been with them for a long period of time, you've gone through the dating process, the engagement, the marriage for however long you've been married, and you think you know them well. And all of a sudden they say something that just shocks you. And you think, well, now wait a minute, you can't think that way because I know you and you don't think that way. Have you ever tried to convince your spouse of that? It doesn't work, believe me, I've tried. I was once Between my freshman and high junior sophomore year between my freshman and sophomore, they do come after one another. Between my freshman and sophomore year in high school, I moved from Houston, Texas to Los Angeles, California. And there was a young woman that I'd met for the first time in my freshman English class in high school whose name was Janine. And When I moved, she tracked me down and began a correspondence. And being a sophomore high school male, I was quite flattered And so we corresponded for about a year and a half, and I was really confident that I knew this young lady well. We talked about deep issues in in these letters back and forth and I had put an awful lot of emotional investment in that relationship, even though it was only through the written word. And after a period of time, Janine said that she wanted to come out and visit. And now I was confronted with the question as to whether or not the Janine that I had come to know and really enjoy, because of the correspondence back and forth, was a real Janine or whether it was somebody of my imagination. And I was so terrified by it, I said, No, please don't come out. I enjoy knowing you too much from a distance to ever try and get close to you. But don't we treat Jesus like that Don't we come to his written word to us and read between the lines? And create in our own mind and our hearts a relationship with one that we have shaped. The whole point of sanctifying Jesus is to recognize who He is and to respond to who He is. And so I encourage you to ask yourselves: who is the Jesus that you know? Has he defined himself to you? This is not simply something now that is a faraway thing, and perhaps one of the best evidences of how gracious this phrase is. Is that it's no longer that we go to Israel to worship and sanctify Christ. We don't have to go to a tabernacle. That was a tremendous gift to the Jews as they left Egypt that God would meet with them in a special place where they could know he would be. He descended into that tabernacle with such glory that Moses and Aaron and the priests had to flee. His presence was so clear. And we might be jealous of that. We might want that kind of presence in our own lives. So that there's no question as to whether the Jesus that we we come to know is the Jesus of our own making or himself. But we don't have to go to Shiloh. And we don't have to go to Jerusalem because we still worship in the temple. It is no longer a faraway place And it's no longer another person. We don't have to go wherever Jesus is to find him and to talk with him and to listen to him. Because he says to you, Do you not know that you are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? He says here, sanctify Christ as Lord, not in Jerusalem, but in your heart. And he speaks of an intimacy of relationship with each who belong to him. That belies a sense that this is a burden. It speaks to you of love It speaks to you of what Jesus has done to redeem you from your sin, how he came as a person, God and man in one person. He came and lived an obedient life. He was rejected by those who should have fallen at his feet in worship. He was condemned by those who should have given him the crown. He died on the cross, a death that he need never have died, because he loves you. Because he wants to be able to tell you to sanctify him in your heart. He rose from the dead and he gives you that life. And that's the power you have that's the source of your hope. But don't lose sight again that it says to sanctify, not simply to enjoy. Because Jesus is Lord. He is the transcendent God who has made himself imminent, who has shown you his love, and has given you new life. He is the boss. And as you move to this next section looking at hope, the question you have to ask yourself is, is he your loving boss? Is he the one who has the place of mastery in your life? Does he speak for himself? And do you listen? When you listen, do you comply or do you ignore? To sanctify Jesus as Lord in your life means that He is boss. And it means that you recognize His essential holiness. And you respond to the life and the death and the resurrection that He has given to you. If we understand that, we have to move into that whole understanding then also of hope. Because this is the gospel. He loves you, he has given you new life. In 1 Peter chapter 1, he speaks of what that new life is. He said, You are saved by the foreknowledge of God the Father, by the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit, to obedience and sprinkling in the blood of Jesus Christ. Turn with me to chapter one. Because based upon that, we begin to see how Peter explains our hope. There's a parallel that exists between chapter one and chapter three because he he begins in chapter one with that statement of relationship. God, the triune, God has saved you. You are in chapter 3 told to sanctify this God who has saved you. But then Paul and Peter breaks forth in verse 3 and says, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. The foundation of your hope is the work Jesus has done. It is the redemption that God has given to you. He has saved you. He loves you. And because of that, you have hope. Peter says, a new birth, that's the redemption, to a living hope. You're not alone. And the suffering that you face, you are not facing alone This is not a future hope exclusively. I want to turn to verse 13, and I want to try and help you to see how this is the case. In spite of the fact that in the English in the New International Version it is translated with three imperatives and with a future tense. There's a burden that you feel as you read, therefore prepare your minds for action. Be self-controlled. Set your hope on the grace fully on the grace to be given you when Jesus Christ is revealed. That's not an accurate representation of the original. There are a few places in the New International Version where you're going to have to simply know that they're not going to reflect everything accurately. This is one of them. And it's critical for you to understand that when it says gird your mind, that's not a command. Thank you. When it says gird your minds, that is a participle. It's explaining what happens with the main verb. When it says be self-controlled, it's not a command. That's not in the imperative form. It's simply a participle that explains the imperative, which is set your hope fully. Focus the hope that you have not on your power, not on your strength, not on your own abilities. Set your hope not even on the grace to be given to you. but on the grace being given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ, which he's just explained in verses 10 through 12. He's speaking of how the prophets had longed to understand the events that were going to happen as Jesus came in order to redeem you. So he is not saying, gut it out in this life, it's going to be okay, God will give you heaven, and everything is going to work out. He's saying to you, focus your hope on the gospel. Look at what Jesus has already done for you. Cling to him. That thing which the prophets and even yea the angels have longed to see. We look back on and know. The grace is given to you. It is yours. The hope that you focus on that grace is upon the redemption that Jesus has accomplished already in your life. Now, yes, there is more to come, so there's clearly a future component. But Peter is telling us: look at the cross and the tomb. God loves you. And God not only will, but is saving you. Your resources are not the source of your hope. And you may think, but I'm struggling so much in my life right now, and the hurts are so real and so deep, how can this be the hope that God has given to me? It's because he's called you to obedience and he's called you to wholeness. And the grace that he's given to you is the promise that he has that not only will he take you to heaven, but he will deal with you now. He will take your sin and he will heal you. I've been experiencing over the last two or three years a tremendous amount of activity of God in my life in exactly this area. And it's not that my life is comfortable. It's not that my life is pleasant. It's not that I can go around with a smile on my face. The honest hope that I have is that God has shown me more and more and more of my sin. In specifics. He's shown me my selfishness. He's shown me my pride. He's shown me my emotional distance. He's shown me my distance from him. And all of these things could be things that you would look at and say, well, yeah, those were things that I share too. But we all do. So it's okay. Sharing them in common doesn't make them right. Holding them in generalities doesn't make them whole. God is not dealing with me in generalities. God is pointing out my sin in specifics. And the hope I have for you is that he'll do the same. That you'll see those sins as you commit them. That you'll see the repercussions of those sins and the suffering that takes place because you've done them and you'll hate it. And you'll see the specifics of that so that you can say, I won't do this again. This thing I won't do again. I won't do it again this way to this person. I want it to stop. And God says to you, I will make it stop You can be changed. And God has given you His commitment that you will be changed. And that the burdens that you're now trying to bear on your own in your own power, you will not have to bear in your own power. And you won't be rejected because you are who you are. He is not going to cast you off. He is not going to tell you that this is too much. He's going to look at you and say, I've already known this. Let me help you. Let me make you whole. There are no surprises for God. Don't continue to bear this alone. The hope is real. The hope is incredibly powerful. And the life, when he bears those burdens, is good. When you give him the freedom to do that and you participate with him in that process of the sanctifying work, the making whole, the dealing with sin. You will be so different from the people around you that they will come to you, as Peter says, and ask you to give an account for why you're so different. Always being prepared to make a defense to those who ask you to give an account for the hope that is in you. I don't know how you look at evangelism, but it's not an evangelistic battle. It is not I win, you lose. Or my view wins, your view loses. The people who are going to come and ask you why you're different aren't looking for an intellectual answer. They're looking for Jesus. And they're coming because they see Him in your life. Years ago when I was in college, there was a big campaign by one of the one of the campus Christian communities that was nationwide and it had bumper stickers and buttons and and all sorts of things that went around saying, I found it And everybody was supposed to ask you what it was you found, and you were going to be able to explain to them that it was a gospel, that they really needed to have a relationship with Jesus so that they could go to heaven. But you know what began to happen? A whole series of bumper stickers began to be formed. And they were handed out and sold, and somebody made a killing. I never lost it. I'm better than you. You found it, but that means you lost it. Now I've never lost it, so I still got it, so who on you? It became a battle. And it was it was it was an adversarial relationship. But that's not the issue here. And if you if you approach evangelism And you answer people with wonderful, clear, cognitive explanations of what they need to be able to acknowledge their sin and come to Jesus, you haven't touched the heart. A few weeks ago I was having lunch with somebody out at APL and one of the people that they knew sat down with us and he began to share about himself and he was a really nice guy. He came from an Anglican church, an Episcopal church. And he began talking with me and he found out that I was a pastor of a conservative evangelical church. So towards the end of the conversation, he looked over at me and he said, uh Our church accepts homosexuals. How about you? And I thought for a minute and I'd been thinking about exactly that sort of an issue for a while, and I said, you know, that's a good place to start. But why stop there? The truth is it is a good place to start Why stop? Because to accept a homosexual says that I'm not going to cast you off because of your sin, you're a sinner. You ought not to cast them off because of their sin. They should be welcome here. They are already here, most likely. We're not listing people who commit adultery, either in thought or in word or in act. We're not casting off those who have substance abuse problems. We're not casting off The other sinners, you're all here. We don't want to leave any sinner In their sin. We don't want to commit against them the horrible atrocity of simply accepting them. We don't want to simply accept you. We long to see God work in your life the same way that we long to see God work in theirs to bring you to wholeness. So I want to ask the question, why would I leave anyone in their sin? Why would you? I was talking with somebody between the services and the thought came out that We don't want to have to face the difficulty of helping someone to recognize something they don't want to recognize. And we don't want the difficulty of having to engage with them in dealing with that issue to bring them home. But you know Sin destroys. And I don't care whether it is homosexuality. I don't care whether it is alcoholism I don't care whether it is addiction to cocaine. I don't care whether it is gossip or pride or selfishness. Sin destroys And if I care so little for you that I will leave you in your sin and simply welcome you in, then I hate you. And if you will leave me there, you hate me. You've said that I'm not worth your effort, that I'm not worth your time, and that you don't believe God is big enough to make me whole. And I said the same thing. I don't want to say that Peter says, don't say that. Peter says, deal with your own sin and share that healing with those who are broken. If you want to see who's broken, just look around. Broken is also those who are in Kosovo. It's also those who are in Sudan and Pakistan and other places. If this morning you're thinking, what in the world can I do to address the sin? And provide the hope, then you're on the right path. Those are the questions to ask. And if you need to know more about how to grasp that grace, Then begin with sanctifying Jesus as Lord in your heart. Recognize who He is. Spend time in the Word. Not so that you can say that you've done it, not so that you can feel good about your relationship with God, not so that you can check it off. Meet him. When you do, you'll love him. When you love him, you'll see him working his love in you to make you whole. And when you begin to experience that wondrous transformation, you don't want to be quiet. You don't want to run from the difficult battles. You want to engage. The problems are huge. You can't fix them. You cannot do anything to make them better. And if you if you love somebody and want to try and make them better, don't go to them and say, let me give you some suggestions. Don't go to them and say, you're okay, it's going to work out anyway, don't worry about it. Go to them and say, you need the one who alone can make you whole. And you need him to work his power. If he promises in chapter 1, verse 2 that you are called by the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit, you're not to do this in your own. God does it. And he works in and through you God will work in and through you locally, in your family, in your neighborhood, at work. He will work in and through you globally. This is the missions conference. We're talking today about how we can share hope with those who are far away. What can you do about Littleton? Number one, you can pray. But pray intelligently. Pray for brothers and sisters in Littleton who can touch the lives of these people who have tremendously suffered. Pray that God would work supernaturally to bring these people to his peace and comfort. And that he will show them that they're not alone. Pray for the churches to be able to be effective in their ministry of the gospel, not simply to get people into the kingdom, but to give them that experience of life. How can you act in Kosovo? Pray. Pray for the missionaries who are there because they're there on both sides, in Serbia and in Kosovo. There is a tremendous outpouring of ministry going on in Albania right now. And even Tom Ballma, who's gone to Albania several times, has seen God work powerfully to bring people in Albania to new life. There are missionaries now. Who can go from Albania to Kosovo? There are folks who are coming from Kosovo to Albania where the church is growing in strength. Pray that God would give them new life Pray that God would change the heart of Slobodan Maloshevic and bring him to new life. Pray that God would work in the hearts of our government and of the Russian government so that the decisions that are made are wise and allow for the freedom of the gospel. You're going to hear tonight as Mr. Darling shares that there are really practical ways that you can act now to take some of the burden off of brothers and sisters. who are in Islamic countries. But don't simply do that. That's a good thing to do, and I want you to do that, because it's an incredible need, and you have the opportunity to begin to meet it. But pray for those believers to have the hope of Christ in such a way that their Islamic neighbors, family members, and friends, ask them. For how they can live in such persecution and still have hope, so that God will bring the gospel to those who persecute. And be ready to go. Because God may just call you. Either short or long term. But if you're unsettled this morning because you don't experience the level of hope that you want, the answer isn't to stir it up in yourself. The answer is to look deeply and drink deeply of the gospel. Because it's there He's there and he loves you. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you for your grace. We thank you for the work that you are doing in us, and pray, Lord, that we would see it more clearly, and that we would participate more fully to bring you honor and praise. Lord, help us not to simply be content with so little. In Jesus' name. Amen.