This morning we're continuing in our study of 1 John. We recall the last couple of messages that we've looked at, chapter 1 and chapter 2. Chapter two. We're going to continue in chapter two this morning. Part of what we need to remember though, for those of you who haven't been here during the first few terms of the series, is that John is speaking to a particular serious and purpose surrounding the city of Africa. And he has particular concerns as he comes to speak to these circuits to the participants. One of the things that he's concerned to do is to help them to deal with a false understanding of their relationship with God. Another thing that he's trying to help them to accomplish is a true understanding of their relationship with God and how know the difference. So he's speaking in many ways of tests to determine where you stand with John. I really enjoy this epistle because one of the areas that I long to have God give me a fuller understanding is my assurance of my relationship with Him. And I'm sure there are many of you out there who sometimes feel more clearly that you are in that loving relationship with God and other times you begin to wonder. Well this morning we're going to look at one of the tests that John points out. will help you to know where you stand in that relationship. So let's begin with prayer as we come before the Lord. Jesus, we do thank you that you have made salvation possible. We thank you for the love that you have before place for the sacrifices that you have made. And Lord, this morning as we come, we pray that you would speak through your spirit to our hearts That we might know more clearly of our relationship with you. That you would point out to those of us who may be presenting more than we have right to and if you would clearly speak it with your life to confirm and to encourage and to assure those who might have That relationship that often comes on. We ask that we will know you better. And that you will give us your power Because it's repositive to our continues and says, Dear friends I am not writing you a new command, but an old one, which you have had since the beginning. The old command is a message that you have heard. Yes, I am writing you a new command This truth is seen in him and you because the darkness is passing and the true light is already shining. Anyone who claims to be in the light but hates his brother is still in the darkness. Whoever loves his brother lives in a life. There is nothing in him to make him stumble. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness. He does not know where he is going because the darkness is winding. John has a bit of a confusing style as he writes, and it's not helpful. translated from Greek to English. He almost strikes you as a philosopher talking of constant relationships of light and darkness, of of of being in fellowship and not being in fellowship and it's it's it's a picture language to be using. And it might seem to you to be a bit unclear when he begins to talk, but I think that his message is clear. And as we look at what he has said in earlier chapters and in his gospel this morning I think that what he's saying here will become very clear But as he begins, he speaks almost as a rule. I'm not telling you a new command, but an old one, and yet I'm telling you a new command. That that's something we need to set aside for dealing with at the end of the sermon because that's something that is really important, but if you focus on it now it's going to distract us. So please put that aside. And instead let's not focus on on the newness or the oldness, let's focus on a command. Because what John is saying here to us is a command. There are certain verbs and and and Nouns that John uses over and over in this one particular epistle because he has a particular point to make. And one of those is light, one of those is dark. But here it's also communic. You recall that the first part of chapter 2 He says in verse 3. We know that we've come to know him if we obey His commands, and then the whole section follow through his command. This passage follows that, and he's speaking what the command Commands are but don't lose sight of the tree for the form. Because you see he's speaking a command It's something we have to obey. It's not an option, it's not a preference, it's not a wish. In my family as I raise my children, one of the lessons I learned from Dr. Dobson is to distinguish between command and childish behavior, between disobedience and childishness. And and the corollary to that that I I've come up with is commands and my preferences. There are certain things that I I would like my children not to do, but they're not punishable offensive. And and and so I have a difficulty as I speak to my children. How do I help them to know that this is something they better not cross the line on? Versus this is something that I really don't want you to do. And and I've come up with a system, it's not a matter of how loud I speak, it's not a matter of what my face looks like. how red it might be or how my teeth might be bare. It's not a matter of of the intensity. There's a simple code. And that is if I start county they know they have to free to obey. Because by four there's punishment. And so I I I have a clear way of communicating with my kids that this is something we've got to do. This morning John is telling us this is something we've got to do. And it's not just John You see, Jesus is the one speaking through John. Not just because Jesus is is inspiring the scriptures through the Holy Spirit, but because Jesus has given the command. John is quoting in a paraphrase, a loose paraphrase, Jesus' command on the ninth of youth to train. You recall that in In John's gospel, he spends four chapters, chapter thirteen through chapter sixteen, dealing with a series of teaching that he gives on the night that he suppressed. He begins that by walking with disciples Peter is an example of the love that they are to live out. And he goes beyond that. And he says in verse 13, in chapter 13, verses 34 and 35. And we command them I give to you. That you love one another, even as I have loved you. If you also love one another, by this all men will know that you are my disciples If you have love one for another. Now it's not a coincidence that John spoke to the epistle to the church on the East Columbia Because T, if we wanted to grab that from that mark, you would expect. And he makes it clear that that's exactly what he's talking about in the command. chapter three where he says in verse 23. Here's where he defines the command he's given. He says, and this is the command to believe in the name of his son Jesus Christ. Christ and to love one another as he commanded us. See, John's got in the forefront of his mind as he writes this letter. Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit that the command Jesus is most concerned about. Just that we love God. Because I deal with commands. I don't know if you're like me, but I I have a sort of a legal bent to my mind in my ticket. And the first thing I want to do is love to ask if somebody gives me a command that do they have the authority to give it to me? Is there a loophole that I can use to get out of this? Is this some officious person taking and usurping an authority that they don't have. Well is this serious? Well it's not John that's saying this. You can't escape it by saying that it's John's community. This is Jesus to me. And I tell you, he has the authority as creator to tell you how you must live because he has made you. He has given you life. He has shaped and formed you and he knows. Which we must and must not do. He has the authority because he is the judge. And this is his standard. He's telling you one, two, three. At four comes punishment. This is the standard God demands of all. And if you break it, it is promises. You must be obeyed. So what is the command? What does it mean to love? What is it we are to do? How is our life to be different as we We obeyed his command. Well, we're commanded to love as Jesus' love. How did he love? He came from heaven and laid aside his Lord to live as a servant in an enslaved population. He lived in a rude hut. He had no place to lay down his head. And he did that not to show his ability to withstand unpleasant Circumstances he did get because he likes it. He had a purpose, and that purpose is to say. He goes on and he lays down his life He gave it freely for the benefit of others. Now I don't know if you're like me. I'm placing myself in this text bar because it's very challenging. But there are certain kinds of tests that I think up in my mind as I reflect upon whether or not I meet these standards. One of those is what I lay down Well, if I structure the test in an appropriate way, the answer invariably comes back yes. I don't know if if you guys understand the structure of the test. But I can make a test that I'll always pass. If somebody were to come to me with with a gun or a knife and say, your life or theirs, who do you want to dog? It's not all that hard to say, okay, I'll buy. You know, I know that I'm going to heaven. I know that I'm going to a better place. I know that that Jesus is commanded that I lay down my life. And so it's a it's a comfortable answer to say, it's swift, it's painless, it's over with, I'll lay down my life. But Jesus didn't have swift, painless But his death didn't last the length of time he was on the cross, his death lasted from his birth arms. And the love that he displayed was displayed from the time Why he decided to sacrifice himself to come, to live among us, and to die You see, the test of whether or not I'm willing to live this love isn't that I'm willing to die in a moment's glory, that I'm willing to sacrifice myself For another by allowing myself to be quickly killed? That's not a test. The test of this love comes daily. In chapter 3 We're told. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for ourselves brother. He goes on. He makes it quite clear. He says if anyone has material possessions and sees his brother in need but has no pity on him, how can the love of God be in him. Dear children, let us not love with words and with tongue, but with actions and in truth. The task that God has structured is a much more difficult one to That test is will you leave your comfort zone? Will you sacrifice yourself for the well-being of your brothers and sisters? Will you give of your material Material possession. Will you sacrifice your things? Will you sacrifice your money? Will you sacrifice Your time? Will you sacrifice your infants? One of the best illustrations of this is becoming a parent. For those of you who are yet to face that, please don't tune out. Try and put yourself in that position because you will someday most likely become a chair. What I can recall back when Ann and I were still young and foolish and didn't have any kids. And I can remember how we would at a moment's notice decide to go out for dinner. Or we would at a moment's notice Smelled us decided to go visit a friend. Or go visit family. I can recall clearly one Christmas Eve Ann had gotten back from work at midnight. I had laid down and had gone to sleep. But when she came in I woke up and I said, It's Christmas Eve. Gee, why don't we not wait until the morning to drive up and visit my folks? Let's just go now and we'll surprise them. We'll just sort of walk out of the bedroom in the morning. And we could do that. Because we didn't have to load a crib and diapers and food and clothes. The presents were already in the car. It was a simple thing. We had liberty. We had a comfortable existence. The next Christmas came and we had a daughter. hated to travel in the car by the way. And so every time we drove, if we didn't make sure she was asleep, we listened to a serenade And we'd have to load the car with a crib or a a a playpen and diapers and food and clothes and everything else that it takes. There there are Tremendous sacrifices that you make to have children. We're part of a family. Those sacrifices now, as part of a family, include our brothers and sisters. You must take consideration of them in all things that you do. That's the command. You see, Jesus decided to give up his comfort and come to earth. He decided to give up To come and to sacrifice himself for over 33 years. Every day was a sacrifice because he knew that he had left glory. He had left the worship of angels to receive the insults of men. He had left the comforts of his throne to sleep in a manger. He had left the glory of God in spirit to wear diapers. Or whatever the New Testament equivalent was. That's the law Love that is the standard that we are to follow. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another even as I have loved you. It's a hard, impossible task. And I am completely aware of how impossible it is. There's no question in my mind that I cannot love as Christ has loved. But there is A very key thing that John doesn't state clearly here that must be known. And if you want to deal with assurance of your salvation this morning, this is the test. The test is, do you love your brothers and sisters as Christ has loved you? Now when I look at that, it's it's not Not all that comforting, and I'm assuming that it's probably not all that comforting to you this morning to reflect on this last week to see whether or not you have met the standard of Jesus' love. That's an uncomfortable thing, but we're not finished yet. John has not left us to struggle with that test. The point he is making Is that those who have lived in the light will love. In verses 9 through 11, he clearly points out that anyone who claims to be in the light but he And he goes on in verse eleven. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness, he does not know where he is going because the darkness If we refer back to the earlier part of this epistle, we realize that when John is speaking of light and darkness, he's speaking of the reality or the unreality of our fellowship. With God. And so when he says to you this morning that you are in the light, that means you have a relationship with God and you have salvation. If he says to you This morning, that you are in the darkness, then you have not got salvation. That's where the danger lies. It is either a comfort of a short Or a challenge to presumption. And there are many today in our culture who claim a relationship with God that is not validated by their lies. We remember from the study in chapter 2 where he says, The man who says, I know him, but does not do what he commands is a liar, and the truth is not in him. God gives commands. And those commands will be obeyed by those who have a saving relationship with Jesus. If you've come to know him. Then you have that lifestyle. But I want you to understand something very, very clearly this morning. What John is saying and what I am saying is Is not that your love provides salvation. I I want no one to leave this morning thinking that The key to whether or not you will go to heaven is whether or not you love. That is not the key. That is not the indicator. That is not the means of salvation. And that comes clear as John speaks that we must do this command obediently in the power of God. For you see, you and I are clear we have to do We have not got the power in ourselves to obey this. We do not have the ability in our own to come to salvation. It is by God's transforming grace through the payment that Jesus Jesus has made and the transformation that the Spirit works in our lives. Put simply, what John is saying is this As the Spirit of God transforms you, your desire will be pleased Jesus, and you will obey his commands, especially his command to love one another. Put simply. As God transforms you through the power of His Spirit, you will desire to please Jesus. And because you desire to please to please Jesus, you will live a life obedient to his commands. Not out of an attempt to earn salvation. Salvation is a gift. It's Free. Ephesians says, For by grace you have been saved through faith. That not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not as a result of works. But what he does say is. Those who have been given that gift are different. In 2 Corinthians, he says that he lives his life to please God. In chapter 5, he says That if anyone is in Christ, they're a new creature. The old things have passed away, behold, the new things have come. Immediately before that, he says that it's important because he lives his life to please God. God. And he can do that because he's a new creature. In Galatians 2, he says, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And this life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of Man, who loved me and delivered himself up for me. He lives it by faith, he lives it by power. And he lives it to please God. That's why the commands are important. Two reasons. One, because it says that you know what you need to do to please Jesus. That is your overwhelming desire is to please Jesus. It may waver, it may wax, it may wane, it may grow, it may falter. But as a Christian As a Christian, you understand what Jesus has done for you. And out of that understanding, you love Him and desire to please Him. And because as a Christian, you have the Spirit of God, He will will bring you to fulfill the commands. Well, how do we do that? How do we know How do we act? Where do we get the power? John's pointing out here, and this is where the importance comes in, from the old and the new. You see, as Wayne pointed out, Out earlier in the service, we've had commands to love one another from the beginning. In Leviticus 19, way back at the first establishment of the law at Mount Sinai, God said, You are To love your neighbor as yourself. When Jesus comes and he speaks to the Pharisees, the Sadducees, and the rulers, they're clear that the two great commands are to love God with all your heart and to love your neighbor as yourself. They're clear. They understand that the love is is crucial in their relationship with God. God. What they don't have is the power to do that. Jesus teaches a parable of the Good Samaritan, where the ones who should by all means be able to able to love their brother, walk past his wounded body. And the one who should by no means do anything is the one who that God has worked in and has given Allah that acts. Not only do we have the command, we have the power Not in ourselves, but in God. You'll notice that John says here, yet I am writing you a new command in verse 8. Its truth is seen in him and you, because the The darkness is passing and the true light is already shining. He is pointing out that the most important transformation in history has taken place. Time is different. Our relationship with God is different because Jesus has come. The true life that he speaks of there might seem a bit confused. Confusing at first. It might seem like just a better understanding of the law. But John is referring to something that he deals with in his first chapter of his gospel. In the prologue. He's making clear in John chapter 1 what he means in 1 John chapter 2. He speaks in chapter 1 verses 9 through 13 and says, The true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world. He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, Him, the world did not recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. Yet to all who received him, to those who believed In his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision or a husband's will, but born of God. This true light has come. It's already shining, he tells us in chapter two. But the important thing to notice here about the true light is Not that it reveals the law. It's not that it gives commands more clearly. The important thing to notice is that as many Many as received this true light have not the right. That's a poor translation. The word in Greek is dunymus. Many of you must have heard it. In the past it's it's oftentimes something that's pointed out. We get the term dynamite from that Greek verb. From that Greek nan dunymus. There's a there's a verb that goes with it But the point is that that verb means power. Yet as many as received him, to them he gave the power to become children of God. He goes on in the next verse, and he says, Children born of the choice of God. Not born of a human act or a human will or a human decision. Born of God Given God's power to live as His children. As you have come to know Jesus and reflect on His command, you have the power to live the love Jesus lives. You have the power of God working through the Holy Spirit in your life to transform you to live the love That John talks about. Not just to love in your actions. All of us here can point to things that we've done that should satisfy the commands of loving our brothers and sisters. You may have helped one in need, given them food. You may have gone and helped somebody move in. You may have helped watch their children as they have a birth of another child. You may have helped them to Through sickness. You you have all met needs, and one of the things that I want to commend this congregation for is that you are indeed a loving congregation. There are many here who are challenges and examples to me, who in their own hurt have sacrificed their comfort to meet the needs of others. And I commend you for that. But it's not just what you do. You see, John says let us love in word, not just in word or in tongue, but also in deed and in truth. Now I can And I can love in action as long as I don't have to think. But it's the combining of the two and the consuming nature Nature of love that says, I understand your hurt, I am broken by it, I will act upon it. Love is not just a thought, and it's not It's not just an action. It is a combining of both. Jesus didn't look down on the world and take compassion and say, you hurt. I really empathize with you. And he didn't come down and and give himself with an attitude of, I hope you appreciate this There are many times in my being a dad that I have to get up through the middle of the night to take care of the kids and I sort of look at them and I say, don't say it verbally, but I do say it to myself. Unfortunately, I hope you appreciate the sleep you just cost me. But that's not love. That's not what Jesus did That's not his example for us. And what I want you to understand this morning is that you can, by the transforming power of God's Spirit, love purely. You have been transformed. And this morning, as you look at yourself, don't look just to find out Gee, am I safe with Jesus? Don't look. What kind of things do I have to do today to feel better about my relationship with Jesus? You see, because before you can love one another, you must love Jesus. You must look at what He's done. You must reflect upon His gift to you. You must be passionate in your desire to please Jesus. And as you focus on pleasing Jesus, it will be clear to you what he wants you to do. And that is to love. And if you look around to be aware of the needs and you say, Jesus, what would you do? What would you like me to do? You'll evaluate your resources and your opportunities. The opportunities vastly outweigh what any of us can do. As a pastor, I have letters coming from to me on a regular basis from all over the world, telling me of needs. I look at my checkbook, I look at the church budget, and I realize that that while I can pray I can have compassion and pity. I can't meet all the needs. You have to decide who it is that God's calling you to display your love toward. There are some people You'll simply be able to pray for. If your heart doesn't break and you don't pray, stop and check yourself. Because Jesus does have his heart break. If you catch yourself Giving without the affection, if giving becomes a drudge and it's done compulsively, under compulsion, stop and check yourself. There are dangers of presumption. But John writes this to people who have been concerned that they may have lost sight of salvation, that they may not have a relationship with God anymore. He says, no, you are a loving people. God is at work in you. Look at that. Strengthen. Know what it is. God wants you to to do to please himself and to serve the body. But take delight. One thing I'd say in closing about this that's important to note is he He says in verse eleven, But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness, he does not know where he is going because the darkness has blinded him. There is a black and white to this. If you have the true light, you are not one. If you have the true light, you will love. If you don't have that true light, there's no way you can love. You might do some actions that could be considered loving, but you do not have the heart of Jesus to love. You don't have that power. And you can't sustain it. So if you look at your life this morning and you say, gee, yeah, there are some times that God has really done some remarkable things. through me to show that love. But in general, I'm a slob. I'm a failure. I guess I'd better really be concerned about maybe that I'm presuming a relationship that doesn't exist. No. Because the one in the darkness is blinded and cannot see and does not love. Truly. If God is speaking to you this morning and saying, yes, you do well, let's strengthen it, then take delight, because it is God who is speaking, and it is he who has given you the ability to love. It can be a delightful assurance of your salvation. But don't focus on you. Don't focus on where you stand with God. Focus on Jesus. Jesus. When we concluded the sermon on the first part of chapter two, the point was don't ask what you have to do to be saved. Don't even stop when you ask what it is that God will do for you in you if you are saved? Which is the question John tends to be asking. What you must focus on is this. How? How can I please Jesus? How can I bring him to life? How can I respond according to the sacrifice he has made for me? And if you focus on that, assurance isn't a problem. Because you do long to please Jesus. And he works through you. Jesus, we do thank you again and focus upon the fact that it is your work, your coming, your living, your You're dying and you're rising again that has given us a relationship with you. And for those who have that relationship, Lord, I pray that you would give them eyes to see the work that you've done in them. That they would know that comfort and take that delight. Lord, where we must strengthen our love, I pray that you would fan it in the flame. For those who do not know you, Lord, I pray that you would free them of presumption, that they would not claim like those who claim to have relationship with you. while they hate and while they disobey. But that they would know where they stand and that you would call them to yourself. That you would draw them and that they would know that one Lord, I pray that you would free us this morning to focus upon you, to continue to offer to you our praise and our worship and to be children. We can display your love. It is your power at work in us. You give us the ability and the power to become children of God. Help us to live their life, we promise Jesus Lord.