This morning we continue in the series Summer in the Psalms, and we just finished the month of June where we were looking at Psalms that meet us in our sorrows. This month we will look together psalms that lead us in worship. There is perhaps many psalms that we could turn to But it is Psalm one hundred in its utter beauty and simplicity That calls us to worship. In fact, I think during the years of my ministry, I think it's perhaps been the most commonly used psalm as a call to worship. And it has been used, as with the Psalms, the Church's hymn book, for centuries and thousands of years, stretching back to the nation of Israel Before Christ. These psalms were used to call God's people to worship. It is the psalm this morning that we look at together. The nature of what our worship is about, and it calls us to shout for joy. In fact, we've already done that this morning. But let us do that together as we hear God's word read, as God leads us in worship. Psalm 100. Shout for joy to the Lord, all the earth. Worship the Lord with gladness. Come before Him with joyful songs. Know that the Lord is God. It is He who made us, and we are His. We are His people, the sheep of His pasture Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him and praise his name. For the Lord is good, and his love endures forever. His faithfulness continues through all generations. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Lead us, O Lord. Lead us in worship. Demonstrate to us through this beautiful word this morning, by the work of your Holy Spirit. Demonstrate for us your beauty that is worthy of our worship. But demonstrate as well, O Lord, the why of our worship. So open our eyes that we would see wondrous things in your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. So this Sunday, beginning this Sunday today, we're going to be looking at the different elements of worship this month through the Psalms. So today is Looking at what does it mean to be called to worship? How does the scriptures instruct us? Pastor Flora will be leading us for the next two Sundays, looking at the different elements of worship, confession. The word being preached, the word going forth, and then we will finish by looking at the Lord's promise and looking at our response to it in things like the sacraments. And so this morning we begin with the call. So you'll see in your outline, I've listed there for you according to the psalm, you'll see that the outline is joy, reverence, and Thanksgiving. Those are there because this psalm demonstrates to us the attitude That the worshipper of the one true God brings and ought to bring with them as we come into worship: joy, reverence, and thanksgiving. Let me say by way of introduction that I will finish the sermon by looking specifically at Thanksgiving. I will unpack it more, but let me say at the beginning. This is the only this is not the only psalm that talks about giving thanks to the Lord. But it is the only psalm that we have in the Psalter that lists in what is what scholars call the superscription. You'll see at the beginning. Under the phrase Psalm 100, where it says a psalm for giving thanks. It is the only psalm that has that as its superscription, its main heading. And I will tell you that that is the ground of our worship. But we'll get there in a few moments. But what this Psalm does for us is it tells us from the very earliest verse 1, and we'll look at verses 1 and 2 together first. as we look at joy. It begins this way. Shout for joy to the Lord, or make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth. And in verses 1 and 2 it says, worship the Lord with gladness. Come before him with joyful songs. This psalm that leads us in worship begins to tell us that worship begins in exaltation. It's very important to this psalm because in fact it's an exaltation of praise. of demonstrating and giving voice to God's glory, which the Bible understands the word glory as being a waitiness. A substance, a profundity. That God is a God of substance, of power, of goodness and glory. He is God. And it tells us here, shout for joy to the Lord. It begins, worship does, with exaltation. And what I want to tell you is that this Psalm leads us in that exaltation because it gives us seven different commands from beginning to end. Listen to them. Shout for joy, number one. Worship the Lord, number two. Know that the Lord is God, number three. Enter his gates with thanksgiving, number four. Give thanks, number five. Praise his name, number six. I lost one there, didn't I? Come before the Lord. There you go. Thank you so much. I had it underlined here and I missed it completely. Thank you. Come before the Lord. It is about exalting God and giving joy, giving exaltation, it tells us, in the indicative. Imperative, rather. Give these things to the Lord. Exalt his name. But why Do we do this? What is the point of giving a joyful noise? Why do we praise? Why do we exalt? C. S. Lewis, the famous British writer, this was for him a great stumbling point. He wasn't sure why God constantly tell us in the Psalms to worship him And then why does the psalmist continually tell everyone around him, give praise and honor and glory to God? It took him quite some time to get to the answer. And he answered it this way. In his book, The Reflection on the Psalms, he says, I had never noticed that all enjoyment All enjoyment, all joy spontaneously flows into praise And he says, the world rings with praise. Lovers praising their mistresses, readers, their favorite poets. Walkers praising the countryside, players praising their favorite game, praise of weather Wines, dishes, actors, motors, horses, colleges, countries historical personages, children, flowers, mountains, rare stamps, rare beetles, even sometimes politicians or scholars. He said he had never noticed that all enjoyment, all joy, spontaneously overflows to praise. He then summarizes it this way. I think we delight to praise what we enjoy because the praise not merely expresses joy, but completes it. He is saying something profoundly human That you really don't find joy in something by holding it inside Those of you with children know that when a child alights onto something with their focus or their minds, They are like laser focused. And I don't know about your child, but my child, when they love something, when she loves something, it is going to come out with rapturous words. And lots of them. She is a female, however. But even boys Know from their fathers that when their fathers, if they're into sports, are sitting there on a Saturday and may I say Sunday afternoon, if you're watching something and you're going crazy, what are you going to do? You are going to say it out loud. Not one of you who loved the Ravens, who saw them win the Super Bowl, enjoyed that moment in silence. I think I'm just gonna go in my closet and sit there a while and think about this No, you put it on flags and bumper stickers and t-shirts. That's just another way of praising We exalt as human beings because as human beings we were built to be worshippers. We demonstrate that worship. We find our joy in something by finding its completion and giving it audible praise. That is why the Psalm says, shout for joy to the Lord all the earth. Exalting and praising completes the joy. But it is also not just the joy that we find in exaltation. It is the joy that comes from the fact that the nation of Israel was given this worship that was to be an invitation To the world. It is what the Psalm says. Shout for joy to the Lord. All the earth. Worship the Lord with gladness. Come before him with joyful songs. This was not meant to be something that was solely designed for the nation of Israel God from the very earliest days of calling Abraham to himself, and through that call, through that covenant promise, he said, I will make you a mighty nation, and you will be my people, and I will be your God. But it wasn't just to be something that they were to keep quiet. Their worship of the one true covenant-keeping God Was to be a demonstration, a light to the world, you will be a blessing unto all nations This psalm is putting in very poetic form what the worship of Israel was to be. It was to be an invitation to the nations that all nations would come and shout for joy to the Lord all the earth. Come before him with joyful songs and songs of thanksgiving. And may I say it to the Church of Jesus Christ. In whom the fulfillment of the praise which was given in this psalm is demonstrated That is the praise of Jesus Christ. That there are those here this morning that do not know the Lord Jesus Christ. What they need to hear is not just a preacher up front delivering a sermon from God's Word, they also need to see demonstrated in the people of God a joyful noise. That is then used by the Lord to be an invitation to all nations, not just what happens here in these four walls, but the worship that goes from this place in all that you do. In your joy, in your work, in your play, in your parenting, in your relationships, in your difficulty. Of giving worship to God, shouting out for joy, and that is to be to the world a demonstration that God is real. Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones wrote it this way. He says, we can preach the truth, we can defend it. We can indulge in our apologetics. We can try to present a great front to the world, but you know, it does not impress the world. The need is for something so overwhelming, so divine, so unusual, that it will prove that we are indeed the people of God. What demonstrates to the world that you are the people of God other than sitting here on a Sunday morning? Shouting for joy to the Lord. My sermons Will only go to a small few. But the worship that is to be begun here in joy and exaltation is to be an invitation that will flow out of this place, and you will rub shoulders and speak with thousands of people that I will never have the opportunity to meet. But the worship that begins here is to then go out into the world as an invitation. Does the world see you, Christian, worshiping, shouting for joy Because it is that to which God is inviting the nations to worship him Not as a demonstration of who we are, but a demonstration of who He is Some translations do say it, right? Noise. It doesn't have to be a joyful rhythm. It simply needs to be a joyful noise. Because we are giving thanks and exalting his name. Why? Because of who he is, and this is where the psalm leads us. That joy And giving exaltation as an invitation to the world to come before the Lord. What Lord are they coming before? The Psalm tells us one who is worthy of our reverence. It says to us here. Verse 3 particularly, know that the Lord is God. It is he who made us, and we are his. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. Now there are older translations, which I actually prefer, that first part of verse 3, where it says, know that the Lord is God It is he who made us, and not we ourselves. Do you see We give reverence to God because we did not make ourselves. It is the holy God Yahweh, the Lord who is the covenant creator of all that is. Who we are told in the book of Genesis created all things from nothing. He did so to demonstrate that he is a God of creation. He is a God not only of creation, not that he just created all things, but when he created all things, he created human beings. But to be the crowning jewel of his creation, and that crowning jewel turned in rebellion from worshiping God. To worshiping created things, to ultimately worshiping ourselves. But God, who is holy Who is worthy of our reverence, who is worthy of our awe, who is worthy of our fear, a God who holds judgment in his hands, a God who holds wrath and almighty power in his hands, who created all things from nothing. Look down upon his crowning creation, who turned in rebellion, and he says to them, Though I judge you in your sin, I give you the promise of salvation to escape it He is not only a God who is worthy of our reverence because he is a God who is holy and created all things, he is a God, he tells us here, the word Lord is Yahweh. He is the covenant-keeping God. And the God who created all things and created Adam and Eve, though they turned in rebellion, right in the heart of that rebellion, Genesis 3:15, the diamond in the ruff of God's judgment. of Adam and Eve, the diamond in the middle is the first announcement of the gospel. For I will send one from her womb, which will crush his head, but he will bruise his heel, referring to to the eternal battle that God will win through his Son Jesus Christ on the cross. That Yahweh God stays true to his promise, his covenant. And that covenant from Genesis 3. 15 would then be progressively unfolded and demonstrated by God's promise. To Noah, by God's promise to Abraham, and through Abraham to the nation of Israel, from Moses to David, from David to Christ in the new covenant. That God, who has created all things, is worthy of our worship because he is a God who is the covenant-keeping holy God. Who in his righteous wrath could simply have poured it out on all creation But God, who is worthy of our worship, who is worthy to say that he and we deserve his wrath, yet he withheld it and sent forth his covenant promise. That he would get for himself a people that would ultimately find its expression in the people of Jesus Christ. The Church of Jesus Christ. We worship a covenant-keeping holy God. But isn't it beautiful? That this one who is worthy of our reverence, who is holy, is also, this psalm tells us at the end of verse 3 that he is a God of tenderness. Notice what he says. It is he who made us, not we ourselves. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. That a God who is worthy of all worship, who is to be feared, who is worthy of our all. Through all of our ridiculous loving of fireworks created the universe by the word of his power This God is also a God who is incredibly tender and loving and calls us his sheep, which means he is the shepherd. Is he not picking up on the themes of Psalm twenty-three? The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not be in want. He makes me lie down in green pastures He leads me beside quiet waters. He restores my soul. He guides me in paths of righteousness. For his name's sake, even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For you are with me, your rod and your staff. They comfort me. There is no other God like Yahweh. There is no other Lord like that of the Christian faith. Eastern religions talk about an infinite being In the West, God has been reduced to that which is merely personal But the scriptures always give us the true biblical God, one who is eternal. One who is Yahweh, one who has created all things worthy of reverence, but also one who is incredibly personal. One who is worthy of worship, worthy to judge, but the one who is gracious in his mercy. Tender like a shepherd. And he is walking with those he is called to himself. And there are those here this morning who are walking with the Lord who doubt his goodness, his tenure. Let me share with you a man who utterly changed my life in seminary. Dr. David Calhoun, I heard hundreds of sermons in seminary But only a few do I remember, really remember. And I think I've listened to this sermon oh, so many times. But this is what he says. As I have battled two different kinds of cancer during the last nine years, I have faced three surgeries. Of course, of radiation, three different regimens of chemotherapy, CT scans, bone marrow aspirations, colonoscopies, and numerous blood tests I have never heard an audible word from God saying to me, more, but I do know that the promise is not that the valley is short, and the time spent in the valley brief. The promise is something far better. Perhaps 200 times during the last three years, I have gone across the street to St. John's Mercy Hospital. I walk in the front doors past the picture of St. John of God, the Spanish monk for whom the hospital is named, and down the escalator to the doctor's building where I receive chemotherapy. As I go down into my valley, I lift my eyes to the wall and to a colorful tapestry. And read often aloud the words, The Lord is my joy. And I experienced something of what the psalmist knew: even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For you are with me. I've had to learn not only that the Lord is always with me, but also that the time I spend in the valley is not wasted. These last few years have not been a parenthesis in my life. Indeed, they have been essential to the totality of my life. Something has happened in the valley that is for me. At this time, more important than teaching and preaching and writing books. He is worthy of our reverence. Not only because he is the Creator, covenant-keeping God. But he is the tender Father, who knows our valleys, but who does not leave us alone. And who says to us in the midst of those valleys, your time here is not wasted. For it is the totality of your life, of me making you my own, and to reflect my goodness. The Lord who leads us in worship this morning leads us in joy. And I worship full of reverence But also a worship that is characterized by thanksgiving The famous Russian writer Dostoyevsky once called human beings bipeds of ingratitude. Because this psalm ends where the superscription began. For us to be characterized by thanksgiving. There is nothing more difficult, I think, to our nature than giving thanks. Because to give thanks as a human being to someone else means inherently we're recognizing that we receive something from someone outside of ourselves. That we need somebody else, or that we need it. And for the human heart, which from its fallen nature in Adam and Eve has been bent on trying to Shout from the rooftops, independence are a people that cannot live without others. Not only did God create us to be a people who worship, and to worship Him, He also created us to be a people of gratitude. And so the Psalm tells us here, enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with with praise. Give thanks to him and praise his name. Now that's the the imperative But I want to begin with the indicative. He says in verse 5, the why we give the thanks. He says, for the Lord is good. And his love endures forever. His faithfulness continues through all generations. He talks about the loving faithfulness of this covenant-keeping God Yahweh. And he says, He is good, and his love endures forever. Do you hear the comprehensive nature of God's loving faithfulness? And it tells us here in the comprehensive nature, it says it is eternal in nature, it endures forever, his faithfulness continues through all generations. Do you notice the emphasis in verse five? God's love and his loving faithfulness. Is eternal and endures from generation to generation. Do you notice where it comes from? It comes from God. From where does go where does God find the motivation? Does God find the motivation for his love in us? No. God does not find his motivation for his loving faithfulness in us. Because the scriptures tell us his only motivation is himself. He is a God of love. God is love. But his love endures throughout all generations. Why do I say that? Because this Psalm is being announced to a people who generation after generation after generation failed to love God. Faithfully, day in and day out. You see, here's the glorious nature, the comprehensive nature of God's loving faithfulness. It never begins with us. It will never be that you will be able to present yourself before a holy, righteous, covenant-keeping God that you are worthy of his love. You will never perform enough. You will never be obedient enough. You will never be righteous enough. It has never been about one human being. It has always been about God's loving Faithfulness coming to a group of human beings who did not know his love, rejected his love, and even forget his love, and are not thankful. Yet the Lord, throughout all generations, demonstrates his loving faithfulness, and it endures day after day after day. It is instructive to us, is it not, this morning, that what the Lord wants from you Is not trophies of goodness. When you come into worship, As this psalm instructs us, full of a joyful noise, giving reverence to him, he does not ask that you come in here with what Brian Chappell writes as the trophies of goodness. God is not telling you and me to come in demonstrating how good we have been. He wants us, Chapel says, to come acknowledging how deeply we need his loving faithfulness. It's when we recognize that God is willing to receive those of us who come in desperation that we become willing to be repentant. Do you recognize that, he says? If God wants us to trophy our goodness, then we wait till we measure up. But if we recognize it is God's great kindness that leads us to repentance, then desperation, in desperation, we become willing to approach God. And we approach him with thankfulness for his loving faithfulness. It has never been, nor will it ever be. Begun with us. God's loving faithfulness is the one who starts everything. And it is that loving faithfulness which would bring forth his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And it is in Jesus Christ that this psalm, though it is not specifically a Christological psalm, It points us to what Christ has done. It points us to God's loving faithfulness in the action of his grace. And that we find the ultimate locus of our thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, his grace. Do you notice what it says in verse 4? Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him and praise his name. What does that mean? He says, as he's brought this image to the people of Israel and remember to the surrounding nations, to come before the Lord at the temple, which was made up of all of these courts. That found in its central point the Holy of Holies, but in these courts that surrounded the Holy of Holies was where the people of God could come, and even the Gentile nations had the outer court reserved for them But here the psalmist says, enter to his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Now this psalm is instructing the nation of Israel and the surrounding nations to come to the temple to worship God. But could the psalmist scarcely imagine of what his words would ultimately point to? That what God has provided for us in seed form here finds its fulfillment in Jesus Christ. Listen to the words of Hebrews. When the writer of Hebrews says to the Church of Jesus Christ to persevere, and here's what he says: therefore, brothers, we, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place, by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, opened for us through the curtain that is his body. And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near to God with a sincere heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience. And having our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold unservingly to the hope we profess. For he who is promised is faithful. The covenant-keeping God, who in his loving faithfulness that endures throughout all generations. would find in the ultimate fulfillment and demonstration of his loving kindness in the grace of Jesus Christ. Who by his body and blood on the cross entered into a temple not vain by human hands But by his body and blood, fully God, fully man, and offered a sacrifice, his blood, his body, once and for all. That God's wrath would be satisfied being being poured out on his Son. Therefore, Jesus reserved the right by his obedient perfection. his glorious nature as the only Son of God, then entered the Holy of Holies The right hand of God the Father Almighty, the maker of heaven and earth, and is seated at his right hand. And Hebrews tells us. What the Psalm is telling us way before that we are called to enter into his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. What court? They couldn't go into the Holy of Holies except by a high priest who had to offer a sacrifice first for himself and then for the people. But we, the Church of Jesus Christ, the people of God. Have been given Jesus, who's offered once and for all for all our sins, past, present, and future and is for everyone to enter into his gates with thanksgiving and his court with praise. Therefore, through Christ, by his body and his blood, we can go before the throne of grace with boldness. Because in Christ my sins, your sins are cleansed away It has never been, nor will it ever be, one iota of your best works that will ever demonstrate to God that you've done enough. For we will never ever do enough. All he asks us Is to come in desperation, giving thanks. Enter his gates with thanksgiving. And his court with praise. For there is no other name in heaven or earth that we can be saved. That at that very name, every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. For the Lord is good, and his love endures forever. Do you believe that? How are you practicing it? Are you counting up your sins this morning? Are you trying to hide them? Are you trying to desperately cover them up Are you trying to come before God with your goodness? I say to you in the name of Jesus Christ, Christian and non-Christian Come to the Lord. Lay it down before his feet. At the foot of the cross, you will find completeness. Come, Lord Jesus, by your Spirit, renew us With a shouting of joy, not because of us, but because of you That our worship would be renewed because we are reminded again that you are worthy of our worship. A God who is worthy of our fear and awe, and a God who is tender, a God who is faithful in his love. A God who is generous in his grace. Lord, help us then to shout anew this morning for joy with thanksgiving. For you are good. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.