This week we began to look at Paul's prayer in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 14 to 21, what I call one of the great mountain peaks of biblical revelation. Made three observations about Paul's prayer and about prayer, our prayers from verse 14 and 15. First of all, that Paul's prayer had a listener We saw that uh he says, uh, for this reason I kneel before the Father. He comes before the presence of the Father. Prayer is not whirring out loud or some superstitious faith in faith. We believe that someone hears us. We need to be conscious that someone is listening. Sometimes when I go to prayer, I imagine the Lord Jesus before me saying to me, What's on your mind this morning, Alan? Just that sense of his inviting me helps me to realize that I'm speaking to him and not just rambling whatever thoughts come to my mind. So we need to do what helps us to recognize that we are being invited by the Father to speak to him. Secondly, we saw last week that Paul's prayer had a warrant. He says, for this reason, he's speaking of God's nature, his will, his purpose, his intent, as he's uh unfolded that in chapter two and three. And so having known what God's intention is, he says, now for this reason, since I know what God's purpose is, I know his way I can pray this because it's based on that. And you and I grow in our confidence and our praying as we base our prayers on what Scripture says. Thirdly, we saw that Paul's prayer had a posture. He says, for this reason I kneel before the Father. And so we talked about how kneeling is not commanded, but there are benefits to it. And again, I encourage you to try it. Just ten minutes On your knees, you will find us very different from ten minutes sitting in your easy chair gazing out the window. It helps you to focus. The ten minutes is much more compacted. I find it after I've gotten from my desk and I put my Bible on the chair and I read the passage over again. I was thinking about that just this morning as I was doing that. how much more there is a sense of coming before God and the distractions are greatly eliminated as you're just there on your knees before God at that chair. In fact, I found that the number of you commented this week on how you were trying that or various other things, and that was very encouraging to me. I sensed as I spoke last week a particular hunger for learning about praying. And that God was speaking to a number of you. That was very encouraging to me. In fact, I would go so far as to say that one of the most encouraging signs that I see of the fact that God may be in fact bringing a an unprecedented possibly uh great awakening coming into our culture, into our land and throughout the world. is what I sense is an increasing hunger for prayer and how to pray among God's people. I don't know if you're aware, but just uh in the last couple of weeks Uh Max Luceto said that he had a desire. He said, I wonder if I could find ten thousand people to spend forty days beginning September twenty-seventh until Election Day 10,000 people in this land who would be willing to pray daily for God's blessing and for his favor to come upon us, to humble us as a nation, to bring renewal and revival. That God would do that and that that would include fasting if you desire, but the focus is this forty days of commitment to prayer. Uh as of this last week I had heard he had over Fourteen thousand people who had responded to that. It's individual phone calls asking for these cards, not just packs and groups. Now to me again that says something. When somebody says, I wonder if I could get 10,000 and he's got 14,000, 15,000 in a couple of weeks, then there is a hunger for prayer And so this morning I want to continue. We're going to look at this prayer, and I'm going to be uh doing something you say a little different this morning. You look at the passage and you say, what happened to Ephesians 3? You know, well, we're going backwards. We thought you were going too quick. Huh? We only had nineteen messages on the first three chapters, and so that's not enough. So now you go back to chapter one again. So what happened to chapter three? Well, what's the reason for that? The reason is simply this. It was 18 years ago this week that Columbia Presbyterian Church began to meet for Sunday morning worship. 18 years ago. And what we did was we began with Ephesians. And we looked that ball at the prayer of Ephesians chapter 1. Which became our purpose as a church. And uh I have from time to time through the years uh each September, not each September, but on various Septembers, going back to this passage in Ephesians 1 to look at certain parts of that prayer, to focus on them, to emphasize them, because that's our purpose as a church, what Paul prayed for the church at Ephesus. And in our first three chapters that we've looked at through this past year We have not looked at this prayer in particular. And so I thought now would be a good time to do that, both in terms of the timeliness of it, as we think, you know, we're beginning our 19th year as a congregation, reaffirming that this is our purpose. And because it is in conjunction with prayer. It is Paul's other prayer in these first three chapters. But now I want you to notice something. And first, all the times that I have done this before I have always focused on the petitions of this prayer. Because those petitions, those three basic petitions, form our purpose. The first one to know Come on guys, band or no band, you're out there, let's go. The first prayer, first purpose is to know him, to know him, right? That's more desire. Second purpose to know. Our hope. Thank you. And the third purpose in prayer is to know his power. Okay, good. Now we're on track. Now I got you with me. All right. Now, last years we have looked at those petitions in particular. But you know what it occurred to me as I was looking at Paul's prayer in chapter three and preparing for last week. I have never looked at Paul's address to God There is a particular way he addresses God in prayer. Now, you may not notice that, but we don't think a whole lot about how we address God. But Paul thought a lot about how he addressed God. And you see in his letters through his writings a very thoughtful addressing of God. And so I thought that this year I would like to correct that flaw. We're going to look at how Paul addressed God in that prayer and see what we can learn from that for our praying and how we address God. So let's read the prayer. I want to begin Ephesians chapter 1, beginning at verse 15, and go through the prayer which ends at verse 23. Verse 17 is the address, and that's what we're going to focus on, the verse actually the first part. Verse 17. Let's hear God's word. For this reason, then, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints. I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ The glorious Father may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation, so that you may know him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which He has called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints. And his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come And God placed all things under his feet, and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything. In every way. How do we address God? You notice how Paul addresses God There in verse 17, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, and then he goes on to his petition. How we address God, as I said, is not something we often think about. On the contrary, it is something that Christians in past generations, particularly those from high liturgical kinds of traditions thought a great deal about how to address God. Those of you who are here at the July Lord's Supper when Jim Grabb let us uh through a service that was based on the Book of Common Prayer from hundreds of years ago, may have noticed uh that as one of the distinctives For instance, when we prayed toward the beginning, we addressed God, O Almighty, ever-living God, who by your holy apostles has taught us to make prayers and supplications and to give thanks for all men, we and then we went on to the prayer. Or later on we prayed, Almighty God, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, maker of all things, judge of all men, we. And then we went on. Now, we contemporary Americans have by and large reacted to that kind of formalism, haven't we? We don't pray that way. In fact, if you heard the pastoral prayer up here begin like that, you'd think, who are you trying to impress, perhaps? There'd be a sense that uh we are somehow being artificial And that notion of informal prayer was greatly accelerated by parachurch movements of the fifties, the sixties, and the seventies, the Jesus movement and certain other things. uh that um developed our our notions of praying. In fact uh we have come I think today to prefer what we would call a a no nonsense, simple direct sincere, we would consider it, a more honest kind of approach to God. That has led to what I consider more of the other extreme, of an informal sort of approach. If any of you grew up in young life or in some of those kinds of Bible study groups, you knew God not as the God of justice, but as the God of just Lord, we just come before you this morning to thank you for letting us worship here today. And we just ask you that you'll help Charlie find his car keys so he can get home. We just You know, and I just remember always going through and the you know this word just was thrown in almost every other phrase because it had the idea of j simply, honestly, directly, Lord, not not putting on any heirs, we just want you to do this, you see. And so we when we come to address God, when we pray to him, we don't think very much at all about how we address him. We may start with a Lord or Father or Father God or something like that, and then we get right on into the business. You know, let's get down to it. And we may include some praise. Lord, uh Lord, we thank you that we can worship here. Thanks for allowing us to come together. Thanks for helping us to fellowship. Thank you for this day that it stopped raining. It's beautiful. And then we just go on to what it is But the notion of thinking how do I address him? How do I come before him to speak his name? What do I fill my mind with and how do I come respectfully to him is something that very rarely seems to come to our mind. I would suggest that that impoverishes our prayer. I would suggest that like kneeling, it is a matter that the Scripture doesn't command a particular way to do it. And yet, if you want to learn to grow in prayer, in your own prayer life, another suggestion I offered to you this morning is to learn from Paul how to address God as you come to him in prayer. I think we have in our generation confused a flippant familiarity with biblical intimacy. And that not only has the tendency to not bring to God the honor he deserves, but it also doesn't prepare us and our hearts like kneeling in humility to be able to capture who it is. that we're coming to speak to and to fill our hearts with faith because we recognize how wonderful and mighty he is And so let's look at what Paul did. Three points to learn from his address. Verse 17, I keep asking. that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the Spirit in going on and on and that. But just that first phrase. First of all, notice that he addresses God as the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. The God of our Lord Jesus Christ. I think it's very significant that Paul begins his prayer this way. You notice he is not praying to God as you understand him. He is not praying to that unnamed power that is greater than ourselves. There is a widespread desire today to pray. That's documented by every survey that is done, whether it's US News or Time or Gallup or anyone else. Over ninety percent of Americans prey on some sort of regular basis. But there is an increasing resistance to identifying and naming and delineating who the God is that we pray to. My daughter Julie was riding with a friend not too long ago. And uh she was driving along, this friend inadvertently ran over a squirrel. She screeched on the brakes, slammed on the brakes, and stopped and said, Pray, Julie, pray! Pray for the squirrel and pray for me. Your father's a pastor. God hears you. Pray. Julie said, I couldn't believe it. And this girl never prays. She's utterly irreligious. And yet there was this superstition that I hit the squirrel, I'm in trouble. Now, there's no sense of who we're praying to. But somehow make it right. And so there's this desire of our hearts to cry out to whoever He is in order for us to be safe. That's not at all biblical praying. Paul prays to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, a God, the God Who is revealed in biblical revelation as the God fully identified in and revealed through Jesus Christ? John 1. 18. He revealed him, Jesus revealed him in his fullness. So A, the first point in that is that he is the God who is revealed in Jesus Christ. Three things, I think, are suggested by this phrase, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. The first, he is the God who is revealed in Jesus Christ, not the God of our imagination But the God revealed in the Old Testament and in the New Testament through Jesus Christ. I think it's good for us to remind ourselves when we begin our prayer, Lord, I come to you. God of my Lord Jesus Christ, you who are the God revealed in Jesus Christ, speak something of his attributes and his character as he has revealed them in Scripture. To make sure that you understand that this is the God that you're coming to may help you to remember to kneel if that's helpful to you at that point. I've had people say, How do I kneel while I'm commuting and I'm driving the car? All right, we're not saying kneeling is required. We're simply saying it when it's possible. Secondly, notice that he was the God who was faithful to Jesus Christ. That's B. He was the God who was faithful to Jesus Christ. Paul says, I keep asking the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. That of, I think, also has in mind that he was Jesus God. You remember in John 20, Jesus speaks of him as my God, my father, my God, and your God, my father, and your father to the disciples? And so we remember from this that he was the God who was absolutely faithful to Jesus. And we're the disciples of Jesus. And if Jesus has taught us anything, it is you can trust my Father. He was faithful to me, he will be faithful to you. A sparrow doesn't fall without his noticing it. He knows the number of hairs on your head, whether they are few or many. He is faithful to you. In fact, when Jesus went to the cross and knew that he was about to die, he trusted that his father would raise him from the dead. And so Paul goes on in this prayer to speak, you see, in verse 19, of this God of our Lord Jesus Christ, who exerted his power in Christ when he raised him from the dead. and seated him at his right hand, afar above all rule and authority, power and dominion, every title that can be named, both in this world and the world in the world of the age to come He was faithful to Jesus. He's the God of our Lord Jesus. You look at the life of Jesus and you see a model of someone who trusted God. implicitly, moment by moment, for every need. And you say, He's the God of my Lord Jesus Christ. He was faithful to him. Read the gospels and you remind yourself of his faithfulness. And he'll be faithful to me too. Jesus promised that. And his resurrection vindicated it. And then you see thirdly that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ means that he is the God who is accessible through Jesus Christ. He's the God who is accessible through Jesus Christ. In Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 19, we read about Jesus. Speaking of that picture of the tabernacle, where the Old Testament, the priest, would go in to have access to God just once a year with blood, bringing that into the Holy of Holies. The scapegoat sent out into the wilderness, the blood that is shed there on that s uh spot there before the ark, and the priest would go into the Holy of Holies to have access, to intercede for himself. And to meet with God on behalf of the people. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 19 says, Jesus went into that perfect tabernacle, the tabernacle in the heavenlies. Jesus brought his own blood, and when he brought his own blood there, the veil of the temple was rent when that blood was shed from top to bottom, indicating that you and I have access into the Holy of Holies through the blood of Jesus Christ. I come to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, Paul says, because he means I come to the God who is made accessible through our Lord Jesus Christ. That's what he specifically says in chapter two, in verse 18, where he says that through him we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. We have access to Because of Jesus Christ. It's good to remind yourself, when you don't feel worthy, when you feel, Lord, I've blown it this past week. I don't deserve to come to you. I don't deserve for you to hear me. To remember, you're the God of my Lord Jesus Christ who has made access. And quote a scripture, some phrase, something that says and speaks to your own heart again that I have access, not because of what I have done. But because Jesus has opened the way into the Holy of Holies to come to my Father. It builds your faith, it reminds you of what you're doing. You come to the God of your Lord Jesus Christ. You have access to him. Access how? That leads us to the second phrase. Access to him, chapter 2, verse 18 says, as Father. Verse 17 of chapter 1 says, I keep asking the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. The next phrase in the Greek is literally the Father. So forget the glorious there for a minute. Because what he's saying in the Greek is, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father And that's to be emphasized. He is the Father who we come to. We have access to the Father. Now it's worth noting here, just in passing, because people often will ask this. Who should we pray to? Well, normally in the New Testament, prayer is addressed to the Father. Now, the pattern of the New Testament, as you see in your outline there, is to pray to the Father through the Son who gains us. Access, guided by the Spirit. That's what you see in chapter 2, verse 18. Chapter 2, verse 18 is uh one of the simplest, best models of prayer you have in the whole New Testament For through him, we both have access to the Father by one Spirit Those are the three persons of the Trinity and their involvement in prayer. We pray to the Father. The idea is there seems to be, now again, it's like kneeling. It's not commanded. You can pray to Jesus, you can pray to the Spirit. Nothing against that. Don't say Al says, you know, it's wrong. You know, just hear somebody praying to Jesus. Al says don't do that, you know. Not saying that at all. It's just like standing in prayer. normally uh standing, kneeling, you know, all kinds of other postures, whether you're standing on your head or anything else. But normally the idea is we are children coming to a father who knows our hearts and our needs and is Is kindly disposed to invite us with the access through Jesus to him and the Spirit teaching us How to pray, guiding our thoughts and our minds into what is the will of God. That's the pattern. And so what Paul says here is that I Ask the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, and then he gets more specific. Who's the Father? That's who I'm coming to particularly. Through Jesus. I'm coming to the Father. And he's inviting me. That's the next blank there. The picture is that my father invites me to pray to him. When I feel that I am discouraged, when I feel that I am fretting, when I feel that my prayers are not going anywhere, I'm just falling into that worrying out loud idea again. It may be good to either memorize or to simply recite to God by reading it from Romans chapter 8, verse 15 and 16. For you did not receive a Spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you receive the spirit of sonship. And by him that spirit we cry, Abba Daddy. And it's a good thing to know that this Father comes to grant me, to invite me into his presence. Chapter 3 Verse 12, you remember Paul had said, in him and through faith in him, we may approach God with freedom and confidence. Chapter 3 verse 12. Quote those verses to God. Come as you address Him to speak those as the grounds of your coming and approach to Him. He's a father who hears you. I remember just this week I was in couries, I was kind of discouraged about some things I was praying about And I saw a neighbor who had moved in just um a few weeks before. I'd only spoken to him once the night he moved in, my wife and I came over. and just to welcome them into the neighborhood, but we hadn't gotten a chance to see them since. And So I saw them out there at the basketball hoop and so I went out and uh after um just uh a few seconds of the you know how you doing and you all moved in how's things going, he said to me, um he said he said I heard you're a pastor. About, uh oh, here we go. Blew my cover. So I said, uh yeah, that's right. He said, well, that's great. He said five, six years ago I became a Christian. I said, you're not going to believe this But I said, when we saw your house up for sale, my wife and I prayed all this past spring and summer that God would place in your house either somebody who was spiritually open or someone who was a Christian. That blew his he you prayed for me before I yeah we did. He was so excited he's jumping up and down I mean here is a guy who had come to the to the Lord Jesus simply by reading scripture in a terrible time in his life. He had had a religious background, never heard the gospel, started reading scripture when his wife died in a car accident And uh in doing that came to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so now are you hearing and here's somebody else in their praying. Here's another Christian on the street. I never had a Christian in my other neighborhood. I got a pastor now. Wow, we're blind the street, you know. So yeah, and we're gonna get together to talk about uh what God's done in our lives. You see, there was again a reminder to me. You know, and I'm praying and I'm thinking, God, are you hearing me And he was just just this gentleman. Now we prayed for other neighbors and they haven't seemed to be spiritually open at this point. I'm not saying it always works that way. But God is a father. He invites you to come to him as a father. And he knows those times that he can encourage you appropriately in your faith. So that you grow in your confidence, whether it's praying for your neighborhood or your family or your own life or other things that are going on. Finally, notice that we pray to him not simply as a father to draw to, but that he is the father of glory. You see, literally the Greek in this phrase, verse 17, is, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation. So he is the father of glory. Now, what does that mean? What is glory? Well Most succinctly, the word glory is God as He is revealed in all His perfections. Alright, that's the simplest, you know. I don't think it's distorted. I mean, it's pretty simple. There's a lot more to what glory is. But if you want to boil it all down when you read glory, glory is God as He is revealed In all his perfections. That is, his attributes as we perceive them. For example, his glory is his truth. His holiness, his justice, his goodness, his faithfulness, his grace to you. You see this in Ephesians, for instance, in the early part of the chapter right here. You have in uh verse six a reference to his glory. The sentence begins at the end of verse four. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will to the praise of his glorious grace. Literally the Greek is to the praise of his glory, his grace. That grace which is his glory. And so you see, his grace there is described as his glory, as he is demonstrating that to us by being our Father, bringing us to us himself as children. Now that's his glory to demonstrate his grace as a father. When you go down to verse 11, you see there in him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan. Of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will, everything that happens, every choice, every decision, it is under the purpose in conformity with the purpose of his will. Our freedom but his sovereignty interacting. in order that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be for the praise of his glory. You see the idea he's saying the the revelation of his sovereignty in drawing us to Christ is for the purpose of the praise of his glory. That demonstrates, that reveals his glory. Or you see in verse 14 He speaks of the Holy Spirit, who has sealed us, a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance, until the redemption of those who are God's possession, to the praise of his glory. And so he then comes and says, Now I come to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory. You see, this is the one who demonstrates, who reveals himself in all his glory. You look at the insert in your bulletin there that speaks of praise at the pavilion that we're all going to go to next Sunday, right? Many of us, I hope that all of us will be there next Sunday, four o'clock. What's the the what's the byline on that thing? You see? It says right on there. Now what does it mean to glorify God? To glorify is simply to perceive his glory and to express it. When I glorify God, I'm simply saying this is what you are like. And I want to tell you that. I want to speak that publicly in praise, in worship, in prayer. And so in addressing God, we need to recognize that we come to Him as the Father of glory. Now, what does that mean in prayer? Simply this. Here is the insight. You heard nothing else this week. Hear this for your praying this week. In your prayers this week, let me challenge you to take as your warrant the reason. For this reason, I'm praying this: the attributes of God. Say, Father, this is what you are like. Now that's why I'm praying this, because this is what you are like. You are kind, you are faithful, you are just, you are holy. And I'm speaking something which is going to reflect that. What I am praying now is going to glorify you. It is going to demonstrate that character. You see that? That's what God intends in our praying. That's how he intends for us to join our hearts with him. And you see that here in this very prayer. What does he do? After he prays that, he says That God is the God of wisdom. Verse 17, you see, He's the Spirit of Wisdom. So what's he praying? That he will enable you to know him better. What is that doing? That's saying, may he reveal himself in his wisdom to you to give you wisdom. to know him better. So the prayer is based on the attribute. He goes on in verse 18 and what does he say? He says he's got an inheritance of glory. His inheritance is the display of all his perfections. As he is going to reveal himself directly in the kingdom where there is no tabernacle or temple, because his presence is immediate. Now he says as I pray that your eyes will be enlightened so that you will have the hope of that inheritance of glory. In other words, here's the glory. Open our eyes, Lord, to see it. So that we will glorify you with that hope that you place in our hearts. Your glory is revealed in your power as you raise Jesus from the dead. Lord, that power is at work in us. Display it to us and through us that we might exalt Jesus. In fact, when you look at all of prayer What are the three things that you need when you come to God? You need, first of all, a God who is infinitely wise and he knows exactly what you need. Verse 17, He has the spirit of wisdom. You need, secondly, a God who is infinitely powerful. He doesn't just know what you need. He is able to do what you need. Verse 19, he has incomparably great power. And then he goes on in chapter 3, verse 20 to speak of this power as infinitely beyond anything we could even ask or think. No question of power. He is infinitely powerable to do anything that's needed. You say, well then the last thing I need is a God who is infinitely loving, who cares enough to exercise his wisdom and his power on my behalf. And he goes on to speak in that prayer in chapter three that we'll be looking at. I pray that he will give you the power to grasp The love of Christ, to know how wide and how long, and how high and how deep, and to experience the love of Christ, which surpasses all understanding. That's what we need. And that's what God offers to us. Praying his attributes glorifies him. Practice it. I'm gonna get down on my knees again. Let's pray for just a minute. Anyone want to join me on your knees or just pray in your seat? We're just gonna take a minute. Father, we just want to take a minute now to pray to you, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. The Father of Glory, who has revealed your glory in your attributes to us through Jesus. And Lord, I pray for myself and for these people this morning that you would give to us that spirit of wisdom and revelation, because you are full of wisdom and revelation, that we might this week know you better. And Lord, if there's anyone here this morning who has never come to you through the access provided by Jesus and his blood, we pray, Lord, that you would speak to that person's heart, that there'll be a restlessness that consumes them until they bow before you. And know the freedom of forgiveness and sin and the access they can have. Lord, teach us that access. Teach us to know you as Father And Lord, we pray that you would speak to us of the glory of your inheritance, to open our eyes to see the hope which we have. Of who we are and what we're becoming in Jesus and what is before us. Lord, open our hearts and our minds to see and to perceive our new identity in Christ this week and to live that out. that we might know the glory of your incomparably great power which you demonstrated in raising Jesus from the dead. There'll be no question on our minds as to your wisdom, your power, or your love for us. Because you raised him whom you loved from the dead and saved. Seated him at your right hand, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be named, both in this age and the age to come. Lord, we pray that we might know Him. Whatever it is on our hearts, Lord, that we doubt you for, forgive us those doubts, that we might bring our prayers to you. That we might believe you, that we might honor you by glorifying you in our praying. That you would receive the honor And our faith would be built up in Jesus' name. Amen.