Thanks, Mark. No, we're still not back to James. One more week. The reason for that is that on Friday evening at our congregational meeting here, we passed a budget of $441,000. That requires a 32% increase in giving over what was given last year. And that's quite a step of faith. It's necessary for us to do that. We believed that it was necessary to pass such a budget, to increase our staff our missions, projects, as well as the facility, to obtain the facility that we believe God would have for us. But um even though that was carefully thought through, carefully prayed through for months, discussed till we finally got to that point. When you think about passing a budget for a congregation of our size of $441,000 in one year, somewhere along the line, some of you are going to Say, what have we gotten ourselves into? What in the world did we do on Friday night? And at that point, you may begin to feel some pressure. And that's the danger. And so because I believe there's a real spiritual opportunity here, but also possible spiritual danger, I thought that I would take today to speak on six principles Of godly giving. Six principles of godly giving that are taken from 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verses 1 to 9. The danger is, of course, that in our looking to the budget, we begin to think of ourselves as giving to the budget rather than to the Lord. And so the focus of Christ centered giving and the motivation of grace can become Lost. Now, the context of 2 Corinthians chapter 8 is that Paul was involved in a rather major fundraising campaign. You may not think of the apostle as involving himself in that kind of thing, but he was. The project was the raising of a large sum of money for the poor, disenfranchised Jewish believers in Jerusalem. And so Paul was going around seeking to raise funds for this, and in 2 Corinthians. Chapter 8, what he's doing is referring to how much the Macedonians had given to this project, so much so that they surprised even Paul with their generosity. And he's using this as an incentive for the Corinthians. But in the midst of that, he articulates six principles, that's six principles, of godly giving that are important for us, I think, to have clear in our minds at the beginning of 1988. Let's follow along then as I read from God's Word, go through the passage, pick out the principles, and seek to apply them. 2 Corinthians 8, verses 1 to 9. Let's hear God's word. And now, brothers, we want you to know about the grace that God has given the Macedonian churches. Out of the most severe trial, their overflowing joy and their extreme poverty welled up in rich generosity. For I testify that they gave as much as they were able, and even beyond their ability, entirely on their own, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in the world. In disservice to the saints. And they did not do as we expected. But they gave themselves first to the Lord, and then to us in keeping with God's will. So we urged Titus, since he had early early made a beginning. To bring also to completion this act of grace on your part. But just as you excel in everything, in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in complete earnestness, and your love for us, see. That you also excel in this grace of giving. I am not commanding you, but I want to test the sincerity of your love by comparing it with the earnestness of others. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, to those He was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. First principle of godly giving. Godly giving is a work of divine grace. That's the first two blanks there. Godly giving is a work of divine grace. Verse 1. Now, brothers, we want you to know about the grace that God God has given the Macedonian churches. Verse six. So when we so we urge Titus, since he had earlier made the beginning, to bring to completion this act of grace on your part. Verse 7, but just as you accept the word. In everything, in faith, and speech and knowledge and complete earnestness and your love for us. See that you also excel in this grace of giving. Again and again you see that word grace. Why is that? Because what Paul wants It to be very clear to us that the Macedonians weren't innately generous. It wasn't that they just happened to be a generous people who loved to give. What Paul's trying to help us to see is that the origin of Of a generous heart is the grace of God. It's a supernatural work. It doesn't come from within ourselves. It's very important for us, I think, to understand when we come to a beginning of a year like this. Guilt-motivated giving comes from within. The kind of giving that you can play on a person's emotions. You can tell them how they need to do their part to make the project go. Or that if they uh give, God will bless. Bless them. If they don't, God'll get 'em. And uh, you know, all kinds of other ways that you can seek to motivate people out of guilt. That's internal. That's an appeal to the human nature. But grace motivated giving is supernatural. It's also much more effective. Because it's the work of God supernaturally working in us. And Paul wants us to be very clear about this: that it's the grace of God that was working in the Macedonians. You see there in verse 1. Verse 1. It was what God did to them and in them. So therefore, since it's grace, we don't work up a feeling about giving. The kind of feeling-oriented giving. It gets you all in a frenzy so you'll sign any kind of pledge card, you know, maybe you just want to get out of there or, you know, you just get all caught up in the moment. That can be a very carnal kind of giving. But what Paul's talking about here is Grace motivated giving that comes from prayer and meditation on the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ for you and for me. That he then gives us generous hearts. That's a supernatural thing. I can't stress that too much, that really is. I know it in my own life. I am not by nature a generous person. I'm a frugal person. Some people would call me tight. I prefer the word frugal. But you know the problem The problem is with frugal people that while you can be a good saver, you can also be a hoarder. And so while I think of myself as practicing good stewardship in accumulating what I do and getting things cheaply and all the rest of that, you know. Now, the problem is, am I doing it just so that I can accumulate kind of for my own security and hoard it? That's of the flesh, that's natural. I can do that without any work of the spirit. But Cathy's much more general. generous than I am. And the grace of God is more operative than her, you see. And when I look at the difference between the two of us, I realize that's a supernatural thing. And I realize that if I am going to give away a significant proportion of my My income without any expect expectation of a return from that. That is supernatural. Believe me, if you know me, you know that is supernatural. That's the grace of God operative. You see, we may be involved something here where we look at this budget and we say, we may fall wind up by getting this property and building a building, and by that time we may be so large as a congregation that we'll just about build the building. Six months, a year after that, we may be talking about starting a daughter church. And a group of you going off into Southeast Columbia or somewhere else, north or somewhere else, and starting another church and you saying we only get to use that thing on the weekdays. And you might be uh tempted to say, That wasn't worth it. It was a bad investment. Why did I I give all that money sacrificially and I don't get the benefit from it. Well you see if it's an investment, that's of the flesh. It's only the grace of God that causes Macedonians to give to people in Jerusalem that can't give back to them. And that they'll never benefit from directly. It's the grace of God that causes us to give our money with no strings attached. No expectation of an earthly return, but just as an act of worship to Jesus Christ. And God will do that. He can do that in you. Have you experienced him doing that in your Christian life? Have you sought him to do that? Let's take a moment right now to just stop right here before we go on to the next principle. And just take a few seconds to ask God. God to give us the grace of a generous heart. Let's stop and do that. Let's pray. Lord, we want the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to be evident. In our body by your causing us to be a generous people. Only you can do that, Lord. I know that it's a supernatural thing whenever you give me a generous spirit. But I suspect that's true of a lot of us here. And so we cast ourselves on you that you would do that in our hearts. So that you will get the glory and not us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Second principle. Godly giving is motivated by overflowing joy. Godly giving is motivated by overflowing joy. Verse 2 Out of the most severe trial their overflowing joy and their extreme poverty welled up in rich generosity. The Macedonians were not. were changed by the grace of God. But how? Well specifically, it was because of their supernatural joy in Jesus Christ. That's why they gave. It was the joy of knowing that their sins were forgiven. It was their joy of knowing that they had received a new, clean life from the God who had forgiven them in Christ. It was the joy of knowing that this God who had made all things and was so infinitely far removed and above them was a God that they could. could call daddy, father. It was the joy of knowing that he had given to them a deed to the lavish riches of his eternal kingdom, and that that was theirs forever. See, the more you know Jesus Christ, the more real he is to you, the more that you understand the fullness of his love, the more your joy begins to overflow in Jesus. Generosity. The more you feast, as Mark talked to us about from Psalm 36, on the abundance of his riches and drink of the fountain, the rivers of his delight, the more your joy begins to overflow in general. And Mark referred to John Piper's book, Desiring God, Meditations of a Christian Hedonist. It's an excellent book. One of the things that Piper says with great insight in this book is this quote: Love is the overflow of joy and love. in God which gladly meets the needs of others. Think of that as a definition of Christian love. Let me read it again. Love is the overflow of joy in God. which gladly meets the needs of others. You see, it's sort of like that guy that uh, you know, after he had been longing for this girl of his dreams for so long and wanting to woo her, he finally got the courage up and he asked for her her hand in marriage and she said yes she would receive him and so with wings on his feet he d runs down the street. The first street person he sees, he gives him a hundred dollars or, you know, would you believe ten dollars. But you see, it's because he's so happy Because of what he's just received, he wants to make somebody else happy. He wants to meet the need of someone else. He has to share the overflow of his joy. And so Paul says here that it wasn't because these Macedonians had so much money. It wasn't that they were giving out of abundance. But he said it was out of the most severe trial, their overflowing joy and their extreme poverty. See, it's overflowing joy in spite of extreme poverty. It's a supernatural joy that comes from the spirit. Spiritual riches, Psalm thirty-six, that they have in Jesus Christ. That is what welled up in rich generosity. Now I suggest to you, this is the most important principle of all six. You don't get the other five, get this one. Not that we're giving to a budget. It's not that we're giving out of pressure. It is the giving that comes from the overflow of joy in Jesus Christ that God uses. Let him take care of how much he'll provide. through our giving this year. But let's make sure that our giving is out of an overflow of joy in Jesus Christ. That's what pleases him. That's the offering of worship. Can you identify with that? Can you identify with the kind of joy that comes the overflow of joy in God which gladly meets the needs of others. That's a very vital principle of godly giving. And when we look at $441,000 ahead of us, it's important that we keep that principle. And not the pressure of the amount in mind. But speaking of the amount, that leads us to the third principle. And that is that godly giving sometimes gives beyond its ability. Sometimes gives gives beyond ability. Verse 3. For I testify that they gave as much as they were able, and even beyond their ability. You see, there's something wrong if we're always only giving out of what we can afford. There's something wrong if we're always giving out of surplus. There's nothing like sacrificial giving in order to appreciate the sacrifice of Jesus Christ for you. There really isn't. You want to develop a deeper love for Jesus Christ. Christ and understand his sacrifice for you, step out on faith and give sacrificially to something. And all of a sudden the sacrifice of Jesus Christ for you becomes more real and more precious because you begin to fellowship in his sacrifice. sufferings and in his sacrifice. Now this should be occasional, not regularly. I'm not saying that all the time, you know, giving's worthless if it isn't sacrificial. Paul doesn't use this as a norm. He simply says that in this case, the Macedonians gave not a Not only their ability, but he says they gave beyond their ability, because they saw the worthwhileness and was the expression of their overflow of their joy to God to be able to do this. That's the principle beyond what many missions organizations use as a faith pledge. We don't call ours faith pledges. We call them faith goals. Because it's between you and the Lord. You're not pledging to us. But the idea that, you see, is that somebody says, I'm going to seek to give to this project more than I can expect to have to give. I've got to trust God to give beyond my ability. And when you do that, oftentimes God will richly bless in providing in ways you could have never expected. You see, godly giving ought to grow your faith. You ought to be blessed. in the growth of your faith in Jesus Christ when you're giving, like Paul talks about in Second Corinthians eight. I remember just in our own case, I certainly need to learn a lot more about this. But I remember one time where there were some friends that we had were in real need And their water heater broke. And we just simply and I must admit it was Kathy's initiative. It wasn't my initiative. I probably would have never taken the initiative for this. But she said, you know, we ought to give 'em the money that they need for a new water heater. And so we did that, you know, and there's probably a little more overflow of joy in her part than there was in mine, but we thought it was the right thing to do, and so we gave that. Beyond what we could have budgeted or seen that we would have had to do at that point. Some months later, that next summer, we wanted to take a trip. And we didn't have the means But they had a camping trailer. And now here's where the joy comes in on my part more than Kathy's part. I like the camping part that you see. And they gave us their camping trailer to use for three weeks to go to the Rockies. Now you don't ask her about this trip. I enjoyed it. But it was a great time and it was a totally unexpected provision of the Lord. Just the reciprocation of the act of grace. Many times you'll find that when you take that step of faith to give beyond your ability, that's when you see God work in such precious and concrete ways to provide for you, in ways that you would not have seen and would have missed otherwise. Can you again identify with that? Do you ever give beyond your ability? It's clear that many of you did. In nineteen eighty-seven, for a congregation of this size to be able to give almost three hundred and fifty thousand dollars. But it's also clear that God's going to call more of us to do that kind of thing and stretch us in our faith in nineteen eighty-eight. But let's see the reason. We're giving beyond our ability out of the overflow of joy because of the grace of God in us. Principle four. Godly giving is considered a privilege. Godly giving is considered a privilege. Verse 3 and verse 4, entirely on their own, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service to the saints. Did you catch that? They thought it was a privilege. Now that's very relevant for us at this time, isn't it? It's important again that we do not fall into guilt motivation through this year for our giving. But rather we see that it's the expression of our gratitude for the grace of Jesus Christ, and it's our joy to give. It's a privilege to give to Jesus Christ. Imagine the profession announced today that we have decided that we're going to cancel all offerings for the month of February. Can I give you the month off? I'm not going to take up any offerings in February. No first fruits, no baskets, pants, no offerings in February. What would be your response to that? Would you say, hey, that's a good deal? That's sort of like the show without the commercial. It's sort of like getting in without having to pay admission. That's a good deal. great deal. Think of all I'll be able to save and with a clear conscience, because it's on the session, you know, they're the ones that told us don't give in February. Or would you rather riot about it and say, We demand to have a offering. We refuse that you take away that privilege of giving to Jesus Christ. How do you look at giving to the Lord Jesus, to the work of his kingdom? If that were taken away, would it be A relief or would it be a loss to you? Would you urgently plead as the Macedonians for the privilege of this ministry? You see, if you and I have in our minds that it's giving to the Lord Not to the Lewis property, not to simply salaries, to paying bills, to rent and all this kind of thing, but it's primarily it's giving to the Lord to please him, so that he will use it. Then you and I understand it's a privilege, like the Macedonians. And in that we find joy because it's a way of saying thank you to the Lord Jesus for all he's done for us. Principle five: Godly giving is a tangible expression of a living sacrifice. Godly giving is a tangible expression of a living sacrifice. Verse 5. They did not do as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, then to us. In keeping with God's will. You see that? Their offering was simply a very concrete expression of the principle of Romans 12:1. Do you remember? Romans 12. 1, Paul said, Therefore I urge you, brother. Brothers, after eleven chapters talking about the grace of God, he says, In view of God's mercy, that thus talked about this all the way from the beginning of the book, I urge you therefore to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. to God. This is your spiritual act of worship. Very interesting, isn't it? Offering your body, which is a very physical thing. I hope your body is spiritual. I mean physical, because if it's a spirit, I don't want to have anything to do with you. I want to deal with bodies and we present our bodies, Paul says, as not physical acts of worship, but spiritual acts of worship. He's breaking down that dichotomy of the physical and the spiritual. He's saying when we give ourselves, our bodies, as living sacrifices to the Lord, that's a spiritual act of worship. Paul says that the Macedonians gave themselves first to the Lord as living sacrifices. And this act of worship, Giving was simply a concrete expression of that. Do you see that when the offering basket comes around you reach into your wallet to get out the checkbook or the money, the cash, whatever it is, and you put that in, there ought to come into your mind for the That fleeting instant, who you belong to. There ought to come into your mind in that act of worship. I belong to the Lord Jesus. I am a living sacrifice for him. And this is simply a very concrete expression. Of that act of worship. As I give part of what I have worked to earn, this represents my time, my energy, all that I've done. I am giving part of myself in this concrete act of worship. Paul says. They first gave themselves. Notice the order. They gave themselves first, or they first gave themselves to the Lord, then to us in keeping with God's will. You see, if you give Without having first given yourself to Jesus Christ, then there is no merit in the giving. You can't ever earn favor with God by giving him money. Back in the fifth century, the Frankish barbarian kings uh carried on constant civil warfare, particularly in France, but throughout Europe. And they would kill and they would pillage and they would burn and they would rape and they'd do all this stuff to acquire more land. And then after they had gained themselves a few thousand more acres and a few square miles of land, they would give some of it to the church. That's how the Catholic Church gained so much land in Central Europe. It was through the barbarian kings who thought Well, you know, maybe God will forgive me for some of this raping and pillaging and burning if I give some of the land to the church. And that mindset, as gross as it may seem to us back in the fifth century, still is a mindset that can be with us today. I'm not going to give Myself to Jesus Christ. I want to hold myself independent from him, but I'll give them some money. Maybe that'll make them happy. You can't buy off God. It won't work. You first give yourself to Jesus Christ. Christ, recognizing your absolute dependence on Him for His mercy, for His forgiveness, and then as a living sacrifice, as an expression not of seeking to buy His favor, but simply of gratitude for His grace. Then, Paul says, you give yourselves in this way, in accordance with God's will. And finally, that brings us to the fifth, sixth principle. Godly giving is motivated by the example of others. Godly giving is motivated by the example of others. Paul begins, remember verse 1. Now brothers, we want you to know this before he even gets into, you know, we're not going to cover all the rest because the rest of the chapter he talks about the Corinthians giving to this project. But he starts it out, we want you to know about the grace God has given the Macedonian churches as an example, as a challenge for you. An example for your giving. Verse six and seven. He says, uh, remember there So he urged Titus, since he had earlier made a beginning, that is with you, he made a collection from you. Now he's going to bring it to completion, this act of grace on your part. Now that you've seen What the Macedonians have done. Just as you excel in everything, in faith, speech, knowledge, in complete earnestness, and in your love for us, see that you also excel in this grace of giving. Interesting, isn't it? Just as a kind of a side note there, that he talks about about the grace of your faith, of your speech, of your knowledge, and he fits giving in right with that. A lot of Christians look at a desire to grow in their faith, want to grow in their speech, they want to grow in their knowledge. They don't think any About growing in their giving. Paul says this is just as spiritual, just as much a sign of your discipleship of Jesus Christ, as what your faith is, as what your mouth is, as what your knowledge of him is. And so giving is a spiritual action. activity. And it's good to be challenged by others. That's what he's saying here. He's saying now just as you've been challenged by these other Christians in your faith and in your speech and in your knowledge, so be challenged by them also in their giving. And so he says in verse 8, Really verse eight should go with A there, not B. So he says in verse eight, I'm not commanding you. For I want to t but I want to test the sincerity of your love by comparing it with the earnestness of others. He's not really playing them off against the Macedonians. He's simply Saying, you see what they've done. Now may your love's earnestness be shown also like them. See them as a challenge to your own faith. But then the second example is far more important. The second example, of course, is that of the Lord. Jesus himself. For he says there in verse 9, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That though he was rich yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty Might become rich. We read of Prince Charmings who leave their kingdoms in search for the enchanted imprisoned princess. And leaving all that they have, they go to search for her and years of pilgrimage and they finally find her and you know how the story generally goes, either she lets her hair down out of a tower, or they find her sleeping somewhere, or somebody's turned her into a toad or something, you know, and one kiss from the prince. And the enchantment is destroyed, and a great sacrifice to himself. He's rescued the princess. Our hearts are stirred by such stories of romance and sacrifice. But think of this one the princess. Prince of Princes, the King of Kings, whose kingdom was a kingdom that is beyond our wildest imagination to beginning to grasp, in its lavishness, in its perfection, in its For all eternity, King Jesus never had one desire that was for one moment unfulfilled. Can you begin to imagine what that is like? Can you begin to imagine what it is like? Like to enjoy the perfection of love and peace and joy in all that you have. You don't simply own it, you've made it. And if there's anything else that becomes the slightest desire of your heart, all you have In which he in his body lived in a world of dirt, grime, misery, sickness, suffering, anguish, lepers walking by him. Constantly. Sin, the horror of sin to his pure and undefiled nature, and even death. He was rich. He left all of that kingdom. So that was a very good thing. That for your sake, in his poverty, he would come to rescue you. His poverty, born in a manger, never had a home to call his own, said one time, even the foxes have dense. I don't have any place that's my own to lay my head. Never had a donkey. Be sort of like us and you know live your whole life and never own a car. Had to use public transportation or walk. It was more common back then, but still He was poor within the structure of poverty. He owned practically nothing. The Lord Jesus, though he was infinitely rich, for your sake, he became poor. He gave even the one thing it was his own to possess, even in his poverty, his own lifeblood. He didn't hold back his own life. But laid it down as a sacrifice, because he saw the sin and the misery that you and I were in. And so he substituted himself before God's justice and gave himself as a sacrifice. Sacrifice, shedding his own lifeblood, so that if by his death you and I would see the wrath of God placed on him, be able to escape in him, find only the Love of God for us. So that you, Paul says, in your poverty, you who were poor, spiritual poverty is what he's talking about. The poverty of the guilt that you feel, the Morning for things you know that you've done wrong. The poverty of the failure that you feel that you are for all the things that you wish you could have done differently through your life. The poverty of the sense of any Loss of control of your life. You ever come to the place where you feel like you're not even in control of where your life is headed? There's so many things that you've messed up that you say, Lord, I I I just don't even know where to go. A broken The guilt, the helplessness. And that spiritual poverty, Paul says, He gave all that he had so that you in your poverty Could become rich, would gain his riches. He rose from the dead, and the father acquitted him. It said, You're innocent, the debt is paid in full. And you gain those riches for your debt. Is paid in full in the substitute of Jesus if you come to Him and ask Him to be your substitute. Your guilt is removed. Your sin is forgiven. Your brokenness is made whole. Your life is given a new start. You're given that deep. to the eternal riches of this infinitely lavish kingdom that neither rust can corrode or corruption can destroy in any way. And all of this is given. Because of the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you see why it's so true? That it's as real as Jesus is to you. how real the motivation of grace toward generosity will be in your life and in my life. Not just generosity to give to Columbia Presbyterian Church, but a lifestyle of generosity. And a freedom from the bondage of stinginess. Let's seek God for that together in prayer. Let's pray. Lord, we can never fathom What it was to see what the Lord Jesus gave up for us. How you, Lord Jesus, from your infinite wealth, the lavish Kingdom that was yours. Voluntarily left that. And for me, gave up everything that you had, even your own lifeblood, so that I I in my extreme poverty and brokenness and helplessness would become infinitely rich with you. Adopted as your own son and given the title and the deed of the very Son of God. Lord, how can I see that and understand that? And not want to be freed from the bondage of my stinginess, but out of the overflowing joy. Joy that I have in you to give, to be generous. And yet, Lord, I know that so often I don't. I pray that you would cause me, cause others of us here, to be captivated. By the grace of the Lord Jesus, that our giving would be out of joy, even beyond our abilities, so that it's an expression of the privilege of thanksgiving to you. And if there's some here, Lord, that have Never tasted of that grace. May you show them Jesus, that they may find forgiveness and wholeness in Him. For we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.