We are listening to this fall what Jesus has to say to his church. It's uh particularly poignant because Smyrna was the most pleasant of all the seven cities to live. Smyrna, map up here now you see, is about thirty-five miles north of Ephesus the only two coastal towns of the seven. Smyrna was at the end of an arm of a beautiful uh arm of the Aegean Sea was known as the most beautiful of the seven cities. And it was a delightful place to live because to the west you had the sea and to the east behind there was Mount Pegos. And the effect of that was that there was a constant sea breeze called a zephyr, gentle breeze that blew all summer. from west to east and cooled the city so it had a kind of a natural air conditioning. It was a delightful place to live. In fact of all the seven cities is the only one that still exists Um, like all those cities, it gets destroyed. But uh this was rebuilt and is uh today known as Ismir, Turkey. It was a very loyal Roman city, and it had a large, prospering Jewish community in it. This letter deals with life and death issues, and so you see the contrast between life and death a number of times in these brief four verses. Shortest letter. Look secondly at the characteristics of the one speaking Jesus, same outline in every case. In every case, Jesus, before he speaks, describes himself, and it's always pertinent to the particular need of that church. And so in this case he says to the angel of the church, that is to the messenger, the pastor, the teaching pastor of the church in Smyrna, right, these are the words of him who is the first and the last. He is before all things. Before anything was, he says, I was here. When everything else is destroyed, when the entire earth is destroyed Jesus will remain. He is the last. And he says, I died and I came to life again. He is saying, uh, this is the first contrast you see between life and death. Jesus is saying, uh, you all are going to experience persecution. You have experienced it. Let me tell you. I've experienced that too. People were after my life. In fact, they took my life. They thought I deserved to die. But in fact, I was dying for your sin. I died, and therefore because I was innocent and I fully paid the penalty of your sin for all of those of you who trust me and believe in me Death could not hold me. I died and I came to life again. I conquered death. And so Jesus is saying, I am the first and the last. I before all things and We remain beyond all things. I who died for sin and I who conquered death and live again am the one speaking to you. And it's very important that they understand the nature of this Jesus who delivers this message. You know, it's easy for us to read these words and to think, well, that's kind of tough for the church at Smyrna, but I can't really relate to it And we're part of a culture, the TV image culture, where we can see thousands dead in Haiti and thousands upon thousands more with their homes destroyed. And then go get a snack when we hear those familiar words. And now this. We can switch and turn off and turn on, whether it's tragedy, devastation. And so we hear the Smyrna and we say, well, you know, and nail this, let's move on. Don't really relate. But as John McCurley said last week when he read the letter to the Ephesians This letter to the Ephesians. Um, it's also to the letter to the Church of Columbia, and so is Smyrna. So what if you heard these words that Jesus was writing and speaking instead of the way they're written to the Teaching Elder of the Church in Columbia, Howard County, Maryland, USA. Right. These are the words of him who was the first and the last who died and came to life again. Do not be afraid. You folks in Colombia, of what you're about to suffer. I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison to test you. You will suffer persecution for ten days. Be faithful. Even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says. to the churches, particularly the church at Columbia. For he at Columbia who overcomes will not be hurt at all by the second death. It would kind of change it a little bit, wouldn't it? These words are to us. And yet they are, because they are, besides the historical particulars, Describing the general principle in Scripture that this world is hostile to the Church of Jesus Christ. Jesus said not to the church at Smyrna, but to all his disciples in Matthew chapter 5, Blessed are you when men when people will insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil. Against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven. He went on to say in chapter 10, verse 25 of Matthew, if they have said to the head of the household that he is a devil, then what are they going to say to those or members of the household? How much more will they vilify them? Paul wrote to Timothy, pastor of the church at Ephesus. Everyone, all who seek to live godly in Christ Jesus, shall suffer persecution. So guys, heads up. This letter is for us in the essential message that it is portraying. You notice that Jesus commends them, encourages them. The next thing. He does that in verses 9 and 10. In verse 9, he speaks of their past, and in verse 10, he speaks of the future. In verse nine he says you've s you have suffered for me and he describes three ways. Verse ten he says you will suffer for me and he describes three ways. First of all, you have suffered for me in verse nine You notice that, again, Jesus knows everything that we go through. I know, he says, your afflictions. Jesus is intimately aware of our church and of your life particularly and individually. He knows your afflictions. He says, I know you paid a price for being Christians there at Smyrna. It's not an easy place to be a Christian. Smyrna was an intensely loyal Roman community. In fact it was so loyal that it was uh had a reputation for standing out in that way, and back about seventy years before John wrote this They had won a contest for being the city most deserving of building a temple to the Emperor Tiberius. So they were intensely patriotic Romans and therefore would not take lightly someone who did not deign it Why is possible to sprinkle a few grains of incense on the altar to the emperor? These people would not have dismissed that like other places. And so Jesus says, I know your afflictions and I know your poverty. I know you've really paid a cost. Some of you have lost your jobs over this. Some of you have been disenfranchised because of your Christian identification. Um we know that's still true today. It can be true in China can be true in Muslim countries where to be identified as a Christian may cost you your job But are you aware that it could also cost you your job in Canada? Beginning of March of this year, the Bureau of Vital Statistics in British Columbia sent out a memo, the essence of which said, be prepared to resign from your position if you cannot in good conscience marry same-sex couples by the end of this month, March 2004. What would you do if you were a Christian and you were one of the 306 marriage commissioners in the province of British Columbia? What would you do with that? Would you say, nah, somebody's going to marry him, so might as well be me? Or would you say, Jesus said, I know your afflictions, I know your poverty, you You suffered the loss of your job rather than to compromise. And would you take that risk? Can you notice he says, and yet you are rich? Yet you are rich. Now think about it. Who's richer? The person who has a comfortable home and position, a reliable income And insist that they will maintain that by compromising whatever minor principles it takes, grows old comfortably And dies in their bed without ever knowing if they had convictions. With a Christian Who doesn't seek poverty, but simply says, Lord, I'm not going to compromise and do that which would dishonor you because I'm identified with you. I bear your name. And therefore, I can't drag that name down. If it means I lose my job, I lose my job. And I will watch to see how you provide. Whether through extraordinary provision or the deacons in the community of the believers or whatever it is, I will watch to see what you will do, to see how you take care of me And that person enters into the intimacy of sharing in the sufferings of Christ. Jesus becomes more precious, and the hope of heaven becomes more precious, and you look to see. With intense longing and affection, the eternal rewards of the one who is waiting for you Is it any wonder Jesus says, I know your poverty, but you're actually rich? Rich is the one who will stand for Jesus. Middle hour during the fall is doing a study of John Piper's book, Don't Waste Your Life, and um in that book Piper says, you know, what you really want is to live comfortably and at ease, and then die in your sleep, avoid hell and go to heaven. And that's the essence of it. What a waste, he says. In contrast to the person who, out of affection for Jesus He says, Lord, I just want some way in my life to bring glory to you. And I'll do whatever it takes, wherever and however you want to use me and send me. to accomplish that. Interesting to me that it's that kind of a course that sounds like, boy, I think I can pass on that one, that I think is setting record attendance in our middle hour times. Nearly two hundred people. Come into that course week after week. So if you have not opted for one of the middle hour courses and want to pick it up, uh come next week, ten o'clock, right here in this room. It's the only room that can accommodate a class of that size to hear what it means to not waste your life. That's what Jesus is talking about. And then he says, I also know the slander that you've experienced. I know what the Jews have said about you. I know the slander of those who say they're Jews, but they're not, but are the synagogue of Satan. That is, they they claim to be not just ethnic Jews, but spiritual Jews, but they're not spiritual Jews. They they have rejected me, their Messiah. Their synagogue is not a synagogue to worship the true God. It's a synagogue of Satan. Satan means adversary. It's m it's They're my adversaries. They stand against me, and they stand against the gospel. When you read the New Testament, generally it is not the Roman government or secular. States that are the greatest enemies of Christians, it's false religion. It's that false religion, whether liberalism or some other religion that claims rival affection becomes the greatest threat to Christianity. And then Jesus goes on to tell them what is going to happen. He says, uh, you think, you hope that things are going to get better. It's going to be just temporary, but actually it's going to get worse So he tells them in verse 10, three ways that it's going to get worse. Do not be afraid of what you are about to suffer. I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison to test you. So the first thing is imprisonment as a result of spiritual warfare. You notice he doesn't say the Jews or the Roman government or the Smyrnans are going to put them in prison. He says Who? The devil. This is getting beyond, behind the human observable agents, to what is really going on. Tim Floor does a lot of marriage counseling and in oftentimes as he's meeting with couples he'll say You have one enemy, and it's not your spouse. Surprise. The devil. And that's what Jesus is saying. Your enemy ultimately isn't the Jews, it's not the Roman government, it's not the Smyrna officials. The devil is going to put you in prison. It's the idea of Ephesians 6. You're in spiritual warfare And so you will be experiencing imprisonment to test you, to test your faith. See what's going on behind the pain and the psychological difficulties. See what's really happening. That's why it's called the Book of Revelation. This is what's really happening The devil's putting you in prison to test your faith, to test your affection, to see if you think Jesus is really worth going to prison for What's going to happen, he says? Don't be afraid of that. Remember, this is not about general suffering. This is not about having your home Impaired or destroyed through a hurricane or to a devastating doctor's report or through a bad marriage, it's saying They're suffering for his name. They're suffering because of their identification with him. So he calls it persecution. You will suffer persecution, he says, for ten days. Now, why does he say for ten days? Obviously it doesn't mean ten literal days. They'd say, oh well we can get through that pretty easily, you know, imprisoned for ten days or you know I agree with the majority of biblical scholars who believe that the ten days is symbolical Of a brief time, next two blanks, sovereignly limited by God. Sovereignly limited by God. You see, the number 10 is used many, many times in the book of Revelation, it usually refers to the idea of completion And so what John is saying here, and what Jesus is saying, as John writes it, is that you're going to suffer persecution for a designated period of time God is in control of just how long it will be. And ten days is relatively brief. He doesn't say how long that is. He doesn't say it's 65 years. So, you know, it's going to be beyond your generation, just hang in there. To encourage them, he doesn't say how long it is, but he says ten days, it is it's not going to be a day longer than God will allow it to be. He has determined its time. But since it's unknown, pray, seek him to pray that God would deliver you and would restrain the oppressors and would shorten it. And so back in August, five Christian churches in Iraq were bombed. Eleven Christians died. Dozens were injured. And the Iraqi Christians need to read these words and say, but you know what? God is still in control. The one who is the first and the last, who died and is alive, has determined how long we will suffer persecution here in Iraq. Or in Afghanistan, or in Iran, or in mainland China, or wherever Because he is the one who determines sovereignly and is in control. And he says the intensity of it is going to be pretty severe. Some of you are even going to be killed. Notice he says, be faithful even to the point of death Now, if that was to let her to the church at Columbia, you and I would shudder, wouldn't we? What if Jesus was saying to you? Church of Columbia Presbyterian, Howard County, Maryland, 2004, be faithful even to the point of death. Say, Lord, I uh I pray make me faithful, because I don't have it in me. You know, there was a young man who heard this letter read in Smyrna. Sometime shortly before this or shortly after it, we don't know which, but he was a man viewed as a godly man with spiritual gifts and was ordained personally by John as a teaching elder of the church at Smyrna His name was Polycarp. And Polycarp would have read these words over and over in the months and the years ahead and drawn great comfort even as he saw the warning. Lord, things are getting tough. But you commend us. It doesn't matter that the Jews slander us. You commend us. It doesn't matter that we're poor and many in the congregation are out of work because of their stand for Jesus. You tell us we're rich. We have that hope in the one who's conquered death. Lord, help us. And then 65 years later It happened. Let me give it to you out of the account, the historical account of Polycarp. It was 22 February, probably in the year 156 The venerable bishop, who had fled from the city at the entreaty of his congregation in Smyrna, was tracked down to his hiding place. He made no attempts to flee. Instead, he offered food and drink to his captors and asked permission to retire for prayer, which he did for two hours. Then as they drove into the city, the offer in charge urged him to recant. What arm can it do, he said, to offer sacrifice to the emperor? Polycarp refused. On arrival he was roughly pushed out of the carriage and brought before the proconsul in the amphitheater, who addressed him. Have respect to your old age. Swear by the genius of Caesar. And again, swear and I will release you. Revile the Christ, to which Polycarp replied Eighty and six years have I served him, and he has done me no wrong. How then can I blaspheme my king who saved me? The proconsul persisted. Swear by the genius of Caesar, I have wild beasts. If you will not change your mind, then I will throw you to them. Bid them be brought. Well, as you despise the beast, unless you change your mind, I make you to be destroyed by fire. Infuriated Jews and Gentiles gathered wood for the pile. Polycarp stood by the stake, asking not to be fastened to it, and prayed, O Lord Almighty God! The Father of your beloved Son, Jesus Christ, through whom we have received a knowledge of you. Thank you that you have thought me worthy this day and this hour to share in the cup of your Messiah among the number of your witnesses. The fire was kindled, but the wind, that gentle smirning wind, drove the flames away from him and prolonged his agony Until a soldier's sword put an end to his misery. To this very day, Christians continue to give their lives for Jesus Christ. In 1970, more Christians had died for Jesus Christ in the 20th century than all the previous 19 centuries combined. And since 1970, the numbers have escalated many times of what it was the first 70 years. In Muslim countries, where blasphemy laws give the death penalty to anyone who does not honor Allah Or to many other countries where Christianity Is seen as vile and despicable and taking the lives of Christians a light thing, as has gone on for many years in southern Sudan Our neighbors, members of this congregation, Daniel and Josie Jacob, went back to India, their home, to visit in August. And they while they were there went to their their two places that they live. One is in northern India, where Danny lives. They have very good friends there. And the man is uh the son of a very prominent Hindu in the community. And some years ago he received Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of his life and turned from his Hinduism to Christianity. In fact, after he got his medical degree, he became a missionary to northern India. And was prominently known. The Jacobs came back at the end of August to find out that just days before, he and his wife were stabbed to death in their home. Stabbed, it turns out, by Hindu radicals who couldn't stand someone who had turned from the Hindu culture. more of a culture than a religion to Christianity. It continues to go on. And Jesus is never more magnified than in the eyes of a Stephen who's being stoned. And says he is worthy to die for. Tonight we'll hear from Chris Heidi what it's like in China to be a Christian. Dan Iverson will talk about Japan while we're eating and uh enjoying the luxurious things that we have and thank God for Next month, Peter Lee is going to be preaching on that day that we observe annually, a day of prayer for the persecuted church, and develop this further. But you see What Jesus is trying to do here for you and for me, brothers and sisters, is to open our eyes to the fact that this world is not only not our home, it's a hostile place for the gospel. That God would open our eyes to see that we are part of a global spiritual conflict in which we cannot deceive ourselves to say you can be a Christian and you can be at home here. That God would show us that that one Jesus, who is the first and the last, the Jesus before whom every knee shall bow, is alone our hope, and that He is worth standing openly, even if it were to mean to the point of death, because he is worth it. Amen And so you and I need to wake up from the delusion of what it means to be a Christian in America. Notice the criticisms that Jesus gives to this church. There are none. Not a word of criticism. I believe that's significant. Is it because Smyrna was a perfect church? No. I think it says to us that Jesus, in his great compassion When his people suffer for him, draws them close to him and encourages and comforts them instead of pointing out how they could have done better. Now, next week we'll see a church that suffered for him, and he does criticize them because they needed that. But I believe it also says that a church that suffers is purified A church that suffers as Smyrna did doesn't get caught up in the trivia that some of the other churches did. Purification causes you to see perspective. A church that doesn't suffer complains when the air conditioning's broken. The church that suffers gives thanks to God that we all still have our jobs and nobody was killed or taken away into prison this last week. Different perspective. And so he commends them. He also counsels them. Notice in verse 10: the beginning and the end. is a word of counsel, encouragement. Do not be afraid of what you're about to suffer. The one who stunned John in chapter 1 With that robe and his hair white eyes like blazing coals, with a sword coming from his mouth, the one whose feet were like burnished bronze. The one whose face shone like the sun in full day, who said to John, Don't be afraid. My power is for you. says here to the church at Smyrna, don't be afraid. And when this one says, don't be afraid, you don't have to be afraid. For he is in control of all things. He says, don't be afraid. I'm here. I'm with you. Be faithful, even to the point of death. And so the consequences of that are then described in the end as he wraps it up. I guess to try to do what Tom said, I'll just talk 10% faster and we'll finish right a little ahead of time. Jesus says, I will give to you a crown of life. Verse 10. I will give to you a crown of life. And again you see this contrast of life and death. The crown of life is life eternal, of course, that he's speaking of in 2 Timothy 4. 8 Paul, as he went to his death, said, There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, righteousness that will gain me eternal life. In 1 Peter 5, verse 4, Peter calls it a crown of glory because it's a crown where you and I enter into glory, and our bodies and minds and hearts are transformed to become like his. John calls it here, Jesus calls it, a crown of life. That's the term James 1. 12 gives it, a crown of eternal life. And so the parallel thought is you will not be at all hurt by the second death. The second death. What's the second death? The Bible speaks of two kinds of death: physical death and spiritual death. Physical death is separation of the soul from the body. Spiritual death is separation of the soul from God. Revelation chapter 20 in verse 6 describes the second death, where John says, Blessed and holy are those who have part in the flesh. The first resurrection. That was the resurrection of Jesus. Remember Ephesians chapter 2? He's raised us up with him to be seated in the heavenlies. That's the first resurrection. The second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him. No part of the second death. That is your hope. You don't have to be terrified. You can remain faithful because your hope is the second death, the one that matters, can't touch you. You have been delivered because of Jesus' death that is in your place and for you. And so Jesus' worth shines most brightly when his people Suffer persecution, suffer humiliation, and say to the world, He is worth it And so the final word is: he who has an ear to hear, let him hear, let him heed what the Spirit is saying to the church in Columbia. What does this say about your affection? Is your chief desire to live a comfortable life and ease? Avoid hell, go to heaven, and hopefully die in your sleep? Or is it to say, Lord, I want more than anything else for you to make me useful for the glory of Jesus? You know, this life is like a 30-second commercial in a three-hour movie. Even more, it's like one brief sigh before the long grand party begins. Where's your affection this morning? Are you willing and ready to live this week openly, unashamedly, as a Christian? Because you know that he's worth it? Are you cultivating a relationship with Jesus Christ, getting to know him in his word so that he becomes more and more of worth and value in your eyes. I remember back in 1984 when we were kicked unceremoniously out of the meeting house, and I had threats and I had people say that Everything that I stood for was despicable to them. And I remember during those difficult times feeling an exuberance, that I was truly alive, that there was a sense of exhilaration in knowing that I was doing what God had created me to do. to do something, some simple little thing that brings glory, to point to Jesus. Oh, that God would create in us a congregation of People, you and me that are willing this week to say, I will live unashamedly for Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus. Put in our hearts that longing, that desire to see your face and to say whatever the world thinks this week. I know I'm not deceived. Revelation reveals the true nature of this world. It is not home. I can't try to have as my goal to simply be approved and liked here, to be popular. to be comfortable and to also, as an aside, glorify you. Place in our hearts, Lord, that chief affection and desire. I want to serve Jesus and I want to bring glory to your name. Now, Lord, you take and arrange whatever that means. I'm available to you this week. For Jesus' sake. Amen.