Good morning. As the esers complete the offering, I I do want to ask, if you don't have a Bible with you, we have a rack of these in the back. And I really want you to have the passage in front of you this morning and I'm going to actually preach from this version so I can tell you what page it's going to be. But if you don't have a Bible, please go get one. Send one of your kids to get one. Ask your neighbor to get one while they get one for themselves. But but I really hope you'll have a Bible in front of you And by the way, it's page five ninety-five. As we settle back and open the scriptures to the sixteenth chapter of Ezekiel, let me open us in prayer. Jesus, we come to you this morning because you are God and we're not. You are our groom. You are our husband. You are our hope. You are our strength. You are our life. And so we ask that you would show us more of who you are, show us more of who we are. That we would deepen our relationship with you, that we would know you better and love you more, that we would know your love for us. And we ask, Lord Jesus, that you will shape us. That you will sanctify us, that you will transform us. For you alone can give us the power we need to glorify and to honor us. Honor you to fulfill the purpose for which you have created us. And so, Jesus, we come. Use your word, give us your Spirit and transform us, Lord, that we might please you. We pray in your most precious name. Amen. You might be wondering why you have a blank page and why the sermon title is So, What Am I Getting for Christmas? when the passage is Ezekiel, and Christmas isn't mentioned in Ezekiel. I'll get to that in a moment. I will mention to you that I have been planning next week to preach on Ezekiel 16, looking at our sanctifying husband. And wrestling with the fact that there are two perspectives in this passage. There is the husband's perspective, which is what we hear, the first person narrative. God speaks to his bride. God spends an entire chapter of 63 verses summarizing his history with Israel and speaking to his bride. But there's also the bride's perspective. This story is about us. Jerusalem is who he's speaking to. That's the name he keeps using, but Jerusalem is a shorthand for Judah. And he speaks to the one whom he has married. We are the bride of Christ. We are the church. And so, really, I want you to understand that this passage is speaking directly to us. Having said that, we're going to look today at the bride's perspective, and I want to begin with a question for you kids. And I want you to feel complete freedom to answer physically by raising your hand. How many of you have a list of what you want for Christmas? Okay, we got some honest kids. We got some kids who are a little bit shy and their hands are down a little bit low. Uh let me just tell you that as a child I loved Christmas and my hands would have both been up. I I uh uh for those of you this isn't gonna date me, but for those of you who remember, Sears Roebuck used to send out a toy catalog sometime around Thanksgiving, and it was a toy catalog. And in my family w we would begin to pour over those pages of of of cowboy outfits, of army outfits, of of G. I. Joe's, of of tanks, machine guns, remote control tanks, all those sorts of things that that were just really exciting. And and and you could live for those toys. And and you had anticipation from before Thanksgiving until until after Christmas when you had those toys to play with until they broke. And and life was wonderful, both with the anticipation and with the experience. Today we have different ways of communicating those catalogs. If you're on the internet, you have all sorts of ads. I've gotten more letters from Staples, an office supply company, talking to me about Christmas bargains. Than than anything else. And and Best Buy has its mailers and and I've I've been shown almost everything that I could possibly dream of wanting in a technological fashion by Staples, Office Max, Office Depot, Best Buy, and other places. And and so they're not the Sears and Robot catalog, but but they're really still directed at me. And I can dream about all sorts of things that I would just be so excited to have. And we have what we call Black Friday. I actually have to confess that this year I succumbed And um I ha I had a monitor that was dying and I've been looking for a while at getting a a monitor and Best Buy came out with this absolutely state-of-the-art big monitor that was 60% off. And and and it was it was going to be one of those things that you could get on Friday after Thanksgiving. And so I thought about it. I've never I've never waited in line for those sorts of things before. But this one I couldn't resist. And so I talked to Daniel, my 14-year-old, and on Thanksgiving Day I said to him, What about it? How about we get some good father-son time and we go stand in line at Best Buy? They're open at five. They start handing out tickets for the different things at four. So so if you get there early, you you can get back while it's still dark, and we did, and and go back to sleep And so and so I set my alarm for 315. I couldn't stay awake. I mean I couldn't stay asleep until 315. I was excited. So I woke up earlier than three fifteen and I lay in bed thinking, Do I just lay here in bed warm, comfortable with Anne, or do I get up and go to Best Buy? I went to Best Buy. And by the time we got there we drove into the parking lot and I was thinking, wow, this I don't see that many cars. And you know I I see maybe thirty or forty people up against the door and and may maybe this is gonna be a really good thing. Maybe we got there early enough that it's just gonna be a piece of cake and a cruise. And so we pulled in down by Best Buy. Foolish me. The reason I didn't see any cars was because they'd all parked down by lows at the end of the line. And by the time we got there But about ten minutes of three, there were already six hundred some people in line ahead of us And there were some people, it was legendary. I mean there were some people that had been there since four in the afternoon on Thanksgiving because they were serious. I thought I was serious. But there was this monitor and it was 60% off and it was really nice. And so Daniel and I had good time. We talked. I read a book. Almost read the whole book. And and had conversations with people until five o'clock in the morning when they let us in. And I did get the monitor. So people in the first service asked, You never told us whether you got it or not. Well I did. But brothers and sisters, my experience reminds me pointedly that I am often more concerned about comfort and kingdom. Let me say that again. Our culture has gotten to the point where we are so materially blessed and so materially focused that we are more concerned about comfort than kingdom. And this passage in Ezekiel is a passage that while it doesn't speak to Christmas particularly, speaks to Christmas particularly. You don't see the word, you don't see the Advent, you don't see the Christ child. But this message is about our hearts We are more frequently interested in our satisfaction than in the glory and the honor of our God. We live as if we believe God wants us to have whatever our hearts desire. Rather than the truth, Scripture teaches us that God gives us a desire for Him. And satisfies it. And so as you look forward to Christmas, this being the first Sunday in Advent, and as you look forward to the celebration of the season and to the event itself, What are you looking forward to? Are you looking forward to time with extended family, which is a great thing. You may be going to visit family, you may have family come visit you. Are you looking forward to the celebration, the food, the decorations, the music, the smells? Are you looking forward to the gifts? Perhaps if you're the mom, the wife, and you see the incredible amount of work that goes into pulling it off, what you're looking forward to is the day after. When the trash is already put away, the dishes are done, and you can begin to think about how to put the decorations away. Perhaps what you're looking forward to is the day when the last Christmas bill is paid. And the season's over. This passage teaches us two really important points from our perspective about our relationship with God. They both fall out of the fact that God calls us to give him our hearts freely and genuinely. God longs for the relationship that He has established with us to come to fruition And so there's two points I want us to look at this morning, and that is, first, that Jerusalem did what came naturally. Jerusalem did not intend to be an unfaithful wife. Jerusalem did not intend to commit the horrendous sin we did. We do. Jerusalem, the people of God simply do what comes naturally. And to live with a kingdom-directed thought And to live a kingdom-directed life cannot take place naturally. It must, it must be supernatural. And so let me begin by looking at Jerusalem and what Jerusalem did. God recounts the history of Jerusalem, and as I said, it's on page 595. And beginning in verse four, God speaks of that relationship. On the day you were born Your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to make you clean, nor were you rubbed with salt or wrapped with cloths. No one looked on you with pity Or had compassion enough to do any of these things for you. Rather, you were thrown out into the open field, for on the day you were born you were despised. The first thing Jerusalem did naturally Was to begin dying. Jerusalem did not have the strength, the resources, or the ability to sustain life. They had been totally abandoned at birth, they had been rejected and left to die, and did not have the ability to feed, to clothe, or to take care of themselves. Even to wash themselves from the blood of birth. The second thing that we see that Jerusalem did was that we received God's care. We received his good gifts. God continues. Then I passed by and saw you kicking about in your blood, and as you lay there in your blood, I said to you, live. I made you grow like a plant of the field. You grew up and developed and became the most beautiful of jewels. God gave life. God gave his good gifts to Jerusalem. He continues Later I passed by, and when I looked at you and saw that you were old enough for love, I spread the corner of my garment over you and covered your nakedness. I gave you my solemn oath and entered into a covenant with you, declares the sovereign Lord, and you became mine. God gave himself to Jerusalem. God gave himself as her beloved groom, her husband. He goes on. I bathed you with water and washed the blood from you and put ointments on you. I clothed you with an embroidered dress. And put leather sandals on you, I dressed you in fine linen, and covered you with costly garments. I adorned you with jewelry, I put bracelets on your arms and a necklace around your neck. And I put a ring in your nose, earrings on your ears, and a beautiful crown on your head. So you were adorned with gold and silver, your clothes were of fine linen and costly fabric and embroidered cloth. Your food was fine flour, honey, and olive oil. You became very beautiful and rose to a queen. Jerusalem received the good gifts that God gave. He loves her. He gives her everything. And she received it with gratitude. But Jerusalem began to long for more. Jerusalem longed for more comfort and more gifts. What God had given wasn't enough. And so we see in verse 15, God says, You trusted in your beauty and used your fame to become a prostitute. You lavished your favors on anyone who passed by, and your beauty became his. Jerusalem invested what she possessed to get more. She leveraged in order to gain all that she wanted. You took some of your garments and made gaudy high places where you carried on your prostitution. You took fine jewelry that I gave you, jewelry made of my gold and silver, and you made for yourself idols, and engaged in prostitution with them. You took your embroidered clothes and put them put to put on them, and you offered my oil and incense before them, and the food that I provided for you, the fine flour, olive oil, and honey I gave you to eat You offered as a fragrant incense before them I don't know what you're going to get for Christmas. I don't know what you want to get for Christmas. But I'd know this. By the end of January, you'll want something else. Maybe by the time you've played with it once. Maybe by the time you've used it a few times. Even if what you want isn't a thing. You may be saying, God, look, I long for a deeper connection to my spouse. I long for a better relationship with my kids. I really want to have a conversation with them. That's a conversation, not an argument. I want to love and be loved. You may be saying, I want health. I want health. I'm tired of pain, physical, emotional. I want to be better. And those are all good desires. They're all good things. The clothing that God gave, the food that God gave, the jewelry that God gave, they were good things, but they cannot satisfy. Because you will see what you don't have. I deserve This. They've got it. Why shouldn't I have it? I know it's available. I know that it's not impossible for you, God, and your power to give to me. You own the cattle on a thousand hills. Why have you withheld this from me? Why can't I have it And your heart will wander, just like Jerusalem's. Just like Jerusalem's, because, brothers and sisters, we are Jerusalem. And we may not be making idols that you can see. We may not have an altar at home. We may not be doing things in a category that we look at in Ezekiel 16, but we worship other gods. We have decided that comfort is more important than kingdom We see in the history of Israel that what happened was as they entered the land As they took possession of this gift that God had given to them, they took Jericho. And as soon as they took Jericho, this walled city that fell at their feet, they decided that that wasn't so tough. We can do this. What were we afraid of down in the Sinai? We can take this land. And they go to Ai. And they don't ask God How? They don't ask God to give them victory, and they are defeated. And soon they begin to decide that it's much easier to take over the land and to rule with the Canaanites still there than it is to rule after they've cleansed the land the way God called them to. And so they find themselves confronted with other gods. The people who are living next door, they worship Baal. Baal promises them rain, Baal promises them food. What's wrong with making a little bit of a sacrifice? To see if Baal can offer a little bit more than God. And they go to foreign gods. And it degenerates. And soon, as God says in his passage, they're offering sons and daughters to the gods. They find themselves confronted with military conquests. They have enemies who have big armies, who are strong, who want to take over. And so when the Assyrians come, Jerusalem tries to make an alliance with Egypt. Other times when they're dealing with the kingdom of Aram, they make an alliance with Assyria. And ultimately they make an alliance with Babylon. And we see here, God says You engaged in prostitution with the Egyptians, verse 26, your lustful neighbors, and provoked me to anger with your increasing promiscuity. You engaged in prostitution with the Assyrians, verse 28, because you were insatiable And even after that, you were still not satisfied. Then you increased your promiscuity to include Babylonia, a land of merchants. But even with this, you were not satisfied. The people made all sorts of political alliances. They didn't trust God. God says in Isaiah chapter 30, which is on page 504 for those of you who grabbed this Bible Woe to the obstinate children, declares the Lord, to those who carry out plans that are not mine. Forming an alliance, but not by my spirit, heaping sin upon sin, who go down to Egypt without consulting me, who look for help to Pharaoh's protection. To Egypt's shade for refuge. The issue, God is saying to them, is not their military weakness In verse 15, this is what the sovereign Lord the God, the Holy One of Israel, says: In repentance and rest is your salvation, in quietness and trust is your strength. But you would have none of it. And so the people of God turned To other gods. And as God responded to their rejection, as God disciplined them to get their attention, they resented They resented his actions. They resent the suffering God brought upon them in order to demonstrate their inadequacy and their need for him. If you won't take care of me, God, I'll go someplace else. Here's a quote in the book Instruments and Redeemer's Hands, which is a book by Paul Tripp. That talks about this kind of assumption. If you think that this is something that happens in the Old Testament and doesn't happen today, I want to I want to challenge you With this quote. Paul's talking at this point about blindness, blind eyes. He's talking about opening blind eyes. And he's speaking of a woman named Celia. Here is an example of Celia's wrong questions. She would say, I pray and I pray, I read my Bible. Yet God isn't helping me. He isn't answering my prayers. And then she would ask this question, Why isn't God working in my life? This is a bad question, based on an unbiblical assumption which cannot lead in a good direction. Sylvia's question led her to two answers. Sometimes she would conclude that God was not active because he simply didn't love her. He had better things to do than to worry about her puny life. On other occasions she would conclude that God was not active in her life because she was such a miserable sinner, and his inactivity was a punishment for her iniquity. Bad answers to a bad question will produce a harvest of bad fruit. Like Job's infamous counselor, Celia did not build bridges from her theology to her situation. That could lead to biblical interpretations of her life. To ask Celia's question biblically, one must start with the following biblical assumption. God is ever active in my life. To ask why he isn't working is to assume something that isn't true. True conclusions cannot come from false assumptions. A better way of asking the question is to say God is redemptively active in my life. So, what is he doing, and why don't I recognize it? Let me say that again. God is redemptively active in my life. So what's he doing? And why don't I recognize it? God is always active. Always. God is always at work to accomplish good. Our conclusions that define what good is are prayers that demand his action in particular ways as a reversal of who's God. And so the suffering in your life It is not a failure of God. It doesn't come because God has turned his eye away from you. It doesn't come because you you have wandered from his ability to act. He is acting in At work. I do want to say this: not all suffering fits the category of what God is doing in Ezekiel 16. Not all suffering takes place because of your sin. Many of you are going through difficult circumstances completely apart and not caused by your behavior. We are fallen creatures living in a fallen world with fallen creatures. And sometimes you're simply a victim. But even if your suffering is not a result of your behavior, there's a question I believe we're called to ask. And that question is this: what kingdom purpose Is God accomplishing through my suffering? What kingdom purpose is God accomplishing through my suffering? And am I trusting God in spite of my suffering and loss, or have I concluded that He has failed? Am I trusting God or turning away from Him to someone or something else that promises me satisfaction? That's what the Israelites did. God began to get their attention through the difficult suffering that they were facing because they needed to see their sin. And they rejected him. That's living naturally That's doing what comes naturally. Thinking kingdom and living kingdom must be supernatural. And so God does not leave us in in with our own resources. God acts. In verse 63 Then when I make atonement for you for all you have done, you will remember and be ashamed and never again open your mouth because of your humiliation, declares the sovereign. Lord. God makes atonement for us. God allows us and gives us that supernatural power we need to live and to think kingdom. And we're going to talk more about this next week. But God does what we need to be who we're called to be. God shows us our sin. These past couple of weeks have been pretty difficult for me. Not because of any difficult circumstances. I faced and not because of people's behavior, attitudes, actions. They've been difficult for me because for some reason God has chosen this time to more clearly and more profoundly reveal to me my sin. It's easy for me to say I'm arrogant. God has shown me specific, concrete instances of my arrogance. It's easy for me to talk generally about being proud. It's easy for me to talk about generally being greedy. I wanted I desperately wanted that monitor. I am selfish. And I've seen particular Particular incidences in the last two weeks that shame me of my selfishness. But it's a glorious gift from God. Because I need to know who I am. It is supernatural to trust God. It is supernatural to trust God when He is the one who allows typhoons. And I read this morning as I checked my email that over a thousand people have died in the Philippines this week. From tsunami. I'm from from a typhoon durian. A year ago, as we celebrated Christmas, there was a t tsunami in Indonesia that that killed more than a thousand. We're experiencing today that Alan and Kathy aren't here and Alan isn't preaching because Kathy's mom died. Nathan and Diana are in the hospital taking care of Emily, who's facing the same fate that her older sister Linnea faced when she died. Died of SMA. This is their second child to be dealing with this syndrome. We have people in this congregation who are struggling with chronic, serious, debilitating pain. We have marriages that are falling apart. We have strength Relationships with children and parents. And God says, trust me. Can't unless he changes our hearts and gives us the gift of trust. We can't go there How about loving him? Do you love the God who gives you pain? Yes. Yes. Because he had a kingdom purpose. How can you love a God you believe has failed you? Only by his grace. God gives us the supernatural power we need to live kingdom directed lives. So what do you get for Christmas? You may get a lot of things. But the most important gift you get at Christmas is the baby in the manger, who is a savior on the cross, who is a groom at the feast. Jesus comes. Jesus comes not just to give us a wonderful celebration of Christmas, not just to r reunite family, not just to give us A time to enjoy the good possessions of life. He gives us good gifts. But Jesus comes as the baby in the manger because he must in order to be the Savior on the cross. Cross. And while that's wonderful and that's incredible and absolutely necessary, it's not all. Because that Savior on the cross, who goes to the tomb and who rises from the dead, is the The groom who awaits us at the wedding feast. Our wedding feast. And a day is coming and soon will be When we celebrate that feast. And that's your gift. Let's pray. Jesus, I look at Jerusalem. With disdain. I hear of her unbelievable sins, and I rightly reject them. But Jesus, you show me that I am Jerusalem. I am unfaithful to you. I need your grace. And I'm so grateful that you did not divorce Jerusalem and leave her abandoned. But you prove Pursue her. You pursue me. And you accomplish that glorious, that glorious intimacy. That we will fully accept Experience at the feast, the feast of the Lamb, the marriage feast that is yet to come. And I pray for us as we celebrate this season. Jesus, please don't let us celebrate the season Let us celebrate you. You are our great God. You are our creator, our sustainer, our redeemer, our groom. And nothing can compare. Jesus, open our eyes to see how glorious you are and how incredible you are. Your gift of yourself and of new life is that we will recognize nothing else matters. Help us to live kingdom lives, to think kingdom thoughts, and to hold on to you when our hearts would choose to wander. To believe in your goodness when we see. With our natural eyes, your failure to love you well, because you have loved us eternally. In your name we pray. Amen.