Thanks so much, Dick. It's a pleasure to be here with you all. And uh yeah, you got that one completely right. I realize I probably it's a little longer than I probably should have sent you in terms of Uh anyway, sounds more impressive than it is, but that's all right. We'll get your expectations high here. Um But yeah, it's a privilege to be here in your midst today and bring you God's word. And I just want to start out by asking you a question. Um have you ever been so frightened that you just can't move like paralyzed? I mean I know there's the different responses, right? Fight. I'm getting some yeses over here. Fight, flight, and then there's another one. It's called freeze. And uh I re maybe when you were a little kid you had that happen to you. Um I had it happen to me when I was about age uh 47. And um so what had happened is yeah I have a wife and two daughters at home and uh we were living in the Boston area and her family lives near Newark So they were down visiting my in-laws for the weekend. I had two boys home from school. And so they said, hey dad, let's have guy movie night tonight. Sounds great. Sounds great. Um he said they we got this movie we want you to watch. It's called World War Z. And um yeah, I and I I'll tell you right now I hate zombie movies I told them I hate zombie movies. They assured me it was not a zombie movie. Um right. You got it, you know where this is going, because the Z is a excuse the pun dead giveaway uh for the movie. So and if you've seen it if you haven't seen it, just redeem two hours of your life, don't watch it. But um if you have, you know it's these guys these people have this virus and if they they bite you then you get the virus and you try to bite other people and And you ever describe a movie and you realize how stupid it sounds. But uh we're so this movie and it's scary, it's spooky, I did not like it. Um and then it's about midnight and my boys decide to go stay at a friend's house. So there I was by myself. Um and you know how your house sounds when you're by yourself and you're already scared? And uh so I'm just I'm trying, so I go to bed, I try to get to sleep. I wake up about 3 a. m. and if you've had this experience before where You wake up, you don't know where you are. And so I'm in the movie. And if you know about that movie, the whole idea is if you don't move or make a sound, they can come right up to your face and not bite you And so I'm just in my bed paralyzed, knowing that if I moved, something might come out from underneath So maybe you've had an experience like that. What I'm describing to you is being paralyzed by a dumb movie, right? Just a silly movie. That can't even be a fraction of what the disciples experienced when we look at Mark chapter 5. Mark chapter 5. Please turn in your Bibles. To Mark 5. I'm going to read the 20 verses. It's an unfolding story. It's an amazing story about some kind of zombie here. Listen now as I read God's word. They came to the other side of the sea to the country of the Garestines. And when Jesus had stepped out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. He lived among the tombs, and no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain, for he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart. And he broke the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him. Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains, he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones. And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before him. And crying out with a loud voice, he said, What have you to do with me, Jesus, son of the most high God? I adjure you by God not to torment me. For he was saying to him, Come out of the man, you unclean spirit. And Jesus asked him, What is your name? He replied, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he begged him earnestly not to send them out of the country. Now a great herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him, saying, Send us into the pigs, let us enter them. So he gave them permission. The unclean spirits came out and entered the pigs and the herd, numbering about 2,000, rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the sea. The herdsmen fled and told it in the city and in the country, and the people came to see what it was that had happened. And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had had the legion sitting there. clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid. And those who had seen it described to them what had happened to the demon-possessed man and to the pigs. And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their region. As he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him that he might be with him. And he did not permit him, but said to him, Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you. And how he has had mercy on you. And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him, and everyone marveled. What a story. What an amazing story. So we're going to look at this in kind of four sections or four ways that we can look at this. We're going to look at the place the power, the people, and the purpose. And if you're a fan of Sesame Street, then you know that this message has been brought to you by the letter P. But let's look first at the place. Let's look at the place. The surrounding city, because he's going to it says there at the garrison, the cross from Galilee into the decapolis, that is ten cities that were established by Alexander the Great. It's Gentile territory And as if you're familiar with ancient Near East Jewish culture, they avoided Gentiles. It did not unless it was absolutely necessary. And it's this is not like Samaria, you know, where if you're going from Galilee to Jerusalem and you were trying to take a shortcut. Now you might go through Samaria, but generally you went around. This is out of the way. This is across the Sea of Galilee. And so you start to see, and you're familiar with the Gospels, Jesus goes intentionally. He's taking them there for a purpose. But that's what Jesus does, doesn't he? He does everything with a purpose. Now one of my favorite movies which I wish we had watched that night is Born Supremacy. Um because you and if you're familiar with that story, he was an agent, you know, for the CIA, an assassin and He loses his memory. He doesn't know who he is. The CIA's trying to track him down. They're trying to kill him because they think he's gone rogue. And at one point, you know, they're it's so chaotic that they're trying to figure out what's what's happening to Jason Bourne. I said, well, maybe this is just random. One of the agents that was with him who trained with him, she said it like this. She says, they don't do random. Everything has a purpose. That's the way it is with the Lord Jesus in our lives. Everything has a purpose. Even when in our lives it seems chaotic and out of control. So here they are, they're in the Garcenes, they're in this Gentile territory. Now to make matters worse, as they land on shore, carved in the rocky hillside, is a cemetery. There's tombs. So not only are they in Gentile unclean territory, but now they're in an unclean place, right, where if you touch a body, even going in this area would make you unclean. And tombs were just as spooky back then as cemeteries are to us today. So they're in the garrisons, they're in a place where there's tombs, and as if it couldn't get worse, out of the tombs comes this demoniac, this wild man. This amazing encounter. And he's full of unclean spirits. And so he's running around. He's screaming. And then if it couldn't get worse, what is the backdrop? What's on the hillside? 2,000 pigs. Unclean animals. I mean there isn't anything about this that is that seems right. Everything about the situation seems completely wrong. And they're thinking, we gotta get out of here. It's like you know that the progressive commercial that's a spoof on like Friday the thirteenth? And you know they're there and they're being chased by the bad guy, and and one of the girls says, Hey, why don't we get in that running car and get out of here? And the guy says, no, no, no, let's go into the shed with all the chainsaws, right? It couldn't get worse in their eyes. And yet you see as soon as they hit the shore, what happens? Jesus says, What? Gets out of the boat. Because it's an encounter that Jesus is going to have with the with the demon world and with this man. Jesus heads out there and he's in this place. He's in this awful place. And it just reminds us, brothers and sisters, that there's no place that Christ will not go. There's no place that Christ will not go. He will go anywhere. He goes to Samaria. He goes to the decapitus. He goes to the hardest, craziest, spookiest places. Why? Well, Luke 19 tells us, right, because the Son of Man came to do what? To seek and to save the lost. He comes to us, even as we sang earlier. So not only did he give up his throne in heaven at this point, he comes down and he goes to the worst possible places. That's a challenge to me. And I want it to be a challenge to you this morning too, because I fear that one of our highest values in the United States is to create this culture of comfort and safety and security. And there's nothing wrong with wanting to be safe, but that's not what God calls us to You know, you've heard of the term helicopter parent, right? The parent that hovers over their child just to make sure everything's okay. I heard one from a youth pastor recently called the snowplow parent. The one who just makes the way for their children. Doesn't want anything to happen to them. But that's not what God calls us to. People often ask me, you know, in missions of the world, well, I don't know, if I go overseas, will it be safe? I don't know. Maybe it will, maybe it won't. It was safe in Ukraine and now it's not. I don't know what the Lord is telling you. Will it be safe? Is not the question that we need to ask. This is where God is calling me. That's where I need to be. And I will tell you, I don't I wouldn't say it's the The biggest reason why people don't go into missions, I would say it's in the top three. You know what one of the top three reasons why people don't go into missions? I'll tell you straight out. It's parents and grandparents. talking their children out of going. And I say, okay, we need to change that around. If we're going to complete the Great Commission. And we need to be doing something very different. You know, Matthew chapter 9, right? The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest. Let me challenge you, parents and grandparents. I got kids. Hopefully I'll have grandkids. Would you, when you pray that prayer in Matthew 9, put your child's name in there? Pray for that one of your kids, your grandkids, would be sent And by the way, it works the other way around too, because we have numbers of people at MCW who are going overseas who are empty nesters. Saying, hey, you know, I got good health. You know, I I'm ready to go on to something different. Maybe the Lord will call me overseas. I've had I had a a woman talk uh a young woman talk her mother out of going. So no, don't do that. Tell your mother to pursue God's will. That's what you need to be asking. That's what you need to be doing. Because, brothers and sisters, there's no place that Christ will not go, and He will send us to every place, every corner of the earth. Let's look now at the power because this is power like we wouldn't normally see, right? And this is uh demon possession, it's a biblical worldview, God has enemies, Satan and his demons. They prowl around, Satan prowls around like a roaring lion, and it affects our lives. But this is no ordinary possession, is it? This guy is overrun. With what's called legion, which if you're familiar with that time period, a Roman legion could be several thousand soldiers. Here we know it seems to be about two thousand because there were two thousand pigs And uh we don't know why. I love that sometimes. I love the gospels because it's often when Jesus has an encounter with somebody, heals them, or whatever it is, you often don't get why they were in that position. What happened? How did this guy get demon-possessed? You know, Jesus doesn't say, well, you know, if he hadn't been playing with Ouija boards, you know, he wouldn't be possessed like that. Made his own bed. Right? If God said that, none of us would be in the kingdom of God. Right? None of us would be saved. He just deals with the man and he meets him where he is. Now I've often asked myself in this passage, why don't they send a legion of Roman soldiers and just kill the guy? Why not just kill them? I mean they could have done that. But then you have to delve into a little bit of Greco-Roman worldview. See, because in their worldview, this guy is demon possessed most likely because the gods are angry with us And we're going to send this guy, we're going to possess him, and he's going to wreak havoc. So your best bet is not to kill him because you don't want to make him even angrier. Maybe you can subdue him. Maybe you can just contain the evil. And they couldn't. They couldn't contain him with chains. Now let's just take a look at the condition of this man. He's possessed, he's naked, he's isolated, and he's in a state of perpetual destruction. Being destroyed, but never being fully destroyed. What does that sound like to you? What does that sound like to you? Folks, this is a earthly picture of hell. This is what it will be like apart from the gracious presence of God. And we need to be cognizant of that and not whitewash it or or to water it down. This is being eternally dehumanized. In a life apart from Christ. Our vision statement in MTW, I really love because this is what it says. We want the gospel to spread throughout the world, the church to grow. Satan's kingdom to be destroyed, and Christ's reign extended to the ends of the earth. I know you all have been a big supporter of our ministries in Japan. And Dan Iverson, I think you've supported him over the years. And uh this is what he said. He was sharing at Westminster Seminary recently. with some seminary students and he and uh he said he I was praying that this wouldn't be an arrogant statement, but that God I asked God to to send me where I could be most effective and do the most destruction to Satan's kingdom. So that's a great way to think. How can I do the most damage to Satan's kingdom? Because even though this guy is possessed by a legion of demons, 2,000 at least. We also see Jesus' divine authority. Right? The demoniac running falls at Jesus' feet and he cringes at Jesus' power. I think this is a little bit of a picture of Philippians chapter 2, right? Well every knee will bow. And every tongue will confess, whether they love Jesus or not, everyone will bow to the mighty name of Jesus. Amen? That's what the scriptures tell us. So we see this fabulous display of Christ's power in the life of this man. Jesus has complete authority. He has complete authority Authority over life, death, nature, and even the powers of evil. And so we see secondly that there's no place that Christ will not go, and there's no power that Christ cannot subdue. No power that Christ cannot subdue. And he cast out all of these demons, all these demons into this herd of pigs. And they run over the cliff and they they go into the water. Which by the way, kids, just a quick question, what is it called when a pig jumps into the water? It's called a swine dive. Sorry, I just needed to lighten up the mood because this is a heavy passage here. Got that one well. But there's no power that Christ cannot subdue right over sickness, creation, all of life. He has power over. And that motivates God's people to go to the most difficult places. The church where I used to pastor, First Presbyterian, had one of one of their values and missions was called recklessly dependent. Let me read that to you. Recklessly dependent. This is the way we want to be in missions and ministry. God calls us away from the status quo. To take risks by faith in his strength for the sake of his eternal kingdom. The Lord calls his people to step out in faith that seems reckless. Yet that reckless abandonment to the will of the Lord brings glory and honor to Him. And we go. Why do we go to these places? Why do we go to the uttermost parts of the earth? Whether it might be even one of the most dangerous places, because we go with the presence of Christ. He goes with us. And so that's why one of the most well-known commands in the scripture is what? Fear not. Fear not. I am with you. And that's what Christ calls us to as we follow Him. So let's take a moment now and begin to look at the responses because that's the beauty as we look at the gospel narratives is Jesus does something and then there's a response. We got a lot of different responses. in this passage. First, let's look at the herdsmen. Right? What do the herdsmen do? Look at verse 14. They fled and told them in the city and in the country. They're going everywhere. Why are they going everywhere to tell everyone about this? Number one, it's an amazing phenomenon that just happened, and they're trying to cover themselves, right? They were just responsible for 2,000 pigs. Some scholars estimate that the reason why there's so many pigs is this might have been these pigs being raised for sacrifice on pagan temples. So a whole bunch of people's living just went over the cliff and they got to figure out an excuse, right? So they're going all around the countryside telling everybody what happened So of course that draws everyone's attention. You don't see 2,000 pigs floating around on the water and not draw attention, right? So everyone comes to the scene and they want to know what's going on. And so look again at verse 15. They saw the man. They came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, and they saw what had happened to him, and then it says they looked at Jesus. It says, and they begged Jesus to leave. There's a lot of begging going on in this passage, by the way. The demons are begging Jesus, the people are begging Jesus, and it says they asked him to leave because they were what? They were afraid. Now, on the one hand, we understand that response, right? They have just met someone who is more powerful Than the demon-possessed man, and possibly their gods and demigods, right? They see Jesus and they're afraid. And I appreciate that response. And yet, on the other hand, it's kind of sad, isn't it? Because they want Jesus to lead because they don't know what to do with him. They would rather live in their own darkness than be drawn to the Lord Jesus. And put a bookmark there because we're going to come back to that in a minute. So you have the herdsmen, they're trying to cover themselves. You have the people, they see this, they're afraid. And then you have the man. Now if you have your Bibles open, look at again verse 15. This is amazing. Remember the condition of this man. And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had had the legion sitting there, clothed and in his right mind. What an awesome picture. His shame is covered. His mind is restored. It appears that he understood everything that was happening. happening to him, his self-destruction is reversed. Folks, that is the power of the gospel. The power of the gospel in his life is the power of the gospel in your life and in my life. See, there's no place that Christ will not go. There's no power that Christ cannot subdue. And there's no person that Christ cannot redeem. There's no one he cannot bring to wholeness. Even the most unlikely can be saved. Even if you're here today and you go, I just can't get out of this. I'm trapped. I'm in chains. You might be feeling that way. I felt that way. We're reminded in this passage of the power of the gospel to release us from that. Do something for me for a minute. Picture in your mind a friend, a colleague, a relative who just seems so far away from the gospel. Like how could they ever come to Christ? What would it even take? Now picture that person in your mind for a minute, and then use your sanctified imagination, if you will, and imagine them turning to Christ. What would that look like? Because that's what Jesus Christ can do. And the beauty of the story to me is this man had no power. You know, he he wouldn't didn't go to a seeker service. He wasn't invited to church by a friend, right? Didn't go to a Bible study. He's out there on his own. He has no way of saving himself whatsoever. Jesus comes to him. Now let me ask you a question. Let's just say you've grown up in the church. Let's just say you can't remember a time in your life when you haven't trusted the Lord. Maybe when you were You just kind of knew Christ was with you. Is your conversion any less miraculous than this man's? No, absolutely not. Right? We were separated from Christ. We were enemies of the Lord, and Christ came to us. Whether it was in a Sunday school class or whether it was in your bed at night when you prayed or wherever you were in the car or whenever Christ came to you, it's the same Lord, it's the same power that saved you. Amazing. It's amazing. There's no person that Christ cannot redeem. Why? Because it's Jesus Christ. We sang about it. His work on the cross. His death and his resurrection. Listen to what N. T. Wright says about this comparison between the demoniac and Jesus. He says, at the climax of Mark's gospel story, Jesus himself will end up naked, isolated, outside the town, among the tombs, shouting incomprehensible things as he's being torn apart on the cross by the Roman standard of torture. Folks, that's what it took. That's what it took to save the demoniac. That's what it took to save you. That is the power of the gospel because Christ took your place, the punishment that you deserved, so that you might have that relationship with God. And you sense it here, and God is doing that work around the world. One of our missionaries in the Middle East um I'm good friends with and on occasion I just I text him or I email him say, hey brother, you know, like what's going on in your ministry? How can I pray for you? And he's and he came back one time a little while ago with this response. This is what he said. He said, Greg, pray for dozens of men and their families to come to faith in Christ among a new group in a village not far from us. We just met today with a group of thirty men. That is all that could fit in the house we visited. The whole thing was arranged by one man who has started considering the gospel and he pulled together his whole community so that we could come and share with them. There were at least 17 more that would have come, but they were told to wait because of space. When is the last time your living room was full of people who were just waiting to hear about Jesus? This is what's happening. All of them express their desire to start meeting every week to study the Bible with us. All of them are from Muslim backgrounds. Amazing. Amazing. You know when I was a first Presbyterian church, one of the things we did is we called it Pray for Six. Pray for six people. Write down six people's names, put it as a bookmark in your Bible or whatever you do, or put it on your notes on your phone and say, you know what? Frequently, weekly, I'm going to pray for these people that I might have an opportunity to share with them. Because God is isn't he's in the on the move. Here in Colombia, he's on the move around the world in some of the least likely places in the world. But let's take a look now at the man again. Because he's clothed and in his right mind. And if you if you look down starting in verse 17, I'm sorry, verse 18. As he was getting into the boat. So it starts with Jesus getting out of the boat, right? Going after this man. Now in verse 18, it's like a book, and as he was getting into the boat. The man who had been possessed with demons begged him, there we go again, here comes the begging, begging him that he might be with him, meaning he wants to go with Jesus, who wouldn't He just saved you from 2,000 demons. Of course he wants to be with Jesus. But verse 19 is just astounding to me. We read it over and over again, but sometimes we forget how astounding it is. And he said, he did not permit him. But said, go to your friends. and tell them how much the Lord has done for you and how He He has had mercy on you. And I think to myself, he has to be thinking to himself, what friends? What family? What home? You're talking about a shame honor culture. Do you know how much shame this man would have brought on his family? How welcome is this man back in this community? He has wreaked havoc in the community, brought utter shame. on his family and friends. It would seem like all his social ties, all his status has been laid to waste. Think of the pain that he brought to people. And yet on the other hand is Jesus saying, but think of the power of the gospel. The power of his story. I said, put a bookmark in that previous thought, right, where the people had rejected Jesus. They said, go away. They reject Jesus, but what? He doesn't reject them, does he? He sends the man. He sends an ambassador to this territory. Sends an ambassador to these folks, the ones who had rejected him. See, there's no place that Christ will not go. There's no power that Christ cannot subdue. There's no person that Christ cannot redeem. And there's no purpose that Christ cannot fulfill. And He's fulfilling it in this manner. Isn't that amazing? He saves this guy and immediately sends him out. Let me ask you a question. How many Bible studies had this guy been to? How many discipleship programs had this guy been to? How many men's breakfasts had he been to? None of them. What does he know? Does he know the new uh the Old Testament? Does he know anything about the prophets? Nothing. He's a Gentile who's been demon-possessed for who knows how long. I'm not saying we shouldn't invest in one another's lives. We shouldn't disciple. But look at that. He knows nothing about the scriptures. What does he know? What does he know? He knows one thing. What Jesus did in his life. That's it. And he sends him out. I don't know if you feel like that sometimes, like I don't know what Christ's purpose is for me. You know, maybe I should do some ministry, but you know, I'm not a pastor. I haven't been in a seminary. I'm not highly trained. You know, what could the Lord do through me? But his story in Christ is his equipping, at least at this point. Christ has placed you where you are. He has placed you in your job. He's placed you in your neighborhood. He's placed you in your family with a purpose. And he wants to fulfill that purpose in you. Last year I had uh we I have a co- I had a cohort of about seven or eight people in their twenties. And as we're going through some stuff about you know God's heart for the nations, uh we had to they had to do some memory work. One was to memorize the gospel, but one was just to memorize their testimony or something that God had done in their lives. And I said, you have to, and we all we're on Zoom, and you have to, next week you've got to tell us. And you've got to do it in 30 seconds, and you've got to do it in three minutes. You've got to be able to do it so that when you're on the ground floor and your room is on the seventh floor and they push the button and you're there in the elevator, you got 30 seconds to share the gospel Or you have three or four minutes at some point when you have more time to share with somebody. And I would encourage you, I challenge you, encouraging you. This afternoon, just to take some time and think about either your testimony or one thing God has done in your life in the last six months. And think about it. Let it go in your mind. Share with one another at the dinner table this afternoon. And then pray that sometime this week God will give you that opportunity. You may be surprised when we have it ready to go, what God will do. Because there's no separate charge to the average Christian to sit on the sidelines while the professionals play the game, right? This is for all of us. God doesn't do random. He's writing his story and he's calling you to join that story. There's no place that Christ will not go. There's no power that Christ cannot. Subdue. There's no person that Christ cannot redeem, and there's no purpose that he cannot fulfill in your life. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this time. I thank you for my brothers and sisters here. We thank you for this story, your word that just encourages us about your power. It challenges us to trust you. Lord, let our first question when we follow you not to be, is it safe? But have you called me there? Knowing that where you call, you will go and you will empower me. So we thank you for this time. Let your words sink deeply in our hearts, for we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.