Do you believe in the spirit world? Particularly, do you believe in evil spirits? Now, even though you may answer yes to that question, and probably sitting in a place like this, you're likely to answer yes to that question, I would also say that Since you were raised in the secular materialistic West, it's actually rather unlikely that you really function as if you do. Let me illustrate that for you for a minute. Let's suppose that the person next to you during this message suddenly slumps over out of their chair, falls onto the floor, and begins to writhe around and groan in pain. What what will you think is the cause of that? See, I didn't think the message was that bad. Or would you say it's you know it's probably an epileptic seizure, get some treatment It was a missionary that was tweet teaching in Swaziland and was teaching in a course and and that happened. A girl who was one of the students slumped off of her chair, fell down on the floor, began to writhe around and groan in pain. And um he assumed this was an epileptic seizure, and so had a nurse come, she was taken to the infirmary, she gradually s quieted down, subsided Went home and he thought that was the end of it. He found out the next day that the Swazi students had an entirely different, assumed explanation for what had happened To them it was obvious that this was a manifestation of what they call a love curse. Now a love curse is when a guy makes sexual advances to a girl and she refuses him. As a result he goes to a witch doctor and he pays some money to put a curse on her. And that curse is that demons will, evil spirits will torment her periodically until she finally agrees to his wishes. That's an example of two different worldviews. Worldview is like lenses that you put on to see reality. It's very interesting that a few years ago somebody was doing research and they discovered that if you took kids with uh certain learning disabilities and you gave them tinted lenses Then showed them the same piece of paper that they couldn't make any sense out of before. Suddenly the paper became clear and they were able to see what was there And I would suggest to you that our worldview is like lenses that we wear. And if we wear the lenses of our secular materialistic society, the West, We will miss an understanding of reality to explain conflict, to explain sickness, to explain uh interpersonal conflict between Christians and all kinds of things that are mysterious to us. You need to read the Bible to put on biblical lenses in order for certain things to become clear. And so if you look at the book of Revelation, I would suggest to you that the book of Revelation The word revelation, remember, means to reveal. That's the first blank that you have in your outline there. The book of Revelation is to reveal to you and to me what is going on, what is reality. It's not so much about biblical prophecy of the end times as it is to reveal what is going on behind what you see right now. You remember last week we talked about Joshua fighting the Amalek? Amalekites on the plains of Rephidim. And some people would just look at the battle going on in the plains and say, that's reality. Who's winning? Who's losing? But Exodus 17 told us that up on the mountain, there was the real battle being fought in the heavenlies, as Moses was praying. And so Revelation helps us to see where the real conflict, the real battle, where the powers are engaged of history. And so what I'm going to do, in order for us to understand what Paul is teaching and instructing us about in Ephesians 6, 10-13, I think we need to back up a bit And in order to be able to really appreciate and understand that passage, we need to take a break. And I'm going to do a kind of a mini-series, which I've entitled Basic Stuff You Need to Know About Satan. Not a very glamorous title, but you get the point, right? Kind of a primer on Satanology, demonology. And what I want to do is I want to look at Revelation chapter 12 in connection with Ephesians 6, 10-13 And after today's introduction, I'm going to look at Satan the deceiver, Satan the destroyer, and Satan the defeated. That'll bring us up to November the 11th. And on November the 11th, we're going to climax that by trying to apply what God's teaching us. Through a special prayer meeting, we're going to call between five and six thirty that afternoon. And after we have heard about Satan's defeat and we have prayed, applying the victory that we have in Jesus Christ. Th to our personal lives, our families, our congregation, to this community, to the world events going on. Then at 6. 30, we are going to celebrate the Lord's Supper Moving it from the first to the second Sunday of November. And we're going to celebrate the victory of the Lord Jesus against the demons. Amen? Be a great time. So don't forget that. November the 11th, put it down now. Because uh I I think we need to be able to look head-on at what is happening in the spirit world So as we do that, let me read again for you God's word from Ephesians chapter six, verses ten to thirteen. And then look at Revelation 12 that you heard read to you to get some insight on this. So Finally, then be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms Therefore, put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand. Now, why is it that I want to look at Revelation 12 in connection with this passage? It's my opinion that Revelation 12 is the most definitive passage on Satan and demons that you have in the entire Word of God. Revelation, which I say is to reveal When you come to Revelation 12, you are at a subclimax of that book, the first part of which is to reveal the ultimate source of all evil. And so in Revelation 12, you have a statement of the ultimate source of the reason for the terrorist attacks of September the 11th. Many analyses and explanations are given, but all those which deal only with psychological or political uh data really miss the point. They can't get to the root of the matter. The root of the matter, of course, is spiritual. What is being reflected here is spiritual warfare, but please don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying that the Taliban are the devil's agents and America are all the good guys and that this is simply evil of the Taliban against good, which is us Americans. Much more complicated than that. Much evil within our own hearts, our own society, within the church and particularly within our country that we need to repent of. What I am saying, however, is that the source of the evil is not simply Muslim men's hatred for the West but rather a hellish prompting of hearts that attack creatures bearing God's image to destroy them That is the nature and the source of the evil, a hellish hatred of other image-bearers of God. So, let's look at some basics about Satan by way of introduction. First of all, he is a real person. Satan is a real person. He is not imaginary. He is not in the realm of trolls and dragons. Satan is a real person, just as real as you and me, only he is a spiritual being. The demons are spiritual beings. We don't see them, but they are real. For example, from this missionary letter out of Suriname. Demons are very active at this time. People are struck down and manifest weird physical symptoms. Satan is a master in imitating the voices of the deceased wajanas. He hurls accusations in this way against God's children. Naturally, the vajana believe every word of it, for it's supernatural and comes in a clear and audible way. The chief translator of the New Testament is under so much oppression that he is blinded by Satan and physically attacked. The struggle is heavy and the fight is hard, but the Lord sustains. You see, this is not just something that's happening, some force that's going on. This is a person who is active in bringing about curses, who is able to affect things in our physical world. And so the second thing, notice he's uh or B there, he is uh not simply the personification of evil. This is a person who exists. One blessing of the attacks of September the eleventh is that it's forced people in our country to think about evil We like to minimize that. We don't think, you know, there's real nobody really evil. Everybody's kind of good. Some maybe have misled or this or that. But you know, we have our opinions. But this has forced the question of evil upon our culture. But you notice how Satan immediately moves in to suggest it's not a personal evil, it's just forces of evil, you see, it's just something evil going on. And we may call it Satan, just as people may look at the billows of smoke on the world towers, and some people say you can see Satan's face and those billows of smoke, I don't know if you've seen the pictures that show that, you know, that's kind of reading into, well this this is a personification of the evil going on. No. Revelation twelve says that that's a lie. Revelation 12 says there's a person behind this evil. In fact, there's a whole host of persons behind that. And so you see in verse 3 that John says another sign appeared in heaven, an enormous red dragon. He's called a dragon. Uh with seven heads and ten horns. And then he we see more of the description of this dragon, who he is. Verse 9, the great dragon was hurled down, that ancient serpent Where do you read about a serpent in the Bible? Call it out. You kids, any of you know, where is a serpent in the Bible? Yes, call it up. Adam and Eve. Thank you, Joey. Yes. Remember the serpent. If you guys don't know it, ask Joey. He'll tell you the story, alright? The serpent in the garden, which is Satan. How do you know? Look, he just goes right on. That ancient serpent called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray. So you've got four names there: dragon, dragon. Devil, which is the word diabolos, means accuser or slanderer, or Satan, the word means adversary. This is the one, so he's a person. Remember, Jesus addressed Satan personally, as a person. He didn't look at him as a force. Number of occasions, Jesus interacted with demons as persons. So we have to shift our worldview to take into account that things we see may have demonic explanations. There are persons behind these activities. Now secondly, notice that he is a powerful person. He is powerful. Those who are under him are called rulers and authorities, powers forces. You look at the description in Revelation twelve in verse three. Then another sign appeared in heaven, an enormous, enormous, you notice So, you know, you kids are better than us adults at this picture. Here is an enormous red dragon He's got seven heads, ten horns, seven crowns on his head. Now look what happens. With his tail, he sweeps a third of the stars out of the sky. And flung them to the Earth. You know how many stars there are? You know, we've gone over this many times. Ten to a hundred billion in our one galaxy? Ten to a hundred billion galaxies? How can he do that? Obviously it's symbolic language. Our sun, 300,000 times the size of our earth, can't fling them to the earth. What's it mean? Tell you in a moment. Hang on. Now, all I want you to see at this point is it's a statement of power. We so underestimate the power of Satan. If you've done any reading in demonology, occultism, you see people who are demon-possessed, one of the characteristics is that they possess superhuman strength. And uh we know that we underestimate his power because how conscious are you at the beginning of the day to say, Lord You tell me, be strong in you and in your mighty power, and this day the adversary is going to come against me, and I am so weak And he's so powerful, Lord. I need your power and your strength. You know, back in 1939 and 1940, England convinced itself that Hitler and Germany was not really a threat. They could be appeased, there'd be other alternatives. Let's not rush to war And it was only finally when their backs were literally to the sea at Dunkirk that they realized we are dealing with an evil, implacable foe Before September the 11th, our nation knew that there were terrorists. We knew that there were people who hated America and that had capacity to be able to wreak terrible damage But we really didn't take them very seriously. We really didn't consider anything of the power. People are very surprised now to say, oh, I didn't realize there were all these terrorist cells in all these countries and all this that's going on We underestimate our enemy. Now all of a sudden we see we're on alert and we're saying, well, we're not going to do that anymore. Spiritually, you and I need to do the same thing. Don't underestimate the power of Satan in your life. On the other hand, next point, third point. He is created, and therefore he is limited. Don't underestimate his power, but on the other hand, don't overestimate his power. You hear some Christians who begin to study demonology, and as they begin to talk, you begin to get the idea that you have here two roughly equivalent forces, God and Satan, who are in a pitched battle. And that Satan is somehow nearly equivalent to God. I only know it's going to work out that God's going to win. And boy, that's good to know because you know otherwise we think you know things were maybe a little in doubt. Don't ever forget. The opposite of Satan is not God. The opposite of Satan is Michael the archangel. You are specifically told that in Revelation 12, 7. Look, it says there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought back. So what's the devil? He's an angel of created being. That puts an infinite gulf between him and God. We read that this in this war the devil and his angels fought back, but he was not strong enough. Ah, there were limits And they lost their place in heaven. The great dragon was hurled down, the ancient serpent called the devil or Satan, who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled to the earth and his angels with him. The Bible tells us in a number of places, Jude 6, 2 Peter 2:4, that the devil is an angel among angels who were cast down out of heaven. Placed in limited scope and power. So don't overestimate his power. Don't underestimate his power. Now what happened? Why did Satan become turn from being a good angel to an evil foe of God? We're not told directly. At this point, many Christians would turn you immediately to Isaiah chapter 14 and to Ezekiel 28, and they would say That here in the picture of the king of Babylon in Isaiah 14, a picture of the king of Tyre in Ezekiel 28, you have a picture of Satan and his fall, and there's a vivid description of it. I've studied those passages, I've tried to look at what they're saying, and I must tell you I'm not convinced. I think there are some analogous statements about the king of Babylon and the King of Tyre. Statements that clearly describe them in more than just human terms. But I think what it's saying is that demonic power energized them, is behind them But to say that that is a picture of Satan, I think, goes beyond what the text says. And you can get into some trouble with that. Revelation 12, though it is symbolic language, is clearly about Satan. If you use that as your starting point, you see, then you're on safe ground. So, what happened? All we know is that some point before the creation of man Satan, in his jealousy, he was clearly an angel of the highest rank, because he is in opposition to Michael, the archangel. Perhaps called Lucifer, as Isaiah says, which means light, we don't know. That could be a symbolic name But at some point, the Bible would indicate that Satan, in his jealousy of God's glory and his control, rebelled. Now, at that point, he not only rebelled personally, that is, he not only desired to dethrone God, if you can imagine such arrogance Because if you know your heart and I know my heart, I should be able to identify a little bit with that as I seek to dethrone God and his glory and control in my life. Satan sought to do it in fact completely. And the Bible says that he persuaded other angels to join him. Now let me come back to that verse 3. Remember, I said that he swept a third of the stars with the tail out of the sky? Clearly not literal stars, what's that refer to? Here's just a possibility, not stating it dogmatically. Revelation chapter one verse twenty tells us, picturing the stars in Revelation one, John says specifically, the stars are the angels One possibility that some commentators hold is that what this is saying is that the devil persuaded roughly a third of the angels to join forces with him in the rebellion. That would mean if it's any comfort to you, there's about two good angels for every demon Uh and also, you know, you I thought in the past I thought, you know, uh here's a a legion of angels in this poor demoniac in and the New Testament and uh, you know, there's hundred times as many people on the earth now as there were then. So the the angels you know the demons are spread thin now. But it doesn't seem to be the case. Seems like there's still plenty to go around if you judge by what's going on But that might indicate that there's twice as many of God's protected good angels in this battle that's going on. But we do know that whether there were or wasn't The devil's not strong enough, Revelation 12, 8, 9 says. And so he is limited in what he can accomplish. Now, this idea of the fall of Satan is something that I think we don't as Christians think about enough in order to be able to get world history and our lives in perspective. John Milton strained human language in his classic of English literature, Paradise Lost, to describe this. And uh There's a book, Sacred Romance, by Brent Curtis and John Eldridge, that refer to this in a number of places. And let me give you just a couple of brief quotes from Paradise Lost in this one situation. He describes the Archangel Michael speaking to the devil, author of evil, unknown to thy revolt How hast thou disturbed heaven's blessed peace, and unto nature brought misery uncreated till the crime of thy rebellion? How hast thou instilled thy malice into thousands once upright and faithful? now proved false, that's referring to the angels who turned and became demons. Then heaven cast thee out That's an authoritative declaration. And the devil had button no choice except to obey. That's before the creation of man, sometimes subsequent to that. It's a very interesting book that goes on to talk about how the gospel is not A series simply of propositions that appeal to our mind for us to memorize. But he says that there they say that the gospel is a story to reveal to us the passion of God for His beloved, a story to thrill our hearts and to give hope for our own stories and our own pain. to give us the hope of the gospel through story, not simply proposition. So in this story, you see, sometime subsequent to this You and I, human beings, were created out of the love laughter of the Trinity. At that point, Satan sees an opportunity. The opportunity is a way to get back at God because Satan can't assault God directly. There is no possible way. But what he can do is to assault those made in his image. Here are the words of Milton again as he describes this. Here perhaps some advantageous act may be achieved by sudden onset, either with hellfire, to waste his whole creation. or possess all as our own, and drive as we were driven, the puny inhabitants, or if not drive, seduce them to our party. That their God may prove their foe, and whose repenting hand abolish his own works. This would surpass common revenge and interrupt his joy in our confusion, and our joy uprays in his disturbance, when his darling sons hurled headlong to partake with us shall curse their frail originals, and faded bliss faded so soon That's powerful language, isn't it? Makes you want to kind of run home and pull out Paradise Lost and read it this afternoon, you know There's a copy in the library, Allah, everybody will be running for it. That's great, but but you see the picture they hear that's going on. This is what we often miss. That there's a war now. Genesis 3 gives the declaration between Eve and her seed and the serpent and all of his demons. And so, as I said last week, Satan despises you because you remind him of God. You are in God's image. God loves you. God has set his heart upon you. And so Satan doesn't care a penny's worth for you. You are simply a tool for him to get back at God. See that so that you understand what's going on. Not only does Satan not know you, as I said last week, it's only his demons that really bother with you and me, but he doesn't care anything for you You are simply a way of his destroying what is precious to God. So if you will not worship him If you belong to Jesus Christ, you will not worship him. If you have not given your life to Jesus Christ, you are on his side. But if you are belonging to Jesus, if you won't worship Satan, then he will want to destroy everything you do and make it ineffective in order to pain God, just as the terrorists Determined to destroy everything in America that they can in their rage. Same kind of thing, you see. You see, in Ephesians, Paul tells us before chapter He says in chapter one what our purpose is. He says there in chapter one verse six that when he describes the gospel, he says that he is adopted us as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will, so that we would be to the praise of his glorious grace. In verse 12, he says that he has done all this that we might be for the praise of his glory. In verse 14, we are God's possession to the praise of his glory. So you see, when we are to the praise of his glory, then we receive the joy that is necessarily bound up With our being to the praise of his glory. Satan's goal is not to make you miserable. Satan's goal is to keep you from being to the praise of the glory of Jesus Christ. If you are not, the consequence of that is you're miserable. Can't care whether you're miserable or not. But what his purpose is to make you to undercut the praise of the glory of Jesus Christ will always have the effect of misery in your life. So in chapter 3, verse 10, Paul tells us that the church is the display of the wisdom of God to the spiritual beings of the cosmos. Satan wants to undercut that wisdom. He wants to destroy it so that God does not receive his glory and you and I do not receive our satisfaction and joy. They're inextricably bound up together. So he is a malicious adversary. That's the fourth final point. He is a malicious adversary. His basic strategy Always has been, is, and we will look in the next two weeks at this to deceive. He is the liar from the beginning, from the Garden of Eden, when he told Eve, God is really not good at heart. When he tried to tempt Job by saying, God really doesn't care for you. But remember, in the story of Job, you are given very clearly that Satan was limited. He needed to ask permission. To touch Job's life. And Satan needs to have permission from God to touch your life this week or to touch your family. Or to touch anyone in this room in any terrorist activity. It must be permitted by the loving Heavenly Father. And something that is capably to be used for the good in your life and the honor of Jesus Christ. The Bible goes through this whole thing again and again through the Old Testament. You see how he sought to seduce Israel by their idols to unfaithfulness. Jesus comes and Satan assaults him directly. And Jesus, the second Adam, the divine warrior, comes and receives the bruise of Satan attacking him. But the Bible says that he crushed Satan. Forever in the victory that he accomplished on the cross. Amen. Now when you come to Acts chapter 7, something very interesting. You know, come to there and see Stephen. And Stephen's telling the gospel to the religious leaders. And at that point, there's a tension, it's building and building and building until they finally pick up stones and Stephen begins to feel rocks hitting his body. Rocks hit his head. A rock hits his eye. Blood begins to pour forth. What you and I need to realize is that there was no organ music playing at that time. There was no glow from heaven that said, This is spiritual warfare, Peter, Stevens, hang in there. All he could understand was the hatred of those who were despising him. And with the eyes of faith perceive the spiritual reality beyond it. And that's exactly going to be the case in your life this week. There's going to be conflict. You may endure sickness. There may be some effect of the curses of the demons upon your life. You, one of Satan's chief strategies is for you to not recognize it. They say, I don't know what's happening. Why am I so discouraged? Why is all this happening? But listen, every attack of Satan that's intended to drive you from Jesus Christ God intends to use by his grace to drive you to his heart, that he might possess you and embrace you and to show you his power and his presence and his protection. So if you decide that you want to live for Jesus Christ this week, guess what? You're going to be the special attack, the target. of Satan. You want to avoid Satan's attacks this week? Very simple. Just live lukewarm. Live as if this world is the only thing that matters Don't mean business for Jesus Christ. Don't look for the opportunities of people that hearts are trembling in them because of fears of terrorist attacks to say, well, I've got this hope in Jesus, but I want to Rock the boat and get any say anything that's going to be embarrassing or tense. He'll let you go. The only problem with that is gonna it's gonna rob you of all your passion for Jesus and your heart will grow cold But you will avoid many of its attacks. But if you want to stand for Jesus Christ, beware. Because Satan is going to viciously Through his demonic agents, assault you with a maliciousness that is hard to even begin to overestimate. So my question to you is simply this. Are you willing to stand this week in the light of those kinds of consequences? Are you willing to stand for Jesus Christ? Because if you do, you will know his power and his protection in a way that you'll never know any other way So as we pray now, we're going to close our eyes, and I want for anyone who is willing to say, I am willing to stand for Jesus Christ in this battle. With my eyes open and all that you're telling me, but your eyes are physically going to be closed, my spiritual eyes open, I'm willing to stand. And I want to experience the power of Jesus Christ this week. That is only given to those who are willing to get into the battle. Let's all close our eyes now and pray. And with our eyes closed, any who are willing to stand, stand up Literally stand and declare to Satan that you are willing to flaunt his threats, that you're willing to stand in the power of Jesus Christ. Lord, hear us For all those that come to stand now, with no one else looking, but standing just between us and you, to say that we declare in this moment that we are willing to stand against the evil one The more willing to stand and to know your power and your protection, to stand against the temptations and the deceptions and the fears To know what you are wanting to do in the lives of those who rely upon you. Lord, some of us may be standing here and saying, what am I doing standing? What am I getting myself into? Lord Jesus, show yourself faithful. Build the faith of each one of your precious ones as we see you contain the enemy. As we see you show your power even in pain and difficulty, to the honor of Jesus Christ, to whom alone will be the glory, because He alone has the power. He alone has defeated the demonic hosts. And made a spectacle of them. We depend on you and we look to you for this week in Jesus' name. And now before everybody opens their eyes, sit down so that it's between you and the Lord. But all of God's people say together, Amen. Amen.