Can I study uh of Ephesians, oh about the kids. Kids who are continuing your we've got to get this thing together. Kids who are continuing your worship downstairs, here's your time to head down and do that. Okay. Now I think we're together. In our study, as I was saying, of Ephesians uh chapter six on spiritual warfare, we have been looking at some basic stuff that every Christian In fact, every person should know about Satan and his millions of demons, persons as real as you and me, not humans, but persons, because they have personality. They are distinct. But they are spirits, they do not have bodies, and they're far more powerful. And so we've been looking at some basic things that are important for us to know about Satan. You see the outline of that in your bulletin. I don't have time to review that, but uh just um mention if you missed it and want to catch up on any of that you can check the back table about the tapes. But the last two weeks we've been looking at point five that Satan is a deceiver We saw the last two weeks that uh he they deceive us. We looked at a number of ways that they deceive us, we looked at uh ten different ways, and even though there's no time to review that I just wanted to make one additional comment on one of them. This week I noticed a survey had been taken related to number six. You remember what number six was? Uh that was the one that said that uh hell is vastly overstated if it even exists. Satan would like to deceive us to think that hell's really no big concern And I saw a survey this week that had been taken at uh a number of evangelical seminaries of contemporary seminary students. It was uh one is where you state uh your agreement or disagreement with a number of statements. One of the statements was, preaching about hell to unbelievers is in poor taste. Do any evangelical seminary students agree with that statement? Well you better believe it. Forty-six percent of contemporary evangelical students agree with the statement preaching about hell to unbelievers is in poor taste. I uh shudder when I read something like that and think how successful Satan has been, is being in deceiving us about hell. And uh those of you who are here at the middle hour, it was just so refreshing, so good to hear a brother Kazma Kazlan talk about how his passion for kids And their need to know Christ has uh been such a driving force in uh compelling him by the Spirit of God to bring about the upwards ministry. It's not simply about basketball, it's about souls. And uh when I read the statistic, uh I thought, God may it never be, however far down before you would return that at Columbia Presbyterian anybody would ever stand in this pulpit and think it's in poor taste to warn sinners about hell I wondered if those seminary students who were surveyed would have thought that it was poor taste to warn the people in the Twin Towers after they had been hit that they needed to flee and to get out. Hell is a reality. If any of you are outside of Jesus Christ, I warn you this morning: come to Jesus. He's your only refuge. Satan would deceive you to think that that is not an issue. God's judgment is an issue. And so there's a number of other ways that he deceives us We consider this. We don't have time to go back on this. I wondered though, the thing I left you with last week was uh to notice three ways that Satan would deceive you right after the message. You know, after the service or after the message. And I'm not going to ask for hands and embarrass you, but I wonder how many of you did that, because uh I find that helpful to be thinking What are the next three ways that Satan will deceive me? He knows me. The demons know me. And so uh it's instructive to me to understand what are the ways to recognize them and to know what is the truth of God's word that I use to answer that And to be aware of that, to be aware of his devices. But the Bible does not only call Satan a deceiver, a liar, it also calls him a destroyer. Remember the passage that we've been studying is Ephesians chapter six, and let me read again the two verses that relate to this part of Satan's character. You remember Paul said to us in Ephesians 6 and verse 12, for our struggle is not against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore Put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground and after you have done everything to stand You notice he says these are spiritual forces of evil who come in the day of evil. The day of evil is a particular concentration of their forces. September the 11th was a day of evil. You remember that uh we began the series on September the 9th. By God's providence. And on September the ninth I told you that in preaching through this five week series I was expecting that we would see A day of evil, a particular attack of Satan's forces, I had no idea at that time just how terrible the attacks would be. Both nationally Internationally, congregationally, we have seen his attacks. I've seen his attacks in my own life uh in an unprecedented way, just times that just had me prostrate, discouraged, uh beat down And I mentioned to you that it was back in uh this this summer on our vacation that I was I was actually noticing how much I was being drawn to read books, articles, scriptures on suffering. And God is a refuge. And I still remember that day when I was walking out along this one sandy strip along a marsh when the the message was just coming to me so clearly, whatever happens, Alan, I am your refuge. And that so impressed me, you can ask Kathy, I went back to the cottage and I said to her, I don't know what's going to happen But God has just been impressing me on suffering and that He is our refuge. I don't know what we're in for, but I've learned by now that when something comes that strongly uh to not ignore it or think that it's coincidence. Well I had no idea what was going to happen. You think of the death of Max Bilke, the congregation, and this week the death of Cal Dexter The day of evil is a day when Satan, not only the deceiver, but the destroyer, comes in force. And Sandy Sharp is going to come now and read some scripture from the book of Revelation that pictures this before we go on. From Revelation nine and Revelation twelve. The fifth angel sounded his trumpet. And I saw a star that had fallen from the sky to the earth. The star was given the key to the shot of the abyss When he opened the abyss, smoke rose from it, like the smoke from a gigantic furnace. The sun and the sky were darkened by the smoke from the abyss. And out of the smoke locusts came down upon the earth. Like that. And were given power like that of scorpions of the earth. They were told not to harm the grass or of the earth or any plant or tree But only those people who did not have the seal of God on their foreheads The locusts looked like horses prepared for battle. On their heads they wore something like crowns of gold, and their faces resembled human faces. They had tails and stings like scorpions, and in their tails they had power to torment people for five months. They had a king over them, the angel of the abyss, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek Apollyon. A great and wondrous sign appeared in heaven. A woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet. And a crown of twelve stars on her head. She was pregnant and cried out in pain as she was about to give birth. Then another sign appeared in heaven, an enormous red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on his head. His tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky and flung them to the earth. The dragon stood in front of the woman who was about to give birth, so that he might devour her child the moment it was born. She gave birth to a son, a male child, who will rule all the nations with a scepter of iron. And her child was snatched up to God and to his throne. Rejoice, you heavens, and all who dwell in them But woe to the earth and the sea, because the devil has gone down to you. He is filled with fury, because he knows that his time is short. When the dragon saw that he had been hurled to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly to the place prepared for her in the desert where she would be taken care of. for a time, times and half a time, out of the serpent's reach. Then the dragon was enraged at the woman And went off to war against the rest of her offspring, those who obey God's commandments and hold to the testimony of Jesus. Satan is a destroyer. He wants to destroy your marriage. He wants to destroy your health. He wants to destroy your sanity if he can do that. Most of all, he wants to destroy you so that you are ineffective for Jesus Christ, that your life does not bring him glory, that you lose your trust in him and your love for him. There is nothing that he will not stoop to to destroy you. And the only thing that protects you Is the mercy and the power of Jesus Christ. Amen. Satan, remember, is not omnipresent. He's a spirit, but the Bible teaches that spirits come and go. Do you remember Jesus was approached by Satan in the wilderness and the Satan left him Satans come in and out of people, they run into a herd of swine. So spirits have locality. And it would seem that the Bible teaches in Daniel chapter 10 and some other hints that Satan rules his kingdom by administrating it through what are called territorial spirits. Spirits who have rule over certain geographical areas or, I think also in Scripture, certain root sins that are associated through the ancestry and the history of an area with what particularly becomes the characteristic sin and bondage of that area. Now this raises a whole question of what is n um commonly taught today about territorial spirits, the need to name the spirits or identify those um areas of bondage and by intercessory prayer to uh cast out the demons and to bind them before gospel progress can be made I'm just interested how many of you are familiar with that kind of terminology about territorial spirits, spiritual mapping, intercessory warfare, this kind of thing. A few of you I've decided I don't have time to deal with that here because we'll be too superficial. So I'm just going to leave that area out. If there are any of you who are interested in this Would like me to address it either in a message or in some other form where we could discuss, I'd be glad to do that. Take a look at the comments that I make there. But I really can't deal with this anymore now, and if you're confused, then just ask me about it. But it is something that um is a popular teaching today that I think has some insights, but also can be uh abused and not helpful in our as Christians in our spiritual warfare. What I want to focus on right now though is Why and how Satan acts as destroyer through his agents, through the demons, to destroy you. What is he actually capable of doing? And I think it's actually more than we sometimes are aware of. First of all, why is it that he is so intent on destroying you. You look in Revelation chapter six that Sandy read, and you see uh that it speaks of him in verse fifteen, from his mouth the serpent skewed water like a river to overtake the woman, sweep her away with the torrent But the earth helped the woman by opening its mouth and swallowing the river that the dragon had spewed out of his mouth. Then the dragon was enraged at the woman, went off to make war against the rest of her offspring. The woman, of course, is the bride of Christ, the church. those who obey God's commandments and hold to the testimony of Jesus. Why does he do that? Well because verse 12 says he's filled with fury because he knows that his time is short. I don't think people say, uh does Satan really think he can win? I don't think there's any question of that. Satan knows he's lost. He's filled with fury because he knows that his time is short. So why does he do it Why didn't I suslyste give up? Well, because first of all, of revenge. He's been hurled out of heaven. And he wants revenge to get back at God. He can't get back at God directly, so he gets back at those who are made in his image. Very instructive is a verse in Isaiah chapter 20, uh 63. It's one of those verses that's actually worth your memorizing. In Isaiah 63, in verse 8, surely they are my people, sons who will not be false to me, and so he became their Savior. Now this is one worth memorizing. Verse nine. In all their distresses he too was distressed. And the angel of his presence saved them. In his love and mercy, he redeemed them, he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old. And so you and I say, God, don't you care? Don't you see what's happening, Lord? I'm so discouraged. I prayed what's happening, you know, and you just And the Lord would whisper to you through this word, my child, when you are distressed, I am distressed. You see, Satan knows that. He knows that he can distress God by distressing you. Isn't that amazing? And so he wreaks vengeance on God by distressing God's people Don't forget that the next time you're down and discouraged, Isaiah 63. 9, when you are distressed, God Himself is distressed in that. He feels that The other reason, there's other reasons, but the two I think they're most prominent. The the other reason is that he does have a kingdom, though while it is has been defeated. We'll talk about this more next week. It has not yet been destroyed. The gospel's making progress, but there are strongholds of areas that he holds in bondage. And he fights to give up, to keep from giving up every square foot of that kingdom. So that Paul says in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3 something rather amazing. Do you know that Satan was able to prevent Paul in his missionary activity Paul says in 1 Thessalonians chapter two and verse eighteen, for I wanted to come to you. Certainly I, Paul, did again and again, but Satan stopped us The saint was able to stop Paul in his missionary progress. So don't think that he looks at you and thinks that you and I are a big challenge. It's only in the victory and power of Jesus we're going to make any progress. But you see, he wants to fight for his kingdom So, how does he do that? Well, we talked about this a couple weeks ago. The most obvious, prominent way he does it is through persecution of the church. In the book of Ephesians, Paul talks twice about his being a prisoner, that he's in chains, that he's suffering for the gospel. Again and again you have this reference. You have it in all of his letters. Uh in fact as I was thinking about that I thought, well what's an example of that? And this was sitting on my desk and I thought, you know, I don't have to reach you know reach within a foot and I can grab some article about Christian persecution This one, uh not about Islam. I believe that we will see in the years ahead an increasing conflict between Islam and Christianity It's at the root of Islam and Christianity. They're utterly incompatible. And so I don't think that we are going to see this uh subside, whatever the outcome of of military conflict is over the next few years. But that's for another whole message or hour or something like that. But Just in other areas, such as in Myanmar and Thailand, Christians are increasingly being persecuted. Persecution includes church closures and harassment of Christian leaders, churches, and Bible schools In addition, unconfirmed reports indicate that some pastors have been martyred. Christians in government schools are taught Buddhist doctrine and practices, and all students are forced to participate in Buddhist prayers. Students who refuse to pray to Buddha are beaten, kids. What if your teacher said you've got to pray to Buddha? Or else we're going to beat you? So easy being a Christian here, isn't it? You know, we're just entering into a period that our administration calls the new normalcy. Well, we're really experiencing what most of the rest of the world and most of the rest of history has experienced as normal. It's going to cost to be a Christian. There's tension, there's fear. Now, um That's what Paul's talking about in terms of the evil day, and why we need the Lord's strength and to stand. But what are some other ways? What is Satan able to do in the physical realm? By way of destruction. Well, here are what I call four D's to help you to keep them in mind, and here are some examples. First of all, disasters Now this is this is one that's been discussed quite a bit recently. Question of disasters. Can Satan cause disasters? Undoubtedly For instance, in Job chapter 1, when Satan was given permission to harass Job, he instigated on two occasions murders of the members of Job's family. He brought about deadly lightning. He brought about deadly wind. Those are all attributed to Satan under the sovereign control of God. The attack on September the 11th, uh, I don't think there's any question, was instigated by Satan. Those who did it are responsible for what they did. The anthrax attacks are something that is demonically inspired and instigated, though people choose to do that under the sovereign control of God. God himself ordained Satan. God is over all of this And perhaps one illustration will help us to see a basic spiritual principle that while Satan uses instigates evil to destroy you see God's hand involved in it Now, I don't think that that his hand means that he protects his people as if we're invulnerable It's significant, I believe, that in the Brentwood facility in DC, the two postal workers who died of anthrax, one of them led a Bible study. With the co-workers at the Brentwood facility. The second one, his wife, in speaking to reporters, said, We cannot be bitter and continue to proclaim Christ. That tells you a little bit while where she stands. Now, you see, if I mean I I don't want to destroy your day, but in case you're thinking, Lord, we can just pray that because we're Christians, nothing will happen to us. That doesn't work. But what does happen is that God shows in what he does through his people his sovereign control in disasters. And I think a classic illustration of that is Flight 93, the one that crashed in Pennsylvania coming down from Pittsburgh. Three instances of God's sovereign control within that disaster. Number one, of the four flights, by the way, is pretty universally recognized that that flight was headed either for the Capitol or for the White House and would have probably reeked the most uh demoralizing, uh upsetting, disturbing uh disaster of all four of the flights, and we don't know exactly where the one that hit the Pentagon was perhaps re um headed, it might have been also White House or the Capitol. But in that one particular flight that totally failed, there were three factors One, that flight was delayed for 40 minutes on ground before it took off. Now, the significance of that is that because of the 40-minute delay, was 40 minutes behind, the people on the plane were able to hear from the cell phones about the other three flights and therefore knew that this hijacking meant certain death. So it put them in a different frame of mind than people who would have thought will land somewhere, just sit tight. Secondly, that flight alone lacked one hijacker Uh it's been speculated who the fifth one was, but the government doesn't doubt that that was supposed to have had five hijackers as well as the other three flights. Why that one missing one hijacker so it was more vulnerable to being overtaken? Thirdly You had a very unusual confluence of five men who in a very few minutes connected. Men who were unusually athletic, fearless decisive and able to come together. One of those, Todd Beamer, is known to some of you here in this congregation, graduate of Wheaton College. Who can see what God did in that situation and not marvel at the mystery Of Satan as the destroyer coming to work in a situation where God works also to accomplish his sovereign purposes. And we see this again and again through history. Satan comes to destroy, God will redeem, protect. sidestep, use in some way for his glory. But this but we need to see the interplay of sovereign control and demonic activity in disasters. Thirdly, there's disease. That's the second D. Satan is able to cause diseases. There's no question of this in Scripture. In Job chapter 2, Satan causes the boils. In Job, in Matthew 9, Satan causes muteness. In Matthew 17, he causes epilepsy in Luke 13, he's behind the arthritic type crippling But most significantly in Second Corinthians chapter twelve, Paul talks about the thorn in the flesh, an undisclosed malady that he suffered from And how does he say it was produced? He says it was a messenger of Satan. It was satanically instigated, but he then says God used it. To make him aware in his weakness of the power of God available in that weakness I'm actually going to touch on that more next April, but for right now, let me just say that you see here the combination of two fascinating things. It's the same idea that James talks about When he talks about in chapter one that you can rejoice when there are trials because God's intending to use those for your maturity. Then he goes on in chapter two. And he uses a Greek word where he says, There's Satan, a God cannot tempt us, but Satan tempts us, and God uses The temptation for a trial. It's the same word, same Greek word can be translated either temptation or trial. The principle is that what Satan uses in your life intending to destroy you God will take that exact same circumstance and use it to draw you to Himself, to trust Him more, to realize your weakness to cling to him, to glorify him in that weakness, to bring a unique glory to him that you'll only be able to do because of that weakness. What a marvel, the sovereign work of our God. Isn't that amazing? Who can unfathom and unravel how Satan can bring about disaster and disease? And God uses it so that we bless him and trust him and love him and glorify him more We see this so that we need to recognize contemporary that some disease may have more spiritual causes than we are low than we're uh c inclined to uh credit. We just look at well, you know, what with all the microbes and what diseases and, you know, bacteria and all this kind of stuff. Uh I'm gonna give you an example of that uh from Neil Anderson, talks about a woman who had the symptoms of MS and was diagnosed with that. Um but some Christians pursued and probed in that and found out that this woman had in um before this onset had prayed, God, uh I want to be more spiritual. Give me some thorn in the flesh that will make me more spiritual. Well there's no there is no warrant whatsoever in Scripture to pray such a prayer. And she was opening herself up to a messenger of Satan in that. And so when she recognized that that was sinful, when she confessed that, when she renounced Satan in his inroad through that, the symptoms of the MS disappeared. Does that mean we should just pray and not go to doctors and be treated? Well, absolutely not, of course not But I do think we need to recognize there may be spiritual factors behind what is physically evident in maladies and disease. There's also the question of distorted appetites. That's number four, the third D, distorted appetites. Paul talks about distorted appetites in Ephesians 2. 3. Very interesting Wish I could somebody asked me this after the first service. If you look at Ephesians two uh one to three where it talks about um our uh deadness and sin Paul brings together three factors there. He brings together the the world, talks about the cravings of our of our nature. He talks about the flesh that we are in bondage to those cravings. And he talks about the devil. He says, under the devil's work we are in bondage to that. So he brings together all three of these things. uh the spiritual, the psychological, the physical, uh, and the um and the demonic, to see that there's an interplay And we need to recognize that. We need to see as Christians that particularly with compulsive addictions such as gambling, sex, alcohol, spending, compulsive eating disorders, that there may be demonic activity. Now, does that mean that we don't go to counseling for those things? Well of course not. But it does mean that we take into account, particularly where there are compulsive disorders. I don't know why I do it. I just uh can't explain it, there's not it just comes over me, this kind of thing, and you've gone through that. There are a number of cases where there has been sh demonstrated that there was a occultic activity or some involvement with occultic objects or Satan. uh in various ways. So Satan is able to distort appetites because Ephesians teaches that he is the one who distorts them in the three passages that I give you there. Finally there's the question of demonization. Demonization uh or uh what some people what's Traditionally referred to as demon possession. Actually, the phrase demon possession doesn't appear in the Bible and can be a little misleading Uh uh Satan certainly can possess people who are able to pronounce curses that are effective, uh, witch doctors and other cultures. Things that we're not uh so aware of, but people that are able to walk on burning coals and not be hurt, people that are able to have out-of-the-body experiences, you know, various other things that uh clearly happen and are satanically, demonically caused. Um Satan is said to enter into Judas when he opened his mind toward the promptings to betray Christ in John thirteen twenty seven. So we have not only you see demonic possession of unbelievers, but there can be the demonization of believers. That is Satan can have an in-road and can have some depressing or oppressive effect in the believer's life. An example of this was a missionary, very energetic, bright young woman who was on a foreign field. took up uh residence in a particular room and found that shortly after that she wasn't able to sleep, she wasn't uh she was losing her appetite, she was becoming depressed, nervous, agitated Nobody could figure out quite why until someone who was familiar with the area uh discovered from the background of that room that it had been used for occultic practices, had occultic objects that were used there. Uh and when Christians came in to pray for Jesus and his power to deliver that room, to rid that of all the evil influence uh that at that point the woman was fully delivered from that. She was restored to her normal uh abelian self, was able to sleep again, do all this kind of thing. Uh so I believe that those kinds of things are real. In fact um I myself had uh one experience I'll never forget. And let me just say here that you kids have to be very careful Uh when somebody says, you know, let's play Dungeons and Dragons or get involved in a Ouija board or uh certain music, then Is satanically oriented. These things are not harmless. They're not just games. These can open the way for you to let Satan have a foothold in your life. I still remember back in 1969 a fellow that I was um working with, I was with Intervarcy Christian Fellowship, Kathy and I lived in Tacoma Park. And this fella, Rick, he was uh he was about two hundred and fifty pounds. Rick was the kind of guy that when he laughed, everybody laughed, you know, because the floor kind of shook and he was just that kind of guy. Well Rick had come to Christ out of a very sordid life in a motorcycle gang. And he had a tremendous hunger for the word, and we'd meet together for discipling. And one night he came and I noticed that this this uh hunger had sort of dissipated quite a bit And in the conversation we discussed, and he said, yeah, he was kind of concerned. He didn't know what was happening, but he was getting involved with his Ouija board, and he said it was really fascinating the things that he would learn that uh were reve were revealed through this uh that no one else knew about 'em. And he said, you know, this is really spooky, but he said, you know, this thing really seems to work. Well I said, yeah, it works But the power is not from God. The power is a demonic power. We were discussing this and I was trying to persuade him to get rid of this thing. And uh remember Kathy had gone to bed. Rick and I were sitting up there. in the kitchen. I can still remember it was just getting on about midnight, and as we were talking about it, the two of us at the same moment had a very clear sense that there was somebody else in the room. I don't even know if you've ever had any standing all of a sudden you know you know you'll see in there behind you, but you know somebody's there. Well that's exactly the way it was Only it wasn't just the fact that there was somebody else there, it was an overwhelming sense of evil. And I think I think we broke off mid-sentence if we even finished the sentence, I don't know, but uh we did not There was not another word of conversation. We went down on the floor and we prayed. I mean, you know, there's prayer and then there's prayer. That was prayer. We prayed for Jesus' protection. We prayed that He would drive out that evil spirit. We prayed that God in His mercy would gather us. I mean we we clung to Jesus Like I don't remember ever praying before that time to cling to Jesus. And there was a sense of sweet relief from that. But you know the thing that impressed me even more Was it in the two or three days after that? It was like a honeymoon period with the Lord, my relationship with Him again. I had a profound sense of spiritual reality A profound sense of Jesus as my Savior from all evil and sin. It was a very precious sense of protection. We need to acknowledge Satan in his evil in a gut way more fully. You know, there's a fellow by the name of David Beeble, pastor. who had a son, a three-year-old, who uh contracted a very, very rare brain disorder And after a few months, his son died of that brain disorder. It was a deep, deep night of of temptation for his faith He was moving through that a year later, his wife got pregnant. They had another son, Christopher, and were moving along in their life. When Chris was seven years old, he was diagnosed with the same exact extremely rare malady that was not known to have any genetic cause Imagine what that did to that guy's faith, his relationship with the Lord. Uh Beeble says that uh during that time One morning he was in the shower. Let me give it to you in his word. Several days after Christopher's CT scan shattered my life again. I was taking a shower and reflecting on the direction our path had suddenly turned, when I focused my anger on the evil one, saying something like this Satan, you like, you can't have this one. Satan, you're gonna be sorry Not that I've had extended conversations with that pretender, nor do I make it a point to personally challenge the personification of wickedness. In fact, Jude 9 tells us that even the Archangel Michael did not bring a slanderous accusation against Satan, but said instead, the Lord rebuke you, and that's what I should have said. However This was a turning point for me because it helped me to concentrate my anger on Satan as the tormentor rather than on God. And somehow I knew that this time the result would be different. And it was. C. S. Lewis, in his book Paralandra, which has some of the most powerful imagery of spiritual warfare of anything I've ever read. Has one scene where Ransom the Hero is fighting against the unman who's the devil figure This fight goes on for hours. It's a hand-to-hand struggle of blood and gore and weariness. And after this has been going on for who knows how long and ransom feels like he cannot fight any longer. C. S. Lewis says this. Then an experience that perhaps no good man can ever have in our world came over him. A torrent of perfectly unmixed and lawful hatred. The energy of hating never before felt without some guilt, without some dim knowledge Did he was failing fully to distinguish the sinner from the sin, rose into his arms and legs till he felt that they were pillars of burning blood? What was before him appeared no longer a creature of corrupted will. D It was corruption itself, to which will was attached only as an instrument. Ages ago it had been a person, but the ruins of personality now survived in it only as weapons at the disposal of a furious, self-exiled negation It is perhaps difficult to understand why this filled ransom, not with horror, but with a kind of joy. The joy came from finding at last what hatred was made for. As a boy with an axe rejoices to find a tree, or a boy with a box of colored chalks rejoices on finding a pile of perfectly white paper, so he rejoiced in the perfect congruity between his emotion and its object. Bleeding and trembling with weariness as he was, he felt that nothing was beyond his power, and when he flung himself upon the living death the eternal surge in the universal mathematic. He was astonished, and yet on a deeper level, not astonished at all, at his own strength. His arms seemed to move quicker than his thought His hands taught him terrible things. He felt its ribs break. He heard its jawbone crack. The whole creature seemed to be crackling and splitting under his blows. His own pains where it tore him somehow failed to matter. He felt that he could do so fight, so hate with a perfect hatred for a whole year. And he prevailed. Listen, have you ever said to Satan, I hate you, Satan? You know, I did that this week, and all of a sudden it was this little bit of fear, you know, kind of like, oh, don't say that, might get him mad. You know, and I'll do something You know, that's like thinking if I say to Osama bin Laden, we hate you. That you know he more they don't really do something nasty. Satan's doing everything to destroy you he can do. The only thing that will incense him to attack you more is if you stand for Jesus more. And if you do that, you'll simply know Jesus' protection and his power more. Have you ever dare you to say, say with me right now, I hate you, Satan. Are you willing to say that? Let's say it. I hate you, Satan. Because Jesus alone is your refuge. Jesus came to destroy the works of the devil. We're going to look at that next week. We're going to see what that defeat means and how we live out of it in the gospel right now. Jesus alone is the one who is our strength. Jesus is our refuge. And so you can say to Jesus, I love you, Jesus. Say it with me, I love you, Jesus. Because he is your protector against the destroyer. He came, John says, to destroy the works of the devil. And you and I come to find refuge in him now. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we come that you are our refuge. You have destroyed the works of the devil on the cross. You made a spectacle of the demonic powers. And so, Satan, we come to say to you again, we hate you. Because you are the one behind all terrorism and all death and all disease and all the pain of all of our families, of all those that we care for. You are the one that wants to rob God of his glory in our lives. And so, Lord, we declare in the name of Jesus Christ, we are your enemies. Lord Jesus, may we find our strength and power in you this week, because you are sufficient. Amen