So have you been more aware of spiritual warfare this fall? Not only because of national events, but because by God's Sovereign appointment, he has us in Ephesians chapter 6 to look at this. And we now finish five weeks of looking at uh some of the particulars about Satan, his person, his work, his ways. You see the things that we've covered over the last weeks. And And thinking of Satan, how he deceives you, Satan in his destruction. Been aware more of that? I don't know about you, but boy, I have sure been looking forward to this message on Satan and his defeat. I realize, man, I've been hungering for this thing. This morning we look in the conclusion of the series at Satan the defeated. Someone said to me last week after the message that they had found uh A whole new insight in reading the Bible by understanding that from Genesis to Revelation it's about conflict, the conflict of good and evil. The conflict of God's kingdom and Satan's kingdom. From the declaration of war from Genesis 3. 15 right on to the conclusion in the book of Revelation. And the book of Revelation is a kind of a crescendo bringing to a climax all the themes of the Old and New Testament. And if you look at the book of Revelation, in the simplest way you can understand it, it's divided into two parts. The first part of the book of Revelation is the ultimate disclosure of the source of all evil. The second part of the book of Revelation is the ultimate disclosure of the victory of Jesus Christ over all evil. The first part of Revelation climaxes at chapter 12. And that's why chapter 12 of the book of Revelation is the fullest disclosure of the person and the work of Satan that I believe you have anywhere in the Bible. Do you remember we saw that in Revelation chapter 12 You have in chapter in verses 7 to 9 a picture of the original rebellion of Satan and his angels. The fight of Satan, who's not the opposite of God, but of the archangel Michael, a creature, how Satan lost And how he was, verse 9, the great dragon was hurled down, that ancient serpent called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled to earth and his angels with him. And then I heard a loud voice in heaven say, Now have come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Messiah Christ. For the accuser of our brothers who accuses them before our God day and night has been hurled down. They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony. They did not love their lives so much as to shrink from death, talking about persecution. Therefore, rejoice, you heavens. And you who dwell in them, but woe to the earth and the sea, because the devil has gone down to you. He is filled with fury, because he knows that his time is short. He knows his time is short. He knows he's defeated. He knows he has no chance of winning And so in verse 17, the dragon was enraged at the woman who was the church, the bride of Christ, and went off to make war against the rest of her offspring. Those who obey God's commandments and hold to the testimony of Jesus. And so there's a picture here. Satan is both defeated and yet a terror. Now, how are both things true? And that's what I want to look at this morning in conclusion in this series. I want to look at Satan's defeat in three tenses Past, present, and future, in order to understand that. So the first thing we want to look at is that Satan has been defeated. Past tense. He has been defeated. In 1 John chapter 3, John tells us that Jesus came in order to accomplish two things. And it's very important that you and I understand both of them. First of all, it says in verse 5, you know that he appeared so that he might take away our sins. And in him is no sin. That's amazing. He came to take away your sin, my sin. One of the high points, I think, for Christian Americans after the attack of 9-11 was the memorial service that was held at the National Cathedral, where once again We heard Billy Graham fearlessly proclaim Christ. Billy Graham has been for many years one of my heroes Ever since the time, particularly back in the early 70s, when at an Urbana convention I was assigned to be his bodyguard when there had been some uh threats of violence against the speakers. And why they assigned me to be his bodyguard, I can't explain to you. I was never given a reason for that. They probably knew about my karate and, you know, all the martial arts that I'm not aware of either. And it might have been that they thought I was the most expendable at the convention, so but for whatever reason I was assigned to be with him and so I got to see him in the off stage and off moments. And was impressed with his integrity that he was the same person interacting with kids down on the behind the stage and talking about Christ uh as he was when he was up uh on the stage. Now let's suppose for a moment that Osama bin Laden is not killed but captured. And let's suppose that he is brought back to the United States, he's put on trial. And he is seen as guilty of the crimes as charged and sentenced to be executed. Let's suppose at the moment of execution, Billy Graham steps forward. and insists on taking Osama bin Laden's place. And so we watch in horror as we see Billy Graham executed. Now what's your reaction to that? An outrage? Scandalous injustice? I mean, here's a man who for decades has been Near or at the top of the most respected man, most admired by Americans And he's going to take the place of the man who is probably, at least in the West, most hated for his crimes against humanity. Let's suppose that even worse, Billy Graham didn't do that now. He wasn't an old man at the end of his ministry, but that he did it at the age of 33 when he was at the peak. Of his ministry and powers and potential. Begin to get my point, right? We often don't worship Or treasure the Lord's Supper, or Jesus, because we don't see ourselves, like Osama bin Laden, in how much we deserve to have Jesus come. And take our place. But the Bible says he appeared to take your sin, my sin. And if you are here this morning and you've never received that pardon, that gift of his sacrifice for your sin, for your life. I want you to know that you could receive that today. You could receive that during this service. You could receive that right now. Don't put off such a treasure He came to take away your sin, and John says he was without sin. And if you have any doubts about that, please just put on the gray slip. I'd like to make sure about my relationship with Jesus, I want to know that he's taken my sin or anything like that that will give us the idea. And everybody puts their gray slips in the offering basket and when we do yours will be there and we can see it and get back to you and help you. But John says he came for two reasons. Not only as wonderful, as marvelous, as amazing as it is To take our sins. But look down at verse 8 if you happen to have it open. In 1 John chapter 3 and verse 8, John says, He who does what is sinful is of the devil. Because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared, right? That's what he said in verse 5. The reason he appeared. So here's the second. The reason he appeared was to destroy the devil's work. Why'd he come? To destroy the devil's work. Hebrews chapter two puts it this way, in verse fourteen. Since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity, so that by his death he might destroy him who holds the power of death. That is the devil. And free those who all their lives were held in slavery by their fear of death. What did he come to do? To destroy him who holds the power of death, the devil, and to free all those who were held in slavery to fear There's other passages, you see them listed there. In fact, uh you might consider that it would be maybe encouraging to you to Go through one or two of those texts each day this week and meditate on them as a way of seeing what Jesus has done in defeating Satan for you. But one of my favorites is Colossians chapter two, verse fifteen, where Paul says, having disarmed the powers and authorities He made a public spectacle of them triumphing over them by the cross. The picture is there of all these armed powers and authorities And they have all their nuclear warheads and they have all the capacity for destruction that is at their disposal, far beyond human abilities And Jesus came in at the cross because he suffered, taking your place and my place, fulfilling the law in its ability to condemn So that he stripped it of its power and therefore took away the powers and the principalities, powers to be able to condemn He stripped them of their ability to rule. He has conquered Satan's kingdom. He held them up as a public spectacle. There they are, naked and exposed. He made a public spectacle of them at the cross. He has defeated them, but he has not yet destroyed them. So you see in the outline it says the sentence of death has been pronounced, it simply has not been finally executed. In Matthew 25, 41, Jesus says that there is a place of eternal torment, of fire that has been prepared for the devil and his angels. But they have not yet been thrown in there. So we now live in a time between defeat and destruction Between the defeat of Satan at the cross and the destruction of Satan and the demons when Jesus comes back Now there are many examples that have been given to try and illustrate this so we can understand that on a human level. And let me offer to you just three to help Uh perhaps the most popular one is the time after D-Day during World War II, when when the Allies had landed in France and were moving across France Winning battle after battle, the more the the Allies were mobilized and moving on, uh there were terrific, uh bloody, terrible battles in which many people were killed, the Battle of the Bulbs. uh the mopping up of the rural pocket, the many terrible vicious battles, but everybody knew that Hitler had been defeated. He wasn't backing off. In his rage and his desperation, he was all the more deadly. But we knew he had been defeated. Well you take the Netherlands in nineteen forty-four and forty-five, the hunger winner as it's called, when the Nazi troops that occupied The Netherlands and were so oppressing the Dutch, continued to oppress them, even though Germany had lost, even though they had been defeated. The soldiers there continued to oppress the Dutch until they were finally driven out, defeated, but not yet destroyed. Well perhaps the most dramatic of all, Japan, August nineteen forty five, after we dropped the bomb on Hiroshima. And Kathy and I had been there and saw in the museum the depiction and the models of the utter devastation. It was absolutely clear after that bomb had been dropped. That Japan had been defeated. And yet they did not surrender. They continued to hold on desperately to the power And then a second bomb on August the 9th in Nagasaki, and finally after that, surrender. Defeated, but not yet destroyed. And that's the picture that we have of spiritual warfare today. We're in that time where we celebrate every Sunday the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In the certain victory that he's accomplished, but the war continues on. And so when we go out of the service, we go back into the battlefield. Back into the war. And it's bloody and it's oppressive, but we go with the knowledge That Jesus has defeated the demons and the evil one. And the time is simply waiting for their destruction. And so he is now currently being driven back. That's the present tense. He and his kingdom are being driven back. You see this in three ways First of all, in terms of our personal freedom from the bondage that we had under Satan. That's what the book of Ephesians is all about, chapter 4, 5, and 6 is how to live out of the gospel, putting on the new life, putting off the old life. Because you you live out of the gospel of chapters 1, 2, and 3 And Satan whispers to you, you can't do it. You're always going to be that way. And those sins that you have in your life, that temper, that proclivity to gossip The way you react in that situation, your insecurities, and on and on and on, you'll always be like that. And you read the gospel and you read Ephesians. And it says you can put off that old way of thinking, and you can put on a new way of thinking in Jesus Christ. He has conquered the demons. He has conquered the powers. You're free in the gospel, not in your own strength. Be strong in the Lord, in the power of his might. Trust him. He can deliver you. And you say, nah. Never gonna happen. Not until glory. You see that's Satan's deception. The question is simply who are you gonna believe? The Holy Spirit takes his word and he says, you can be free in a growing experience of the freedom of Christ. And Satan says, no, you won't. Who are you going to believe? Who are you going to believe this week? When those same deceptions and temptations to defeat come upon you? You see, we have the power of the gospel. You can experience the deliverance power of Jesus Christ. It's a matter of trusting that his word is true. But now maybe you wonder why, Lord, why this period of time of all this agony, why don't you just destroy the demons? And give me that freedom now. Why don't you heal me? Make me better? Why is it so long? John Piper addresses that issue. In his uh one of his recent books, Seeing and Savoring Jesus Christ, he asked the question: why is it that Jesus, who could right now banish Satan and all his demons to hell, why is it that he delays? What's the point? He gives one point. Let me add another one. He says that by leaving Satan on the loose to humiliate To intimidate, to harm us, to entice us. He shows the superior beauty, desirability, and the power of Jesus Christ in contrast. Now let me add my point. We live in an absolutely unique time in which you can honor God in a way that you will never be able to honor Him after Jesus comes back for all eternity. You know how it is? By faith. You see, when Jesus comes back, we will never live again by faith. When Jesus comes back, you will never again choose to believe Jesus in contrast to the deception of Satan. So at this point, you uniquely honor God before the demons and the powers by saying, I refuse. Remember the story that Evan read in Pilgrim's Progress When Apollyon comes to you and he says, why are you following him? It's going to lead to burdens and martyrdom and trouble and tribulation. Why don't you just go back to following me? But at this point in time, you uniquely can honor Jesus Christ by saying, I choose to trust you. I believe you, in spite of circumstances. C. S. Lewis has a section in his screw tape letters. Where the senior devil is saying to the junior devil, never mistake the point where the Christian is flat out, prostrate, and seems most discouraged to think, ah, now I have them. Because he says, if at that point he chooses simply to follow his God, our enemy, out of faithfulness to him and trust in him It is at that point when he most glorifies him. That's a privilege that you have this week Not only in our personal lives, but also in evangelism, Satan is being driven back. As the kingdom of Christ expands century after century, and we see from the first century to now a vast decrease of the number of unbelievers to believers. Year after year it gets lower and lower every year. Do you realize? The number, the ratio of non-Christians to Christians is less. And so you look and realize that though in this past century there has been more persecution of Christians than all the previous nineteen centuries combined, There's also been far more conversions to Jesus Christ than all the previous nineteenth centuries combined. And we're living in a day where we see a million Dalits or untouchables in India. Renounce Hinduism to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ and to begin perhaps a mass movement in India. And the Indian Christians, by the way, are not all just saying, hey, praise God, look at all these conversions. They're feeling trepidation. It's an act of faith they have said we're going to go forward in this because we know that if this mass conversion takes place there'll be more persecution. And I've said to you before, said last week, you look at the world of Islam, and we're seeing in recent years, we're just aware of it now more You know, we got one point three billion Muslims in the world. You know, just the point three is more than we have in all the United States, all the people in the United States But even though there's that vast horde of people who follow Muhammad, they've been pretty much out of sight, out of mind for American Christians. We looked and we said, well yeah, but you know they're not very reachable and so you know we just sort of ignore them. So what's Jesus done in his sovereignty? He said, I'm not going to let you ignore 1. 3 billion lost people. They're part of those that I want to rescue from Satan's kingdom, bring into my kingdom. And so now, since September the 11th, what's the hottest book you can find in Christian bookstores? Books on Islam. All of a sudden, Christians are interested in knowing what the Muslims believe. What do I do? How do I engage with Muslims? We pray that there will be a raising up of a generation of you young people You will see. The opportunity is to reach Muslims. And Jesus' kingdom will be expanded. Expanded. He said in Matthew 16. The gates of hell cannot prevail against the onslaught of my kingdom. All authority has been given to me in heaven and earth, therefore go and make disciples. We say, Yeah, that's good. Praise God, hope that happens. What about you in your own life then? Do you believe? That your neighbors, your friends, your family need Jesus Christ just as much as lost people in other nations? Do you believe that Jesus is in the business of transforming people like those that you know? He is. We're going to pray this afternoon for lost friends and family. We're going to do spiritual warfare praying the victory of Jesus Christ to push back darkness. Of Satan's kingdom right here within our own relationships, in our own community. To see what he'll do. And then further, there's the encounter of The power encounters with darkness that we see. We need to learn more about that. Power encounters with darkness. We need to learn to live not in fear of understanding Satan's ways but in confidence. Some Christians real nervous about this series saying, oh, when are you going to finish that series? Can we get beyond this? Uh, you know, I know some people are saying because we're experiencing some of the heat of the battle, but there's also some Christians that believe, you know, if you start studying that stuff, something terrible's gonna happen We need to renounce that. We need to see that instead it's quite the opposite. The more we understand Satan in his ways and Jesus and his victory, the more confident we can live in the gospel, in reality And so we can need to learn to how to exercise spiritual authority, the second point you see there, against the defeated powers of darkness. I went to what I consider is probably one of the finest seminaries in the world, and I say that not just because it helped me so much, but because when I was there, nearly half the class were students from other nations who had recognized this was a place that equipped you in ministering the word of God. And I'm very grateful for the education I got there. But you know, in three years of study of theology and ministry, I don't remember one single hour ever devoted to the topic of spiritual warfare, how to engage in demonic powers. How to think strategically about engaging in the kind of warfare that Paul talks about in Ephesians chapter 6. And so we need to learn from brothers and sisters of other countries that are more aware of this, more sensitive to it. And to see that the key to this really is in the book of Ephesians, but in a way that we Westerners simply screen out. Let me give you an example of that. One of the mission leaders today is a fellow by the name of Dick Hillis. Many years ago, when he was a new and inexperienced missionary in China, he said one day a Chinese soldier came to him and his wife. And he asked, Is your God all powerful? And they said, with assurance, well yes, of course he is. And the soldier said, Well good, because there's my wife, and she's possessed of demons. The demons have tried to kill her. They ordered her hang herself. She tried. I rescued her. They ordered her to throw herself in the moat. She did. I rescued her. But now I have to go back to my battalion, and I don't know what I'll do the next time she tries to kill herself, and so I've heard that your Jesus is able to cast out demons, so I brought her to her you There she is. Go do it. What'd you do? Oh well if you let the Bible say on this, you know, I don't know if it must be something in there. All his wife could think of was to say, Remember Jesus is the same yesterday, today and forever. Okay? So he took this woman and just started praying. And he said it was terrible. We started praying for this woman. She's obviously miserable, wretched We're praying for her, and as we're praying for her, what does she do? She starts taking the words of our prayers and turns them into stupid, silly poems and mocks us with our own prayers They prayed hour after hour. They prayed for three days for her. Nothing Finally, the soldier, the husband, came back and he says, I gotta go. I mean, obviously what you're doing is not working, so good try. And they begged, they said, Could we have just a little more time? And by the way And he hadn't thought of this before. He said, it seemed the spirit just prompted him at the moment. He said, Do you have any idols in your house? He said, well, yeah. And so go home and destroy them right now. We'll keep praying. They continued to pray. And a couple of hours later He said this voice came out of the woman. You've taken our homes. Where are our homes? We're homeless. They started grumbling and complaining. He said he figured that he'd actually gone home and destroyed the idols. And then he said he thought of a passage in Ephesians that he had read not long ago. He said, I remember reading in Ephesians that Jesus, when he ascended, ascended above all rulers and authorities and powers and dominions. And that we are seated with him. Aha! It's just like Columbia Presbyterian that looks at that stuff, see? He said, I remember that. So he said, we sang, there is power in the blood And then we claimed the power of Jesus Christ, and we simply said, in the authority of Christ, we command that these demons be cast out of this woman. And instantly she was delivered. Now what would you do in that situation? What would I do in that situation? We need to learn more, you see, about exercising the spiritual authority that has been given to us by Jesus Christ, not presumptuously, not carelessly, not superstitiously. But realistically in faith, realizing that just as a policeman makes an arrest, not because he himself has power and authority But because there has been delegated to him an authority and power to make the arrest. It's not in you or in me. But because Jesus has defeated the demons, he has delegated to you and to me power in spiritual warfare that we can engage those demons and we can see the victory of Christ in deliverance. Amen. You're gonna come this afternoon? I know that you know some of you have kids and can't both come. We don't have a nursery for it. We need to learn. We need to learn. Say, well how do I get to do that? We need to learn How to begin to engage in spiritual warfare. Finally, the third thing is that he will be destroyed. He will be destroyed. In Revelation chapter 20, verse 7, you read that when a thousand years are over, speaking of the current age. That Satan will be released from his prison, that is, the bondage that he has. Bunyan has a beautiful picture in Pilgrim's Progress of this, where he describes the demons as chained lions. He speaks of them, he says, as both sides of the path of a celestial city change. They roar at you, they lash out at you, but he says, stay on the path, and you're secure and safe. Satan is chained. He cannot do all that he would like to do. Praise God for that. Look what he does on the chain But he will be released. And then he will go out and deceive the nations even more than he's doing. There's going to be a time at the very end of great deception And then he says, This time is a time, a terrible time. And you see right there at the end of verse 9 A time where it would seem like everything is going to be destroyed, but fire came down from heaven and devoured them, Satan and his angels, and the devils who deceived them. Was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown, and they would be tormented day and night, forever and ever. Imagine Under the wrath of the one who's created stars and galaxies forever. In Isaiah chapter 25, we have a picture of that day. And there is a picture of the marriage feast of the lamb in contrast to the judgment of the demons. On the mountain, the Lord Almighty will prepare a feast of rich food for all peoples, a banquet of aged wine, the best of meals and the finest of wines. That is what we have the hordeurs for tonight at the Lord's Supper, in anticipation of that feast. Well this mountain he will destroy the shroud that enfolds all peoples, the sheep that covers all nations. He will swallow up death forever. The sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears from all faces. He will remove the disgrace of his people from all the earth. The Lord has spoken Well that day they will say, Surely this is our God. We trusted him and he saved us. I love that. It's kind of like, you know, I believe you know It's really true. That's what you're gonna do that day, you know? I I believe this I but you know, there he is, there's glory. It really is true And it will seal to your heart the reality of it. This is the Lord. We trusted in him. Let us rejoice and be glad in his salvation. Now, at that moment, the hand of the Lord will rest on this mountain. But Moab, picturing all the evil powers arrayed against Israel as their enemies, will be trampled under him, as straw is trampled down in the manure. They will spread out their hands in it as a swimmer spreads out his hands to swim. God will bring down their pride despite the cleverness of their hands. He will bring down your high fortified walls and lay them low. He will bring them down to the ground to the very dust. Dan Allender in his book, The Tremper Longman Bold Love, talks about a counseling situation he had, and he's describing the idea of vengeance. He's describing why it is that Romans 12. 9 says, don't take vengeance, but leave room for God's vengeance, which is coming. He was talking to a woman who had been betrayed by her husband, infidelity, in a terrible manner. And he said to her, What would you do to him if you could? And she said I would scream at him for three hours and then I would shoot him. He said, that's nothing. How about you have him lie down in his dung and then you squish his face on it in it being trampled by a herd of horses And he said, she looked at me and said, You are a strange and violent man. And then he said, Lady, I'm doing nothing but telling you what God is going to do to his enemies in Isaiah 25. And his point is this as much as we think and dream about vengeance It is always compromised by our squeamishness and our own guilty consciences. Imagine, he says, a pure vengeance That is neither squeamish nor compromised in its integrity. A God who with perfect hatred Finally comes to judge Satan and the demons for all the destruction and deception and harm and oppression and evil against people that God has made in his image. And then he says, I picture Satan lying before A seemingly unending line of the saints. And those who have given place to the Lord for his vengeance Are at the front of the line to kick Satan in the face before God brings about his final judgment upon the demons. Those who insisted on taking vengeance themselves are toward the rear. And they don't get near the satisfaction because there's not much response after the first couple of millions have had their kicks. Alander says, I want to be toward the front of that line. I want to be toward the front of that line to be able to kick Satan for all that he has done for those that I love. And all the diseases and the tortures and the oppression. And I don't want to miss that opportunity. to join with my Lord in his destruction. You think that's biblical? Why do you think for the last couple of weeks I've given you as a benediction, Romans 1620 The God of peace shall soon crush Satan under what? Your feet You and I, brother and sister, will join with Jesus Christ in that final destruction We're acclaiming his victory and celebrating it. We destroy the evil one who is consigned to the fires of hell forever. And this afternoon, we're going to learn a little bit of what it means to join him in the spiritual warfare and then celebrate that victory tonight as we look back. And look forward to what he's going to do. Let's pray. And so our God, we come And we ask in Jesus' name to give us, Lord, a taste, a sense of the final victory of Jesus Christ. That when you come to destroy Satan and the devil, Satan, we say to you now, you are defeated. You are being driven back You will soon be destroyed. Lord Jesus, we love you because you are the King. You are the victor. May we live, Lord, we pray this week in the light of that victory, to celebrate it by faith. To renounce the deceptions of the evil one who would keep us in bondage and to live in the power of Jesus Christ. For each of the people here in this room, may that be true. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.