Well if nothing else this morning, you'll now know when you sing that hymn what you're singing when you sing about the panoply of God. Pan, all, covering of the armor. And uh so we're studying spiritual warfare in Ephesians chapter six. And um We're taking five weeks out of the particular study of Ephesians 6 on spiritual warfare to look at the person of Satan And what demons are, and to understand more about that. We saw last week that Satan is, first of all, a real person Demons are real. We need to factor them into our understanding of reality when things happen. They may have simply a scientific explanation. They may also have a spirit explanation in terms of cause. We need to put on the lenses we talked about that give us an accurate view of reality that includes both scientific and spirit explanations. We saw that Satan and the demons are extremely powerful. Revelation 12 describes Satan as an enormous red dragon. who swept whose tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky. Just to think of sweeping a third of the stars of our own galaxy would be unbelievable power. But he sweeps a third of the stars, all the stars. Obviously not literal because they're brought to the earth, but it's speaking of great power. And yet we also realize that he is created And therefore, we don't want to overestimate that power. He is limited. He must ask permission from God. The opposite Of Satan is not God, but it is the archangel Michael. So Revelation chapter 12 and verses 7 to 9, we read that Satan and his angels And you read in verse three, threat swept a third of the stars in the sky, we we speculated that possibly Uh that what that refers to, because Revelation 120 says the stars are angels, is that that's possibly saying a third of the angels sided with Satan in his rebellion against the other two thirds that remained faithful. They fought. We read in Revelation twelve, seven to nine, but Satan and his angels were not strong enough, and so they were cast out of heaven. Sometime subsequent to that, human beings were created, and during that time Satan saw an opportunity for revenge. His conceit, his arrogance caused him to think that he could pull a coup and dethrone God. Uh having failed at that, the Bible tells us that All he can hope for now is revenge. And therefore, we've seen that he doesn't really care anything about you personally You're simply a tool, a means to hurt God. Because God has set his heart on his people. God is glorified through his people Satan's chief desire is to rob God of glory, to hurt God, and therefore he attacks you and me as a means of simply getting to God And we need to understand that spiritual warfare that's going on. He therefore is a malicious adversary. It's hard for us to appreciate how malicious he is. One thing that can help is I would recommend to you this book by C. S. Lewis Peralandra in his Space Trilogy. uh because paralandra is the story of um Venus, but it's just uh uh kind of an allegory, a parable. uh to speak of a a world where sin has not yet entered. But you have a Satan figure there who is described by Lewis And in one scene, for instance, he describes that figure as torturing a little creature totally dispassionately. And he when he's finished playing with and torturing this little creature, throws the bloody parts away. And um the hero of this looks at Satan, sees his face And he sees there that the creature begins to smile at him, but it's a smile of death. It's not a smile of any joy, he says it's not even a smile to entice. It's simply a smile that obliterates the notion of goodness. He says he said he looked at the smile and said it was like a devilish smile, but he said, I realized in looking at that smile that that term we use, we use so So s in such an a minimized way because we have never seen a purely devilish smile All of our efforts toward evil, he says, are half-hearted playing at evil compared to this creature. The terrorist attacks on September the eleventh are plain at evil compared to the whole hearted, consuming evil of Satan. in whom there is not a particle of goodness or mercy. No matter how much you would cry out to Satan for relief, for mercy, there is not a shred of anything in him to respond to that. He is only, ever, always a malicious adversary set upon your destruction and my destruction as a way of wreaking revenge upon God. How does he do that? What I want to do is to look at his strategy for the next couple of weeks. And the Bible is very clear that Satan's chief characteristic and strategy is that he is a deceiver. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 11, Paul says to us, put on the full armor, the panoply of God, so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. He's a schemer. And so um there is there is nothing that the Bible tells us so much about Satan and his characteristics as this fact of his deception, his cunning. The very first view we have of Satan is in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 1 Where the Bible says that the serpent was more cunning, more crafty than any other animal in the garden. In Second Corinthians chapter eleven In verse 3, Paul writes, But I'm afraid that just as Eve was deceived by the serpent's cunning, your minds may somehow be led astray. From your sincere and pure devotion to Christ. You came to Christ and you had a sincere, a pure devotion for the Lord Jesus. But in your months and years walking as a Christian, things have gotten a lot more complicated, haven't they? Unanswered prayers and hurts and bitterness and struggle and things that you can't understand. And everything becomes so complicated and tangled. And the effect is that your simple pure devotion to Christ has lost its perspective. So that's Satan wanting to distract you, to confuse you. to drive a wedge between your heart and the Lord Jesus. Paul says, just as he did with Eve, so I'm concerned that he'll do that same thing in your hearts, the same strategy today. to question God's goodness, to question his trustworthiness. Paul says in um 2 Corinthians chapter 2 In verse 9, he's talking about the fellow who had been under discipline in the church, and he says, Make sure that you forgive him, so that we are not outwitted by Satan, who wants to drive a wedge in the body, for we are not unaware, he says, of his schemes, of his desires, his cunning to deceive and to divide Do you remember the Lord Jesus Himself in John chapter 8 in verse 44 described Satan by saying when he's talking to the religious leaders there, You belong to your father the devil, and you want to carry out your father's desire. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies. And Jesus always came to the point, didn't he? Very strong language. He's a liar. And he's the father of lies. And he's always lying to you and to me. Jesus says in Matthew 24, He sends false messiahs and false prophets to deceive even the believers, even the elect. In 1 Timothy chapter 3 We have a clue to why Satan fell. It says that he fell through his conceit. And so therefore Paul says, be careful that you don't ordain a new believer to the office of elder. Lest like Satan he would be conceited and fall. Fall into, he says, the snare of Satan. Once again, his deception, you see. 2 Timothy chapter 2, verse 25 and 26. He says that people who resist biblical teaching are being held under the snare. A snare is a hidden trap. You don't see it until you step on it, you fall into it. It's camouflaged. And he describes uh that if you are resisting, you're not able to receive. You're talking to somebody about what the Bible teaches and they just you see them just oppose it. He says they're being held but in Satan's snare. So pray that he will be they will be released from his captivity in that In Ephesians chapter 4, just before Paul comes to this warning about Satan's schemes, do you remember he described that uh our purpose is that we would be built up to become mature attaining to the measure of the fullness of Christ. That's in contrast, he says in verse fourteen of chapter four, so that we'll be no longer infants. tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there by every wind of teaching, and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. And it's the same word. Of course, who's behind the deceitful scheming? Who's behind this confusing teaching that causes you and your Christian life to be up and down and hot and cold for Jesus Christ? And one time he's the center of your life and you can't do too much for him. And then a week or two later you're depressed and you don't want anything to do with him. You wish he would just Leave you alone and you're hot and you're cold and you're full of joy and you're full of discouragement. You're tossed back and forth. And Paul says that this is the deceit and the dis the scheming of the evil one, using people to teach you things that will confuse you. And so he says you need to be fixed in the body, face-to-face fellowship, verse fifteen, where you are speaking and receiving the truth in love, so that you grow up into Jesus stable. Therefore he says in chapter 6, verse 11, put on the full armor so that you understand and can resist the devil's schemes. Now this morning I want to talk about the schemes of the devil that that focused on basic gospel issues And then next week I want to get into more of the particulars of his temptations in a Christian's life. So, first of all, how does the devil deceive unbelievers? If you're here this morning and and you are finding that this message is hard to understand, it's hard to receive, then realize that uh the Bible says in 2 Corinthians in chapter 4 in verse 4. And I lost it, but there it is. 2 Corinthians 4. 4 The God of this age, that's Satan, the God of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see. The light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Have you ever brought a friend to church who is not a believer and You've been so longing for them to be able to come and hear the gospel and you hear the message and your affections are drawn to Jesus and you see the glory of God in the flesh having come for a sinner like you as a substitutionary sacrifice for your sin and you love him and you trust him and you say, Isn't the gospel wonderful? And you go out with that person and you say, Now do you see why I love Jesus? Your friend looks at you and they say, I didn't understand a word that guy was talking about. Didn't make any sense to me He's up there talking about God and his glory and people without Jesus are going to be judged on it. Man, that just really turns me off. Seems pretty arrogant to me, you guys just think you are the only ones that have the truth and just because a person hasn't heard of Jesus they're gonna go to hell. Doesn't make any sense to me Well you see without the Spirit of God there's no understanding of God's glory and his jealousy for his name and glory and for you and I as his creatures to reflect that, how terrible our self-centeredness and our sin is. To see why it is absolutely necessary for a unique sacrifice of God in the flesh come to die for sinners Is the only way that we can be reconciled to God? None of that makes sense. The God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers to the gospel of the glory of Jesus Christ. And so you can't explain it. You can't make it clear. You try and you try and you realize that only the Spirit is going to be able to open this person's mind. I received an email this week from a couple that's come to CPC for probably a year. I'd spent uh probably ten meetings with this couple in my office, just uh the two of them with me. Talking about the gospel, talking about Jesus Christ. And this week I received an email where they said, um, really appreciate your friendship. But we've decided we're not going to be coming back to CPC because you guys are a little too strict for us. We've decided to go to a church that's a little more tolerant of other people's beliefs And we don't think that this business of Jesus being the only way uh is very tolerant. It it's sort of repugnant to us and so even though we enjoy you and the people were nice, um we're not coming back. It's too narrow. You see, there's just there's no comprehension of their sin and their need for a Savior, Jesus, who offers the forgiveness that only his sacrifice can provide. And so you and I need to recognize as we share our faith that God has to do that. And if you are here this morning and And it's not making sense to you, then I'd say, please, if if you're drawn to this, if God's working your heart to just be interested and want to know more, put on a grace lift I want to understand this better. Get back to me. And then put that in the offering basket. Everybody puts your gray slips in. Yours won't stick out. And we certainly will. Because you see, Satan doesn't only blind your mind to the gospel. The second thing you see there is that he also hardens your heart Now, under uh the B there I didn't get into, he he won't just uh uh blind your mind to the gospel, the negative side, he'll also substitute other things for you to believe In Second Timothy chapter four, verses one and two, uh Paul says that um The Spirit clearly says that in later times some will abandon the faith and follow deceiving spirits and things taught by demons. Such teaching comes through hypocritical liars whose consciences have been seared with a hot iron. If you refuse the gospel, you will have no trouble finding an alternative to believe. Whether it is some form of Christianity without a cross and a savior necessary for your sin, Or whether it is a Christianity that centers on Mary and the Mass rather than Christ and his completed work plus nothing, you will find some self-help idea Some article, some book, some teacher that will have something to appeal to you. Second Thessalonians, by the way, in your outline, it says 1 Tessalonians. It should be 2nd Thessalonians put another rule. Mark there. Second Thessalonians chapter two, verses nine to twelve talks about how those who refuse the gospel God gave to them something else Satan moved in with a deception so that they would believe some other religion, some other philosophy of life. And you see, when that happens It's not just that your mind is closed, but what he also does is to harden your heart. That's point two there. He hardens their hearts. Uh it's sort of like an egg yolk. You kids, uh I don't know if you had eggs this morning, but you know, have you ever had eggs Uh you kids listen up here for a minute, just especially to you. Uh you know if you uh wash that plate right after breakfast, the egg comes off pretty easily, doesn't it? But suppose you leave that plate sitting there for mom to do and she told you to clean it up and you didn't get around to it and you go to school and you come back after school and the plate's still sitting there with the egg yolk on it. What's happened The eggs like cement, isn't it? It's hardened onto the plate. You need, you know, you need a chisel to get that egg off scouring pad, sandpaper, something, but you know, that's really stuck on there because the egg was soft at the beginning, would come off easily But when time goes by, it becomes hardened. And that's the way with your heart. You've come to hear about Jesus at CPC, you've grown up with that. If while you are young, you don't say, sometime later, it's not convenient now, some other time, I've got plenty of time. I want to, someday I need to decide about Jesus in my life. The longer you put that off, the harder your heart becomes. Until like dried egg yolk, your heart becomes rock hard against the gospel. I remember praying with a fellow after an evangelistic meeting back when I was a new Christian, scared boy, scared the sweat out of me. I remember this guy had gone through so many meetings, he had resisted Christ, he wanted to come to Christ. And I remember him pounding the ground, we were outside, pounding the ground, and crying out, I can't believe, I can't believe, I've played with this so long, I can't believe His heart had been hardened. Kids, don't put that off. While your heart is still soft and tender toward Jesus, Before Satan moves in to harden it, to deceive you, to bring other things that seem to make more sense because they allow you to stay on the throne of your life Give your life to Jesus Christ. Talk to mom and dad. Put on the gray slip if you want to talk to me. But make sure that you don't allow them to harden your heart as the years go by. You leave home and still haven't decided, profess your faith in Jesus. He hardens your heart, and what happens when he hardens a person's heart is they not only become hard to the gospel, they become hard toward Christians. They become hard toward Jesus. Do you remember the religious leaders that Jesus appealed to in his day? They didn't just reject his ideas. The Pharisees hated Jesus. And where Satan has his strongholds, when a believer comes, when someone comes to Christ out of that context Then Satan, in particular, vengeance, will bring about persecution. And we're seeing this again and again today. We see this particularly in the Islamic world. One of the things that's being really debated and scrutinized, we can't be deceived in this, is that while there are many Muslims who, as much as you or I would decry the actions of the terrorists on September the 11th, This idea that there is nothing to do with Islam from which they gain their ideas is simply false. Look at the countries of the world where Muslim regimes are in control. And generally in those countries, Christians are persecuted, not only in places like Indonesia and Sudan, which are very well known, but in a place like Ethiopia. Just last Saturday at Presbytery, uh we heard uh we had gotten just the day before an email had come from the missionary who we support, Hailu McConan. Hilou's kind of like uh Uh Dick Barnes in our congregation that commutes to Russia to do ministry. Well, Heina McConan is part of the our sister church in Vienna, Virginia. And he commutes to Ethiopia, stays there for a month or two to teach and disciple and then comes back. Well last week he sent an email in which he described that in this remote village in northern Ethiopia which is an entirely Muslim area, uh there had been a tremendous uh powerful movement of the gospel. A fellow by the name of Muhammad had become a believer. He had influenced many others. Scores of people professed Christ. And the Muslims in that area decided that they could not tolerate that. They began to persecute the Christians. As a result of that, a number of the Christians forsook the faith. They left. There were about sixty that remained faithful to the gospel. Then there was a meeting held by the Muslim leaders in that village. A meeting to strategize what they would do to root out Christianity. They uh accused uh Muhammad, who had changed his name to Abraham. of seeking to um replace Islam with Christianity and therefore uh he was under a sentence and a number of these leaders at that meeting vowed to kill him. While they were discussing this, you talk about spiritual warfare, this is a true story, happened last week. While they were discussing this, a thunderstorm came up Thunder struck a number of the leaders, killing six of the Muslim leaders in that meeting. Including the lightning struck the leader of the meeting and his daughter. Eight others were injured by the lightning strikes. As a result of that, many of those who had departed from the faith came back to the church and said, I think we want to follow Jesus. We changed our mind. So the church recouped and the gospel went forth in power. Abraham, who had been so discouraged by the persecution and felt abandoned and alone, was so strengthened in his faith, he personally went to the funeral of the six Muslims struck by lightning. To communicate his love for them in their sorrow. You talk about spiritual warfare? You see, this is going on all the time, the hardening and the power of our Jesus that is being demonstrated. But not only is that going on to unbelievers, he's also working in believers. And he does two things primarily in the heart of the gospel. The first is to accuse you. Now that we're told in Revelation chapter 12, where it says there in verse 10, Now have come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ. For the accuser of our brothers who accuses them before our God day and night has been hurled down. He's called the accuser. The word devil, diabolos, means accuser. He accuses you, Revelation 12:10 says, before God. That is, he's constantly saying before God, how can you love that loser? That person who is so half-hearted, who is so wimpy in their stand for you, who shames you and compromises you and says they're going to follow you, and they do this and this. And he's constantly pointing up to God all of your flaws. Not only accuses you to God, he accuses you to unbelievers. How many times have you heard somebody say, Well, I I'm not interested in becoming a Christian? I've seen what you guys are like. You're hypocrites What they often sometimes there are people who are hypocrites and are ashamed of blot to the cause of Christ. Oftentimes it's that we are far from perfect And somehow the unbeliever thinks that a Christian ought to look perfect rather than simply as a forgiven sinner who's being changed. And so you are accused In Satan, by Satan, to an unbeliever, to discredit the gospel. Look at the way that person lives. Look at they don't have victory. Look at the lack of joy. Look at them struggling with sin. Look at this. Accusation Or they accuse you to another believer. Satan is constantly accusing us to one another. We see each other's flaws, don't we? We look and we see the other person's imbalanced understanding of Christianity. We're part of a group that really understands things. We've read the right books and we understand. We've gone to the right seminars. And we have the inside track to what the Christian life's all about, and party spirits, and criticism, and superiority. And all this kind of division is Satan's accusations of believers against believers. But the worst thing that he does is that he accuses you to yourself He accuses you to your own conscience. He brings up to you again and again your guilt and your shame, your failures. And you go to Jesus and you confess that and you say, Lord, help me, and you don't get any relief. You just feel worse. You get to a place where you may even find you avoid times of prayer because they just depress you rather than encourage you because you're just reminded of your sin and your failures. You ever have that kind of experience? What do you do? Let me give you a simple test to help you to distinguish whether what you are experiencing in depression, and by the way, you can't rule out physical, chemical causes. for depression, discouragement. So in some case, particularly if this kind of thing runs in your family, get checked out medically in order to see if medication might help in that But if it's not a matter of that, and you just find that you are discouraged and you're full of guilt and shame and the gospel doesn't help But you're saying this is the convicting work of the Holy Spirit. I'm just seeing my sin, which I'm playing around with. How do you tell whether it is the Spirit's convicting you or Satan's accusing you? Very simple. When the Holy Spirit convicts you of sin, he will show you the sin, but then he will bring you to the cross, and you will find relief in the gospel of Christ's forgiveness. If when you go to the cross you still don't find relief, that's the accusation of the evil one. What do you do in such a case? I would suggest you speak back to him. I think sometimes that we as Christians are too loath to address Satan as Martin Luther did That's what John Newton, who was a slave trader. John Newton, who had certainly, if anybody, a cause as a Christian to feel shame and guilt for his past and the vile way he had treated fellow human beings. He used to hang people up by their thumbs and enjoy hearing them pop out of their sockets. This guy was cruel. This is John Newton. Now there's a man who would be accused and who would constantly see, how can I, what a wretch I am, call myself a Christian? It was John Newton that wrote the hymn that we sang just a few minutes ago. When Newton says, Be thou my shield and hiding place, that sheltered near thy side, I may my fierce accuser face and tell him thou hast died And I've counseled more than one Christian who has said I'm discouraged and I'm up and then I'm down, and what do I do? And I say, talk out loud to Satan Quote scripture to him. Tell him, I refuse your accusations because, and then speak the scripture that speaks the gospel. I think sometimes we let these thoughts just remain vague and troubling rather than getting them clear and recognize that we have an adversary who's accusing us. Take the scripture, believe his reality, renounce his accusations through the gospel of Christ, and enjoy your freedom, brother and sister. Amen. Also, probably the most insidious thing is that Satan wants to distort the gospel in your life. And that's the final thing, to distort the gospel, to make you like that child tossed to and fro by every wind and wave of teaching Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 11 in verse 14 that Satan himself masquerades as an angel of light He goes on to talk about how through his emissaries he confuses us by distorting the gospel. I can recall uh early days of Columbia Presbyterian, a dramatic conversion of a woman who had been on this long torturous spiritual pilgrimage. And she found rest in Christ, and she rejoiced, rejoiced in her salvation, became a core part of our body, and was very active and a leader in ministry. And uh at a particular point she began to interact with some Jehovah's Witnesses, in order to witness to them, of course. And then As she began to do that, she began to get into the studies with him, and as she began to do that, she began to be influenced by the teaching. And after a while, she began to be convinced that their understanding of the gospel was superior and called as false prophets and finally left to join with the Jehovah's Witnesses. Not grounded, not rooted. And Satan is able to distort and twist the gospel in her life. Does he do that with you? He loves to take the gospel of pure grace and mix it with self-salvation, human effort, so that you have to prove your worthiness to God. So somehow you need to establish yourself and your reputation. Self-salvation is not just something that the unbeliever does, it's something that's a constant temptation. And the way to detect this is to notice how you respond to criticism. If somebody criticizes you What is your heart's response? That'll help you to understand whether you're resting in the finished work of Christ or whether you're mixing your own reputation. See, if you're threatened by the criticism, if you need to establish That you're really a good person, you're misunderstood, you're better than they're saying, and you find yourself getting worked up about that. That shows you where your righteousness, where your hope really rests. Now suppose my wife says to me that I haven't been very supportive, and that I haven't really been listening to her. I've been pretty self-centered and thoughtless. I'm not saying she has said this to me, of course, but just let's suppose she had said that to me recently. Now how I would respond, you see, do I need to say Well no, you know, give me a break. I think I've been pretty thoughtful. I mean no not perfect, but you know better than some guys I know, and you know, I try to listen to you and defend, defend, defend. Why Because I've lost hold of the fact that I have an infinite supply of righteousness in Jesus Christ. The pure gospel enables me to say to her Yeah, I understand that I can be pretty thoughtless and self-centered, and I know I don't listen to you always the way I need to, and I can be pretty unsupportive. If that's evident to you, I want to understand how it has hurt you. So that you can show me my need for Jesus more clearly, and out of that I can love you better. Believe that's what I say? Is that my first response? Is that your first response? Why? Because Satan takes the gospel and he twists it in your understanding to make it a mixture of grace. And your worthiness, your efforts. Let me ask you this morning, where is Satan deceiving you? Where is he twisting it in your mind and your heart? Recognize it. Recognize it. And come back to Jesus. Let's pray And so, Father, if there's anyone here who's blinded to the gospel, we pray that you would open their eyes to see the glory of Jesus Christ for sinners. They would not put that off. But Lord, if you're speaking to them, they'd put on the gray slip, speak to me. I want to get this settled For those of us who have been laboring under accusation and we don't want to witness, we we find we are not drawn to come near to you. We flee you because our hearts are constantly accusing us, accusing us. Satan has gotten us under the accusation that so robs us of joy. Lord, we pray reveal his deceptions and show us Christ. For those of us twisting and distorting the gospel, mixing it with our self-efforts, show us, Lord, how to rest in your infinite righteousness. And to live out of that. Lord, we renounce the deceptions of the evil one, and we rest in Jesus Christ. For it's in his name we pray. Amen.