Well, we are continuing our study from Ephesians 6 on spiritual warfare by the little sub-series that we've been going through here now on some basic stuff that you need to know about Satan. Today is part three on that. as we are looking at Satan the deceiver. Sorry, I don't have time to do any review. I got a lot of stuff I want to cover this morning uh to get through this, so you just have to look at the outline there or get a tape from uh the back table or from Paul Ison to be able to catch up But we are looking now at Satan the deceiver, and that's based on Ephesians chapter 6, verse 11, where Paul tells us, put on the full armor of God. So that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. The devil is full of schemes. He is a deceiver. You see those verses that are used there? to show you how many times there's others that the scripture says that Satan is a liar, he is a deceiver. And so this morning I want to continue. Last week we looked at some ways he deceives unbelievers, and then a couple of ways that he deceives Christians. I want to now continue beyond those two to share with you another eight ways that Satan deceives you. These are not the only eight, these are simply examples. How do I know of these ways? Well, I get them from looking at my own heart and how he's deceived me, and I get them from looking at what Scripture says But there are many, many other examples. In fact, when Martin Lloyd Jones preached through Ephesians and he came to this verse He got so carried away, preached 26 messages on this verse that filled a 373-page book. Twenty-six ways that Satan deceives us. So I'm not even taking any of those ways. I'm taking a totally different approach, but I just want to Help you to understand this is not intended in any way to be exhaustive about how he deceives us. He deceives different people in different ways. There are myriads of strategies. But His goal is always the same. And the goal is to avenge his being hurled with all of his hosts out of heaven. Do remember from Revelation chapter twelve, we read in verse nine, The great dragon was hurled down, that ancient serpent called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled to earth and his angels with him, possibly a third of the entire heavenly host. All of his angels that he had persuaded in this rebellion are with him. Hurled by Michael and his angels who were remaining faithful to God, all hurled down to earth. So he is avenging that expulsion. And he is not able to assault God directly. So what he does is the nearest thing possible. He assaults those who are made in God's image and who are precious to him. In Isaiah, we read that when we are afflicted, God is afflicted with us. So Satan is attempting to hurt God, he is jealous of his glory, he is jealous of his control And he seeks to thwart that glory by attacking you and me, by assaulting us. At the end of Revelation 12, verse 17, we read, Then the dragon was enraged at the woman. The woman is the church. And went off to make war against the rest of her offspring, those who obey God's commandments and hold the testimony of Jesus. That's you. That's now. That's today. And so Satan is seeking to assault you by his primary strategy of deceiving you right now. Today, this week, and I want to give now eight examples of how he does that. How does he influence you? Well The Bible isn't real clear about that, but we do have a few clues. And it seems that the way he deceives you and the way he influences you Is that he is able to make suggestions to your mind that you receive, that you hear, For instance, in 1 Chronicles chapter 21, don't bother turning to it, but in 1 Chronicles, you might just jot it down to look at later. 1 Chronicles 21, verse 1. We read that Satan rose up against Israel and incited David to take a census of Israel. He incited him. He made a suggestion. It was an evil suggestion, appealed to David's pride, and so there were consequences that were negative for Israel. He's able to incite you to make suggestions. Now here is where you need to make a very important distinction because Satan has a field day with us on this Evil thoughts that pop into your mind are not sin. That may come as a shock to you, but You will have thoughts. Do you ever wake up or just all of a sudden this thought pops into your mind? It can be a lustful thought, blasphemous thought, evil thought And you think, where in the world that come from? The thought itself is not evil, I mean it's not sin, because it is A suggestion from one of the demons, from the demonic persons who are around you. It's how you respond to that thought That determines whether it is sin or whether it is not. Whether you hate that thought and say, I want that out of my mind. Help me, Jesus. Or whether you indulge that thought and play with it and pursue it. Makes all the difference, you see. And what Satan wants to do is he wants to as soon as that thought comes to your mind that he's placed there And then you think, how can I call myself a Christian and have a thought like that? And particularly all the years I've walked with the Lord, how can a mature Christian have an evil, blasphemous, lustful thought like that? So he says, yeah, you call yourself a Christian. You're pathetic. And so he accuses you, you see. Now you need to renounce that. You need to make that distinction. Let me give you another example. In Acts chapter 5, do you remember Ananias and Sapphira, like the other disciples? They chose to sell some of their property And they chose to keep some of it theirself, no problem. But they lied in saying they were giving it all. Peter says to Ananias, How have you allowed Satan to fill your heart so that you lied against the Spirit, you see? You allowed him to fill your heart. He came in, made the suggestion But Ananias, you played with it. You allowed that suggestion to fill your heart. Another example, in John chapter 13, verse 2, we're told that Satan prompted Judas to betray Jesus. Satan could have refused that, could have resisted that. Paul tells us, Ephesians 6, resist the devil and his schemes. Judas, of course, had been playing with that idea, continued to play with it. And so by the time you get down to Acts, John chapter 13, verse 27, it says, so Satan entered into him. That's pretty sobering, isn't it? You play around with sin. You play around with sinful thoughts, they begin to enter into you And after a while, Satan finds his way into your life through that sinful pattern of thinking and controls your thinking. Now, what are the ways that he does this? Here are some, again, just a few examples of how he enters in, the kinds of things he suggests to deceive us. Talked about as accusing us, and talked about as distorting the gospel. Third example is to deceive you by getting you to forget your identity. Identity in the blank there. Forget your identity. The Bible is very clear in Ephesians that without Jesus Christ, chapter 2, verse 12, you are without God and without hope in this world. You live by the law. You have no other choice. Without Christ, you only can live by the law. And so that means that you must keep proving yourself. In order to be desirable to other people or to God. You've got to keep working at that. Keep trying to prove yourself, but you're not able to And so if you recognize that, by God's grace you come to Jesus Christ, and you recognize He is the only one who can be acceptable and desirable. and you enter into him by faith and trust his finished work, then you become a new creature. You have a new identity. And Ephesians chapter 1 through 3 describes that new identity. You don't look different, but you're kind of like that frog that's really a prince or a princess, you know. Someday it's going to be revealed that you're not really a frog You know, like I am and like you are at times, you know, the way we look, but we really have there is a glory We are made in God's image so that there's that vestige of glory, but there is a new glory that will come when Jesus causes our identity, our true identity, to be visible. But if you want to know that identity, you need to read in Ephesians 1 to 3 to understand it by faith at this point. Satan is constantly trying to get you to forget that. To get you back to that place where you're always trying to prove yourself in order to be desirable. So the best way to counteract that is to read over and over and over passages like Ephesians 1 to 3. Now, last week on the gray slip Sunday, you know, I get these questions after these messages. One of the questions said, uh, do you have any suggestions for what we could say when we speak back to Satan when he accuses us? And uh as a matter of fact, uh yeah I do. Uh if you take Ephesians chapter 1 and go through verse by verse, you start at the beginning, for instance. And so Satan is saying that, you know, you really are a nobody who nobody really cares for, and you really need to prove yourself, and on and on and on. And you speak back after the greeting there, Ephesians 1 verse 4 He, the Father, chose me in him, Christ, before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. Take that, Satan. No? I mean, that's truth. You see, you can choose whether to believe that and enter into that truth or to believe the lie. And so, first thing, he's always trying to get you to forget your identity, respond to him with the truth of the gospel and believe that. Speak it to him out loud. Enter into it. Fourth example is that he's telling you that you are an orphan. Satan whispers, you're totally on your own, you know. You need to protect yourself and take care of yourself. And in this dangerous world full of fears and anxieties and threats, there's nobody going to take care of you unless you take care of yourself. He wants to get you to start thinking like a victim. And so you get in the mail like I got this week a little card from the post office. Postmaster general hasn't written me for a long time. I got this card and you got it What should make me suspect a piece of mail? What should I do with a suspicious piece of mail? You know, I read this thing and I thought, what are all the emotions of all the people all over the country that are reading this? You see, if I'm an orphan, then I say, well, you know, by chance maybe I'll get that letter with the anthrax, and who knows what I'm gonna do, and boy, I better stop opening my mail. I got you know, worry, worry, worry and fret Now, if I'm a Christian and I believe that I'm a child of God, you know Ephesians 1. 4 right goes on to the next verse. It says, In love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and his will. That means that he delighted to do it. He wasn't under any constraint to do it. He chose to adopt you as his child. You can call him Heavenly Daddy. And he'll take care of your family. Father, I'm not by chance whether I get a letter or package or anything else with anthrax or any other attack This life's temporary anyway. Who knows how I'll go out, but I'm not under chance. My Heavenly Father is there to call upon And Satan's always whispering, you're on your own. You're on your own. And I've got the scripture to tell me the Spirit says, You're a child of the Heavenly Father in Jesus. You're a child of the Heavenly Father. What you going to believe? You've got to renounce the deceptions and choose to believe the truth, girding on the belt of truth, he says in the first piece of armor. Another example, fifth. He's trying to deceive us and say we're peace. What I mean by saying we're peace is that life is really just a sleepy hometown during peacetime. You can leave your doors unlocked, you don't have to be on alert. But what's the Bible say? In 1 Peter chapter 5, in verse 8, Peter tells me that I need to be self-controlled and alert. That my enemy, the devil, is prowling around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. Satan's always saying, nah, that's not true. Come on, give me a break. You can relax. I'm not after you. Wants to get us to relax. We're at peace, you see. The Bible says we're at war. The Bible says this whole life that we live is war. And that war is punctuated by battles that are called in verse 13, the evil day. The evil day is when the assaults by the demons intensify on your life. James talks about those as the day of trial. James says that you can resist the devil and he'll flee from you. There's times he comes and times that he goes. Even with Jesus, do you remember after the wilderness when Jesus was assaulted by Satan, it says, after that time the devil left him. But we're always to be on the alert because life is constant warfare. And here you see an amazing analogy to contemporary events. On the morning of September the 11th, we believed we were at peace. And we had an abrupt and evil and shocking awakening to the fact we weren't really at peace, we were at war, we just didn't know it. There had been people who had declared war on us, but it's not a war like we've ever known, where there's a frontline, where there is an enemy who may be pursued for negotiations. You see, if there had been this kind of terrorist warfare, I'm sure Paul would have used this as his example in Ephesians 6, because this is exactly an amazing analogy to what we're in. Spiritual warfare is where you have unseen enemies who are out to destroy you, who are not interested in negotiations. And they're always ready to sneak up, as 1 Peter says, to devour. And often, usually, by deceptions. Speaking lies to get you off guard. Remember a friend of mine, a pastor who nearly lost his church in a terrible Terrible vilification of his character and all the rest of that. And I asked him after he had gone through that and God had worked to preserve his ministry, preserve the church, and I said, What did you learn from that? He thought for a moment, he said, Satan doesn't fight fair. It was the sneakiest, most insidious thing. And he said, I thought that if I if I just could fight fair, then things would work out. But he said, Satan doesn't fight fair. He's evil, malicious. He wants you to always get you off guard Wants you to think that you're a peace. Sixth example. Hell is overstated, if it even exists. Satan wants to deceive you, and this is one of his most important deceptions, that the lost are not really lost. The church is so lulled today that I'm sure I could get a number of you upset at me. By telling you that some of the people in your family who are very nice people, who have never bowed to Jesus Christ and trusted him. Are headed for hell? And some of your neighbors who are very nice people are headed for hell without Jesus Christ Ephesians 2 verse 3 says that without Christ we are objects of God's wrath. That's what God says. I didn't make it up. Ephesians 2. 12 says that without Christ we're without God and without hope in the world. Then Ephesians 5 is even more specific Because it it says, let no one deceive you. You see, you're going to be tempted to be deceived in this with empty words Because of such things, immorality, lust, idolatry, God's wrath comes on those who are disobedient. The church is all but lost. The compelling nature of how lost lost people really are. The people that were here on Friday night, some of our friends and our neighbors Mixing together, and we're all having a great time. But some are headed by the sheer grace of God through Jesus Christ to heaven. And others are headed to hell. And Satan doesn't care how much we do in ministry. He doesn't care how busy we are as a church. As long as people are not being rescued out of his kingdom of death and brought into the kingdom of Jesus Christ to life through CPC, he doesn't give a rip. He wants to deceive you and me, to think that hell is not really an issue. And he doesn't do it rationally. He does it by just convincing us that the idea of hell is outmoded. By reminding us of the Elmer Gantry figures and others who used scare tactics to manipulate people with visions of hell, fire, and brimstone. And so we say, well, nobody really believes. That's kind of embarrassing. But of course it doesn't deal with the question of whether it's real or not. Jesus Christ believed in a literal real hell. One of Satan's greatest deceptions is to lull you and me into thinking that's greatly overstated if it even exists. Seventh example is to follow what you want to believe. To follow the things that you want to believe that are easier than the hard edge of uncompromising truth of God's Word. The way we want things to be And so Ephesians 4, verses 18 and 19 talk about those whose minds are darkened because they refuse the truth and they want to indulge themselves and become more and more insensitive. So we become blind. Ephesians 5:6, deceived with empty words. Do you remember the sermon I preached in August? Those of you around then, that's where you plug it in. Remember, it talked about the lying prophet, 1 Kings 13. Guys remember that? Remember the man of God came up, delivered the word, God said, Come straight home, don't stop, don't eat, go back a different way And this guy who is a prophet of God comes and says, Come on back, have lunch with me. Well, no, no, God told me I had a good no no no no. Angel told me it's okay. Oh, really? Well, I am kind of hungry. It'd be nice. Okay. See, things we want to believe. He was judged for it When Satan tempted Jesus in the wilderness, what did he do? He appealed to his hungers. He hadn't eaten. He said, See those stones? They'd look pretty good if they were loaves of bread, wouldn't they? You know you could do that. You know, you look at this cross, uh, you know what the cross is like? You know you don't really have to do that. Just fall down and worship me. I'll I'll give you the kingdom right here and now. Easy as that. See It's always got some easier way. Remember, Jesus was talking to the disciples in Matthew 16 about his sufferings and his death? Peter says, Oh no, no, no, Lord. No, never. Jesus immediately turned and he said, Get me behind, get behind me, Satan. We are not savoring the things of God. What was Jesus saying there? Jesus was understanding that Satan was now using his trusted friend. To deceive him, to get him to choose the way that was easier, the way he wanted to believe would be possible. And Jesus had to immediately renounce it Lest it begin to enter into his heart. Satan uses trusted, mature Christians. To mislead us. You believe that? Who use the person that you know cares for you, the person that is dear to you, the person that seems like a mature Christian, to mislead you? Let me ask you, is there some area of your life this morning where you have been trying so hard to convince yourself That you could go down that road, but you haven't quite been able to square it with Scripture. You've gone around asking people for their advice, you're looking to hear what you want to hear. So that you can seize on that, but you can't quite persuade yourself. Recognize that could be Satan Seeking to get you to believe what you want to believe rather than what the Word of God tells you But he also gives you a promise that there is no temptation that's taken you that's unique to you, but that's not common to human nature. And he will provide a way of escape so that you can bear it. Faith example. He wants to persuade you that your satisfaction is in your idols. That this life is really home. And the way you're going to satisfy yourself is really to satisfy yourself with the things in this life. That's really where it's at. This Tuesday was a day of prayer for the staff and I was out in this one particular place and I walked past and it was a Mercedes-Benz 450, you know, the Mercedes-Benz. On the bumper was a little sticker that said, Life is too short to sail an ugly boat. And I thought, I know exactly where you're coming from. Hey man, this life is all there is. It's too short to have an ugly boot. I gotta have a big, beautiful boot We all want a taste of Eden restored, don't we? And Satan whispers, you can have it. You can have it here, and you can have it now. Why do you think there are 1. 5 billion credit cards in circulation in the United States with an average balance of $5,000 per card? Because the imposter idols are always whispering, you can satisfy your heart here and now And it may be that thing you have to have, or it may be sports, or it may be sports on TV vicariously. Or it may be an SUV, though you'll never take it in the wilderness. Or it may be gourmet coffee or chocolates or jelly beans or whatever it is that I've got to have. Because it dulls the pain. And it it dulls the hope of heaven Satan wants to deceive you. That this is home. Ninth example that you are self-sufficient I had written that, and then after that, I happened to read a survey on Friday that said a recent survey was done. It said that 92% of Americans surveyed say that they are self-sufficient. I guess it's working. He whispers to you that you're self-sufficient You need to prove yourself, you see. It's demeaning to be dependent. And so he gets you to ignore the reading of God's Word because Well you basically understand it. You think you know how you can live, you're not that foolish, and so even though he says that you need to gird your mind with truth, that you need to buckle. Ephesians 14, yourself with the belt of truth, which is the sword of the spirit, verse 17, you say, well, yeah, that's good, but I don't get the time. And even though you don't consciously say I'm self-sufficient, I don't need to read the Bible, what you're really saying when you neglect Bible reading and go for days or weeks without study, memorization, meditation, fixing your mind on these truths in order to dispel the accusations and the deceptions is unreally self-sufficient. Last month I read a very interesting book. By the way, one of my idols is Books and Music. I recognize that. I didn't recognize it so much until I started working on the series, you know, but I realize when I get under stress I know when I'm under stress and not looking to Jesus, when I get up and before I've even shaved, I start thinking about the book I can read that night. I'm looking forward to the next chapter of, you know I think, why am I doing it? I can put on a CD and I can why and that's how I'm you know anesthetizing pain or stress, the imposter idols that grip me. Well now, it was still a good book. Um and I'm not saying that the idols are wrong. It's when they become idols, when I have to have them Anyway, I read this book last month, Into the Wild. The story about this guy, Chris McCandless. I don't know how many of you have read it, but it it's kind of a guy book, but you know, some of you women may like it And uh Chris McCandless really needed to prove that he was self-sufficient. In fact, he after college he graduated just a few years ago, so I think it was in Georgia And so he uh took off, burned his money, and uh headed off for the wilderness. Simply go around to various wilderness spots and live off the land. Finally headed up to Alaska. For his one last demonstration before he decided maybe he'd come back to civilization, decided he would take off into the wilderness just north of Denali, Mount McKinley. And he would just live there to show he was utterly self-sufficient, needed no one and nothing to depend on. In fact, he refused to take a map. No map. He stopped into the library at the University of Alaska and read about edible plants. But he wasn't going to buy a book. He just memorized it, took off. Crossed a river going into the wilderness in the spring, no big problem, forded the river, went in, and lived for a couple of months. Simply off the land. Amazing self-sufficiency. Decided he'd had enough, he was going to head back. At this point, the river was a raging torrent because of the melt water No problem, go back and wait it out. If he had had a topographical map, he would have seen that a half a mile down that river was a cable crossing, that he could have gotten back to safety. But he didn't need a map. He went back and he lived and was doing okay until he ate one part of a plant that he hadn't quite memorized correctly And it robbed his body of nutrition rather than giving it, and he starved to death in the wilderness. It found his body months later. The epitome of self-sufficiency. And some of us need to be self-sufficient We don't consciously say it, but by not reading the Bible, by not taking time to pray, you know, Satan is the god of noise. He wants to keep you busy, busy, busy, busy Your heart thrives on truth in quiet. You need to turn off the noise. This week. Get into his word. Fill your mind with truth to be able to speak against the deception so that you can recognize them, so that you can pray, recognizing, Jesus, I need you. To resist the evil one. I am not self-sufficient. I need the body. I need my brothers and sisters to help me in that. You are not self-sufficient So the final thing, the final way he wants to deceive you is through doubts, discouragements, and feelings of worthlessness. At some point You wake up and you realize your foolishness, of your self-sufficiency, of your imposter idols, and all the rest of that, and what happens? For so many of us, instead of turning to Jesus, I begin to be filled with doubts. I'm full of discouragement, self-loathing, self-hatred. And that drives me further away from Jesus. Boy am I pathetic. And I feel so isolated and so alone. You ever feel like that? See, Satan wants to get you in that position. It's at that very point you need to preach the gospel to yourself that you need the words of 1 Peter chapter 5. Where it tells you to be self-controlled and alert, your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. Resist him Standing firm in the faith because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kind of sufferings. And notice this The God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you have suffered a while, will himself restore you, make you strong. And steadfast. To him be the power forever and ever. And all God's people said, Amen. Learn how to recognize. The deceptions. Learn how to resist the deceptions with truth. And when you're fallen, learn how to be restored by coming right now to Jesus Christ, who alone. Can make you strong, firm, steadfast, acceptable in his finished work. Let's go to him. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we come to you and we ask you to teach us even today how to learn to recognize the deceptions of Satan. Even begin, Lord, after this service, to jot down as we notice and recognize the ways that He again and again and again deceives us with lies. To learn how to resist Him with truth. And to learn, Lord Jesus, you alone are our restoration and our strength. You are our salvation. You are our righteousness. We are complete in you, and we are helpless without you. Deliver us from the folly of our self-sufficiency. That we might cleave to you and know your protection, to know your love, to know our new identity in Jesus Christ. To know that we're your children, that this isn't home, that Jesus will end this war so soon when he comes to declare the peace and final victory. May we go in that faith in Jesus' name.