Message in the series on the Song of Songs. Just want to remind you that it is possible for me to preach a brief series. 125 messages on five chapters of Ephesians, only sixteen on eight chapters of the Song of Songs. It can be done. And by the way, I understand that an album of those cassettes will be available soon from the office if anybody is interested. You recall that I have argued throughout this series that I believe the best interpretation of the song is to see it as a series of related songs, an album of snapshots about a particular couple in roughly chronological order, Solomon and his first love. We saw their courtship back in chapters 1 to 3. We got invited to the wedding in chapter 3 and saw the honeymoon, chapter 4, beginning of verse 5, then moved into the marriage where love cooled and was rekindled. We saw a deepening intimacy because there was forgiveness and healing. We've watched all of this. Last message. We looked at reflecting back on that, chapter 8, verses 5 to 7, the seven P's of Love, to describe what true love is like, seven characteristics. This morning, in conclusion, I offer to you five more peas. Now I really didn't have to come up with 12 peas. And I don't know if that's an alliterative all-time record, but um yes nevertheless you got twelve P's here, five more P's on the lessons, five lessons about love and life. And here there is something for everybody. First point, first lesson is to parents of young children. Second, particularly to teenagers, but all singles. Third one to all singles and also to teenagers. Fourth one to older married, and then fifthly to all Christians. Here's how we ended up. Let's hear then God's word again. Song of Songs, chapter 8, beginning with verse 8, God's word to you. We have a young sister, and her breasts are not yet groom. What shall we do for our sister for the day she has spoken for? If she is a wall, we will build towers of silver on her. If she is a door, we will enclose her with panels of cedar. I am a wall, and my breasts are like towers, thus I have become in his eyes like one bringing contentment. Solomon had a vineyard in Baalhaman. He let out his vineyard to tenants. Each was to bring for its fruit a thousand shekels of silver. But my own vineyard is mine to give. The thousand shekels are for you, O Solomon, and two hundred are for those who tend its fruit. You who dwell in the gardens, with friends in attendance, let me hear your voice. Come away, my lover, and be like a gazelle or like a young stag on the spice-laden mountains. And you're wondering, how in the world is he going to make sense out of that? Okay, let's get started. Time moves quickly. First lesson to parents. The lesson of personalized parenting. Verses 8 and 9. Personalized parenting. Here I offer another evidence that this is one coherent story. You see that verses 8 and 9 are spoken by her brothers Brothers, in place of a father, you remember that in chapter 3, verse 4, she referred to home having a mother, no father. Chapter 8, verse 2, Home has mother, no father. Chapter 1, verse 6, she's under the authority of her brothers. Okay, it's possible. that of an independent collection of various love songs that Solomon would have assembled and pulled together, it just so happens that none of the women had any father that was alive and they were under the authority of their brothers. But I don't think it's very likely that that would have been the norm and that would have been what was true. There's no exceptions to that. I think it's more likely that um this is about this particular woman, and that was the situation. Um no lesson is drawn from her not having a father, so I think it was just simply that was the historical situation. And I think there's some significance to how this is tied to chapter 1, verse 6, but I'll get to that in a moment. For right now I want you to just notice The lesson here for parents, these brothers are speaking in the place of parents, and there are three lessons of personalized parenting. First of all, to plan ahead. You see in verse 8, we have a young sister, her breasts are not yet grown, she's before puberty, she's not yet a teenager. What are we going to do for our sister? For the days to spoken for. Um what are we going to do when the boys start coming around like bees around honey? And uh there's going to be that one guy that she will say, this guy is just too cool for words, and her heart will be captured. What are we going to do? We've got to think about that now, you see. You don't say, hey, I I can't even think about my kids being teenagers. I'll deal with it when it comes. A little late at that point to start pulling together a strategy. Many years ago, Gordon MacDonald said that parenting was kind of like going down a river doing whitewater rafting. And I thought of that the first time I actually did whitewater rafting. Unfortunately, the first time I did whitewater rafting on the Yucca Gene River It had rained for two weeks before, straight, and the water was four or five feet above normal and uh was going down, it looked like about thirty or forty miles an hour Well let's put it this way. And they said get in the raft. There was there was only there were two other people that I knew in the raft. One was my son, the other was Dick Stum The others I didn't know. And he said, paddle around, get to know each other so you kind of, you know, can form a team and decide who's the captain and get used to the water. Well, We got in the raft, pushed off, as soon as we pushed off from land, right down a river. You know what I mean? It was nothing. And I'm just sort of grabbing my paddle and as we hit the first rapid, I yell out, Dick, you're the captain. He was the only guy that had been in a raft before. I watched two bodies fly off the raft on both both sides of me as we hit the first rapid. That's not the way to whitewater wrath. It's not the way to parent, you know. He's saying, you know, that's not saying that you buy a t uh a book on raising teenagers when the kids being baptized and say, okay, study this now and get it all down. What they're saying though is there's a point when you say we've got to look ahead. And we've got to, you know, what's coming down the river here? Plan the strategy. And that's what they're doing. Now, second notice that they're planning righteously. They say in verse 9, there's two possibilities here. If she's a wall, we'll build towers of silver on her If she's a door, then we'll enclose her with panels of cedar. The wall is saying she's going to have strength to resist these boys. She's going to operate by her convictions. If that's the case, then we will beautify her. We will enhance her beauty, giving her freedom that she's able to handle as she becomes a young woman. On the other hand, if she's a door and she opens up to let boys in, you know, and they don't have to spell that out. In fact, uh chapter four and verse twelve, it's quite clear what that means. Remember on the honeymoon he had said to her You are a garden locked up, my sister, my bride. You're a spring enclosed, a sealed fountain. So the door is the opposite of that. You know, she's just gonna let the boys in. She's not gonna operate by the convictions, but by their persuasiveness and their words and all the rest of this. And they say, if if we see indications of that, that she can't handle freedom, we're gonna be the wall. We're gonna guard her. We're gonna panel her We're going to protect her. We're not going to allow her to do something foolish that she's going to regret. That's very different from the common practice today of you only just let the kids decide. You know. I don't know how many of you saw on the Flyer this week there was an article on a girl who uh wanted to make a statement. in uh high school in the county. And so she uh got a friend of hers and they jumped up on the table in the cafeteria and engaged in a twelve second kiss together, her and her girlfriend. And uh the flyer interviewed the mother, you know, we think about that, which got suspended for two days, exhibitionism disruption Yeah, cafeteria went wild. Mother said, Well, you know, I support her decision. That was her decision. Let her do what she wants to do. See, these guys are not doing it. And that reminds me, see, that was the verse that I offered to the Somers for Inga. I meant to baptize her Ingrida. Which is her name. I I used to call her Inga, so it's Ingrida. Anyway, the verse in Proverbs speaks right to that. You see Proverbs 4 verse eleven I will guide you, I'll teach you the way of wisdom, I will lead you, I will cause you to walk, is literally what it says. I will cause you to walk along straight paths That's your job and my job as parents of young covenant children. I will cause you to walk in this path. We used to say that to our kids, you know. You get older, you're gonna have choices. Right now, we cause you to walk in this path. And so that is their task, but that changes through the years as they grow older. They need to Adopt it. And so two verses later, son, hold on to the instruction. Don't let it go. Guard it, for it's your life. Verse 27. Don't swerve to the right or to the left. You'll keep your foot from evil. See, this is something you need to do. Now you see that principle then here in the song where they're saying we are going to build towers or enclose her So that we are able to shape her character for a peaceful marriage, to cause her to follow wisdom But you notice thirdly that they do it flexibly. They don't read a book and it says, here's how to discipline kids and You take take that and you're whatever it says, yes, you just kind of apply it, there it is, you know, plug it in and out it comes. Uh but they say, you know, there's possibilities she'll be a wall, she'll know how to handle responsibly her freedom or she may be inclined to be a door. She's not mature enough, doesn't have that that character to do that. So we've got to respond to her heart So important that we don't mechanically, woodenly apply principles. Each kid is different Brothers and sisters are different, right? You know, I once knew a guy, had two sons. The first son was very mature, handled responsibility and freedom. He hardly ever had a discipline. The kid just kind of grew up, you know, mature. The second kid, he's decided, hey, I got this parenting thing down, you know. What I did with this kid, that's what you do. He said he does the exact same thing with the second kid. Second kid wasn't like the first kid. Second kid was of a rebellious, compulsive, uh impulsive sort of nature, wild And um so uh you know he just kept trying to apply the same principles and it wasn't working. Finally kid got the license and he was able to drive and things were really getting out of hand. One Friday night he said You're grounded, that's it. Can't get out Done, tired of trying to deal with this. So the kid took the keys to the family car in the garage, drove it through the wall, into the family room, and outside the other side of the family room. Did twenty-five, thirty thousand dollars of damage to the house and car. Uh, you can't deal with kids all the same. Um so there is a flexibility in how they are responding, depending on how she is, is how we are. Kids you gotta give us some slack, you know, as parents we you know We hate to practice on you, but you know, you're the only kids we have, and so understand we don't do it all perfectly. But we're trying to get to your hearts. It's not behavior that you want to shape. It's the hearts of the kids, right? You want the gospel to come into their hearts. And that's what they're aiming at here. They're trying to get to her heart, depending on how she responds. So principles for parents of young kids, seek their hearts. Second principle, second lesson. This one's now to you teenagers. I want to say a couple words to you, but to singles in general, but particularly teenagers, principle of peace from purity. Peace from purity. That's verse 10. You know, you read verse 8 and 9, you think, well, what was her response? We don't have to wonder, don't have to guess, because she tells you. She says, I'm a wall. And my breasts are like towers. Now, the Hebrew is a perfect, and I think it's better translated into past tense. So instead of I am, it's better I was. I was a wall. She's looking back now years later, you see, as a married woman. She's saying, I was a wall. I was able to handle that. And it wasn't because I wasn't attractive. It wasn't because I wasn't physically attractive. She goes on to spell that out a little bit, you know But you remember that what her refrain has been, chapter 2, verse 6, all that his left hand was under my head and his right arm was embracing me. This is a guy she's not married to. That's her longing. But then, immediately next verse, chapter 2, verse 7. Oh, I adjure you. You know, you deers and you rose. Do not awaken or or provoke or prematurely arouse love until it is time for it, until it desires. Chapter 3 verse 5 After her dream of him, same thing. So When the boys came around and they were able to say, you know, this is I just love you and it just feels so right, and all that, she was able to say, no, no. going to operate out of conviction, not out of urge, out of what seems irresistible at this moment. I was a wall. I was able to operate by the convictions of God's word in my heart and my life. One thing that makes me so sad is when I see girls, some of you teenage girls, I'm not saying you, uh thinking of anyone particular, but As I see teenage girls foolishly playing at sex to get love and affection, uh, it breaks my heart. Because, you know, we counsel you as married and years later the things that that you were building in in those early experiences I think uh so sad that it takes a a Jewish girl, Wendy Shalit, to write a book on modesty and to protest the lie of our age that has taken away all the support and the boundaries for girls that uh removes any sense of shame, any sense of expectation of how a girl should behave and just um says you know Behave any way you want. It doesn't really matter. When everybody knows it does matter. This girl was able to say, I will use my body in a way that God honors And hold myself as a treasure, hold my body as a treasure for the husband that I'm going to give myself to. And by doing that, she was demonstrating a basic principle. And uh, you know, uh that principle is told there at the end of verse 10. I'm a I was a wall, my breasts are like towers, thus Thus I have become in his eyes like one bringing contentment. The word contentment is the word shalom, peace. And a little play on words there, because the next word is Solomon. So she's saying, I was able to bring peace to Solomon, the man of peace. His name means peace. Uh and the principle is you bring your past into your marriage. You know, whether you like it or not, you bring your past into your marriage. Most of us as teenagers don't think about that. We don't think that we're we're building a past that is either going to bring turmoil or peace into our marriage. And uh I was thrilled when I heard in our Q<unk>A time on this book uh Jen Calvert talk about how she had heard the series for the first time as a young teenager. And that that passage powerfully spoke to her, and she determined, God, give me grace to be a wall. And uh through those years, as she has, by God's grace, uh kept that vow, God has brought her to Mike Costanzo, they were in the first service blushing and you know and and she has uh been able to bring to Mike as the man that she looks to marry now peace uh and and there is a contentment It is so worth it. And you know, if you think of yourself, if you are young and single and you expect, you know, by God's grace, likely you will get married someday. You can love that person, husband or wife, future husband or wife, right now, by building in your life experiences that will bring peace into that marriage. You are right now deciding whether you're going to bring turmoil into that marriage and be in a counselor's office saying, How do we patch this thing together? We have built such rotten patterns of behavior and functioning. That there is no peace in our marriage. She says, I brought peace. And you see the connection? I was a wall. And I brought peace to my husband. Now we realize that, for many of you, that that has already been forfeited. There is still the Opportunity to ask for forgiveness from Jesus who has borne our sins and Hebrews 10 says, washed your body with pure water by the gospel. To be able to say, it's still time that I can stop, I can cease what I've been doing in the relationship I'm in now or in future relationships, to rebuild a purity in my life. But finally, I want to say to some of you guys who have been through this series continuing to play around with pornography. And you are thinking that you can keep this thing under control. And you hear me week after week, and you say, yeah, yeah, you know, I get a little edgy when he talks about this, but you know, it's okay, I can handle it. And, you know, it's like feeding a little dragon. And he's cute, you know, and he looks like, you know, with a little bit of, you know, flames from his nostrils. It just kind of warms you, no big deal. You're going to keep feeding it, the thing's going to grow. And after a while, it's going to start feasting on you. And you're going to so long for that day when it was small and you could have slain it then. Guys, if you are continuing to fool around with fantasies that are going to deeply scar and hurt sexual experiences you will have with a real woman that you will love. If you think you continue to Fool around with that and it's not going to bother you. You're concerned and you're thinking, should I I call on you in Jesus' name to stop it now To repent of that, to say at the end of this series, enough, I am going to come out and I'm going to make myself known. I'm going to respond to Tim Flores Invitation from last week, you know, a number of guys did respond this week. I don't know who they are, I never do. But that you would say, God help me, I want to turn from this. I mean it's it's just it's heartbreaking to hear more guys this week who have responded to that invitation. Maybe you need to respond this week. And say that by God's grace, I want to follow Jesus Christ. I want to know the freedom that He can give in this area. That's an important lesson. And I'm not going to go over it again from this series. You have the choice right now, guys. Third lesson. Third lesson to those of you who are singles, and also to teens, but particularly those of you maybe a little older and singles, and this is the lesson, the lesson of providential care. Providential care. Verses 11 and 12. This is a neat little gem in what is a very confusing couple of verses. Solomon had a vineyard in Baalhaman. He let out his vineyard to tenants. What's that got to do with what you've just been talking about? This is talking about a um custom, of course, where a king would have land, he'd own it, and he would let that land out for those that farmed it. And as a r uh in response, each was to bring for its fruit a thousand shekels of silver. That was payment, the yearly payment on the produce of that land, the rest they could keep. What's that got to do with love? Well, you notice there's kind of a play on words. Verse 12 she says, But my own vineyard is mine to give. Now that her own vineyard's what? That's her body, remember. Remember, she had said that explicitly in chapter 1, in verse 6. In fact, that same verse. Do not stare at me because I'm dark, because I'm darkened by the sun. My mother's sons, my brothers, were angry with me. They were mean, made me take care of the vineyards, but my own vineyard, my own body, I've neglected. And I've become dark and You know, the complexion isn't what I wish it was, because my nasty brothers made me work out in the sun. So this was something she resented at that point. But now How did she meet Solomon? Interesting if you go back to chapter one, you find that the first thing that she says to him is, Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for your love is more delightful than wine. And then back down in verse 4, her friends say, We rejoice and delight in you and praise your love more than wine. How about wine and vineyards? My guess is that uh it was Solomon's vineyard. She met Solomon working in that vineyard And so what seemed to be the cruel oppression of her brothers, because she was submissive to that And she did work. God used that to bring her to the man of her dreams. You see, there are things that God places you and me in that you may think um This is the last place I'm going to find the person I want to marry. But God's called me to do this. And uh God seems unfair. You know, I'm my life looks like it's dead end. Where am I going to find peace and happiness? I'm not saying that you should never look to change the circumstance in your life, but do you see that uh what if she had refused to work in that vineyard? And so that's it, guys. No, I'm out of here. You see, she would have short-circuited the greatest blessing that God had for her Be careful, being impatient in God's providences in your life. God may be using something in your life right now that is hard for you to bear. But it's clear that if you are faithful in that, you know what it is that is his path for you in that. You know this is how to be faithful. If you do that and leave to him the future, leave to him taking care of you. Both in terms of generally in the future, but if you're single, the whole question of your marriage It's not your job to find the right person. God wants you married, it's his job to put you in touch with that person. It's your job to be faithful where God's called you to serve them. And I think that's just a precious little gem here. So notice what she says. So I give a thousand shekels To Solomon, you see, that's all the produce. My body is yours. See 1 Corinthians 7. Her body belongs to him. But then he she tucks in two hundred are for those that tend his fruit. She looks back at her brothers and she says, Thanks, guys. Here's 200 for you, a thank you for how God used you in overseeing my life to be a means of blessing. Whether it's intentional or not. We know they cared for. That's what they said in verses 8 and 9. So learn to wait on the Lord, to be patient. And to let Him guide and direct and provide for you in your happiness. Wish we could go on more, but that go move on to the fourth principle and that fourth lesson to older marriage The principle of passion renewed. The lesson of passion renewed. You see there in verse 13, his words. You who dwell in the gardens with friends in attendance, let me hear your voice. He still loves to hear her voice. Verse 14, she responds, Come away, my lover, and be like a gazelle or a young stag on the spice-laden mountains. One more last erotic longing invitation to him. She still wants his love. Note it is not growing older That takes the romance out of a marriage. It is bitterness and unresolved conflict You can shrivel up and still find that your heart beats faster at the voice of a person you married many years before. Or that look in their eye, that twinkle, that smile that is meant just for you can still set your heart racing. After all these years with Kathy, I can attest that there are still, when conflicts are resolved, When the bitterness is put away by the grace of the gospel, the romance can continue and grow. Finally, last principle, last lesson, got to close, to Christians. The principle, the lesson of persevering in grace. This goes throughout this whole section. This is now to every one of you who love Jesus. As we've seen from the beginning of the book, this is not just about human relationships, about love and marriage, but the book is also to show us the love of Christ. And so the final lesson in the book is to call you to perseverance in the grace of Jesus Christ. Because if you look back at the four lessons that I've just offered to you, you see that in each case What is at issue or what is at stake is whether to take a shortcut to try and engineer my own happiness or to trust God's ways and his word. To produce happiness by faith. And so in each case, it's a matter of do I do I walk by faith in what God says, or do I try to fix it myself? You can extrapolate from those four examples the need to reach the heart, the waiting on him patiently, the not going by feelings and urges, but uh obedience to his word, uh patience in waiting on him, or fighting bitterness and cynicism in a relationship that is years uh old. You see that um God's ways always bring peace. That's what this couple is attesting to. They're saying, well, look at our lives. We want to testify to this. This becomes more and more apparent as you uh walk more and more years with the Lord. Doesn't it? Some of the those of you who've walked with the Lord for many years, don't you see that? See that principle? I certainly have Uh I remember uh I became a a Christian um I've been a Christian for over forty years, and I remember in just as a new Christian, hearing in the sixties, reading in the sixties, seventies, eighties, nineties. in uh much of the feminist literature at that time, uh a basic uh principle that was uh being articulated over and over and over and over again was that um A woman could not find fulfillment in uh giving up a career and simply uh taking care of kids and submitting to a man and putting her interests secondary to a family and all the rest of this and went on and on and on. And um You know, this was a demeaning thing, this was servitude, slavery, and all, you know, dehumanizing. So um imagine my um Surprise when uh this week I read in the University of Pennsylvania Gazette, it's a journal that they put out, talks a lot about culture, a little article called uh Who was I and what did I want? By a woman, Annalise Goldstein. And uh starts off with uh why am I marrying this guy? She just graduated from college, got two degrees from Penn. She married this guy. And she realized, what am I wearing this guy for? It's just, you know, this is just what's expected. It's a blueprint for my life. Hey, forget that. So two months later, she dipshed him. Just broke up the marriage, left him, got into counseling, met with a therapist for two more years, and she said that was very helpful in finding myself, discovering who I am, you know, and all these kind of things And she says, in the last session, the therapist said something to me that intrigued me and I didn't understand it. She said, Annalise You've achieved now a sense of self and independence. You have personal and professional direction. You know who you are and what you want. But this Annalise is only half the task. To fully become a woman, you must embrace dependence, sacrifice, and servitude. It's where you'll find your feminine power. And she thought, yeah, right. She says, I'm writing this now ten years later. I am married again. I have a four-year-old, and I have an infant. I am exhausted. I am frustrated. I am worn out. But I am more fulfilled than I've ever been in my life. Quote from her. In many ways, I was a product of the women's movement, for better or for worse. I gained from it the fundamental idea that women's strength is about independence and being in control. or in charge of one's life. Then today I see independence as only half the story. Though I'm still an independent woman, I'm also the thread that weaves our family life together. I'm dependent upon my husband. I sacrifice my personal needs and desires for the greater good of the family. I served the needs of others before my owner met. This form of servitude, though, is done out of choice and as an expression of love. Ivy League Journal 2003. What's my point? Not the particular, but the general. Everything that you and I hear or read that counters Scripture in the way to happiness and peace Will ultimately be turned on its head to vindicate the wisdom of Jesus Christ. And you and I are constantly looking at things to say, well, that's what the Bible says. But I want to go this way. I want to go that way. And the Song of Songs calls you to persevere in the grace of Jesus Christ. Trust him. Trust his ways. Trust to know that whoever tells you something else and you say it sounds like, makes sense, this is what our culture is screaming, that nevertheless, in the end. God's wisdom will be vindicated. See what he says. He still loves to hear her voice. She still longs for his love. reminds me of a quote from Frenchman André Moreau, who once said, True love is like a long conversation that is always too short. But remember, this speaks to you of the love of Christ. In verse 13, hear the words of Jesus. He's saying to you that he still loves to hear your voice. When's the last time he's heard your voice in a secret tryst between your soul and him, when you called out to him longingly, lovingly, poured out your heart to him, told him of your love. He says, I love to hear your voice. And she still longs for him. It ends with longing, and that's significant. Because you see here that longing is a good thing. Longing is where we are I was reading some research on diet this week that talked about how Americans will not allow themselves to get hungry. We have to feed before we can ever feel hunger. And they and it was saying we're killing ourselves doing that because they're saying that people who will not allow themselves to be hungry tend to die younger. They're sicker, they're less alert. And they have found out that people who fast, who will feel real hunger, actually live longer and healthier lives. And so, spiritually, cultivate your longing. Your longing for Jesus is a good thing. It's not something to escape to some idols and false lovers at this point. It is a thing for you and I to relish. Jesus, come, come in that day when you'll ravis my soul and for eternity you will come and we will be together. That's not yet, but I long for it. Even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus We come at the end of this book with a longing of our hearts and souls to just relish the fact you still love to hear our voice. You're there for us. You're our lover. We long for you to come. We long to follow you and trust you. And I pray, Lord, in whatever area, whether it's pornography or discontent or bitterness or alienation, whatever it is, Lord, speak to our hearts. That we would bring before you hearts of brokenness and repentance, knowing that you are sufficient To bring us joy and your peace. Lord Jesus, hear us. Heal us. We come to you in Jesus' name. We come to you as that one who is the apple tree, who is the full satisfaction under whose shade we rest and know complete fulfillment. Amen.