It was a very interesting uh article in the Washington Post on uh March sixteenth. It had a number of titles Comeback of the Alpha Male, goodbye quiche eaters, or uh No More Mr. Nice Guy. It was author Phil McCombs who was reviewing three recently published books, two of them by the title No More Mr. Nice Guy. One was a self-help psychology book, the other one was a novel. And the point that uh McCombs is making in the article is that uh there's been a A shift that was accelerated after the terrorist attacks of nine eleven and particularly as we saw the examples of three hundred and forty-three New York City firemen who risked their lives and in some cases sacrificed their lives walking into towering infernos to save other people. And that as a result, we have begun to see a shift in our culture in an understanding of what it means to be masculine. Peggy Noonan called these men rough repositories of grace in her Hymn to Manliness, which was published after nine-eleven when the New York Wall Street uh Wall Street Journal's website. She says in that, like the soldiers of old, from Pickett's men through D Day, they gave us a moment in history that has left us speechless with gratitude and amazement and maybe relief too. We still make men like that It was daring and brilliant and brave and the fact of it changed the world we live in. They brought love into a story about hate The Coombs goes on to say that perhaps the greatest example of this is the recent actions of President George Bush in his words toward Iraq and then the action that was taken. Actually he reviews three books, uh not just the two, No More Mr. Nice Guy, but a third one that he calls No More Mr. Christian Nice Guy. It's kind of uh interesting. The third book is perhaps one that you guys are more familiar with. It was kind of interesting to see John Eldridge's Wild at Heart pictured there in the Washington Post, and that's because he says it has topped 600,000 copies. He quotes Eldridge, saying that he has also captured something of this shift. Eldridge writes, Where are all the real men is the regular fare for talk shows and new books? You've asked them to be women, I want to say. That's what we hold up as models of Christian maturity. Really nice guys, which leaves men bored. Because in the heart of every man is a desperate desire for a battle to fight, an adventure to live, and a beauty to rescue And so men and women today are a bit confused about what masculine should look like in a world where strength is so often confused with brutish abuse. And niceness with inept weakness. What is masculinity to look like? McCoom says it is time for John Wayne to visit Mr. Rogers' neighborhood. As Christians, what do we do with that? As always, we go to God's Word for the instruction that He gives, and we are not disappointed. I would like to suggest that in the next song in this precious book that we are studying, Song of Solomon, chapter 2, verses 3 to 7, that Tim read. We get some very direct help in this area. Now remember that at this point the book started with the first song being a soliloquy by the woman, reflecting on the man, then it moved into the second song, a dialogue between the man and the woman And now you come back to a soliloquy. Now it's once again the woman reflecting in her own thoughts, in her own mind, in her own heart. I do not see the man as present Different versions, translations have different breakdowns on this. Some of your translations as somebody showed after the first service Might have verse 7 spoken by the man. I think it's part of what the woman is saying. And by the way, for those of you who will have questions about why do you interpret it this way or application or implications about this whole book? We will be having two middle hours after the regular classes finish on June 22 and 29 for me to do a Q<unk>A time with you about the Song of Solomon. So um Think of your questions. I'll start taking them in writing on gray slips or anything else that I can read. You can email them to the office. Do whatever you want. uh consider the written questions first, but we'll be able to interact on some of the things I just don't have the time to go into as I preach on this, but that you may have questions about I view this as her song. And he is not present, but she is revealing the deepest feelings and thoughts of her heart. And I want you to notice four things about her heart in these four verses. First of all, notice her love for him. You see that in the first line, like an apple tree among the trees of the forest is my lover among the young men. She likens him to an apple tree. That is, he stands out against the masses of continuous green, as a tree which is full of white fragrant blossoms in the spring and rich red fruit in the fall. He stands out among the other guys. This guy is different. He gets your attention. She sees him as precious and unique. Some scholars don't think this is an apple tree. They think the Hebrew should be translated an apricot tree. The zapricts have a fruit which is soft and golden and fragrant and fleshy. I opt for the apple tree, could be either I think uh apple trees have been a symbol through history of romance and of love. Apples were even in those days an erotic symbol. Even down into our own culture, apple trees have carried some of that. You think of a song like Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree with anyone else but me or in the shade of the old apple tree. For some of you, may have never heard those songs. Um ask George and Norma Walgrove or Chuck and Grace. I was thinking maybe it'd be a good idea at the uh picnic next week to have him sing duets, you know, these songs and educate some of you who are not familiar with some of these fine examples of romance. But Anyway, uh suffice it to say that the apple tree is a picture of romance, and uh she is saying that he stirs her heart. What is so special about it? We go on to the next line, and you see that she says, I delight to sit in his shade. Second point, her security is in him. To sit in the shade in that culture meant to sit in protection Uh it was a hot culture where the sun beat down and um shade was very welcome as uh relief from the heat and danger of dehydration. You have that picture used a number of times in the Old Testament. For instance, in Lamentation chapter 4, in verse 20, Jeremiah says, The Lord's anointed, that was King Zedekiah, the last king of Judah. The Lord's anointed, our very life breath, was caught in their traps, that is, the Babylonians that swept into Jerusalem and destroyed it. We thought that under his shadow we would live among the nations. We thought we'd be safe with him. We thought that we would be protected. And we were wrong. We were turned over to the Babylonians. Shade is protection. You notice that she goes on from that, I feel safe, protected, uh to say that his fruit is sweet to my taste. Uh she describes his love in sensuous terms. There's a lot of debate over what that means, how erotic it is. I think the notion here is not so much erotic as it is the sweetness of a cold, crispy, red, delicious apple on a hot day. It's refreshing It's sweet. You notice she goes on, verse 4. He has taken me to the banquet hall. Literally, the Hebrew is the wine hall, the place where you would drink and enjoy rich wines Um she had said at the beginning, her first uh words, remember, were let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for your love is more delightful than wine This week I was talking to somebody who is a wine connoisseur, works in a wine store, and they were describing a new wine that uh they were just um entranced with and I said, what makes that wine so special? And this person went on to describe how the aroma, just bringing it to your face, just uh was so delicate and and it just i invited you to partake and then from the tip of your tongue as it touched, as it rolled back along your tongue to the back it changed. There was a complexity of the fl this person was getting kind of ecstatic just talking about it, you know. And it was just very inviting, you know, to think about the richness of the aroma and the complexity of tastes of a good wine. She says, uh your love is like that. It's uh complex and rich and fragrant and sweet and intoxicating and overpowering. And then she goes on to what is perhaps one of the best known lines in the whole book, and his banner over me is love. Very interesting. I think it's a little bit ironic. That song is so sung and quoted, and everybody kind of has this sense we know what it means. Until you stop and think, what's it really mean? Uh scholars that talk about this book or say it's anything but obvious to us what it means. Uh after thinking about it for some time, let me offer to you what I think she is saying. The word is Degel in the Hebrew, and it's a different word from the word you may be thinking it is. Remember in Exodus 17, 15 we read that the Lord, our banner Uh that's Yahweh Nisi and it's a very different word. There's no relationship between the two words. Well it's not that word. What does it mean is banner over me is love? You know, what do we have? This picture of some big drape that's laying over her, it says love on it or something, you know What does it mean? Well the word refers, it's used mainly in only two passages in Scripture, Numbers chapter 2 and Numbers 10. And in those two passages, it's used many times, and it refers to the standards of the different tribes of Israel. When God called Israel to order, each tribe was to go to its standard, which was a pole, flag pole, and it had uh a flag at the top, and on that flag there was some symbol Uh that standard was the banner. It was a standard that was used in battle when troops would be fighting and the captain of that division wanted to call them back together to rally. They were getting too dispersed and spread out. Call them back. He would have the standard, and they would rally to the standard, the banner. That word is actually used, a rare word, but it's used later on in Song of Solomon in chapter 6 and verse 4 Where he says to her, You are beautiful, my darling, as Tirza, lovely as Jerusalem, majestic or awesome as troops with banners, like an army that's bannered, that is, it's that's assembled by its standards. That's the word that's used. Now, what does it mean? Well In the ancient Near East, nations would put the symbol or the picture of their God on their standard. And that picture, that representation, was the God who was protecting them in battle. He was the one they were fighting for. He was their protector. He was the one who was going to win for them. Now go in your imagination to Psalm 45. And Psalm 45 is kind of the reader's digest version of the Song of Solomon. It's the whole Song of Solomon distilled into a few verses. verses, the same idea. In the song in Psalm 45, you have in verse 2 something very parallel to chapter 2 here, verse 3 Where the Messiah, and very clearly Psalm 45 is a messianic psalm, it's the wedding of the Messiah with his bride. In verse 2, he is described as the most excellent of men. And then the first, the next three verses are very militaristic. They talk about his sword on and he's going to ride majestically and valiantly and victoriously against his enemies, and it reminds you of the wedding picture in Song of Solomon chapter three, verses six to ten, that we'll get to later on. Which may surprise some of you of the more romantic ilk to see that it's a very militaristic wedding. You say, you know, what all these soldiers, I mean it's you know, guys with Magnum forty fives that are the ushers and the groomsmen You know, what is this all about? Well there's some reasons that we'll get to look at as we see that, but for right now I want you to see that this one, the groom, is is the is described as the protector. He is the one who is described as the one of strength. And then in verses 9 and 11 it describes how he is allured by the beauty of his bride that he is going to come to defend. I think that Psalm Song of Solomon chapter two verses three and four are describing in two very vivid pictures that this woman feels safe with this man She sits in his shade for protection, and his standard of battle over her is his love. He will give his life to protect her That's what it's saying. So the next basic principle in the Song of Songs is simply this: the man is to be the protector. In the roles that God has given in man and woman, you don't have to read all the current books, no more Mr. Nice Guy, and all the rest of this stuff. God's word has said for thousands of years, the Hebrew word for male is Ish. It means strong. God has made the man to be the protector. And after a generation of feminism that has reacted against the macho American male that was abusive and brutish in so many ways, full of bluster Uh women have tried to tame men in order to reduce that. That was a wrong approach because they're now seeing that the men that they have are weak, nice guys And rather they would prefer a man who is strong, not to dominate, but to protect. God is saying that here, and I believe that this is what Eldridge is saying in his book, and I agree with him. John Eldred says in his book Wild at Heart that little boys are hardwired different from little girls. Uh they just don't act the same no matter what you do to them. Little boys are going to be rough, they're going to be competitive. They're gonna fight battles and they're gonna use weapons. They're gonna make guns out of anything. Um we had two girls and then we had a boy and my wife was determined ours would not be a violent house. There were no guns gonna be in our house. And uh, you know, it's not that easy. He made guns out of Legos, he made guns out of sticks, he made guns out of anything. I had somebody after the first said First service that said um our little boy used to gnaw his toast into the shape of a gun and then go shoot us. It you're not gonna get beyond it. That's the way God has made us These boys are wired this way, why? To grow up not to be abusive, but to be protectors. And so Al Eldridge talks about, isn't it interesting, that in Columbine you have two teenage boys Who are willing to give their lives to protect the girls as they're all being shot at. Seth Huey lays his body over a terrified girl to take the bullets. Daniel Warburg is killed as he holds the door open so that others can escape. Tommy Nelson in his uh series of tapes on Song of Solomon talks as he's a Texas pastor and he He talks about one terrible Texas hailstorm where the hailstorm stones were coming down as big as baseballs. And he said, uh, what a sight to see the men uh run and push the women down onto the field and lay their bodies over them and some of them pummeled to unconsciousness to protect their wives and take the hailstones. He said, that's the way God has intended us to be. Last month was the 89th anniversary of the sinking of the Titanic. And you remember that uh when the when it was seen that the ship was going down and there were too few lifeboats, the cry was what? Women and children first Nine men perished that night for every one woman, because the men were instinctively, they gave themselves to protect their women and their children. Now, do you see what this is saying? God has made men strong to be protectors, not abusers. A man who beats women is a despicable distortion of God's intention. This woman says, I delight to sit in the shade of his protection. His banner of battle over me is his love, and I am safe with this man. Throughout many years of premarital counseling, when I get to the section on roles of husbands and wives, and the distinctiveness of that Uh I remember back particularly in the last couple of decades there were times that was a real tenuous kind of question, you know, when people were saying, Well, what should be the difference? And I would still always ask the question to the woman who is to be the bride, how do you want your husband to be different from you? And I think honestly I can say all through the years of my doing that that it would run about 19 out of 20, about 95% of the woman would say in one way or another, I want him to be my protector. I want him to protect me spiritually, emotionally, physically. I need to feel safe with him. Guys, God has called you and me to be the protectors of our wives. This is a very difficult question. And it may be that some of us should take some time this afternoon to get with our wives and to ask them, honey, do you feel safe with me? Do you feel safe in the shade of my care for you? Do you feel that my battle standard over you is a self-sacrificing love? That you're safe with me to the degree that I can take care of you. Now this is to be expressed by us men, not always in heroic self-sacrifice. There are symbolic ways that we do this on a daily basis. When we sacrifice to simply give our women priority attention. The fact that I opened a door car door for my wife after thirty-six years is not because I still don't think she knows how to open a car door. Or that she is unable or too weak. It's my way of saying to her, I want to give you this deference. I want to show you my care. If I let her off at a restaurant when it's raining, or who's going to get the car after the service, you see? It's it's that little way that you show, I want to protect you. And the to the degree that we think is memorable. Why should I get wet and you not? You know? Uh that is a selfish self-protection that is contrary to the spirit of this man. Now, this is a matter of the heart, guys. This is not something where we can talk to our wives and she says, Yeah, you know, I can kind of give you maybe a 30% or a forty percent, you know, you get defensive in your heart and you say, Oh well I guess I just better, you know, start protecting you more. You know, what do I gotta do? That's what we love to do, you know. Give me a list, show me what to do. How do I be a p better protector It don't work that way. This man was in his essence a shade tree. He was by his nature the battle standard of self-sacrifice. We are weak as men. We must, reading this, come on our knees and say, God, you know I want to protect myself. I want to serve myself. I don't want to get outside of myself. And we may need to go to Jesus and to see him as our protection. Wives, again, I urge you, be careful. Do not be bitter. When you hear this and say, oh yeah, you know, you're just showing me all I knew my husband wasn't doing real great. Now you're showing me all the reasons why, you know. Now I'm getting angrier and angrier. You need to go to Jesus. He is your protector, your shade. He is the banner of love and self-sacrifice for you. These things drive us to Jesus, not to fight and conflict and prove who's better and who's worse. Because in this, it is simply a reflection of Jesus whose banner over you and me is his love. Again and again in the Old Testament, you see the references to the fact that Yahweh is the shade under whom we sit. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 25, in verse 4, Isaiah says to the Lord, You have been a refuge for the poor. A refuge for the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm, and a shade from the heat. That's you, Lord. You're the shade. You're the protection. Jesus displayed his manner of love over you when he faced hell in order to protect you. Satan and hell would devour you. And Jesus stood between you and the hungry jaws of hell, and he placed his naked body between you and Satan so that he would take the beating, the scourging, the cursing, and be crucified for your sin and for mine. Jesus banner over you, his beloved, is love, a self-sacrificing love, a dying love for his bride. And he is our source, both of the image of what we ought to be, and the only source of strength and grace to do it. Amen? This drives us to Jesus, but so sweetly does it. Let me ask you personally, have you ever surrendered yourself to that kind of love? Have you ever surrendered yourself personally to the love of Jesus Christ, who is your only hope, to stand between you and hell? for the curse of your sin, for the judgment that you deserve. Jesus is the only banner that you are safe under. It's his dying love that is your hope. If you have not come to him. And you've not cleaved to him for that. I beg you to do that today. Now notice the response of this woman to that That's why it's so important, I think, that we see the continuity of this psalm. The third point is her desire for him. She sees this. She sees that his banner over her is love. And then she says, now notice. The woman now expresses a couple of things that, if your attention's been flagged until this point, are bound to get your attention. Look what she says. Strengthen me with raisins, refresh me with apples, for I am faint, literally sick with love. Not of love, with love. His left arm, really the better translation. You could translate the Hebrew of this either his left arm is or oh that And I believe that that's the proper translation. NIV is pretty good through Song of Solomon, but I think in this case it should be that longing. Oh, that his left arm would be under my head. and his right arm would embrace me. Two things she is saying there. First of all, she is weak from love. Raisins are often in the commentaries associated with raisin cakes, which were an aphrodisiac in that culture. Hosea 3 1, for instance, talks about the raisin cakes that were used in ritual prostitution. In 2 Samuel, after the ark is brought to Jerusalem, David gives everybody a A loaf of bread and a raisin cake and says, Go home and party hardy. And uh you know, so I you know, people think that that's what it's referring to. I don't think this woman needed an aphrodisiac I don't think that this was the issue. These were not the cakes. The cakes had little pictures engraved on them that I'll leave to your imagination. But what she is saying here is sustain me with raisins and with apples She is looking for strength. She's looking for sustenance. Why? Because she is in danger of being overcome by the love of this man. This this love uh makes her weak. This love overpowers her. And verse six is clearly a sexual position that she's describing. Oh, that is left arm would be under my head that his right arm would embrace me. Next principle in the Song of Songs When a woman feels safe with a man who loves her and protects her in a godly way, she is very aroused and wants to give herself to him. Most arousing thing for a woman, as everybody knows, the primary sex organ in a woman is her mind And the thing that is so arousing to her is I am safe in the love, the care, and the protection of this man. So here they are. They are not married. And she is longing this. That's why I think it's important that you see in contrast to some of the interpretations. He is not here. These are the thoughts of her heart. She is longing for this. She is very aroused, but you see, the point is that she is aroused toward him But it's toward the man who produces that kind of feeling in a godly woman who is exactly the man who won't take advantage of that longing Because he is committed to protect her. Therefore she is safe even to have those feelings. But notice that she, I believe it's important this is part of her song. It is not his response or somebody else's response. That verse 7 is her self-conscious control to remain, her self-control to remain pure for him. Verse 7 She cries out, see, after she's getting carried away here, the passion of her heart is just is lifting her to heights, and she's saying, whoa, I'm getting out of control here Daughters of Jerusalem, I charge you by the gazelles and by the does of the field, those are gentle, tender female animals. Do not arouse or awaken love until it so desires. D It's translated she, but it's a feminine pronoun, refers to love. Do not arouse or awaken love until it so desires. Now, that is in stark contrast to what she's going to say on the honeymoon night in chapter 4, verse 16, which is so hot I'm not even going to read it now. Everybody's going to go home and read it. But you see the principle here. Sexual activity must be deferred for the treasure that lies ahead. The delight of delayed gratification is living by faith in promises. And so that which is on the physical level between a man and a woman before marriage gives to them the experience of what it means waiting for the longing of the coming of Christ, the coming of that promise, where we cannot yet consummate that love. We are presented to Jesus and the marriage is ahead. Paul says in Second Corinthians chapter eleven and verse two, I am jealous for you. With a godly jealousy, I promised you to one husband to Christ so that I might present you as a pure virgin to him But I am afraid, just as Eve was deceived by the serpent's cunning, that your minds may somehow be led astray from your sincere and pure devotion to Christ. Paul is saying, I want to present you as that chaste virgin to Jesus on that day when this marriage between the church, his bride, and him will be consummated. But I'm afraid that in this time you're going to say, I can't wait. I must have immediate gratification for my longings. I'll go to an idol. I'll go to something else in my life. And I will take my passion there because I can't wait for Jesus. And Paul saying, Oh no, no, no, no Keep yourself with your devotion set upon Jesus Christ for the treasure that lies ahead. Don't go to the idols. They will let you down, they will fail you, and you will be sorry. Don't cheat yourself, don't rob yourself. Song of Songs is such a beautiful picture, not only of the longings and the passion, but the willingness to say, I will wait in this time. Daughters of Jerusalem, don't awaken, don't allow this love to be prematurely expressed She's tasted only a little bit of his love, and yet she is in danger of being overwhelmed by that love. What will it be when the time of consummation comes? I was thinking about that and uh this winter I came upon a poem that I think helped me to really feel something of what she is saying. It may help you to to get a picture of this. Uh it's a poem by Edmund Saint Vincent Millet. Let's get it up there, thanks. And um you really gotta see this because this poem is so dense, it's so full and rich, it's a poem that is classic irony. That is, it is saying the opposite of what it seems to be saying. And to understand it, the only thing I can tell you is you need to know that uh Edna St. Vincent Millet had a wonderful marriage, unlike a lot of writers. She was married to a man who sacrificed himself and part of his career so that she could develop her writing and her this career she had as a poet. So she says to him, we're only going to go through it once, but I'm going to try and help you to understand and see the connection. Thou art not lovelier than lilacs. Now right there you get an idea of, hmm. That doesn't sound very Appreciative. Thou art not lovelier than lilacs, no, nor honeysuckle. Thou art not more fair than small white single poppies. I can bear thy beauty. Though I bend before thee, though from left to right, not knowing where to go, I turn my troubled eyes Not here nor there find any refuge from thee. Yet I swear so has it been with mist, with moonlight so Now get this. Like him who day by day unto his draught of delicate poison adds him one drop more Till he may drink unharmed the death of ten. Even so, inured. That is, uh, you know, uh, you are um I can't think of the word. I should have just gone over. In order, you know, you are um be you are becoming um what's the word? What? Desensitized. Yeah, well desensitized, but you're you're becoming uh you're building up your strength, your capacity for this thing. In words of beauty, who have quacked each hour more deeply than the hour before, I drink and live what has destroyed some men. Now what's she saying? You say, well, help me out here, because I don't know, I'm sort of missing something. I think what she's saying is your love is so overpowering I can't turn from it. I see it and it's disconcerting. I it's too much for me. I try to I look away and I can't. It's like mist. It's all around me. It encompasses me. It envelops me. The only thing I can do is take little bits of it at a time. And like poison, build up the immunity, that's what I was looking for, my immunity to the power of this love. So that by quaffing a bit more, seeing your love, developing the capacity to take it in, I can bear it. Now, if a woman says this of a sinner Who failed her again and again and says that of his love. What must it be for you and for me to know something of the love of Christ to sit under the shade of his protection? to know the banner standard of his self-sacrificing love for you and for me. What does it mean and what will it mean? When that day we will see him as the bridegroom in first, look into his eyes that will love us for eternity. Back in the ancient days, when my wife and I were married, the same year we were married, there was a hymn written that was based on this verse, Song of Solomon 2. 3. Let me read that to you. The tree of life my soul has seen, laden with fruit and always green, the trees of nature fruitless be compared to Christ. the apple tree. His beauty doth all things excel. By faith I know, but ne'er can tell the glory which I now can see in Jesus Christ the apple tree. For in happiness I long have sought, in pleasure dearly I have bought, Unmissed of all, but now I see 'tis found in Christ the apple tree. I am weary with my former toil. Here I will sit and rest awhile. Under the shadow I will be of Jesus Christ the apple tree. This fruit doth make my soul to thrive. It keeps my dying faith alive, which makes my soul in haste to be with Jesus Christ. The apple tree. Come to him. Come to him now. Let's pray. Ah, Lord Jesus, we taste and we long for the sweetness the intoxicating love of you who would come from heaven to give yourself for us, to place yourself between us and Satan, to take upon yourself the blows that we deserved. That we might sit under your shade and know your fragrance and love, your care for us, for me personally Lord, increase our capacity and our heart's desire to seek after you, to know more and more of that love, and let that love change us. To produce in us the fragrance that we do not have, that we might love you, and that we might know you more and more Lord Jesus, reveal yourself to us, to each one here. Amen