We're now in the study of the Song of Songs, and we come to the wedding song, the big day. And as we come to this delightful song that you've just heard, let me suggest that there are three errors that we need to avoid when we look at this text. The first error that we need to avoid as we come to this section of Scripture is that marriage is gender optional. That's the first two blanks. Marriage is gender optional. It may seem so obvious that you and I can miss the fact that the one book in the Bible that is about romantic love is about a man and a woman. There is nothing anywhere in Scripture about homosexual love, except the condemnation of it as a perversion of God's intention. Now that is not to condone hatred for homosexuals any more than it would we would condone such hatred for adulterers or to be against them as people. But neither, on the other hand, can we be neutral toward the movement to legalize homosexual marriages This movement is quite strong today. Marriage in the Bible is always seen to be between a man and a woman only. And that's under attack in uh three states currently. States of Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Indiana. Where gay couples are challenging the constitutionality of their being denied marriage licenses. We need to pray about these court battles, their outcome As well as a movement for a federal constitutional amendment that would protect the Defense of Marriage Act and define marriage as being between one man and one woman I'm afraid that the tendency is for many of us as Christians to see this as an all but lost battle, that it's kind of inevitable it's going to happen, so therefore why even bother to expend any energy to oppose it? I find myself even tempted to have that kind of posture. And I think it's important that we realize what we are engaged in here is not simply a fight for tolerance But this is a fight to control the values of marriage as an institution and some basic values of the family in our country. What we need to realize in this issue is that these two value systems cannot coexist peaceably. It's not a matter of tolerance, it's a matter of dominance. Now I can't pursue that now, but um let me remind you that the next two middle hours, 22nd and 29th, is going to be a discussion on the Song of Songs. So if anybody wants me to address that any further, all you have to do is ask a question, put on a gray. Email the office or any other question on the interpretation or application of the Song of Solomon. And we're going to have some fun in the next couple of weeks talking about that. I have not yet gotten any questions. You don't ask me any questions, I'll talk about whatever I want to talk about. All right? You want me to talk about what you want to talk about? Then you ask a question. All right, second error that we need to avoid as we come to this text is to see that weddings is to say that weddings are no big deal. To say that weddings are no big deal. Marriage itself, we're hearing now, is outdated as an institution and needs to be redefined. We need to realize we live in a world of temporary relationships, which are the norm, what are called by one person microwave relationships. They're fast, hot, consumed with presumably more to come. That is not by a critic, that's by an advocate of that movement. So the American Law Institute has recently recommended an overhaul of our marriage laws Several changes that basically have the effect of making marriage simply a one voluntary, temporary relationship or arrangement between any two persons who quote for a significant period of time share a primary residence and a life together as a couple. That's the definition. So it's man to man, man to woman, woman to woman. Um advocates in Canada that tends to be a little further down the road than we are in these things, uh, are now saying that um the state should have uh absolute neutrality toward Institutions such as marriage, cohabitation, whether gay or heterosexual. In other words, marriage has no special protection or place within the society Already cohabitation has vastly increased and escalated as young people are cynical. about the possibility of a marriage to last a lifetime. 1970, according to the census, there were one million Unmarried partners living together in households. By 1990, 20 years later, that had grown to 3. 2 million And ten years later, in the 2000 census, it was eleven million households of unmarried partners. Do you know that half the people in this country from ages 35 to 39 right now have it? Some point live with another person in an unmarried relationship, cohabitation. Three quarters, uh, and yet You know, one of the things that we need to see, even as we see this movement, everybody's saying, you know, it's just fine, it's just simply an alternative lifestyle, it's everybody's choice. Nevertheless, there's a lot of research being done on the effects of this. And all the research is pointing in the same direction that cohabitation is less healthy, it's less beneficial, than people living together in marriage or in singleness uh celibately. For example, people living in cohabitation who decide to get married have a 46% higher failure rate in their marriages. Three-quarters of all the kids born to Parents that are cohabiting will at some point before they're sixteen see their parents separate. That's compared to one third of kids. Three quarters cohabiting one third of kids whose parents are married Marriage has been shown to make the people who are involved better off emotionally, physically, and vocationally than those that cohabit. Depression is over three times higher for those that cohabit rather than marry. Or even if you're just sexually active but not cohabiting, the culture says it's fun, it's harmless, what's the problem? Why then, according to a recent survey, teenage virgin girls report about eight percent Of them say that they are frequently depressed. Those that are sexually active, it's over 25% frequently depressed Over 14% of sexually active teenage girls have attempted suicide, compared to 5% who are not sexually active. Women in a cohabiting relationship are significantly more likely to experience physical and sexual abuse. Infidelity is four times greater in cohabiting relationships than in marriage. Among women, eight times greater. So even if you were to reject Christianity, take the Bible and throw it out and say it has no authority over you. It still simply pragmatically makes sense to offer marriage rather than cohabitation. God's laws are designed for our good And you see how very relevant this book is for the issues of today. Remember, we saw last week in chapter 3, in verses 1 to 3, that she was fearful that he had left her. He said, uh, your voice is sweet, your face is lovely. She lived with this fear that someday he will know enough about me, he will want to leave. And so in the verses just before this, she dreamed that he left. She couldn't find him. And you remember when she found him, she clung to him. And the very next passage then, verse six, is the wedding. I think that's significant. Because you see what's what it's saying is that we all have that fear, if somebody really knows me, at some point they want to opt out of the relationship. It's too fragile What marriage does is it brings those two people to make a vow, and the vow is basically whatever happens in our relationship, whatever happens in our life, whatever I discover about you, I will stick with you until death do us part. That kind of security, that kind of safety, provides happiness and the ability to grow even with all its difficulties. So let's look at what this is. Let's look at the um well this third thing, excuse me. Third error we must not fall into. in this. The second was that marriage is no big deal. The third is that weddings are life's biggest deal. That uh weddings are life's biggest deal that you're cheated without it. One of my concerns going through a series on Song of Songs is that singles will think that Somehow I'm saying marriage is God's great blessing and that you are cheated if you don't get that. That is idealizing marriage to the point of idolatry. Like many other blessings that God gives. This is simply a shadow that is pointing to the substance that is only obtainable in heaven. Marriage is not the ultimate happiness I know as many miserable people who are married as I know unhappy people who are single. You can be miserable or you can be happy in either state. Neither guarantees happiness I could ask for an amen there, but I won't. So let's not miss that as we go through this passage. And as we look at it, notice that there are images and lessons that I'd like for us to derive. First of all, Notice the images. The first is to see the sensuous delight of this wedding. It's a rather lavish affair Look again at verse six. You see there uh who is this coming up? By the way, you notice this is in white, and that's because neither the man or the woman, this is somebody from the outside, of course, poetic device, looking at this And they say, uh look at this thing, who is this coming up from the desert like a column of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and incense made from the s Spices, all the spices of the merchant. Look at Solomon's carriage. Here he is coming up from the desert. You can see him miles away. Look at that. Boy, what an entourage. Now keep in mind, weddings, Hebrew weddings, had three parts to them. The first part was that the groom with all his entourage would come from the place he had prepared to come get his bride. And so he'd come in this big procession, be very formal and you know as lavish as he could make it and he would go and he'd get the bride and she meanwhile was getting to look as beautiful as she possibly could look with all the attendance that she had and everything available to her And so the second part was she'd meet him and then the two of them would go with all her entourage and all his now got twice the size of a crowd and they're all going back to his place and they go back to that place and at that point then there is the exchange of the vows. They go into this the place he has privately away from the crowds. They consummate the marriage, and they come out and say, Let's party! And that can go on for a couple days. It might go on for a week if they have the means. Some even went on as much as two weeks. Be a long, lavish party. What do we see from that? Well notice a couple of the things we see in this passage. First of all, notice the movement seemed to be very regal. It's indicating this is a formal affair. It's a formal procession This isn't something slapped together on the you know, week before. Let's kinda do it. Uh you notice that um there's a lot of delight to the senses. There's perfume of mare, there's incense, there's spices. They go all out to make this something that uh you enjoy, just to participate and watch it. Uh the smells and the sights seem to be Quite impressive. Notice uh there's a lot of beauty here and a lot of detail and uh expense going to, great deal of trouble. Verse 9 Solomon made for himself the carriage made it of wood from Lebanon, its post he made of silver, its base of gold. Its feet was upholstered with purple, royal color, its interior lovingly inlaid by the daughters of Jerusalem, went to a lot of trouble in their uh in their embroidery and all the things that they did to make this as beautiful as they possibly can do it. Come out, you daughters of Jerusalem. Look at King Solomon wearing the crown. This was a special wedding crown Not just any old political crown. This was a crown his mother crowned him on the day of his wedding. So there's a lot of trouble gone to to make this something which is sumptuous and as uh enjoyable and delightful affairs you could possibly have. And that says to me something very significant. The Bible is very big on its concern for the limited resources that we live with and to not be selfish with those. But even in a world of limited resources, God delights in sumptuous weddings. Isn't that interesting? He says he smiles on that. Now, that's not saying that uh if you had a meager, modest wedding that, you know, you didn't really get married If you had a meager and modest wedding and that was all you could do, that is that's perfectly fine. You're just as married as Solomon and his queen here in this wedding. Uh but if you have the means and don't need to go into debt to impress people, you know, there's limits, you you you still make it as memorable as a fare as you possibly can. This is something To produce memories that last a lifetime. We've we were on limited budgets for both of our daughters in their weddings. And yet when uh Jason and Julie said we would like to get married in this special place that had meaning that was atop of a mountain in the Rocky Mountains. Flew everybody out and we, by thing, had that now I married to them on top of those mountains, surrounded by the continental divide on the one side and all these mountains on the other side. And we had a wonderful time, you know, because this was a lifetime memory. So we do what we can in order to make this a memorable event. And it is full of sensuous delight. God is a God who delights in these things. And we don't we shouldn't ever keep that separate. You know, this is spiritual, but then here in this area, now we're doing these this wedding, well that you know, that's something God doesn't really enjoy. He does. It's in his word. Notice the second thing which I find even more intriguing, and that is the element of safety and security communicated in this wedding. safety and security. Notice that out of the six verses that describe this wedding, you have one and a half verses, nearly one third of the description, on a rather strange element that I have never seen in all my years of doing weddings and been doing weddings since nineteen seventy, I have yet yet to come upon a wedding that included and involved this very biblical element. So Honey, you want to try it? You can be the first. What am I talking about? Armed groomsmen. How many have had a wedding or been to a wedding and had armed groomsmen? Military weddings? Yes, I know. But notice, look at verse 7. Look at Solomon's carriage, escorted by sixty warriors, the noblest of Israel, all of them wearing the sword, all experienced in battle, each with his sword at his side, prepared for the terrors of the night. Boy, talk about getting unromantic. I mean, you know? Here he's saying, you know, look at this beautiful wedding and all the gruzemen are packed with oozies, you know. And w what is he saying here? What's going on? Well, uh hopefully by this time going through the Song of Songs you might be able to guess it. The point is, of course, that she is secure with this man. This guy is packed for action. He realizes that as romantic and enchanting as this day is It is the launching of a battle, and I don't mean between the two of them. I can hear, you know, give some amens unsolicited there. It's launching a spiritual battle Where Satan is going to assault, is going to seek to discourage, to distract, he realizes that when two sinners come together and they seek to reflect the love of Christ in his church, that is not going to be done without opposition. So this guy comes into this wedding, stating, I am prepared to fight for this woman. I'm prepared to defend her. I'm prepared to fight for my marriage. And it is an instruction to us. We live in a culture Where 80% of marriages in trouble, if they seek counseling, it's the woman who goes for the counseling. 80% is what they say. In this case, it's the guy who's saying, I am going to fight for this marriage. I'm going to accept that responsibility, and I'm armed to do it. That's symbolic. So he's got his special ops core here with him in order to show this woman she is safe and she is secure. with this man. Now last week I talked about the need for us guys to make our wives feel protected and that they might become more responsive that way. And I don't want to be misunderstood and one guy corrected me, I appreciate uh that that would be interpreted as, you guys, you know, make your wife feel protected and then she will do this in return for you, which would of course be manipulative rather than a servant attitude. What you need to see from this guy is he's simply this way. His heart is set to protect and to defend her. And it is it is not determined by or controlled in any way by what her response is It's simply that's what he does to love her. And that's what we need to do. Now notice the lessons that you can derive from the pictures here. Two lessons I'd like to focus on. Uh first of all, uh when we look at this, uh what is a uh what should a Christian wedding look like Uh there's no commands in the scripture about what a Christian wedding should look like, what elements are involved except the public statement of the vows, the leaving and the cleaving. Um but you have a picture here, and from this I would uh determine that a Christian wedding, this is just one picture, there's other elements, but I would say from here I would deduce that A Christian wedding should breathe three elements. One, beauty. I've gone into that. You have that. Verses 6, 9, to 11. Flowers, decorations, whatever it is. that enhances the place and gives it beauty. Secondly, I would uh say a Christian wedding should breathe security. I've just gone into that Uh that doesn't mean that uh your groomsmen need to be armed, that you need to be wearing a sword as you stand there. Uh What it means, I believe, is that uh you know, and and I have done that, you know, married Larry and Anne Clifford back there at the Naval Academy and after the ceremony. We went back out under swords of the Naval Academy guys out there to uh show us a little show of strength. Uh that was great. You don't need to do that. Uh I think something as simple as the uh groomsman or I mean the the the groom saying uh something like um Kathy I will never divorce you I will never leave you. By God's grace I'll give my life to protect you. Something that states there is a security and a permanence in this relationship. I think is what's indicated. Uh and then the third element is that there should be joy. Uh I mean, you know, you look at this thing, it's it's an all-out affair. And then notice how it ends in uh verse eleven. Here's King Solomon wearing this crown which his mother crowned him on the day of his wedding, the day his heart rejoiced. It's a happy day. When I have the rehearsal for the wedding, I'll say something like this. is going to be a solemn celebration. And what I mean by that is that the ceremony will be a solemn declaration of the establishment of a new home. We don't take that lightly as before God and before all the witnesses. But When we do that, there is also a celebration, and that is distinctively Christian. Now, we know that you know people who aren't Christians have all these big bashes and everything, and they outdo each other. I'm saying that the Christian uniquely can celebrate because the Christian says I am not naive about the fact that this is going to be easy or simple or our love is designed from eternity to be without trouble and all this. It is a statement of faith in Christ. He is sufficient in this relationship. To increase our intimacy and our love for one another. So joy comes from the faith that is expressed in Christ in this. Now that's just a word about Christian weddings. The main thing I want to hit is the lesson that Christian weddings are an anticipation of the wedding to come. That is why this passage is relevant to every single person here in this room. The kids who are up here on the stage, singles who are not in relationships, singles who are in relationships, married, divorced. separated, widowed, every person here, when you see this passage, say, This is for me. Now I realize that as I speak of weddings, and particularly this morning as I speak about wedding, that that can bring pain In number of your lives, some of you may find a this message like this hard to abide, either because you think back and remember The wedding that you had of a marriage that no longer is intact and there's great pain as you think about that, or the a wedding that you would dearly love to have and there's longings and that's pain. Um memories um uh of one who is has gone on to be with the Lord, whatever it is. We think about weddings and for many of us they bring pain. Now that's very significant because you see it shows us That this passage is ultimately not about Solomon and his wedding and how to have a wedding. Because Scripture is about the gospel. So this wedding is a picture to us of the gospel. It has to show us Christ. Now what does it show us? It shows us that this wedding, as all weddings that you and I attend, are simply a shadow That as we see that, and there is that longing for something that would be beautiful and without pain, to realize that is not possible in this world. But it briefs the hope of the wedding that is to come, or all of our hopes will be fulfilled in Christ. Notice the big difference between the description of this wedding and any contemporary description of a wedding that you would have. What's the big difference? And I don't just mean that the groomsmen are armed. What's the big difference? The difference is that in this description, it's a hundred percent about the groom and nothing about the bride. What's she wearing? I don't know. What kind of perfume did she have on? I don't know. You know, what what what was her gown like? I don't know You see, and that's particularly amazing since most of the Song of Songs is from the woman's point of view. It's her description of her experiences. But when you come to the wedding, all eyes are on the groom. Now, that doesn't mean that you would never want to describe the bride in terms of the gospel. In fact There is a very significant parallel passage that expands on this very brief description of the wedding in Song of Songs, chapter 3, verses 6 only to 11. What is that? Psalm 45. Psalm 45, the whole psalm, 16, 17 verses, the whole psalm is a picture of the wedding of a king of Israel. And as you read through that Psalm, you realize that there was no king in Israel whose wedding ever fit what is described in Psalm 45. This is the picture of the wedding of Messiah to his bride. Significant that as you read through Psalm 45, let's see that up here now, thanks. You see Psalm 45, first of all verse, the first verse starts with I'm going to sing a wonderful song to the king. But verses 2 to 9 are all about the king, the groom. Then verses 10 to 15 are all about the bride. Then you have two verses at the end to wrap it up, which are really about then the king. But notice that three of these verses are about his military prowess, verses 3, 4, and 5. It says, this guy is a man of integrity, he is a mighty warrior. So once again you have that same idea that in the midst of the romance and the beauty There is this reality check. This is going to be a battle. There's a spiritual warfare that is going on here. This guy is a strong, faithful protector. He then comes, and uh again you have that procession. He comes for his bride. He's going to take her. Not only is this guy uh good looking, uh, it says in verse 8. that um his robes are fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cacia, just like we again, Song of Songs 3. Uh but then also the place that he comes from From palaces adorned with ivory. I don't know if you remember that old hymn out of the ivory palaces into the land of woe. Comes from this verse. It's saying that this one, this groom is coming, the place he's prepared For this bride is a place of such opulence that the palace is of ivory. Uh it is of gold and and it's a place where uh music is glad. He comes then and he takes his woman, verse nine. Uh he takes his at his right hand the royal bride and then uh she is called in verses ten to fifteen. Notice that um Verse 11, beautiful verse. Forget your people in verse 10, your father's house, go with this man. The king is enthralled by your beauty. Honor him, for he is your Lord. Now, we're going to expand on that quite a bit next week because we're going to look in Song of Songs 4, how the King was enthralled with the beauty of the bride. So she will get plenty of description. You don't have to worry about that. But at the point of the wedding The focus is on him. And Psalm 45 goes in to talk about her beauty. In fact, uh it's interesting. Uh you look at verse uh what is it, 12, 13 Oh Glorious is the princess within her chamber. See on the NIV. Look at all under her chamber, there's little brackets there. That means that's not in the original. So you could translate that. In fact literally it's just uh O Glorious is the princess within. And I think that could be perhaps the preferable translation is all glorious is she in her inner beauty. It's describing her character, her inner beauty. And then she goes off with him and there's this picture of delight. Well, that's Psalm 45. Take a look at it this afternoon. Read it in conjunction with Psalm 3 to get a fuller picture. Um But no no wedding in Israel ever fulfilled that picture. No wedding ever fulfilled the picture of Song of Songs III. Where do you see the fulfillment ultimately of that picture? You have to go to the end of history in Revelation. Chapter 19, we read in verse 6. Then I heard what sounded like a great multitude, like the roar of rushing waters, and like the loud peals of thunder shouting, Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, our Lord God Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and be glad, and give him glory, for the wedding of the Lamb has come. And his bride has made herself ready. Fine linen, bright and clean, was given her to wear. Fine linen stands for the righteous acts of the saints. Spiritual, not just a physical picture. When the angel said to me, Write, Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb. These are the true words of God. I want to tell you in the name of Jesus Christ this morning, you are invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb. But in order to be able to come into that wedding, you must receive the invitation that is given. Where the Lord of glory calls you, as Psalm 45, leave your home, leave your background, leave your past life. And give yourself to Jesus Christ. Give yourself recognizing that you need Him to protect you To protect you from hell and your sin that deserves the curse of God, that you need Him to be your Lord, your Savior, your master. to take you as his own. And if you do, then you look at this wedding as a bride. Now some guys say to me, you know, I can't get into this stuff of I'm a bride and Jesus is the groom. You say, well that's tough, you know, because the women have to see themselves as sons of God, so you know, they get their part, you get your part God puts all these pictures together so that we can enter into one another's experience. But as a bride, you then look forward to this wedding. Every time you go to a wedding, think, uh, this wedding's beautiful, it's great, but It's so limited and it's gonna there's gonna be pain in this marriage, but there's coming that day. When I there will not be simply a Solomon coming with sixty special ops guardsmen Who are there to banish the terrors of the night, Song of Solomon 6, verse chapter 3 says. But there will come the Lamb In all of his glory. And he's not going to simply protect me from the terrors of the night. He is going to obliterate the night itself. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, in verses 8 to 10, you have that beautiful picture of Jesus coming in glory, and he destroys all the enemies. all those that oppose us, all of the sin and the death and the opposition. And so you have in this picture in Revelation chapter 21 In verse 2, I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God And he will wipe every tear from their eyes. And there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain for the old order of things. has passed away. Some years ago, I read to you from the book Mary, Queen of Scots, by Antonia Fraser About that wedding that was intended to be the wedding and all weddings of Mary Stewart, Queen of Scots, married to Dauphine of France in 1558. And uh fortunately for you, I maybe I don't have the book I left it back in my briefcase there. First service got it, but I'll just give you a couple things I remember from it. Fraser describes that wedding first of all as being a procession of all the dukes and duchesses and the bishops and the cardinals, and everybody is dressed in their opulent finest. And this parade just goes on and on and on and everybody is just amazed at all this. And then, you know, just to make everybody happy, some of the dukes and the and the duchesses throw gold to the people and everybody's tramping on each other, you know, picking up all this free gold that's been And they had built this twelve foot high building, it's a it was an appendage to one of the palaces, just for the wedding. paved with solid gold with all this ornate work inside. They come and they describe Mary. Mary's wearing a dress. White as lilies, embroidered with all the finest embroidery work, with a crown set on her head, which is gold, a solid gold crown, with pearls and rubies and sapphires and emeralds. A carbuncle worth five hundred thousand crowns. The crown was so heavy that midway during the ceremony They had to remove it from her head. The weight of the gold and the jewels was too much for her neck to bear. They come through the ceremony. And afterwards they say, now let the party begin. And they go to the palace. And in the palace they have created twelve horses. of silver and gold. And on these and these horses are pulling carriages, each with two people in them, singing, so that the twenty four people create a choir singing these melodious songs, and people are singing stunned by the beauty. And that's followed by uh three ships that have been created, with silver sails billowing in an imaginary wind, gliding around the palace floor, and again another choir singing the songs. And that went on for days, one after another, stupendous, opulent display of glory. France practically bankrupted itself to put that wedding on. And yet, what is that compared to the glory of the bride in the day when the Lamb comes? In that description that we have in Revelation 21 in verse 9. Where John says, one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and said to me, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. And he carried me away in the spirit to a mountain great and high and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. It shone with the glory of God, and its brilliance was like that of a very precious jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal. What is it, after all, that makes a wedding? That makes your wedding. So special. Isn't it the fact that there is this person who is splendid in their attractiveness to you? This person that you just want to be with, you feel more alive when you're with this person. You are exhilarated by their love. And this day you are going to belong to that person forever. And what is that compared to when you see Jesus who comes and literally gave his life for you And who looks at you with that love and that gentleness and says, Come, my beloved, you're mine for all eternity. Let us spend this time together and know increasingly the depth of the and the fullness of my love for you. Doesn't it make your heart beat faster to think about that wedding coming? Imagine living this week in the light of the anticipation of that. May it be, brothers and sisters, may it be. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, come quickly, we pray. We can't wait for that day. When we shall see you and we as the bride, reflecting the uncreated glory of the Lamb, will be brought into your presence to behold you. The one who is enthralled with our beauty, reflecting the beauty that is yours, that you might love us and lavish upon us your love forever and ever. Amen.