And so we're kind of fascinated with this book, The Song of Songs, mysterious and beautiful, right? Amazing book. I mean it's unique, isn't it? Don't forget if you have questions about interpretation or application to uh put them on a gray slip or email them into the office sometime in the next couple of weeks. We'll have a middle hour on the 22nd and 29th to be able to discuss this book Well we come now to chapter two to the place where their relationship is deepening, but they are not yet betrothed or engaged, we would say. This is the time of courtship. Courtship is that time when a man and a woman treat each other in a courtly manner in order to attract the other person and to decide. Is this the person that I want to spend the rest of my life with in marriage? And so you see this described here. It's one of the favorite subjects of poems. and songs. Imagine, you know, I mean of all the things that you could sing about, how the vast proportion of them are songs about the failure or the success of courtship I mean, you know, you don't have a whole lot of songs, men singing about their dog, how wonderful it is, you know, women singing about their new kitchen. I mean it's just, you know, this is what captures our heart, right Whether it's on the level of Shakespeare's sonnets or O Baby Be Mine, you know, I mean, this is what speaks to our hearts. So This is a time when they are beginning to become attached to each other, kind of like sticking your tongue on a flagpole, sub-zero weather. You can remove it, but if you do, you're going to leave part of yourself there and it's going to hurt. So This is a time when that attachment is beginning to form. And you see that in these verses. I believe that there are three images that reflect three parts to verses eight to fifteen of chapter two. that are worth noting. First of all, there's the flower image where you see them learning to share their lives together. There's the faces image where they're learning to share their hearts together. And then there is the foxes image where they're learning to fight together against the things that would harm their relationship. First, let's look at the flower segment of this. That's in verses 8 to 13. This is the time where you're seeing increasing longing to be together. Also a deepening of their sharing and a broadening of their exploration of life and the world. You see that That mutual longing there in verses eight and nine, see, she says, Listen, my lover Look! Here he comes, leaping across the mountains, bounding over the hills. My lover is like a gazelle or a young stag. You know, uh obviously they're not yet married. He has to come some distance uh to be able to see her, and so he is zipping along, driving rather fast I'm not endorsing driving fast to see your girls, guys, just like I wasn't necessarily endorsing kids shooting each other with guns last week when I talked about boys being wired to take up uh arms because they're protectors. Uh but it's just describing this guy is excited and he's eager, he's full of energy, he's full of enthusiasm. Uh I I love that those verses eight and nine. Because basically what she is saying is exaggeration in poetic form. She's saying, you know, here he comes. She who couldn't be bothered to answer the door before now hears his car two blocks away and says, I recognize the sound. of that muffler. I know it. That's him. Here he comes. He's able to leap tall buildings with a single bound. He's on his way. See. There's that anticipation. It's harder to stay apart. And obviously this guy's pretty excited to get there. Because he's leaping over these You know, you really shouldn't read verses eight and nine without smiling. I mean, some people read scriptures kinda like, Oh yeah, wow, my lover, here he is, sleeping across the mountains, bounding over the hills like a goose. I mean, you know You gotta get in with this, guys. You know, get the picture of that keen enthusiasm, the excitement. I remember when Kathy and I were engaged, uh, we lived two hours apart. And uh I would gladly drive the two hours to see her in order to just have two hours and then have to drive two hours back. Sometimes getting back home uh after one AM before I have to get up early for work the next day And there were a number of times when I uh was falling asleep at the wheel and actually went off the road because I just couldn't stay awake, and I thought, this is really dumb. This is stupid. And next week I'd be there driving the same route, you know, 'cause I couldn't stay away from her. You know, I I just I wanted to see her and and that's the picture you have here. And and look at the time that it is. It's It's spring, you know. See what he says. Arise, my darling, my beautiful one, come with me. See, the winter is past, the rains are over and gone Do you know how much trouble I had to go to to make sure I preached that on this Sunday after 28 out of 31 days of rain in May? The rains are over and gone, amen. Probably see more sun in the next three days than you saw the whole month of May Uh and he's excited, you know, the flowers are here, it's a time of spring, but but don't miss it. He needs to share it See, it's coming to the point now where it's not enough for him to say, man, I'm going to get on my hiking boots, go out into the hills, I'm going to enjoy this. Now he needs to share it with her Come along. You see a couple times there. Arise. Come with me. Verse 13. Arise, my darling, my beautiful one. Come with me. Uh he wants to share what he enjoys. I remember as I was beginning to love Kathy more and more I I would share all the trails and the gardens that I delighted in and it just meant so much to me to share that with her because our lives were becoming more and more attached. And it's not just that they are learning to share life, but they're broadening in that. You get the picture of exploring God's creation. They want to uh They want to ex experience the fullness of life together. They're not just sitting in the backseat of a car wondering why they're experiencing temptation, you know Howard Hendrick said you sit in the back seat of a car and wonder why you're tempted. If you sit in the backseat of a car and you're not tempted, you got another problem. But see, they're out exploring in God's world in something which is refreshing and wholesome. I recall somebody saying once many years ago, love is not so much two people simply gazing at each other, but two people gazing together in the same direction. It's not simply that they're they're just always focused on each other. They want to get out and they want to experience all of God's world and experience it together. That's important to do as you're developing a relationship. That you continue to serve Christ, that you explore his world, that you're able to pray and praise naturally together. Best basis for a solid beginning to a relationship. is that you're focused together on Christ. And as you see that deepening and developing, uh, then it keeps the balance and perspective in the right order. But notice that that's not all that's going on. Notice that there is a focus on each other. That's the second thing. Notice the faces dimension of this in verse 14. He says, My dove, in the clefts of the rock, in the hiding places on the mountainside, show me your face. Let me hear your voice. For your voice is sweet and your face is lovely. It's time also that they are getting to know each other both more broadly and, I believe, more deeply. They're trying to get to know each other more broadly. Spiritually, they want to get to know each other. What's this person's heart? Does this person have a heart for Christ? apart from me? Or is it just because they want to please me? Do I have a heart for Christ apart from them? Or is it just that I'm trying to please them You want to get to know that person. You want to know their heart. You want to get to know the things they enjoy. You want to know their priorities. It's a time of discovering. What's this person really like? Because they're probably not going to change all that much. Sometimes a Talk to girls that say, well, you know, he's a little bit of a crude beast, but that's okay. Just give me a couple years with him, I'll have him straightened out, you know. And I say, Yeah, right. Just wait. Um probably not going to change that other person dramatically. What you see is what you're gonna get. And that's why you need to see them in various situations. You need to get to know their parents and their family, because you're going to marry that family, whether you like it or not. And that's going to be part of who they are. You need to see what they're like. You need to see do you have similar standards of living? Do you aspire to similar standards? Or is one always going to want more and the other say I'm content with what I have? Are your cultures compatible? your family situation compatible. Do you enjoy being part of that family? Uh there are a lot of questions. None of them are absolutely determinative. But there are the things that you need to be getting that data on and being able to evaluate, even with your friends and others that care for you. But then there's also getting to know each other deeply. But You notice that verse 14 says that she's like a dove in the clefts of the rock, in the hiding places on the mountainside. The doves that he's referring to are very shy and they hide in those clefts of the rock. You rarely get to see them And he is uh needing to be gentle and quiet, a good listener, in order to draw her out, to understand her heart, to get to know her, including the dark crevices. Sometimes uh a person will ask me, I uh I'm beginning to be attached to this person and I'm wondering, should I tell them about certain experiences I've had or things that I've done of which I'm deeply ashamed. I'm afraid to do that. Should I do that or not? And my answer is almost always yes For a couple of reasons. Number one, if it's a significant part of who you are and it marked your life, then probably sooner or later it's going to come out And it's better to come out as you share that voluntarily than for the person to discover it and feel deceived. But secondly, the person will say, I'm afraid if I tell that, then um maybe the person won't be able to forgive or accept me, and that'll just break off the relationship. I'm afraid I'll lose them. To which I say what you see in your bulletin outline there, if they cannot forgive your sin before you knew them Why do you think they will forgive your sins against them? Those are the two blanks, before and against If they can't forgive something that you did not even knowing them, a sin that perhaps was terrible Do you think that they will be able to forgive the sins that you commit against them? If they can't forgive you of the sins that you committed before your relationship developed, they're saying that those sins are larger to them than the love they have for you. And that's their prerogative. But you better know that now, rather than assume that they will be able to forgive you, because I'll tell you, you get married, there's a lot of forgiving going on. Amen, married folks? So you better know whether you can forgive each other and whether this person can forgive you. Now let me also Saying that, uh I wouldn't do it on the first date, the first time you're together. Some people have this compunction, you know, that if you're gonna know me and love me, then you gotta know everything about me. And so you have you know, you talk until one or two o'clock in the morning, you p yeah blah you just sort of lay it all out, you know, and a person comes screaming out of the room thinking, what kind of a insane person do I have here? Uh you you want to gauge when it's appropriate to share the things that are difficult because it matters to that person And uh you can then deal with that uh directly. But you notice in his case what he does, he says, uh show me your face, let me hear your voice, for your voice is sweet And your face is lovely. You're just growing more deeply in love with this woman. And then you have that interesting verse 15 about the foxes. Now commentators discuss at length who's speaking here. Some say that the woman is speaking, because he says in verse 14, Let me hear your voice, so he hears it. And she says, catch the foxes, you know. Uh other people say, no, no, no, it's the man that's speaking because he's the one that was speaking before and there's no indication of a break, so it's probably him going on. Well I have this slightly bizarre view that may or may not be true. I Wouldn't bet a whole lot on it, but I wonder if it's possibly both of them speaking in a kind of an antiphonal operatic sort of duet. Uh so far I've gotten my wife to agree with me that it may be the case, but why do I think that that's true? Well, because I think that the s the second and the fourth line just strike me as more like a feminine insight, kind of a the something a woman would say in response to the man. So I picture, right or wrong that after he says verse 14, he then says, Catch for us the foxes. And she says, the little foxes, not just the things that are obvious. But those little things in our relationship that could harm it if we don't deal with them, and down through the years they're going to come back and bite us. And then he says, that ruined the vineyards. And she says, our vineyards that are in bloom, it's our relationship that's becoming precious, so precious to her And that you see in this if I'm at all right, and if I'm not, still I think it it's appealing to me that what you're seeing is this blending of their forces and commitment in saying, we are committed together to deal with anything that's going to harm this relationship. Now I've got to be honest with you, if it was me writing this, I wouldn't have said foxes, I would have said deer. I actually like foxes, I find them beneficial uh in the back in the yard. Uh welcomed them. Uh the deer, that's another matter. Boy, talk about destroy your vineyard. They'll destroy everything So uh I picture this kind of like the deer that are out to destroy everything that you have that's growing that's worth looking at back there. This weeds are the only thing they'll let stay there, you know. Everything else goes Uh and they start with the hybrids and then work their way down, you know. But uh nevertheless, God said foxes, so that's what we say here, and I would suggest to you there's two foxes. It's a dual reference that they have in mind as they're thinking about this. Fox number one is uh the Fox dealing with sexual contact. Sexual contact. Why do I say that? They say, she says, our vineyards, they're in bloom, but uh the word vineyards is used throughout the Song of Songs to refer to her body Chapter 1, verse 6, says, I haven't taken care of my vineyard. Chapter 8, verse 12, she talks about her vineyard, which is her to give to the man that she loves. So even though it's talking about the relationship, there is that illusion that runs through the book that says we're talking about something dealing with her body in this relationship. Now we live in a sex-saturated world, from the ads that we look at to the movies that we see to what's on television, um, to the music that we listen to. Uh the norm in any kind of romantic situation seems to be as soon as a man and a woman find attraction for each other, the next thing you know They kiss and and their kiss is not ginger, tender, it is open-mouthed, passionate, long, and you think, whoa, I mean that's the first kiss? Let me tell you, that is not healthy. It is not something to see and let down our guard and say, well, that's the way it's done today. It's still unhealthy to develop a relationship that way. We have built into us a kind of a development, a wiring toward the progression of thrills in sexual and physical contact. And uh man and a woman, guy and a girl, uh find themselves attracted and after a while, you know, you you kinda look for little ways to get close and maybe you touch and oh wow, it's kinda like a little electric shock, you know. And then there comes that time when you touch her hand, you know, and it's woo, wow. And then finally, gingerly, you know, you seek to hold her hand and she doesn't pull away and oh wow man I can't believe I'm doing oh she didn't pull away all and there's such a thrill to that you know Three weeks later it's kind of like, you know, it's no big deal, it's kind of clammy, you know, but and and then, you know, so you try to move on to maybe putting your arm on her shoulder, you know And wow, that's a real thrill at first. And then, you know, the arm's kind of around her shoulder, and wow, that's okay. And it's again, it's a big thrill until you finally get to that place where there's the first kiss Man, I'll tell ya, Meriwether's never seen fireworks like that first kiss, right? I mean it and it's just it's it's soft and it's tender, but It's it's an explosion of thrills and things going off in your body. Um but then after a while That same kiss doesn't have the same effect. And so the kisses become longer and they're more passionate. And that leads to other kinds of touching. And after a while you're frustrated because your body is yearning to go to completion together. And it's very, very difficult to back up and to ever recover any of that ground that you've already passed. The foxes want you to focus on the physical so that you neglect the spiritual and the emotional of getting to know that person. And so they say, let us be careful. Let us catch the foxes that want us to get us to focus prematurely on physical contact when it's going to be unhelpful in our relationship. Because as soon as you begin to do that, it's so easy to then focus on the physical for the thrills that gives, rather than the hard work of getting to know the person and the delight of also getting to know the person. Don't short circuit, because if you do, then you will be hurt. This is a distraction. I still remember May and June 1962, beginning of summer. And uh I had a friend, Diana Douglas, who um I thought a lot about, and I saw that as our relationship was developing, it was moving toward the romantic. And Diana was a very sweet girl and um there was only one problem. The problem was that at the end of June she was moving to Ohio. We lived in the Philadelphia area And so I th I thought this this isn't gonna work out. We're not gonna be able to continue and develop this relationship. I still remember that last night Uh in June, we drove out in my car and we're sitting on this beautiful campus uh overlooking this area and it was a moon and looking at the moon and man I so wanted to kiss her Man that I want to kiss her. I mean, talk about complete the picture, right? You know? But I thought, that's just selfish. I mean it's not going to go anywhere. Why do I want to do this? Why want to hurt something? You know, I am so glad to this day I didn't kiss Diana that night It kept our relationship on that level where we really appreciated and enjoyed one another without having to put something selfish in that to just get stopped. You know, I've done a lot of dumb, stupid, selfish, foolish things in my dating. But one thing that I am so thankful to God for Is that any of the girls I dated, in the years after that, often I would get to meet their husbands That I could look that husband in the eye and shake his hand and think, I have not defrauded you of something that should belong to you alone. I am not ashamed to look at you. Guys, that is something to think about when you are tempted to just want to go into physical contact with a girl that you are attracted to. You probably hopefully will only marry one woman So 99% or whatever of the women that you have contact with, you're not going to marry. You don't want to put yourself in the position where the physical has gotten ahead of the appropriate. relationship, the expression of your relationship with that woman. The kiss should be at the point when you can say, I love you. And I love you should be at the point when you're ready to begin to talk about commitment. It may seem old-fashioned, it may seem like, boy, you're not in touch with today, but I'll tell you. Today's record of happy marriages doesn't argue for their wisdom. Save yourself the pain and the grief. Catch the little foxes that would ruin the vineyards. That's what they're saying. I plead with you in the name of Christ. Only Christ can give you the strength to be able to follow in that pattern. Only Jesus can enable you to care for someone enough that you will follow that. The second fox, fox number two, has to do with resolving conflict. Resolving conflict. In case no one has told you, the chances are that the person you would marry will be a sinner. And when two sinners get close, by the way, if nobody's told you, you're a sinner When two of you sinners get together close, there's going to be conflict, and that is inevitable. How foolish to hear somebody say Well, we just had a fight, so I guess God's not calling us together. That's the end of that. The question is not whether you fight, the question is how you fight and how you resolve the conflict. Let a state it in terms of a principle, and you see it there in your bullet and outline. Next principle from the Song of Solomon I believe you are not ready to marry someone until you have had a major disagreement and been able to resolve it fully. You are not ready to marry someone until you've had a major disagreement and been able to resolve it fully. So that you see he's not just going to blow up And he's going to intimidate you and control, or she's not just going to clam up and pout and punish you and go her own way. Or vice versa. It can work both ways. But that you can confess, you can forgive, you can talk it out, you can come to Scripture, you can be willing to be uh uh appealed to. Uh James says that wisdom is easy to be entreated. You're able to reason and talk with a person. Box number two was to get you to think that all conflict means that you're not called together and live in this idealistic world, or To just ignore conflict and think, even though you've had a courtship full of constant bickering and fighting, that somehow when you get married it's going to change. I got news for you. One of the most foolish things that couples can do is to have a rocky, spat-filled courtship And never learn how to resolve those things and still think they can get married. That's just utter foolishness. So let me close with a few words of pointed application from this. Number one, men, your masculinity is not from a woman, it is for her. This man comes to this woman with strength. He is able to call her to share his life. He wants to pursue her. But he does it out of strength. One of the uh uh John Eldridge's best insights in his book uh Wild at Heart is how many men seek validation of their masculinity through conquering a beautiful woman. Not loving, but conquering. Uh it's out of my need. Um I never heard from my dad that I had what it takes to be a man, and so I'm always afraid that I'm faking it. as a man. I'm afraid that someday I'm going to be exposed for what I am as a fraud. I don't have what it takes, and so to try and prove that I have what it takes, I need to make some pretty girl think that I'm special. And if I can do that, that'll prove that I'm a man. See? If I can just get a Juliet to love me, then I must be Romeo. I uh was so foolish my own life, I did not have that kind of validation from my dad. I had very little relationship with my dad And I chased girls all through my school years. And I'm talking from kindergarten. I remember going into kindergarten and I'd picked the prettiest girl in the class Claire Marshall, still remember. I'd say to my friends, Hey, you want to see me kiss Claire? And I'd go get Claire and I'd give her a kiss, you know. And she didn't seem to mind. Um back she kissed me back, you know. Um but I you know it was it was just it was out of my own need and and through the school years there was this need to have some girl think that I was special. I remember when I was in grad school Um on a summer day, I had three dates with three different girls, and I thought that made me a man But you see it was selfish. I was possessive. I wasn't really loving these girls. I was needing them to validate me and my masculinity. But you know there's a fatal problem with that. And that is, if you guys, if we guys look for validation of our masculinity through some woman, then we are giving her the power to invalidate our masculinity. It's as if she carries a report card around and we're always looking for approval to be heard. I am still thought of as masculine. How do I do in that? Did I get an A? Did I get a B? How do I do And so what happens is you don't love that woman, you have a love-hate relationship with her because you are dependent on her to constantly be validated. You can't love someone. when you're in that kind of a position. You'll see that through this whole book. That his love is a giving love. It is not always looking for what she can do. Now that that's a profound principle of human relationships, the need to be validated rather than to be able to love the person. To please her so that you're approved rather than to love her as one who can give. Now, you and I, the only thing we can do as men is to go to Jesus Christ for him to validate your masculinity, who made you, who created you, who has forgiven you, and who has reformed you, who has called you to be his man. Practically speaking, uh there is a class that we have, it's you know it's almost done now, but I still urge you to get to it, you men, uh the men's class that Steve Green runs during the middle hour And then during the summer there will be the men's breakfast. Next one is June the 14th. Mark it down. Get to that. Join with men who are seeking Christ to understand what it means to be men of God and how to act like that. Same thing with you women, I would say, uh very briefly, your your femininity is not from a man, it is for a man. You don't get your femininity, your sense of it, by alluring some guy who will validate your femininity. You need to be validated as a woman because your dad never did. He never gave you that affirmation. And so you go to a guy and somehow he just kind of picks up on this intuitively and he begins to move too fast and take advantage of you in physical contact and If that happens, back off. His banner over you is not love, it is lust. And you need to protect yourself to not be falling into a position where you will be hurt and wounded. Find some Christian woman, more mature woman that you can talk to to talk through the issues of your femininity and what it means and go through that to Jesus Christ. For Jesus to be able to validate you as his bride, as the one that he wants to be a groom to, to give you the sense of your womanhood. And again, there is the woman's class that we have here. There are other things, there's other fellowships and contact with women. Find a woman that you'll be able to talk through those issues with. This points us to the need for that. For you singles, take time to get to know a person that you think that you are loving. We even have a paper Here uh from Palison and Yenshka. Should we get married? Should I marry you? Five pre-engagement questions to ask yourselves. Highly recommend this. I had a stack of them out there on the back table. They were all taken after the first service. We replenish the stack. There's some more back there in case anybody wants to take that. Uh get a hold of it, but go through it, but don't rush the relationship. Take the time, as they do in this, to begin to get to know each other more and more deeply. But beyond any of this, what is most important of this is to see that once again the relationship horizontally between this man and this woman points all of us, whatever our situation, to the love of Christ. This is what you see, this is a reflection of. And you see that in those same three images of Jesus in his love for you. Flowers, faces, and foxes. Because you see, Jesus is that one who bounds across the hills, who wants to meet with you. You know, tonight we are going to take the Lord's Supper. And you think, Lord, yeah, I want to meet with you. I need to come. Did it ever occur to you that Jesus is more anxious to meet with you than you are with him? Did it ever occur to you that God created man and woman in the garden that he might walk with them to show them his flowers and his creation? And then in our despicable disruption of that, in our rebellion, we broke that fellowship, and it's God who has through the ages taken the initiative to pursue man It is God who set up his tabernacle in the center of Israel, that his people might be with him. It's Jesus who called twelve disciples, Mark says, that they might be with him. It is in the book of Revelation that we read that God makes his dwelling with man, God pursuing you, because he wants to share his world with you. In John chapter 17, verse 24, you have a beautiful verse, one of my favorite verses, where Jesus says Father, I long for them that they might be with me and behold my glory. Jesus longs for you. He misses you. He wants you to be with him. In order that he might show you the renewed world that he's creating, that he might have that fellowship with you, where you and he in some mysterious way will be able to join your hearts forever and ever, as he loves you. And as he knows you, he knows your face, he knows your heart, he doesn't discover more about you, he knows you fully And all that he knows about you, he has died that that would be removed. It would not be an obstacle. He has taken away that sin by the sacrifice of his own blood. And he holds you in this week, if you pull out your Bible and your church. Trying to wake up in the morning. Imagine as you open your Bible, Jesus standing before you and saying, Your face is lovely, and your voice is sweet to me as we meet together this morning. Do you imagine Jesus that way? Do you see him in that kind of intimacy, in his love? And then he said, I have died so that there's no foxes that could ever come between us and destroy this relationship. As he says in John chapter 10, My sheep hear my voice. And I hold you in my hand, and no one can pluck you out of my hand. And my Father holds you in hand and his hand and no one can pluck you out of his hand. And I and the Father are one. Come, come, meet with me. Let me show you my world. Let me share life with you. For your face Is lovely to me. And your voice is sweet. Come to him. For his love is infinite and eternal. Let's pray. Ah Lord Jesus, how we need, how we need to know your love. How we need to Give ourselves and abandon ourselves to that one who has loved us like no one else has ever loved us. No one has ever loved us like Jesus. And Lord, if there's any here who have never given themselves to you for that love, I pray you would draw their hearts to see the love that you alone can offer. Lord, I pray that that love would be reflected in our relationships as men and women, whatever our situation, that you would give us the strength as men and as women to find our masculinity and femininity in you. And to be able to give to the other without that need to be validated. Rather that we would come to you with the fullness of your love And from that love to express to one another what it means to give out of the fullness of your grace. Teach us what that means, we pray, in Jesus' name.