What is this? strange four-legged creature coming up from the desert. Oh, it's two people. It it's our beloved. And she's leaning on her lover. This is the couple that we have been looking at their scrapbook to see their pictures and reading their songs that they've composed. From one another. That same question, who is this coming up from the desert? was asked back in chapter 3 and verse 6. And there the answer was Solomon on his way to his wedding. Now Now the answer in chapter 8 and verse 5 is Shona leaning on Solomon. We've seen this couple in their courtship. We were invited to their wedding. And we even got to look in on their honeymoon and blush a little bit. We've seen their first alienation, we watched his love constant, and we've seen them fully reconciled. We've seen this couple as playful companions, as erotic lovers, and we've watched them grow in their intimacy. We've observed that there's a special closeness now between them. And I think the picture that you have in chapter eight verse five is a scene that that both depicts something and prepares us for something. It depicts, I think, two ideas. One, the idea idea of cleaving, the essence of marriage, a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife. And so the picture is here, there's these two coming up and you can't even separate them visually from each other. Nothing is between them. They're cleaving to each other. She's leaning on him. And the other idea that I believe you have here is that of relaxed intimacy. It's a languid picture. She's leaning on him. She's leaning on this man who is her protector, resting in him, that she can trust him in any circumstance. That image, I believe, also sets the scene for what's to come. Because what you have here is unique in the entire book. It is now not love songs, but it's a reflection of On love. There's just two more songs left. This week, chapter eight, verses five to seven, Reflections on Love, and then you have next week Kempor Longman is going to be preaching after the marriage conference and uh presumably he'll pick something from the Song of Songs. I don't know what he'll be preaching on. Uh he's the fellow that wrote what I said to you was probably the best contemporary commentary on the Song of Songs written in two thousand one and uh an excellent guide, even though I differ on with him in significant ways on a number of points of interpretation, but certainly all within the scope of in an errant scripture. Um and then on November 16th I get the last word. Song of Psalms chapter eight, verses eight to fourteen. Just to make sure that um we have the with the right understanding, you know. So we have just uh three more messages on this. Now what do these uh verses have to teach us? These are more reflective now at the end, looking back on love and thinking about love. Interesting that in this whole chapter he only says one verse, uh verse thirteen. All the rest is her speaking, so what does she have to teach us? I believe that she here now is uh similar to wisdom in Proverbs, which is also a woman. And so now we have this beloved, the woman of wisdom, speaking to us about love. And I uh you know, you read those verses or as you hear Tim read them, uh they're extremely Extremely dense verses. I mean, even without understanding what they're about, one verse, each phrase kind of follows the other, very packed. Uh and I have found at least seven lessons about love or character. characteristics about love here. To help you to remember them, I call them the seven P's of love. And as we go through them on the screen, let's take a look, you'll see that the numbers from one to seven are next to the beginning of the phrase or the lines that give you the scripture that those points are based on. And I do that for two reasons. One to kind of help you to follow, but secondly it's very important To me, that you don't look at these as Al Harris's seven little peas. If you do, then your your response will be to evaluate whether that's interesting or clever or whatever. But if you see that each of these points is resting on coming from Scripture that that's God speaking to you, then your response will be very different. Then you will say, Lord, you're speaking to me. I examine my life in the light of your How does my life reflect love? How am I compared to this standard? And how does it humble me and draw me to Jesus Christ to see Him? That's my hope. And so that's why I want you to see these things and see that what we're doing is hearing from God this morning, because I want you to be in touch with Him. I want you to repent and believe Jesus as our great lover Lord. Amen. Okay. Let's look at them. First point. First P. Love has perspective. Love has perspective. Kind of intriguing the thought here. And as she's coming up from the desert, leaning on her lover, she then says, Under the apple tree I roused you. There your mother conceived you. There she who was in labor gave you birth. The youths there are all masculine, so these are her words, and she saying, under that apple tree, remember the apple tree is an erotic symbol, under the apple tree, I aroused you and we made love there. That was the same apple tree where your mother conceived you by your father. And And um what's the point? I think the point is she is saying uh your parents were once as passionate as we are. There's a continuity to passion in the generations. You see, infatuation likes to look at itself as unique. Infatuation says, no one has ever loved like us. Our love is unique. It is, you know, Romeo and Juliet, forget it. Our love. That's the love of the ages, you see. But that kind of a view will inevitably fall into when problems come. No one has ever had problems like us. No one Has ever endured the hurt that I have endured in my passion. You see, there's there's a pride, there's a self centeredness that says I'm unique. And uh, you know, she's kind of saying, get off it. Your parents were passionate, we're passionate. the greatest love may I have the greatest but you know what it's still very precious we pursue that continuity and um that is a great safeguard that perspective how many times have I seen in a small group, kind of smile when I see it anymore. Seen a small group, a couple comes in, they're kind of agitated. They know the group a little bit, but you can tell they're really hurting. After a while they take the risk, they plunge, and they begin to talk about some of the struggles they're having having. And uh you can tell as they begin to describe this, they've never done this on that level before, and it begins to tumble out. And then somebody else in the group says, Psh, man, I know exactly how you feel. Boy have We've been there. Let me tell you about it. And there's this great relief that comes on that couple, you see, because they're not alone. They realize we're not the only ones having this struggle Love has perspective. Love sees that our love isn't the greatest, so that we don't need Jesus, nor is it the worst, so that he's not sufficient. Love says We're born of sinners, sinners who were passionate, and we continue to go on and we need Jesus and He is sufficient. I still remember when my mom died that uh I had to clean out her house uh as an only child, went through all her stuff. You know, all those boxes that you never were to look in um through the years and nearly one old cigar box were her love letters. Now they weren't from her, they were all from my dad to her, and that was a shock. Because if there was one thing I never looked at my dad as it was romantic. My dad was a man who didn't seem to enjoy life. He did not ever evidence any passion except for the particular baseball game he might be watching. And to see See that other side of him was stunning to me. To see my dad's little notes to her of how much she meant to him, how he was longing to be with her that night, how he couldn't wait to see her, and on and on and on, and I realized. You know, my parents once had dreams. My parents once were passionate. And like my parents, I have failed. in loving the way the scripture calls me to. But Jesus is sufficient. You see, if you have the perspective, you're able to see that you have the need for Jesus who is sufficient in you. your generation as he was sufficient for your parents whether or not they chose to take him at his word. Love has perspective. Don't look at yourself as unique. That's pride. Maybe for some of you this morning God wants you to humble yourself before Him and say, you know, I've tried to think of myself as the best or the worst, or sometimes one and another time another. Lord you You need to show me I'm just a needy sinner. And that you're sufficient for that need here now. Love has perspective. Secondly, you see that love is protective. Love is protective. She goes on. Place me like a A seal over your heart like a seal on your arm. A seal was a mark of ownership for something that was precious. You didn't go around sealing anything, you sealed the things that were valuable to you. Uh that's the basis of wedding rings. You know, the wedding ring, and if you've ever been to a wedding I've conducted, you notice how I'll always point out that a wedding ring is made of gold because each is a precious possession to the other. A wedding ring is a circle symbolizing that love always perseveres, always hopes, always trusts. Love never fails. But it's a seal that you wear. And you notice she says, place that seal in two places. First of all, over your heart, and then on your arm. Over your heart to show that I am the center of your affections. Do you remember back in Exodus 28, the high priest was told that he must take the breastplate and he was to have twelve jewels inscribed in that breastplate, each one representing one of the tribes of Israel. And God told the priest that he was to wear that breastplate over his heart, symbolizing as the intercessor of God's people, that they were upon his heart day and night. God says in Isaiah forty-six, I have engraved you on the palms of my hand. Your mother, he says, might forget you, but I will never forget you. To preserve you and to protect you. So she says, place me as a seal not over not only over your heart, but on your arm. Why a seal on the arm? Because in Scripture the arm is the symbol of strength. God's right arm protects his people. Isaiah forty-six. Engrave you on my hands to protect you. God says that He engraves us on His arm Because we are safe with him. So that's what she's saying. Make me safe with you. Make me to know that your love is secure, that I can rest in your protection. And of course, this speaks to of Jesus, a Jesus who set you as a seal over his heart and over his right arm to treasure you And to protect you. Do you believe that you can trust the protection of Jesus this morning? Or do you believe in the things that you're going through? You've got to fend for yourself. You've got to protect yourself. How can you say as this woman, Lord Jesus, place me as a seal over your heart, like a seal on your arm? and believe that he's going to let you go. It's one of the main reasons we take the Lord's Supper tonight. It's so that we experience again the confirmation of that seal of his love. of treasure and protection for us. We need to be reminded of that, don't we? So that you know that you're not alone, so that you know that Jesus promises to you are faithful. Maybe for some of you this morning you'd forgotten that. You need to come back and you need to remember that Jesus has sealed you on his heart. And on his arm. Also a word to you husbands, as I looked at this and thought of myself, you know, um This speaks to us of our job as protectors. You remember that's been one of the main themes through this book, the man is the role of protector. And some of us husbands need to repent of our neglect of that, of our greater concern to protect ourselves than to protect our wives. How often do we pastors here see in marriage counseling situations, uh we were talking about that this week, how often we see uh so much of the problem is that the The husband is refusing to accept his role as protector. Remember the word husband is not only a noun, it's also a verb. You can husband something, and the root of that word is Its original meaning means to take care of, to husband, to take care of something. And uh that's what God's called us to do. It's it's the idea that you have right here in this phrase. And uh some of our marriages are failing because Those husbands have failed to act as husbands, to take care of, to protect, to let their wives know that they are sealed upon their heart and upon their arm. So maybe the Lord's calling you, as he's called me, to admit our failings and our need of Jesus. The need of Jesus, the strong arm of Jesus, to come and know our protection in him and then to reflect that Third P. Love is powerful. Love is powerful. Very simple, she simply says. For love is strong as death. You see this connection. Connected to this seal, I am safe because love is as strong as death. What is more powerful than death? Death holds every one of us eventually in its relentless grip. No one escapes death. What is stronger than death? Is there any power? The scripture is quite clear. There is something stronger than death. It's love. Specifically the love of Christ. And death is unyielding. And so Jesus Christ came, and he came because he had set his heart upon you. And because his love was stronger than death, Jesus literally beat the hell out of death. by giving up his own life to pay for the death that you and I deserved. And the law of the cosmos states that when one who is innocent and whose life is perfect Would come to give himself as a sacrifice for one who deserved to die, then death cannot hold the one who delivers. And Jesus was released. Death is unyielding. But in the case of Jesus, Jesus overcame death. He gave himself by love. That took him to death and then overcame death and opened the gates of death, robbed of its power of hell, because of his love for you. And so you and I come. There's times when you may lie awake at night and weep softly into your pillow, wondering, how can I go on living? with this person snoring next to me. I feel like my insides have been ripped out. I'm so numb I don't feel like I can hurt anymore And I feel so lonely. Who can I tell? Who cares? Who can understand? And then maybe about 3. 30, 4 o'clock, it dawns on you. Why don't I tell Jesus? Well, it's because Jesus, I can't see him, and uh he doesn't speak back. It's less than satisfying until you pick up his word and you begin to read about Jesus and his love. You cry and pour out your hearts on Jesus, can you understand? And he says, my child, did you never read of The loneliness that I experienced, the misunderstanding, the betrayal, the abandonment, because of my love for you. And then it begins to dawn on you that as you seek to love another sinner And that love may not be returned, that you discover the love of Christ in a whole new way. You discover that you need to learn about his love extended to you and to me, who are so often careless and unresponsive. You learn what love means. that it sets its heart upon the person. It steals that person on its affections and strength. And you learn to draw from the strength of Christ to love that person. And by doing that, you learn more of Christ and grow closer in his fellowship than you've ever done before. Because now you're not loving in your own strength. You're loving, leaning on your lover. Fourthly, love is also possessive. She goes on after love is as strong as death is jealousy is unyielding as the grave Love is possessive. Love is jealous in marriage because each belongs to the other. You remember one of the main themes of this book has been the idea of mutual possession. I belong to my lover and my lover is mine. We own each other. That possession which is mutual is a reflection of the covenant relationship with God and his people. And so God is described in Scripture as a jealous God. His jealousy is a good thing. And it's a good and right thing for a husband and wife to be jealous of one another. God is jealous of my affection. James 4, verse 1. Verse 5 says, He gives to us the Holy Spirit who dwells in us, who longs for us jealously. He's possessive of you. It's right for you to be possessive of your husband and of your wife, not suffocating, not seeking to control. But if we men wander in our hearts toward pornography, that airbrushed silicone-packed ideal, so that we become critical of our wives and they never can measure up. Our wives are right to be angry and to be jealous and to say you must stop that. That must end. Or we'll go public with this. Because love is possessive. And likewise, a husband who finds his wife absorbed in romance novels, finding in these novels that hero that her husband will never measure up to, to give her the passion and to sweep her away into that idealistic land where there's no diapers or dishes finds he can never compare and compete. And he's right to be possessive and say, I take you from that. It destroys our love. Love is possessive, and love will act strongly, sometimes radically, sometimes take great risks to risk even the relationship. In order for a holy possession to preserve the unity of that marriage. Love is possessive. And then you see fifthly that love is permanent. Love is permanent. She goes four lines for this Love, she says, burns like a blazing fire, like a mighty flame. Many waters cannot quench love. Rivers cannot wash it away. What a flame. Rivers can't even wash it away. Nothing can can disting extinguish love. Again, 1 Corinthians 13, love always perseveres, hopes, protects. Love never fails. Love doesn't fail because it can't be extinguished either by alienation or determination. Deterioration. You can't be distinguished by extinguished by alienation. Paul tells us in Ephesians 4. Put away all bitterness, rage, anger. Brawling, slander, and every kind of malice, petty criticism, or deep hostility. And rather Be kind toward one another, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. The person who can't forgive that other one, no matter how deep the hurt is. And refuses to be hurt one more time, has forgotten their own heart and what they were forgiven of by God in Christ. Love is permanent. It will not be extinguished by alienation. But love is permanent and will not be extinguished by deterioration. Robertson and Muriel McQuilkin were bright young energetic missionaries that went to Japan many, many years ago. They served in Japan as missionaries with such distinction that Robertson McWilkin was invited to be the president of Columbia Bible College and Seminary. He took up that position after some years on the field. His wife was equally gifted in communication. She spoke at conferences for women around the country. And she also had a daytime show, daily syndicated uh radio show. After a period of time He began to notice that his wife would flag in her train of thought, and sometimes that would happen on the air, and became a bit of an embarrassment and those times increased in frequency till finally the program directors had a very uncomfortable meeting with them in which They had to approach to say she could no longer continue the broadcast. What a blow. But Meroyel was bright and optimistic and she said, I still have a rich ministry. And she would continue to speak to women's groups until we f they found Found that she would increasingly come home crushed because in the middle of a message she would totally lose her train of thought and not be able to recapture it. She was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. And Robertson realized he was going to have to shift some priorities and begin to take care of her a bit more. Things continued to deteriorate. became more difficult. They finally had to get a companion to stay with her during the day so he could go to the office and continue to function as the president of the Bible college and seminary. But even that didn't work because many times she would escape. You see, she was not comfortable, not at peace unless she was in his presence. And so sometimes whatever she was wearing or not wearing, she would run out and do the mile trip to his office and come back. Sometimes he said as much as ten times a day He said he would come at the end of the evening to undress her and get her ready for bed, and her feet would be bloody because she had gone without shoes. Took her to the doctor and All the doctor could say was, what love? McCulkin said, Oh, how she taught me about love Oh, that I longed with such desperation to be as close to my Lord as that. Things continued to deteriorate until finally, after 42 years of marriage, after about 12 years of the progression of the Alzheimer, the crook and was faced with the decision. Kineshi needed full-time care. And so he resigned as president of Columbia Bible College and Seminary. He said God had given him a new calling and he was glad to take it. It was a privilege to serve this woman who had served him for 40 years. Things continued to become more difficult. She loved him. And one of the ways she would show her love is to give him flowers. But now she began to pick all the neighbors' flowers and put them in vases around the house. And that didn't go. Their world became smaller and smaller. No longer could she even speak in complete sentences Or then in even appropriate words. And whereas he used to be able to take her out and she would still look bright and he could try to keep things going, it was no longer possible. And people marvel. In a world in which where there is a diagnosis of terminal illness, 70% of marriages end in abandonment or divorce. He was a man who continued to serve his wife. He read one morning of a in the paper of uh one on one of these advice columns said that I decided to end the relationship because it no longer was meeting my needs. And you said I smiled and I thought, what needs Physical relationship, conversation, emotional needs, how irrelevant those are to our relationship now. But still, she continues to teach me love. One morning happened to be a Valentine's Day morning the morning, uh Valentine's Day was special to them. That's when he had proposed to her. He was riding his cycle in the bedroom. And she emerged for a few brief moments out of that catatonic uh disconnected state and she looked at him and said, Love, love, love. He jumped off the cycle and ran over to her, embraced her and said, Muriel, you do love me, you do love me. And then the glazed look came again and she simply said, I'm nice. How often Do you and I come to the Lord and in that rare moment we say to him, Lord, Lord, I I love you. I really love you. And he comes to embrace us and relapse back into, I'm nice. And he continued to love her. Thirteen years after he had resigned, he continued to care for her day after day after day. He was surprised that people began to notice until an oncologist told him, most women will stay with their men as they deteriorate. Few men stay with their women. For 25 years she had Alzheimer's disease. Muriel McWilkin died this past September the 20th. and went to be with her Lord. She was first showing the evidence of it when we planted this church in nineteen seventy-eight From 1978 to 2003, 25 years, a quarter of a century, as long as we have existed. This man cared for this woman. Increasingly unresponsive, incontinent, sometimes slapping and stubborn. And he continued to love her. For love cannot be extinguished. Love is permanent. And what is his love to the love of Christ? The love that Jesus showed for you and for me. That love where he continues to care for you and for me, as unresponsive and petulant and self-centered as you and I can be. Lord, I love you. Lord, I'm nice. But he loves you. He continues to love you The sixth point is that love is priceless. She goes on and says, if one were to give all the wealth of his house for love, it would be utterly scorned. What if somebody said to Roberts and McQuilkin, wow, I'll give you a million dollars if you'll just love me like you love her? Isn't it ludicrous? It would be scoring. No one can buy such love In Hosea 14, God says of his people, His people who are described as an unfaithful harlot, he says, I will love them. Freely. The same word I reminded you that we have in Romans 3:26, we're justified freely by his grace. Love. is priceless. It is only by grace where it is not love. And then finally love is produced by the gospel. The gospel personified in the person of Jesus. If you look back at verse 6 where it says their love burns like blazing fire, like a mighty flame, some of your Bible translations will have a footnote showing that the alternate translation for that is like the very flame of the Lord. Scholars aren't sure which way to translate. There's arguments for each side. If it's saying that, clearly, what this is saying is that this love ultimately is the very flame of God. It's his flame that is the love that can't be extinguished. The love of Christ. But whether that line is to be translated that way or not, it's absolutely clear from Scripture that that is what Scripture says from beginning to end. Love is not something that you can look at and hear this morning and say, yeah, I need to do a better job of that. I need to discipline myself to love better. I need to work at that Because you'll never do it. You and I don't have that kind of love in our hearts. And the only way you come to that kind of love is as you focus upon Jesus Christ and his love. Do you remember John wrote in his letter, 1 John chapter 4, verse 10, here in his love, this is love, not that we loved God But that he loved us, that he loved you, and sent his son to be a pleasing sacrifice for your sin. Priceless, stronger than death, feeling you to his heart forever and forever Powerful is the grave, conquering all, and permanent as eternity. And when the world begins to see that kind of love, it longs and hungers for the source. Let's pray. Lord our God, how empty we are. How we focus so often on how poorly I am loved. And too rarely consider how poorly I love Lord, each of us looks at these seven characteristics and we examine our own hearts and we see such great deficiency and we're ashamed. I'm ashamed But then we looked from ourselves to see Jesus, the perfect fulfillment of each of these characteristics. And Lord Jesus, like that woman, we lean, we lean hard on our lover. We rest on you. We depend on you. We cleave to you. We want to see and know and taste your love more fully and completely for us. That out of the resources, out of those living streams and rivers of water, we might become those whose bellies overflow with rivers of living water. Only you can do that. And we ask you, as hungry beggars, we ask you to do that in us for Jesus' sake.