Full reflection of any kind, Washington Post. Or Janice Shaw Krauss in an article, Get Mine, Get Yours At the conclusion of her remarks on accepting the 2003 Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress in a television series, Kim Cattrow Repeated today's ubiquitous feminist mantra Remember women, men come and go, but girlfriends last forever The cynicism of the Sex in the City actress reflects the outlook of many single professional women who have casually experimented with a series of disposable lovers. She goes on to talk about Christina Aguilera, her latest video, stripped, and says this. With a studied air of blasé indifference, Aguilera says that she wrote stripped after having found and lost her first love. In one song, Get Mine, Get Yours, she sings, We have a physical thing. We'll make love, but don't fall in love. This is the siren song for today's new hookup culture. Dating and romance for many today has been replaced by casual serial hookups. Now get this. According to one federally funded study One-third of eleventh graders who had engaged in sexual intercourse said that their sexual partner was merely a friend. He goes on to consider the popularity of shows like The Bachelor, The Bachelorette, and Joe Millionaire and say some feminists claim that these programs degrade women and wonder why they watch them. She says, Don't they get the point? These programs. However, crass are all about fairy tales and the haunting echoes of romance. Many women today are searching for a soulmate. Today, Cinderella, murmured by Get Mine, Get Yours slogans, keeps waking up beside yet another fake prince, only to find she hasn't become a princess. She wonders about her freedom and what it is exactly that she gained and at what cost. She feels merely dirty, with a distinct taste of ashes in her mouth. her dreams a swirl of soot under her feet. And what's tragic is that often we as Christians answer with simply commands. God says, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not fornicate. When God says something, that certainly is sufficient to speak with authority. And we should obey. He is God. But in his kindness God has given to us much more than simply commands. Particularly in this book, The Song of Songs, he gives us what is so lacking today. He gives us meaning. Sex has meaning. And I realize I'm in a minority arguing that this book is roughly a Chronological story. It's a kind of album of snapshots of this couple in their love. The snapshots are verbal, they're songs. A collection of songs to look back before they were married, their wedding, their honeymoon, and their marriage. It's a very enviable love that is meant to capture your heart and to show you the meaning of sex. and romantic love, and through that also to show you Christ, the perfect bridegroom. So last week we looked at chapter three and verses six to eleven to see the wedding. And now we are at the Sheraton. We are now away from the crowds. And they are alone together on the first night of their honeymoon. They have never seen each other's bodies So this is a thrilling time in a safe and private place, so different from the backseat of a car with its guilt and fear Now look at what Scripture, God's word, says that He is doing. God's Word says that He is undressing her sensuously and speaking lovingly to her as he does. He is describing her poetically In a way that she is seen as a dream girl, and yet when you actually stop to think about it, you know very little of what she actually looks like Whether she is tall or short, whether she is slender or full-figured, can't really tell. But in this enthralling scene where you are all wondering how in the world I'm going to preach a G-rated sermon on this. I would like to offer to you twelve lessons on love, sex, and lovemaking. Now of all the songs that we're dealing with in this book, this is the only song that I'm going to take two weeks to cover. In the first week today, I want to give to you twelve lessons on love, sex, and lovemaking for singles, for married, wisdom for successful living. And then next week I want to focus on that twelfth lesson, how this is a picture of Christ and his church, his bride, you and me But even though I'm going to take two weeks, I need to cover it very quickly. So bear with me as I do. And if there's something that you want me to expand on, we have one more QA session Next week's middle hour, we started this morning and had a full hour of discussion. Next week we will wrap that up. So if you have any more questions, remember put them on a gray slip or email the office. And I will try to deal with him or we'll have some discussion as we did this morning. First lesson in this precious text: love is verbally expressive. That was verbally expressive. That's an overall observation here that this man makes an effort to tell this girl in detail how she is so precious to him. He didn't just say something like, you know, oh, I love you, and oh shucks, I'm not good at words, let me just kiss you. But he talks to her. He describes in words his love. Words are important to women. Amen, women. Yeah. If you women don't give me any worries, you don't have my sympathy, okay? You know? Women, that's my experience. You women want men to talk to you and tell you, right? How they love you, why they love you. And and um this guy's making an effort. He we need to as men get in touch with our hearts so that we can say, this is why I love you. Here's how you're precious to me. And we may not be able, like this guy, to set off the sprinklers in the ceiling by the things he says, but at least we can try, and our wives will appreciate the effort. Maybe in writing we can do a better job, but to try. So love is verbally expressive. Don't miss that in what's going on here. Notice he begins to describe her, beginning at the top of her head and then working his way down. He only gets so far, by the time he gets to her breasts, he gets so distracted that he never finishes what he's doing and so goes off into another area. But look briefly at what he says in these first five verses of description. Verse 1, how beautiful you are, my darling. Oh how beautiful. Your eyes behind your veil are doves. So he's taking off her veil. Looks at her eyes, again, as he said before, they're soft as doves, beautiful. Then your hair is like a flock of goats descending from Mount Gilead. It's not one of those lines you want to copy. I uh heard of a guy who um was studying this book and he was on a plane And he said to the stewardess as she came back, ma'am, I just want to tell you, your hair is like a flock of goats as it comes down from Mount Gilead. The steward just gave him a dirty look and wouldn't talk to him for the rest of the flight. So don't try it. But uh what he's saying here is um the goats he has in mind were black, silky haired goats along the hill. of Mount Gilead and it's an elegant sight seeing them come down. Again, the effect that it has on them. Verse 2, your teeth are like a flock of sheep just showing, coming up from the washing. Each has its twin. Not one of them is alone In other words, your teeth are clean and none of them are missing. That's nothing to take for granted back before there was Dennis, you know. Verse three, your lips like a scarlet ribbon. Your mouth is lovely, beautifully shaped lips, and then your temples behind your veil are like the halves of a pomegranate That's another one. Probably temples means cheeks, referred to this whole area. And pomegranates are reddish So what he is saying is your cheeks are glowing with good color, you know. Uh then verse four, your neck is like the tower of David, built with elegance. On it hang a thousand shields, all of them shields. Shields of warriors. Your neck is elegant. It's got this beautiful necklace on it. You are one elegant lady, is what he is saying to her. And then verse five, your two breasts are like two thorns, like twin thorns of a gazelle that bells among the lilies. Yes, that is in the Bible. Um it is in the Bible because it is not dirty and there is nothing wrong with it. To have it in the Bible, to preach on it, is to take away Satan's desire to drive a wedge in your life. Where there are certain things you might think and talk about, but you don't do it in church. Or you kids hear me talk about breasts and you snicker and say, Ah, did you hear what he said? See what Satan wants to do is to take that area out of what is good and beautiful. God made breasts And God did not just make breast for nursing, he made breast for pleasure, for the man and for the woman. Proverbs chapter 5, verse 19, if you don't believe me. But we need to be able to bring these things together in our lives as Christians so that we see that this man is mentioning something here which is good and beautiful and holy and right. Are you offended that I speak of this stuff? If you are, Satan's getting a victory in your life. Because if you are offended that I would speak about this, then that means you're keeping it in an area of your life. That is not submitted to Jesus Christ. We need to bring these things together. Remember the parable of the crocodiles that I shared when I first began this whole series? The crocodiles that destroy a village, and yet nobody would talk about the crocodiles because it wasn't proper. So we need to speak about what God says in his word. About our bodies and about the sexual experiences that we have. And he does that. He does it shamelessly, and there's nothing wrong with that. And we need to learn from that. You teenagers need to be able to bring this in your experience to something that you thank God for. And don't put it in an area that's dirty and hidden. Notice also the second lesson that love is gentle. Because her breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle uh that uh browse among the lilies. Again, what's the picture? Why does he compare her breast to thorns that are browsing? It's a picture of softness and gentleness. And you notice that in doing that he is gentle. As uh Tommy Nelson says in his book, you don't go up to Fawns and say, Come here, Fawns! Uh they're tender, shy, gentle, and he's communicating that in the way that he speaks to this woman. He's gentle with her. But uh as soon as he finishes that, you notice he gets so d distracted and captivated he uh he doesn't continue this uh Journey down her body, but in verse six he says, Until the day breaks and the shadows flee, I will go to the mountains of Myrrh and to the hill of incense Third lesson: love is lavish and impractical. Impractical. Why do I say impractical? Well, you notice what he's saying there is I'd like to love you all night long. He doesn't say, Huh well, you know we've got to get our eight hours in so that we can do sightseeing tomorrow. Gotta keep the schedule, get the projects done. There is time when you are so captivated scripturally by that other person that you say, Oh this project never gets done. He I want to have time with you. I want for us to just focus on each other right now. Get away and do what may seem impractical. Get the babysitter, blow the budget, whatever it is. We need time together and I want you. And you communicate that. This is an area I should have paid more attention to when I was younger. Too uh constrained by my duties, the things I had to get done. It's times I should have just said, who cares? Kathy, let's just have time together. Uh, you know, as the old adage goes, nobody ever says on their deathbed, Wish I'd spent more time at the office Spend too much time with my wife or my husband, dote it on him too much. Love sometimes, not always, but sometimes, is impractical. It's lavish. Birth lesson, love overlooks flaws. Verses 1 to 5 speaks of seven aspects of her beauty. Seven is the number of perfection. And so in verse seven, it gets explicit. All beautiful you are, my darling. There is no flaw in you. You say, Oh, come on. Now we're getting a little idealistic here. I mean, come on, she's a sinner. Don't you know she's a sinner? She's not perfect. It doesn't sound like this guy's ready to get married if he can't see that, you know. What does he mean? Well perhaps it's best described by quoting to you from a poem by James Russell Lowell called True Love. True love is but a humble low-born thing and hath its food served up in earthenware. It is a thing to walk with hand in hand through the everydayness of this workday world. And then later on he says, it's a love that gives and takes That seeth thoughts, not with flaw-seeing eyes like needle points, but loving kindly ever looks them down. I love those phrases. I've read this thing probably a hundred times. A love that gives and takes, that seeth faults not with flaw seeing eyes like needle points But loving kindly ever looks them down, with the o'ercoming faith that still forgives, A love that shall be new and fresh every hour, as is the sunset's golden mystery. Or the sweet coming of the evening star. He saying to me, You are perfect. I wouldn't change you I love you. Fifth lesson: love is possessed. Love is possessed. Verse 8 is probably another reminder of his desire to protect her from all harm. And now as she Is about to give herself to this man, he is telling her, You are safe with me. Whether from the lions or the leopards or anything that would come into your life, you are safe to give yourself to. Very important for her to hear at this point. He also tells her that she has captured his heart and that he is hers. He belongs to her. She possesses him forever. You've stolen my heart, my sister, my bride. Full in my heart with one glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace. I can't take my heart back. You possess me. See also sixth lesson from this that love is sensuous. Love is sensuous. Speaks of three senses here, the sight, fragrance, touch, and even taste. Um somebody mentioned that to me after the first service. Notice the sight, your eyes. capture me one jewel of your necklace what he sees then there is her fragrance how delightful is your love my sister my bride how much more pleasing is your love than wine and the fragrance of your perfume than any spice. Verse eleven. The fragrance of your garments is like that of Lebanon. And then there is touch Your lips drop sweetness as the honeycomb, my bride. Milk and honey are under your tongue. That's a kiss that is very sensuous, and I'll let you figure out why you know that. But you teenagers, such kissing is only for marriage You kiss like that before marriage, and you will regret it. You will bring pain. But you see in the next verse that while all the sensuousness goes on, he says right after that The seventh lesson sex is holy. Sex is holy You are a garden locked up, my sister, my bride. You are a spring enclosed, a sealed fountain. Gardless common imagery in Semitic culture for sexuality. He's saying your garden has been locked. The springs of your fresh water have been enclosed, your fountain has been sealed, it could not be any clearer. This girl is a virgin. Her garden is a treasure. That she has guarded and she now gives it for the first time only once in her life. Walter Trobisch used to say, in a heart where there is room for many There is no room for one alone. Only once does she give this as her gift, her treasure, to this man that she loves for the first time. Enough of these silly discussions on how far can a Christian go. It's foolishness. If this is such a treasure, the question is how precious is it to you and how much do you want to protect it? That's really the issue. It's so precious that you'll go to any length to say, this is too precious for me to throw it away. And I realize at this point that many of us have deep regrets and shame about that. I am not naive to think I'm speaking to a group of people who have in fact followed this advice and command of God. All of us have regrets, all of us feel shame, and I'll address that in a few minutes. But at this point I simply want to Point out to you verse 12 and what a treasure this is to this man to be able to affirm this about this woman. Eighth principle, eighth lesson from this. And let me say also on that, guys, as you think of that treasure, don't rob another guy of receiving that precious gift. by your lack of discipline and selfish self-indulgence. The eighth lesson is that sexual passion, where appropriate, is far more powerful. One of the Great lies of Satan is that Christians have less fun to sex. Actually the surveys show the opposite. Uh people that describe themselves as committed, very religious, born again, those terms, usually describe their experience with sex as better than the average in the culture Sexual passion, where it's appropriate, is far more powerful. He goes on to describe this garden in all of its fruits and spices and all these delicacies in verses thirteen to fifteen. And what he's describing here that he is Really getting into is light years from what most experience today is passion. One of the amazing things about sex as God has given it is even when you water it down And mess it up so much, it's still intoxicating. But notice how intoxicating it is when it is experienced here the way God intends And if you're still not convinced of that, watch this. Verse 15. He finishes by saying, You are a garden fountain, a well of flowing water streaming down from Lebanon. And then what does she say? Awake, North Wind. Now you remember, she has said in the book twice, do not awaken love until it pleases. Now she says Awake, North Wind, come, South Wind, blow on my garden that its fragrance may spread abroad. Let my lover come into his garden and taste its choice fruits. I will suggest to you that that is probably the most erotic verse in the entire Bible. Look at what that says. This is from a holy woman, loved and free to give herself to a man. Come, my lover, I am ready. Compare that with what Hollywood puts out. See how much richer is the passion of this moment. Watch out for the sprinklers. I think they're about to let loose. And now we come to what I cannot call anything but The climax chapter five verse one. Now blessed are the Hebrew scholars that do their homework. And they have counted up the number of lines in the Hebrew of this entire book, and chapter five, verse one is the exact center of the book. The It is the climax of the book These are the words of a satisfied man. I have come into my garden, my sister, my bride. I have gathered my mare with my spice. I have eaten my honeycomb and my honey. I have drunk my wine and my I know. The um ninth lesson was that s sex is responsive. The tenth is that sex is pleasing to God Nine times he uses the personal pronoun my. My garden, my sister, my boy, my marrow, my spice, my honeycomb, my honey, my wine, my milk. He has possessed her. Now the question for the church is, what does God think of all this? What is he doing when all this wild stuff is going on? Is he turning his head and saying, Okay, when you guys are finished with that, then we can get back together again, you can do the stuff that pleases me I don't think so. Look at the uh end of verse one in chapter five, and you'll notice that you have an NIV, it's in it's uh headed friends Now, do you think that the friends were actually present watching all this? Not very likely. ESV has others, because they're simply saying, I don't know who's saying this, but somebody else is not himself, not her. I'll offer to you for your thought my own suggestion that this is God speaking. God alone is present with them at this moment. And here is God's word to what they are doing. Eat, O friends, and drink. Drink your fill, O lovers. Literally the Hebrew there is be broke with love, be intoxicated with your love, with sexual love It couldn't be any clearer. This is pleasing to God. He says, I thought this up. I invented it. I have given it to you as a gift, as a precious gift for you to enjoy. Eat, O friends, and drink, be intoxicated with your love, O lovers. Therefore, principle number eleven sex is too precious to treat casually. Too precious to treat casually. Last summer I w visited Winter Tur And uh in one room with all this opulent art, uh I remember the guard just uh the guide just uh casually mentioning, go past this case you notice in there, there's a vase, that's a Roman vase from around a hundred to a hundred and fifty A D and people were kind of moving on and my head swung around. I looked at that thing and I thought, there is not a chip, there is not a scratch. That thing was elegant, it was beautiful, it was fragile, but it was all in one piece. It was lovely. Now what was my response on seeing? Hey, let's open that case. Let me get that thing out. I want to take a look at that. That looks pretty good. Look at this thing. Look at that. It looks pretty solid to me. Of course not. I mean, I was I was afraid to look at it. It was kind of like, whoo You know, I you know just you look at it and you see how precious and priceless this work of art is. You know, sex is like that. God intends because it is so precious. That it's too precious to be treated casually. And you see, the reason you don't want to do that is because of some negative restriction. It is because of the essence of its meaning and purpose and value. Not only is it fragile, it's dynamite. And so God is presenting this model, this picture, so that as you and I are mesmerized and our hearts are drawn and captivated by this scene, we then say, that's too beautiful. Too precious to mess up, too precious to treat casually. And then finally, the twelfth lesson is this scene is a picture It's a picture of God and his people, of Christ and his bride. And I'll be going over that more next week. But today I just want to end with these few final thoughts This chapter is a picture of the ideal. It's a model for us to copy. There are no commands here. It's simply a picture. There is no acknowledgement of what you do if you blow it. It's simply the perfect picture presented to you and me. It's good to have a picture of how this should look, isn't it? We need that. It's beautiful. And it's sad, personally sad to me, that it is so seldom exposed to God's people But as I preach it, I must also face the fact that the gospel teaches you and me. Namely, none of us have measured up to this picture. None of us have measured up to the ideal that God presents. And if you're sitting there hearing this, feeling deep shame and regret, what Satan wants to do is to make you feel alone. I alone of all people here am most shameful. I alone have messed up I feel like I have made the stupidest choices. I've experienced the most degrading things. I have been so silly and foolish in this area. Satan wants to isolate you and take away the gospel and hope. And so in conclusion, let me turn you to Hebrews chapter 10. And I want to read just a couple of verses from this. You see, you and I need the gospel in order to be able to honestly look at ourselves. To be able to repent because the gospel offers to us the promise of hope and forgiveness, so that we are free then to move toward the model. rather than to simply be condemned by it and flee it. In Hebrews chapter ten and verse eleven, the author says Day after day every priest stands and performs his religious duties again and again, offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. In another place, he says these offerings simply are a reminder of our sin. Then in verse 12, strong contrast. But when this priest, Jesus, had offered for all time one sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God. Because he has made perfect by one sacrifice forever those who are being made holy. Past hence he has made perfect by his sacrifice those who are in the process, you see, of being made holy. That's what he says. So verse 17, their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more. And though these have been forgiven, there is no longer any sacrifice for sin. You can't add anything. Jesus Christ, one sacrifice, has made you in God's sight pure as a virgin. Now look what he goes on to say, verse nineteen. Therefore, brothers and sisters, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way opened for us through the curtain, that is his body, that's the new and living way. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near to God with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith. Not hiding ourselves in shame and saying that we have borne it and can never look up to God or experience anything of his desire for us in this area, but coming to him in full assurance, why? Sin Having our Hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from two things. One, from a guilty conscience, and two, having our bodies washed with pure water. He, the blood of Christ, has cleansed your conscience, but not only that, but because of the specific shame of sex in our bodies, he says, your body Christian, who have placed your trust in Jesus Christ, your body is washed with pure water. You are pure and clean in the sight of Jesus Christ through his shed blood and no other way. Amen. Therefore, when you look at this song, see in it the song that Jesus wants to present So that it captures your heart, realizing that He, in His forgiveness of you, in His work in your life, intends to put that song In your heart. Let's pray. Lord our God, some of us have messed up in this area so badly We are so ashamed. We feel hopeless. And I pray, Lord, for those who are single here now that you would enable, Lord, those who feel like I have blown this area. That you would give to them a new understanding of the gospel. And that from this day forward they who have been made perfect can grow in holiness. Experience your cleansing and your redeeming that area of their lives. For those who have not come to that place of making those poor choices, I pray for the teenagers, for the kids here. Lord, that you would present before them this picture of sexual love which is such a treasure that you would protect them and equip them in the choices of the months and years ahead, that they would know what you intend in this area so beautiful, so precious. Lord, for those of us in marriages where we feel like our marriage was just off to such a poor start in this area, where we take with us. But our partners when we go to bed, uh demons and guilt and all the other things that Rob us of pleasure and delight, Lord, we pray that you would apply the gospel in the blood of Christ. That those things could be laid before you and know your cleansing and your forgiveness. That this day would be the beginning of a new purging and cleansing in the purity of Christ. Help us to believe the gospel, to thank you for what you have given in this precious treasure, that we might as a congregation experience it more fully and show our world what passion really can be for those Those who know Jesus Christ, we ask that in your name. Amen.