Told about a village along a mighty jungle river. A stranger was visiting and eating with those that lived there along the shore, and all of a sudden a nine foot crocodile leaps out of the river, comps down on this guy's arm, takes his arm off, and goes back into the river. Everybody looks with horror and the stranger's aghast and some people rush up and they take this guy off and take him to a medical facility and the rest of the people just go on eating And he looks in horror and he says, You just see what happened here? And his host said, Well, it's not polite to talk about crocodiles in our society. And as he began to look through the village, he began to see that uh there were a lot of people missing arms and legs and had chunks taken out of 'em and seemed like every family had somebody that had been maimed and heard of whole families that had been killed. But nobody talked about crocodiles because it was not polite to talk about crocodiles in that society. Teens had uh croc clubs. It was even said that some of the teens uh worshipped crocodiles, but the parents pretended that none of that was going on because After all, it wasn't proper and polite to talk about crocodiles in that society. Sex is powerful Whether for good or for destruction. And yet so many of us as Christians think it's not proper to talk about sex in any public setting. We need to break that silence. We need to talk about it. Parents need to be free to talk to their kids. about this, embarrassing, difficult, but absolutely necessary. I had a good friend, pastor, who decided the time had come and he needed to talk to his ten-year-old son about sex and where he came from and so he sat him down and just it was a couple weeks ago a few weeks ago. And um he went through as uh explicitly as he thought was proper to tell him this is how you physically came into being. And his son, you know, wide eyed and he looks at him and he says Wow, Dad, you did all that for me? He said, My pleasure, son. Well You know, Satan controls so much of this area because we refuse as Christians to really talk about it, and yet God has given a whole book on the subject. And that really shouldn't surprise us, should it? Because you think something as powerful as sex God's going to give to us without any instructions, you know, kind of like throwing a hand grenade and saying, here you go figure it out, you know. But God isn't like that. And so He has given us instructions. He's given us understanding. God has given sex as a wonderful gift to enjoy within strict protections. It's kind of like fire. You know, it's great, it's powerful, we warm ourselves, we cook our food, we roast things But it can also burn down a house. I mean how many of you have a fire in your living room? Oh, we do. Yeah, it's in the fireplace, right? I hope so You know? And why is it in the fireplace? Because we need to protect and surround it so that that good thing is able to be beneficial and not destructive We like to pretend that we all have healthy sexual appetites that are under control, and yet many of you here in this room have been deeply maimed by sexual experiences. There is searing pain in your life You feel a great deal of ambivalence when the topic of sex comes up because of what it is meant in your life. It's powerful. It can be good or it can be destructive. Needs protection. And so the problem with the crocodile example, you see, is that um it implies that sex is like this raging crocodile that just wants to devour you. It's all bad. And I think one of the greatest problems, greatest mistakes that the church has made is that we so often teach sexuality in a primarily negative context. Don't do this, beware of that, don't even think about this And so when kids grow and begin to find these alluring feelings and the temptations come, then it's as if God and sex are in two different worlds. You know. When people have sex, God sort of goes, you know, no way look at that, you know. Um and as long as we dissociate sex from God, we wouldn't think of prayer Before and after a sexual activity or something, then Satan can continue to control that. I believe that one of the greatest antidotes to sexual immorality and impurity. Is to present the Song of Solomon, the picture of sex that is given there, because it presents it as such a treasure, something so precious. And when you read through it, you say, Man, there is no way I want to spoil something so precious by some compromise And I remember how that affected me as I read it as a young person. It really had more effect on me than all the rules and all the rest of the stuff that said, don't think that and don't do this. was the beauty of God's pattern and his gift of sexuality. So I want to begin a series, the first book series since Ephesians And uh the first series that I have repeated in 25 years, I did nine messages on Song of Solomon back in 1985. Back then there was very little that was being written by Christians on the Song of Solomon. very little from any contemporary point of view. And uh when I did that, uh I had been uh prompted to do it by a friend who was living in New Zealand and uh this d did a series on that. And I realized that that was something that needed, the church needed to think about it. And um so some of you were here in that Sir. In fact, how many were here when I preached that series the first time? Yeah, here's there's a few of you. Nobody on this oh yeah, yeah, probably on this side. I thought maybe all the previous Song of Solomon people were left siders or something. Uh but uh some of you have had that series. Um y with it got a lot of comments. Um a lot of people back then uh had never heard a series or a sermon on the Song of Solomon. Uh How many of you, besides those that heard my series, take that one out, how many of you have ever heard a series on the Song of Solomon? See uh now back in 1985 that was nearly zero. But in the years since that time, well in 1985 when I preached this, I only had six commentaries that were worth anything, and some of those weren't worth much. On the Song of Solomon. Since that time, dozens have been published. It's just been a slurry of activity on the Song of Solomon. So now I have twelve good commentaries, and a number of you have heard series or perhaps sermons on. on that topic. It was not only the most popular, it was probably one of the ones that had the most uh immediate observable impact. About nine months later we had a whole flurry of infant baptisms. I don't know what'll happen. in Texas by the name of Tommy Nelson, pastor there, decided to preach on the Song of Solomon. He did it. And he said uh when he started the series there were about seven hundred people coming. When he finished he had about fourteen hundred people coming. Uh I don't think we'll see anything like that, but he now does seminars on the Song of Solomon to thousands of people. And uh for some of you who are single, you might be saying, Well, that's nice you're doing this. You know, it's kind of a marriage series. No, it isn't. If you are single and you're saying, uh, so what's this series going to mean to me? I think it'll mean plenty. Uh in fact, Tommy Nelson, um, I think he's still pastors, but he now does these Song of Solomon seminars primarily for singles. Married people can sneak in here and there, but primarily for singles, thousands of them. So if you're a single, whether you are never married or divorced, separated Widowed. Uh I think you will find that this series speaks to your heart as well as to those of us who are married because it speaks of Christ And it gives to us some deep spiritual truths. Now, I don't want to get ahead of myself, but I want to just give you some introduction today. Uh really today's message doesn't get into much scripture explicitly and I kinda feel bad about that, but I'm doing a I'm giving you a framework and what I'm asking you to do this week is take my thoughts now and I'd I'd like to challenge you to read the Song of Solomon For yourself this week. Add a couple went out and said, We're going to read this together tonight. Great. Have a great night. Uh needed eight chapters. Uh you can do one a day and start today and finish next Sunday morning or just read it over even better. Read it two or three times in one sitting go through it It's the kind of book that really you get a great deal of benefit by reading through it in chunks, not just trying to analyze verse by verse. We will be going through it verse by verse. I'm starting this morning with one verse, verse one of chapter one. Solomon's Song of Songs. And I can just imagine some of you are getting kind of nervous because you're thinking, this thing has eight chapters, Ephesians had six. We're five years in that. How long are we gonna be in I'll you know, I'll be too old. to apply it until you finish this thing, you know? Uh let me uh let me put your fears to rest. Uh I have planned sixteen messages, expand the material, most of it's new material. Sixteen Messages, that's about four months worth. We will be finished according to schedule, even with the number of interruptions, before Christmas. But this morning what I want to do is I want to kind of give you some basic introduction material. I don't know how familiar you are with Song of Solomon, I'm not going to assume anything, but it's a very controversial book, and there are some basic principles of interpretation we need to understand. And I think verse one gives the clue to how to interpret the book. It simply says Solomon's Song of Songs, or literally in the Hebrew it is the Song of Songs, which is, and it's kind of hard to tell what the next word should be, because in the Hebrew it could be translated either by or for or in. in the tradition of or like or you know all kinds of things. So it's the Song of Songs which is either by or for or something else about psalm. We'll get to that in a few minutes. Three simple points I want to make from this one verse. First of all, that sex is a song. Sex is a song, and I'd love to do a whole message on just that one thought, but I will just restrict myself to a few thoughts here. Sex is a song, that's very significant, that is, it's poetry. Don't miss the significance of that. God has given to us in His Word one book on sexuality, sexual relationships, and that book is not prose, it is poetry. Not Emmanuel, as Randolph Clausen says in his commentary Which is pretty good on Song of Songs. On page uh four, he says, uh, remember uh the song is poetry A poem thrives on evocative imagery that makes its appeal to the aesthetic and emotional senses in man. It does not deal in scientific classification, the primary purpose of which is to inform the intellect. The Song of Songs is not a marriage manual of sexual techniques Nor is it an older form of Playboy magazine, as some have tritely inferred. It is music that soars above and beyond the literal, thus lifting the reader into a vicarious participation in the feelings expressed. We read of love's longings and satisfactions, fears and hope, of separation and reunion, and of courtship and marriage. The lyrics are uninhibited, spontaneous outpourings that celebrate the sensate enjoyments of love. One literary critic has called it a masterpiece of pure poetry. Never has a generation had so much technical information on sex as ours does. We live in a day of techniques and of glamour, and yet never as a generation had such instability and such unhappy marriages, such a high divorce rate. And where is that divorce rate the highest? It's in the place of glamour. Hollywood. I mean, if if glamour and sexual technique ensured a happy marriage Surely you would find them in Hollywood, right? But you know, go through any Safeway or Giant checkout counter and look at the tabloids and see how happy the marriages and relationships are in Hollywood. So it's not a matter of techniques, it's not a matter of glamour. Sex is not a factory, it's a symphony. What stirs us more to hear ten ways to achieve orgasm or to read something like this? I ne'er was struck before that hour that love was sudden and so sweet Her face had bloomed like a sweet flower and stole my heart complete. I could not see a single thing. Words from my eyes did start They spoke as cords do from the string, and blood burned round my heart. I never saw so sweet a face as that I stood before My heart has left its dwelling place and can return no more. Sex is a song. Aren't you glad? So we want to appreciate that, what God has given to us. And because it is a song, it's full of figures of speech. It's poetry. Again, I encourage you to read the book this week. Go through it. And then after you read it, try to describe the bride What's she look like? I think you will find it's not very easy, even though there are many, many verses that describe her. Why? You know, you say, well, you know, I I Yes, she was beautiful, but what'd she really look like? Well, you know, she was kind of like a mare in Pharaoh's chariots. Her hair was kinda like a flock of goats descending from Mount Gilead. Her uh nose was like the Tower of David when it faces Damascus. Somebody came out of the first service and they said, you're right, Al, you gotta culturally translate those images. Today we would say her nose is like the Washington Monument. I don't think that doesn't. Let me give you a hint right here, guys. Don't quote the Song of Solomon to your wife and expect a good response. I tried that while I was meditating on this. And my wife's response was, how long is this series gonna go? Uh you see, it's poetry, they're figures of speech, they're very personal. We need to understand them because God has a purpose in that. But we need to we need to understand the basis of them. We can't just writely take them and uh we'll miss uh a great deal of the point. Some of the imagery is very erotic, admittedly so. Um you know, when she says, Come my lover and be like a stag on the hills of beeder We'll unpack that a little bit. But I want to uh try to allay any of your fears. that I will seek to do this discreetly so that you parents can understand the imagery, but it doesn't raise too many problems as you go home for discussion. Uh and that's not an easy thing to do. Pray for me in that, but I I God has given us it's His Word. And we need to understand it. And not just uh tiptoe around it. But remember that also we are a whole congregation here in worship. So I'll try to do my best in that, and I hope that you will have your world expanded as you see the richness of this book. Secondly, notice that the song is Solomon's. Solomon's Song of Song, literally again, the Song of Songs, which is by Solomon, for Solomon, in the tradition of Solomon, what does it mean? Well, most modern interpreters Including evangelical interpreters. By the way, if you um are so moved you really get serious about this, would like to study the book more on your own, the best commentary that I believe has been written on the Song of Solomon is by Tremper Longman, who is associate with Dan Allender, has done some of the books that we've studied around here And he produced a commentary, a scholarly commentary on Song of Solomon, 2001. And of all the ones that I have, I have over a dozen. That's the one I find the most helpful And so we've asked Tremper Longman to come and to speak to a marriage conference that we are going to have here on November seventh and eighth, and he and his wife have accepted. So we will get to hear the guy that's written the definitive work in our time on this and he will preach on the Song of Solomon November the 9th. Now let me tell you, I agree with most of what he says, but there are some significant things that he says I don't agree with. So if I get fifteen, I get sixteen weeks, he gets one, you know. If he can persuade you, that's okay. Uh he does not think Solomon wrote this book. I do I think Solomon did And most commentators don't think he wrote it, so I am by far in the minority. Most think that uh the language, uh some of the Hebrew and Aramaiisms are too late Uh they also believe that uh Solomon's not a very likely candidate. He had 300 wives, I mean 700 wives and 300 concubines, political marriages wasn't the kind of guy that would have had a relationship like this. Um but they also say that the word doesn't necessarily mean that the book was written by him. The word as I say Phrase there could mean that the the Song of Songs which was for, dedicated to Solomon, or which was in the tradition of Solomon, as kind of the wisdom literature. Any of that? Well, yeah, but I don't find that real compelling. I think there's some reasons to believe Solomon. Solomon did write this. For instance, Solomon is named seven times through the book. I list them there for you. You can look them up. Three times there's references to the man as the king. And uh since Solomon's mentioned seven times, you don't have to figure too much who that's talking about. But I think even more compelling is that um this is a book of wisdom That's associated in the canon with Proverbs and Ecclesiastes, which clearly were written by Solomon. But uh you have a verse, 1 Kings 4, verse 32, which says that Solomon wrote 2,000 Proverbs and 1,005 Psalms That I believe in his early life, when his heart was seeking the Lord, he was quite capable of a relationship like this, and that he would have written this kind of wisdom literature out of that heart that sought the Lord. So when this says Solomon's Song of Songs, I think what it's saying is he wrote a thousand five songs, but this one's the best one. This one was inspired by the Spirit and preserved in the canon of God's Word. Now it's not absolutely critical whether Solomon wrote it or not. It's not a big deal. I think it makes more sense of some of the text if he did. Let me also say that the third, I think it's the third Sunday in June after we dismiss regular classes. We're gonna have one little hour where you get to ask me anything you want about the Song of Solomon and I won't have Trimper here so I'll be the authority and uh I'll just give you my shot. I have thought about this book for some time, so we will have a discussion at that time and maybe a week after that for some other material. Third point finally though this morning is that it is the Song of Songs Solomon's Song of Songs. That is, it is the best song. Song of Songs in Hebrew is like holy of holies. It means the most holy place. Or Deuteronomy 10, 14. God is in the heaven of heavens, the most heavenly place. This is the song of songs. It is the best song There is no song that compares with this song. Why? Well that raises two important questions in understanding the meaning of this. The first one is, is this a coherent whole that is, it is a store. Or is it simply a collection of songs like the Proverbs or the Psalms that aren't necessarily related in any way to each other? Again, the vast majority of contemporary scholars believe this is a collection of songs unrelated to each other. I disagree with that. I intend after 1985 I held this position as a coherent whole with a chronological order. I still going back through that, I read and I thought, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, you know, all these new books are all science collection. I went back, looked at the material, looked at the text. I'm still persuaded that it is in an order that is significant. Contemporary scholars now think that's forced. I don't think. I'm I'll present my case and you can decide whether you think that uh it is or not. The biggest problem evangelical scholars have, I have Hebrew commentaries, that is, by Jewish folks and rabbis, as well as those by Christians, to understand the full culture of it. Um but the biggest problem that the evangelical commentators have is that it appears that sex is going on before the marriage. Marriage is in chapter 3, the wedding. But you have in chapter one and uh verse sixteen a reference to our bed. In chapter two verses five and six, you have some pretty erotic embracing going on. In chapter two, verse sixteen and seventeen. There's a very vivid erotic description of Sex. That'll get you all reading it this week on it. Okay. So people say, hey, um, you know, that can't be in order. It just violates scripture. Well, I don't think so. Because I don't think it's describing actions, I think it's describing longings. And I think you can fit that into the pattern. Which is basically a pattern of snapshots songs, maybe fifteen, fourteen, fifteen songs through the book that reflect on this couple's relationship. Um so uh you know I think there's a number of reasons why to say it's a whole for instance there's a number of things that are continuous. You have the refrains repeated, um daughters of Jerusalem do not awaken or arrause. Love until it appears three times through the book scattered out. You have I belong to my lover, my lover is mine, three times through the book scattered. But you also have other things, little little subtle hints, like for instance, the daughter doesn't have a f I mean the woman doesn't have a father who's living. And um You know, she was a young girl. That's unusual. But it happened a number of times from beginning to end. She doesn't have a father. None of the girls that were mentioned in these uh songs happen to have a father. I think it's referring to one woman. and one man. But the more difficult and more significant issue by far, of which I have hundreds, literally hundreds of pages of debates in my office, is the question of whether it's an allegory about the spiritual love of Christ and his church, his bride, or whether it's simply a direct account about a man and a woman and their relationship and their sexual um relationship. It's about sexuality, physical love. Uh which is it? The difficulty is that um You read the book and you find a couple of curious things. Number one, there's no reference to God in it. Secondly, this is the only book in the Old Testament that is never quoted in the New Testament. The only one. And so um scholars for many years debated should this thing even be in the Bible? Maybe that you know somebody sneaked this thing in here. They thought, well, we'll sort of spice up the Old Testament and get that in there. I don't think that's That's the case, but uh it sure has been a lot. You know, there was a rabbi Sidia about 90 AD that said, the Song of Solomon is a treasure whose key has been lost Very difficult to understand it. I mean you read it uh this week and you'll say, wow, there's a lot of stuff there I don't understand. It's not easy. I don't plan to how claim to have the final word on it, some of the most difficult verses in the whole Old Testament. in this book. But basically, uh what early commentators said was that this book is so erotic, so physical, has no reference explicitly to God. It couldn't really mean what it's saying. And so they interpreted it allegorically. The word allegory comes from two Greek words, Greek word alos, which means other, and the word agoreto, which means to speak. Literally it means to say one thing and mean another. That's what an allegory is. So an allegory says, you know, like Tilburn's progress or these things. Here's the story, and you understand the story on this level, but we know the real meaning of it is on a higher detail. spiritual plane. For instance, Hippolytus said for two breasts are really the two tables of the Ten Commandments. That's what it means, those are the keys. Through dozens and dozens of these keys. This is not, it sounds like it means this, doesn't really. What it really means is this. Origen was was definitively influential in this. He died around 250 A. D. And Origen read this book and he said, he was one of the great thinkers of uh that time, a very influential commentator, he said Because of what this book says, and the fact that it's in Scripture can't really be what it seems to be saying, because Scripture addresses spiritual issues Therefore, it must really be addressing spiritual issues, so he allegorized the whole book. He did that in ten volumes. So this guy really worked at it. He liked to think about this book a lot. This book was written on quite a bit. From 4th century A. D. to 11th century. Of all the commentaries that we still have, there are six. on the book of Galatians. There are nine on the book of Romans. How many on the book of Song of Solomon? Did they think about that book? Well, it wasn't six, it wasn't nine, it wasn't fifteen, it wasn't twenty. Would you believe thirty-two commentaries we still have on the Song of Solomon from that era And they were mostly written in convents and monasteries. So that tells you something about where they were coming from. Now, the alternative is: in the last century or two, commentators have looked and they have said, this clearly. Is not good exegesis. They they just there's no hint in the book that it should be taken allegorically or symbolically, just straightforward. When Scripture intends that it should be taken symbolically, it's pretty clear, you know, the trees clapped their hands, we just sang Song of love, you know, the oceans rejoice and sing and all. I mean you know, you don't have to sit there, gee, which way do I take that? You know, is that literal or is that figurative? That's the way scripture is. It either tells you or it's clear. Nothing in this book says that it's figurative. So what commentators have done in the last century or so is they've taken it is this is a description of of uh sexual love between a man and a woman. That's it. And so you celebrate it, you learn from it, there's certain lessons like Proverbs to be learned in this, and that's it. Intrigues me, and this is still going on in contemporary commentators, even Tremper Longman takes pretty much that view, though he acknowledges that there's more to it than that. But I don't think it's either or. I would suggest that the meaning of this book, the way to understand it, is that it is, in fact, the picture of physical romantic love between a man and a woman as that relationship reflects the relationship. of God and his people, specifically Christ and His church. And what the book is teaching us is that it's not that God loves us, Jesus loves us like we love each other as men and women in marriage, but it's The reverse. Marriage is the reflection of the ultimate, the archetypal relationship of Christ and His Church. A dim, pale reflection, no doubt, but a real reflection. That our marriages should sing with a kind of passion, a kind of vivid uh evocative passion between a man and a woman. That when you see it, there's a reflection of how Christ in chapter 5 of Ephesians loved the church and gave himself for her. and how the church loves Christ. One clue to that is that even though the New Testament never comments on it, one clue, of course the Old Testament is full of God speaking of his relationship to Israel as a husband to a wife. Uh but in the s in the song you have one place where there is distance, and um it's not an argument, but it's uh there's an alienation between the two And it's the woman's fault. It's not the man's fault there. And I think that's significant. Now, guys, make sure you don't misuse that observation. Whatever there's alienation, you know is whose fault it is in here, you know, and even God's word, you know. You will be in deep weeds with that one. But I think that's a clue to the fact that this is a picture of Christ and his bride. Today's commentaries, I believe, are an overreaction to the errors of the past. It is the song of songs. It is the best song because It is the song that speaks to each of our hearts, whether single, married, widowed, divorced, whatever our situation in life. This song speaks to us about a love that is so intoxicating that the best we can imagine on earth is but a pale reflection of it. It's the love of the shepherd king for his bride, the Shulamite, which is a feminine form of Solomon, the reflection of his own character, the fleshing out of Ephesians chapter five. Notice that he will say a beauty. in her that only he sees. There is a mutual delight in each other that is exclusive and precious. He shares his creation with her. They delight together. Read it this week. See that his love is better than wine. His name is a fragrance. His shade is to be delighted in, and you find peace there. He is the one who is the strength. who is the refuge and the passion that is expressed between the two of them is something that we rarely can read about. We don't understand it. And and as I as you read this, I hope that you will follow Fall in love anew with Jesus, the passion that He feels for you, the love that Christ has for you uniquely And so as we begin to pray that God would make for those of us who are married our marriages to be some reflection and to sing, that we will enter into this thing and begin to experience a passion that's going to set off the sprinklers up in the ceiling. Here is we begin to see what God intends for his people. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we delight in the fact that you are a God who has The author of passion, that you do not look away in disgust or derision of sexuality is your idea And Lord, there is a mystery here that is so far beyond what our hearts can comprehend, that the relationship between a man and a woman can picture something of the deep passion of God for his people, of Christ for his church. Lord, may we read this and see what love is really to be like. Lord, we as Christians are so often accused of being passionless. Lord, we pray that you would awaken our senses, that you would stir our love And that we would love you, that we would find our security and our longings full in the love that you have for us. Lord, let us learn from this. Let us more than what we learn. Let us grow in loving you. We pray in loving one another. In Jesus' name. Amen.