First of all, let me mention I noticed a few of you having a hard time finding seats, I actually see 'em. You see, you need to come up here to find a seat, you know, it's easy to get 'em. But if you had difficulty, um and particularly if there's a number of you in your family, let me uh again encourage you to think about coming to the first service where where there were still a number of seats that were available. Uh identical worship service, identical message, uh easier to find a seat, so keep that in mind. Also wanna say happy Mother's Day to all you moms out there. We want to honor you in the calling that God has given to you, especially those of you who treasure that calling. And may the Lord enable you to feel a little bit loved and appreciated more than usual today. Um it's not a Mother's Day message that I'm giving, but it is the reflection of a young girl in love. And I think you will find something appropriate, particularly in your situation. Uh few years ago An author by the name of Robert James Waller wrote a book that became a blockbuster hit and was later made into a major motion picture. Can anyone tell me what was the name of that book and picture? And you women might have an edge on this. Just call it out Robert James Waller, what did he write? You got it. That was a man that said that. Didn't he? I won't say who, but that was a man. Bridges of Madison County. And uh first service, it was a woman and it came a little quicker. I don't know. Anyway, that book and that movie, perhaps inadvertently, uh, raised a profound question. And the question is this. Do you need to choose between either passion or living as a Christian in life? That either or do you need to either fulfill your dreams or fulfill daily duty? Are those things ultimately intentional? I remember a while back seeing two Victorian signs from the 19th century. The first one said, I slept and dreamed that life was beauty. The second one, I woke and found that life was beauty. was duty. Feel like that's the tension in your life. And so uh Francesca in this book and movie movie played by Meryl Streep is a dutiful mom and housewife in Iowa. Iowa represents for Waller American fundamentalistic Christianity that is judgmental and condemns adultery and shuns a woman who has had an affair and As perverse and sick and ugly, when, according to Waller, an affair can be the most beautiful thing imaginable. Now that is certainly relativism, but it's very contemporary. Relativism, if you read the book or see the movie. So Francesca and Robert Kincaid, the photographer of the covered bridges in Madison County, live above the rules for four years. Ecstatic days. And their passion, according to Waller, empowers them to live the rest of their lives, especially Francesca. In better duty as a wife and as a mother. So the affair becomes an empowering thing. It energizes them. Now it's easy for Christians to dismiss this as an attempt by Hollywood to glamorize and propagate adultery and to attack family values, but to simply dismiss it only as that, I think, is to escape a much more searching question which is to us as Christians do we have passion? Do we live by passion or are we nitpicking Presbyterians who as empty shelves of people simply follow life as duty and then condemn such a movie out of a little bit of envy. It's something to think about. Have we ripped the song of songs out of our Bibles and sniffed, our God is not like that? Um the thing that saddened me most about that movie, I both read the book and I saw the movie. The thing that saddened me most about it was not so much the attack on biblical absolutes as the fact that it was an attack on American fundamentalism and the degree to which that charge stuck. Some time ago I saw a bumper sticker on a car that I was following and it said, where is the fun in fundamentalism? And it made me sad to think of that person's perception of the Church of Christ in our country. Now I want you to use your imagination for just a moment. Imagine that you are a new Christian. Imagine that you became a Christian three, four months ago, and you've been hanging around Christians, and you've also been uh encouraged to read through the Bible. And so you started at Genesis and you've read through Genesis and Exodus, Leviticus, Deuteronomy, and you've gotten through 'em all, a little bit of help from your friends. And you've gone down through the history and you've gone through and read the Psalms and Proverbs and Ecclesiastes, and this morning you are coming to this book that you've never seen before called The Song of Solomon. And you pick up your Bible and you read Solomon's Song of Songs. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth for Your love is more delightful than wine. And you say, Whoa, I think I picked up the wrong book this morning. You know, where'd my Bible go? You know, what an opener. This woman saying that She desires his kisses, and they are more intoxicating than an alcoholic beverage. Surely this sneaked in here by a corrupt text. What an opener for a book in the Scriptures. Clearly, this is not about how they met, is it? Something's been going on before we get into this scene in this relationship. We've skipped over some parts. It's not about how to meet someone, but rather it is what happens when that relationship has developed into deep romantic attraction that's been kindled. Scripture gives freedom in how we meet prospective mates. Different cultures have different ways. Some are better and some are worse. But that doesn't is not addressed in the Song of Solomon. What we have here is her reflection at this point in that relationship. I love verse two. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for your love is more delightful than wine. I mean what you talk about an attention grabber. And I've I've had my wife memorize that verse in six translations, you know. Uh it's just, you know, I put it in place where we sleep. It's just a great thing to be reminded of. But, you know, what I want to cover this morning is verses two Two to eight. And I want you to understand something important about interpreting the Song of Songs at this point. Some of it's conversation, and some of it is what we call soliloquy. Soliloquy is when you're talking to Yourself. It's you know it's kind of like Hamlet and Shakespeare and those kind of things. It's a danger if you read the Song of Songs like a movie, like it's realism. It's not, it's poetry. It's more like Shakespeare. And verses two to eight are often misunderstood because people see her talking to him because she says you. But you notice that in her what I call soliloquy, in her reflections, speaking to herself, is kind of a reverence. Just reflecting. She begins, let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. In verse 4, she ends, let the king bring me into his chambers So I think she is in this whole section from two to eight reflecting. He's not there. And that's important to understand to be able to appreciate what her thoughts are saying and how honest, open uh they are. It's broken into two basic parts, uh verses one to four, or verses two to four are her first uh stanza and then you have a chorus in the uh middle part of verse four and then you go back to her stanza two of this song and then you have again a chorus that finishes it up So I'd like to divide the meditation here in two parts on this. First of all, there is the first stance, which is about his desirability Then a response. Then you have the second stanza, verses five to seven, which are about her desirability, and then a chorus. As we go through this song, uh you're going to notice that We're still playing with the colors here, but I would like to put the women woman's words in pink. You generally know that in the Hebrew because of the pronouns that are used Uh and then the course will be in white, and then the woman's words in pink, you know, we may play with that, and then the the man's words will be in blue to help us to kind of, you know, just see these things visually to stand out a little bit more to us. Uh this morning it's only the woman. Uh two points with some application and reflection on that. First of all, then notice his desirability Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for your love is more delightful than wine. Pleasing is the fragrance of your perfumes. Your name is like perfume poured out. No wonder the maidens love you. Take me away with you. Let us hurry. Let the king bring me into his chambers. First thing you notice there is his intoxicating love. That's the next blank verse two His love is more delightful. It's sweeter. It's more stimulating than wine. Reminds me of a book by Elizabeth Elliott, she wrote some years ago, called Passion and Purity, which I highly recommend especially to any of you teenagers. It's a great book. Talks about her love for Jim Elliott, the famous missionary that died in nineteen fifty-six, I think it was. And in this book she talks about her longings for Jim in their uh months n and years before they were married. Uh she had a deep passion for this guy. She longed for his intimate touch And what's clear from that book and what's clear from this more important, the Word of God, is that that passion is good. That longing is good. There is nothing wrong with that. To love someone that you want to spend your life with and long for the intimacy of their touch is a great thing. We're wired that way. God made us that way The important thing is that you see in the book, and in you see here also, she does not act on that longing at this point. It's a longing which She is aware of, she is deeply in touch with. At times she feels like she may be carried away with it, but she does not act on it. She doesn't need to act on it. We are not controlled by our feelings and our longings. We are controlled by convictions that are enable us to protect those longings and those feelings for appropriate expression. But you notice um she goes on to what attracts her, why it is that this guy is so uh intoxicating to her. She says, uh pleasing is the fragrance of your perfumes. That's physical. She's saying that pleasing is the fragrance of your perfumes, I think that's a kind of a symbol of his desirability, his attractiveness. Not just saying It got good cologne, you know. It's saying that his whole being is attractive. But then she moves deeper. Your name is like perfume poured out. His character is cologne. There is something about him. uh in his character and of course in Hebrew uh the name of a person reflected their character and so this is talking this is your name is just a summation of saying what you like, your character, the way you treat people, the way you treat women, uh your stature, your integrity, uh your convictions. Your tenderness. You know how to love someone. You're not self centered. You're not just looking for something to please yourself. Uh so th he is desirable to her. because of his character. And then you notice um the third thing is that uh he's desirable to others Uh no wonder the maidens love you. Uh you know, that that's a good reality check. You the only one that thinks that this guy's a catch? You know, if if you're the only one he's really nice to. Everybody else kind of avoids him and say, Boy that guy, I you know, uh I've been around him, he's really kind of nasty and oh no, but he's with me, he's so nice, you think. Well you know she says the maidens love you, they see That you are a desirable man. I'm not the only one. They're saying, boy, you really got something there in that guy. And so there's that that balance, there's that reality check. Now, to you girls, how do you find a guy that's like this? Very simple. You set your heart on Jesus, you run after Jesus And then you look to see who's running with you. That's what Tommy Nelson says in his series, uh commenting on this. And I agree with that. You look to see who's running with you after Jesus. You set your heart on the heart of Jesus. And then you see what is attractive to you and who is attracted to you, who whose fragrance draws you. Uh and that's what you see with this girl. I I think that idea of let the uh maidens uh excuse me, the uh maidens, um no wonder the maidens love you, um is important for us because uh there's two sides to that What is that the it's so easy to be uh infatuated with a guy because of his popularity, his good looks physical prowess, kind of car he drives, his portfolio as he gets older, you know. Uh you know, all these things, you know, I mean, I'm to the age where my uh divorced uh sister in law says, What kind of pension he has you know, I mean these are the attractive things. You know. So, you know, the other sisters say, Ah, yeah, that's you and she says, Yeah, well, you know, guy your goal just sold his house for seven hundred thousand. Don't you talk to me? All right, all right, just cool it right here. What is it that attracts you, you see? Uh There's the reality check of what others think, not only of him. You notice the response in the chorus, we rejoice and delight in you. The you there is Hebrew masculine singular. It's talking about the man. So this this is kind of. kind of a poetical device, uh, these daughters of Jerusalem or whoever they are. I just call them the chorus. She calls them the daughters of Jerusalem in verse 5. But uh they are affirming this guy is something else. Boy, you know, he is great. And uh it's important not only that you girls seek for other people's validation of the character of the guy that you're with, but also for us as the friends of people who are romantically involved in somebody, when they say to us, don't you think he's wonderful? It's so easy, isn't it? to be sucked into oh yeah man he's really great. Oh yeah he's cool but you know because you know we gotta get caught up in their enthusiasm rather than to sometimes maybe say the honest thing which is You know, I'm I'm not real thrilled about the effect that this relationship seems to be having on you. You know, you used to hang around us Christians more and be s seemed like you were more interested in scripture and things of God and since you've been going with him Just not sensing that that's growing and developing and why do you think that is? We need to be honest as a community. This chorus is able to join in. We rejoice and delight in you. We will praise your love more than we are. wine. This is something that's good. We give praise to God for this. This is great. And then she of course responds that how right they are to adore you. Hey my you know that's what she wanted to hear. She was hoping. Yeah you see it. But then notice the end of Verse four. She doesn't just leave it with that. She wants to know him better. So she says, Let me take me away with you. She invites his initiative Let us hurry. Let the king bring me into his chambers. That's a place where they can be kind of apart and be able to talk and open their hearts more. There's nothing erotic about that. It's just simply saying, I want to get to know him. I want to spend time with him. What I see I like. I'm I'm attracted. I'm I'm just mm, boy, this guy just think he is so wonderful and my friends think that this is he's a good person for me. He's his heart is set on God like my heart is set on God. And you won't find somebody whose heart is set on God if your heart's not set on God. And so this is how God is working in the situation to bring into our life a man. whose character is like perfume and whose love is sweeter than wine. Well that's uh that's for her But now notice the second thing, her desirability, and that we see in verses five to eight. So much for the guy. What about the girl? Now in this case, we continue with her reflections, and so she goes on. Dark am I, yet lovely, O daughters of Jerusalem, dark like the tents of Kidar. like the tent curtains of Solomon, which were black. Do not stare at me because I am dark, because I am darkened by the sun. My mother's sons were angry with me, and made me take care of the vineyards. My own vineyard, that's her body. It's clear, it's used that way consistently throughout the book. My own vineyard, my body I have neglected. Notice three things in verses five to eight. I'm going to stop just there. There to focus on the first. The first is that she is disadvantaged, but she is not unattractive. She has a natural beauty. She just she doesn't depend on makeup to make her attractive. There's a natural beauty to her, even though she is sunburned. Now notice that in these days, uh back in those days, uh being tanned, darkly tanned was not cool because it indicated that you were a common laborer, if you had to work in the sun. So today we'd say, you know, dark am I and lovely, you know, because boy what a complexion. That was not So she's a little bit embarrassed about this. Don't stare at me because I'm dark. Um But she's not obsessed with how she looks. Her character is more important to her, and you see that in two ways. First of all, because she is diligent under authority, that's the next blank, the bead. She diligently. under her authority. Notice she says in verse 6, don't stare at me because I am dark. I'm darkened by the sun. My mother's sons were angry with me. and made me take care of the vineyards, my own vineyard I've neglected. This is the first time you see that her father apparently is dead, has is no longer with them. Um that's consistent through the book. And so her brothers are had the authority over her. She's under their authority, and we don't know why they were angry with her, but what we do know is that they made her work out in the sun, and they weren't particularly concerned. concerned with that effect on her skin complexion, you know, suck it up, go work in the vineyard. Uh so she didn't couldn't get down to the CVS and her hex and get uh all the lotions and stuff that's supposed to take care of that. She just uh that was the effect. But you notice that um this very, very important principle that you see here And you guys take note of this. She doesn't blow off her family. She lives under their authority. A girl who blows off her family will eventually blow off her husband. And it's very tempting to hear a girl talk about how she is victimized by her mom and dad and her family who don't understand her cruel, mean, and unreasonable and on and on and on and so you listen to that and you know and you want to be the protector and you want to rescue her from this and then you're just startled when some years later you find out that now she's talking to other people about how she's victimized by this nasty mean guy who's her husband. That's you. Because that attitude tends to follow upon in fact compromises her beauty, uh then she's probably going to stick it out with her husband in difficult situations also And that's very important for you to be able to see demonstrated in a woman that you want to marry. The second way that you see her character demonstrated is that she is assertive, but she is uncompromising. She's assertive but uncompromising. You'll see a number of ways in the book, she's a very assertive woman. Um and that's refreshing for some of you, strong personality women. But you notice that in verse 7, she says, and again this is I I believe soliloquy. She's not talking to him, she's thinking about him, and she's saying, Tell me whom you whom I love, you whom I love, where you graze your flock, where you rest your sheep at midday She's referring to him as a shepherd there. It could be literal, but my inclination is that that's figurative. Scripture in the Old Testament consistently referred to kings as shepherds of God's people. So I think she's referring to Solomon figuratively as the shepherd of God's covenant people. And what she's saying is, I want to spend time with you. Where are you? Where do you hang out? Uh where do you do your business? But then you notice the end, why should I be like a veiled woman beside the flock of your friends? Veiled woman probably refers to a cult prostitute It was a term which talked about a loose woman. She's saying, I am not going to go searching around for you among all the shepherds whoever those are, uh, and just kind of put myself in a compromising situation in order to get us together I want to be together, but I'm not going to compromise my values and my integrity to make it happen. And so they respond, again affirming this, the chorus, if you do not know most beautiful among women. um follow the tracks of the sheep and graze your young goats by the tents of the shepherds. Go your way, God will direct you, things will work out, you're you're gonna find this guy. But she is trusting that she will not have to compromise and she refuses to compromise. Again, a basic principle in human relationships, difference between guys and girls. Girls tend to play at sex to get love. Guys tend to play at love to get sex. The girl thinks if I just do what he is so insistent on and I just compromise my standards just this little bit, then he will love me more and he will protect me and I will find security in him, which of course is self-contradictory because he's not protecting you and seeking for you to compromise your standards in the first place. The guy, on the other hand, will be tempted to give what kinds of tokens of affection, love, and caring that seem to turn her on so that he can indulge his own desires. And both lose big time. Wherever you are in your life, whether you've gone down this road some or whether this is a decision that you're involved just in the initial stages of making. I wish with all my heart I could plead with you to follow the pattern of this woman. I will be assertive, but I will not compromise. And see as we go through in the following weeks how God blessed her choice and decisions in that area. Once again, to you girls, the best way you can find a man that is going to love you and take care of you and be a godly husband is to set your heart on Jesus. And as you set your heart on Jesus To then find who is the kind of person you're attracted to, whose name is like a fragrance. And who is attracted to you in the pursuit of your heart and in the uncompromising standards of your life? To You guys need to seek a woman and and want to find a woman who's going to be uncompromising and whose vanity is not above her integrity, who's willing to compromise Her vanity, her looks, and the things that are important to her on a temporal level because of eternal values that she holds more dear and more precious These are basic lessons in this book and just the initial stages of their relationship Having said that, and I hope that you hear that and are able to follow guys and girls, whatever position if you are single. uh that God would uh lead you and direct you in that. And uh w one one final thought to you guys about the girls that uh you are attracted to um not only notice how she um uh is under the authority and responds to her family, but uh also if she is uh uh uh has roommates uh find out what the roommates think about her uh uh as a companion. Uh do they see her as somebody who is sweet and they can get along with or do they say she has a soul of a pterodactyl? and uh she goes through r roommates like pantyhose, you know. Um find out that um what the relationships in each case, the guy look at the girl, the girl look at the guy to see that that affirmation of the chorus That affirmation of the family. Because you're marrying into that family and you're marrying into a person who's already established a track record of what their relationships are like. But in conclusion, I'd like to offer some reflections on Remember my conviction in this whole book is that the relationship between the man and the woman is on is a reflection, uh, a pattern after the relationship of God and his people, of Christ and His church And that these two are are so interwoven together that y you can at times not even extricate them. And I think that's true here. The longing that is uh clear here from the woman for the man, I think Is a picture for us also of the longing of a Christian for Christ. As you look at this woman's longings, you think about what this says of Jesus. She longs. for him. She longs for his kisses. She finds his love more delightful than wine. Now, uh obviously a Christian isn't longing for the physical kisses of Jesus, but what are kisses? Kisses are the token of the affection affection of the person. And uh some people have called the Lord's Supper the kiss of the covenant, and I think that's a precious phrase. Somebody observed to me just uh recently that uh they noticed that uh The Lord's Supper at CPC is a little different from other churches. Uh I don't know if you've ever been in a church where you come and you hear about uh Jesus' sacrifice for you and his death for you and And you say, Now here take eat, this is the um body of Christ for you and and you taste it and you swallow it and you've just gotten the crumbs down your throat and and now here's the uh juice and take that and drink it and you just finish the juice and bam onto the prayer or the hymn or something like that. You've ever noticed at Columbia Presbyterian, we pause, we wait. You know, here's the bread, and there's uh there's a few moments to savor And then the same way with the Jews. Why is that? Well it's exactly this, you see. I that's that is The moment of climactic precious intimacy for you to enjoy the kiss of Jesus Christ on your soul. For you to take that bread and take that cup and say, Lord, your love is sweeter than wine. You loved me so much you refused to live without me. You came and you rescued me from the dominion of darkness. You gave your life as a sacrifice for me. Your love is sweeter than wine. Lord, I I I look forward to the rest of this month and delighting in those tokens of your affection. Those tokens of affection may be some intimate answered prayer that may be trivial to somebody else, but to you, it shows his involvement in your life and his compassion and his care for you. And you look at his word and if you look at his word, it's not just to see what you do wrong and what you need to do right and what what your duty is and the rest of that, but you focus on that word as a picture of Christ. And as we talked about before, even the things that you see that Jesus does that are so different from us, it's not just a matter of this tells me what I ought to do. It tells me what he is like. It shows me that when he rose from the dead, that he went back to those disciples who abandoned him on that night and hour of his needs. And he goes back and he calls them brothers and he says, Peace be with you. And he wants to be with them. And he doesn't even rebuke them. longs for them. His love is sweeter than wine. He even pays a special visit to Thomas to say, Thomas, I want you to see, put your hand in my side, feel the print of the nails, know that I'm alive, Thomas. Come. I care for you. He's willing to go out of his way to meet him. He's willing to take even a Peter who so arrogantly said, I'll never leave you or forsake you, and he comes along the lakeside and he meets with Peter and he says, Do you love me? Peter, feed my sheep. Peter follows. me and he restores them in the most tender, intimate way. Do you see Jesus like that for you? Do you look at the Christian life in terms of what you need to do and the meetings you need to go to and all the stuff you need to attend and all the stuff you need to accomplish? And you become a shell of a Christian. Or do you come back and you say, this all depends on the longing I have for Jesus. It all depends on the fact that his love is sweeter than wine. His character is fragrance to me. And I look at at the others, the saints through history, and I look at their praise and I say, no wonder the maidens love you. No wonder they adore you. No wonder people were willing to give their lives for you, to die as martyrs, to sacrifice all they had to follow you. Your love is sweeter than mine. Your character is like cologne that draws me to you. Amen? You see, you know what happens when you begin to have that kind of a posture? When your longing is to say, Lord, take me away to your chambers. I treasure those fifteen, twenty minutes, those thirty minutes at the beginning of the day when I When I come to you, and in those quiet moments I'm refreshed again by the sweetness of your love. You become like a young girl in love. You become like a girl who's full of hope, who's full of anticipation. Who sees meaning in her life because she knows someone loves her and her heart is all wrapped around a guy. You know, and y you you're with somebody like that and you say, Man I mean just you know, all she thinks about is this guy. All she talks. But you know, you kinda get caught up in it. Oh, that God would make his people. To be people of passion so that our love for Jesus and Our being enthralled with his love sweeter than wine to us makes us fun to be with. People want to be with us because the fragrance of Christ begins to emanate from us in that love, his love which moves through our souls and our beings. Will we become passionate Presbyterians? Amen? Let's pray. Lord our God, how we regret the times that we have let our lives devolve into the shells of duty-oriented believers And we have not been empowered and energized by the gospel. And so people look at the church and they look at shriveled people rather than passionate people. They look and they see those who Who form a subculture that is against more than therefore. When you have created us to be people who are able to say this week, Lord, I can't wait to meet with you. I want to know more about you. I want to carry character of your name, of all of your tender, merciful, just, and the truth of your being to be like cologne that draws me to you. I want the sweetness of your love to me to be sweeter than wine to my lips. Lord, show us Jesus. Show us his love. Show us what this means so that we become people who refuse to compromise our standards because we know that You who have delivered us from our shame can protect us in a world, a world that stinks in its values with the fragrance of Christ. And we love you. Lord, we love you. May this week we love you more. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.