Deuteronomy 6, 1 through 9. In our church, we do believe the Bible to be the Word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice. Let us therefore give careful attention to it as we read. Deuteronomy 6, verse 1. Now this is the commandment, the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord your God has commanded me to teach you, that you might do them in the land where you are going over to possess it. So that you and your son And your grandson might fear the Lord your God, to keep all of his statutes and his commandments, which I command you, all the days of your life, and that your days may be prolonged. O Israel, you should listen and be careful. Careful to do it, that it may be well with you, and that you may multiply greatly, just as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you in a land flowing with milk and honey. Verse 4. The Lord is our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. And these words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart, and you shall teach them. And shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontals on your forehead, and you shall write them. On the doorposts of your house and on your gates. Let's pray. Our Father, we do pray in the name of Jesus Christ that you would send your Holy Spirit to make your work fresh and new and alive to us and apply it to our our hearts. In Jesus' name. When the gospel comes to a new people group or a tribe in New Guinea or some place like that, would you think that the first generation of Christians, or the second generation of Christians, or the third generation, or the fourth, or the fifth, which generation would you think are most zealous and passionate in their love for God and following after Him? Well I would think they would get progressively more excited about following Christ than obeying Him. But the mythologists, the missions experts tell us this it's just the opposite. That so often the first generation are very passionate in their love for God that He's delivered them from their former ways and they're very passionate and following him. They love him very much. And then the second generation was a little more nominal than the third and the fourth. And so often, rather than the church being more zealous for Christ, it becomes more a cultural Christianity. It's not only true in places far overseas, it's true often in the United States and in families, but sometimes the the ones first converted are zealous for Christ. But in subsequent generations it becomes more of a cultural Christianity. Have you ever seen that? Yes, I have. The Christian landscape is strewn with a wreckage of Christian children raised in Christian Christian homes, who have either become Very cold in their faith and zeal for God. Or even abandon the faith completely. Now this really bothers me. We see it all through scripture, but it it just seems like it shouldn't be. You may over We're in Judges 2. 10. Don't turn to it unless you want to. But real quickly, one of the uh verses there talks about the generation that you know, Moses and Joshua, and then the passage tells us, but then a generation rose up who knew not the Lord, nor the great things that he has done. And that that bothers me, you know, that here that God had done all these great things and all of a sudden a generation rose up and they didn't know the Lord and didn't follow after him. We're told uh in another passage, uh all it's I've been reading through the Kings Kings and Samuel and uh chronicles this past summer and my personal devotions and I was amazed at how many times that uh you know the kings got real wicked and they the people got away from the Lord. And then it says a king rose up who really loved the Lord and he got rid of the high places. And then you expect expectantly, you know, maybe the next generation will finally turn to the Lord even more and will be stronger. But no, then it says that his son rose up and he was worse than Jeroboam the son of Nebat. And you think, what happened? was a king that loved the Lord, and then his son rose up and did follow after the Lord. We see it all around us, we see it all around the world so often. We see it in the scripture. And that especially bothers me as a Presbyterian and one who takes very seriously the uh not only Presbyterians this don't only bother Presbyterians but it especially bothers me as one who sees the covenant in the scripture and the promises of the Bible to us and to our children. Look right here in this passage. uh look at uh verse 2 where it says so that you your son and your grandson might fear the Lord your God also chapter 7 verse 9 look over there just on the page Therefore, that the Lord your God He is a faithful God who keeps his covenant and his loving kindness how long? Even to a thousand generations. That's how faithful God is. All through the scripture. Deuteronomy 30, verse 6, one of my favorite. Verse that says the Lord says, Not only will I circumcise your heart, but the heart of your children to love the Lord your God. Not only your heart, but the heart of your children to love the Lord your God. Other passages, you know what Paul told the Philippines jailers, believe on the Lord. Jesus Christ, you shall be saved and your house. And then remember Psalm 103, we're told that His righteousness is to who? Not just to your children, but to children's children. So this bothers me. We see the problem that our olive plants, our children, as Psalm 128 calls them, often wither, and yet God promises that they won't wither, or so it seems. Well I think there's an answer to this problem. These promises are covenant promises. Now, what do we mean by covenant? Any of these children here know when we say what is a covenant? Any of the children here know what that means? What is a covenant? Any of them know that? Well, maybe they're all bashful. I imagine there's some here that know the children's catechism. Anybody want to try? Well, children's catechism says that a covenant is an agreement between two or more persons. And this is what our message is. about today. The problem is not with God, that he hasn't been faithful to his promises. The problem is so often with us that we haven't been faithful to our side of the covenant, to doing what God has told us to do. And that's what we're going to look at today. I would you might jot down Psalm seventy eight. It really is one place I think uh Al read part of that in the worship where God shows us both sides of that covenant. But that's what we're looking at it today. As there are covenant promises for us to claim. There are covenant responsibilities that we We as the Church of Jesus Christ have to the children of our church. So the main point, as you see in your outline of today's message, is that as a church, we must diligently teach our children to know and love God with all their beings. That's what we want to look at today. Now, you may say this is nothing new. Nothing you know, you've heard this before and I'm sure you have, but I'm convinced it's that in preaching and I know in my own life so often I don't need to be informed as much as I need to be reminded of some things. And that's what I'm doing today, reminding you of some responsibility. that we have. Some of you may be saying, well, this isn't applicable to me. I don't have any children or I'm single. Well, probably most of you are going to have children someday if you haven't already. But more than that, as Alice says, I understand when he baptizes the children. Who does he charge? Not just the parents, but the whole congregation. That we're a covenant community. We have a responsibility to the children here. That we would all be concerned that they grow up to know and love Christ. that generation that fell away from the Lord and got cold towards him. So it it does apply to all of us, although especially the parents, but I think you'll see that it applies to all of us. So the first thing we want to see is we'll ask the question, how do we teach them? How do we teach And the answer is diligently, certainly diligently, with effort, with uh intensity, with priority. And you see this particularly down in verse uh verse six, verse seven. And you shall teach them diligently to your sons. And that includes daughters, I'm sure. The NRB says you shall impress these things on your children. Teach diligently, impress. Why the difference? The Hebrew word there comes from the word Sharpen. It means and when you sharpen something, you sharpen it over and over again. You know, you you do it. It me literally what this is saying is to repeat these things over and over again to your children. That's in the context of that of that Hebrew word. But you don't do it once, you do it over and over again. We sharpen these little olive plants in our church constantly, with diligence, over and over again. Not just once. It's something that we have to keep doing. We see the intensity, not just from the word. We see it here from proximity uh of this teaching them diligently to the greatest commandment. Right after God gives us the greatest commandment to love him with all our hearts. What does he do? He doesn't say go uh do these other things which are all He says, teach these to your children. That's the very next thing that he says. It's important. There is to be diligence as we do this, as we as we teach these, not something we think casually. We're supposed to teach these things to our children. The people in old Israel had a great thing to teach their children, what Al said in the worship section. You know, the the here uh remember kids what this God of ours has done. He's brought us out of the house of bondage, out of Egypt. And tell these little ones the greatest. Things that he's done. But also, as Al said in the worship section, who should have the most things to tell their children and to tell them over and over and over again? How much more do we, as New Israel, as the people of God in this Age had to tell our little ones about the Lord Jesus Christ. That God became man and died for our sins. That he who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might be the righteousness of God in him. How much more do we have a responsibility to do what Deuteronomy tells us all the way through. Remember, remember, remember what the Lord your God has done over and over and over again. I am so grateful for following For a dad who did that to me, a mom and dad, certainly, but especially my dad, for how he was so consistent in doing that. One of the ways that he did it was through family devotions. And this comes under application. Uh you know, as we the Bible doesn't say to have family devotions. As we see in this past, it tells us to teach our children these things. But one way that Christians have found so helpful to teach their children is through having a set time to do it. As we set aside time for worship as we're doing here. Yes, we worship God all the time, but we take special time. Quiet time, prayer time, a whole hook of things, we take special time to do things that are very important. And I would challenge you is boy my dad was he set such an example for me. I before Or we as little kids would want to run out and play after supper before the dishes were done. He would stop, we would read the Bible, pray together, he made it fun, you didn't make it too long, 'cause then you get inconsistent and don't do it so often. Just short but consistent first. Seventeen years of my life. I added up the hours. It's more than a seminary education. Probably much more profitable. I can testify. I just graduated from seminary. But how important it is and what an example he set to me and I set in my heart early. to to try to do the same thing. Suppose I look back, maybe some of you kids that did have family devotions don't like it. I look back now and I am so grateful to my dad and my mom that they did that consistently, faithfully. We need to do that kind of thing in our family. It also says down there on uh talks about s making a serious commission. I'd rather challenge you. Some of you probably have committed yourself to this before and have failed. Was your commitment how serious was your commitment? Did you put it up there with the really important things that you had to do? I know some I I thought a class last year I understand for for men and he really addressed this. Maybe some of you men at that time uh made a commitment that this would be true in your homes. Maybe some of you women did also. I I don't know, I wasn't wasn't here at that time. But how are you doing on that commitment? As you begin to fall with all the other priorities, how are you doing with this first priority God mentioned right after the greatest commandment? your children to know and love God and to set aside time to do that in your families. Is it a priority? Is it something that you're really serious about amidst your busy fall schedule? You single? Is it a priority in your life? to to set this in your heart that someday you do uh get married or you who don't have children when you do have children yet you are gonna be very serious about doing this. My dad and I after I first committed my life to Christ, uh I was a covenant child I went my own way for a little while, apathetic to God. For my sophomore year in college, I committed my life to Christ. I came home that summer. Of course he was so happy to hear his son had come home and was uh studying the Bible. We studied Genesis every morning. And one day after a couple weeks I'd just come home and I said, Dad, what are we going to do about do about Billy? He's my younger brother. He's two years younger than me. I didn't think he wasn't really on fire for the Lord like I was now. I said, Dad, we gotta do something. I wanted to hit him on the head with the Bible, you know. And my father looked at me And he said, Dan, we got to do the same thing that I've done for you every day of your life. And that's that I've prayed for you every day of your life, that God would circumcise your heart just as he circumcised. circumcise your heart just as he has circumcised mine. Deuteronomy thirty verse six. And I just you know, I I think I thought of that, as he said that to me, I said, Man, that's what I'm gonna do for my children someday. And I I failed a lot. I don't think I've been faith that he has. But that's something that I thought about about six years before I was married. And I challenge you who aren't married yet or who don't have kids yet to think about that and to set it in your heart early that you'll really take that serious as well as your kids. A serious commitment. Also, something that I've found helps is accountability. Is to maybe get somebody to hold you accountable. Maybe you made a commitment earlier to do this in your family. But uh you kinda by the wayside, a lot of us do. I found it helped for me to have other people hold me accountable. My wife and I we have we get mad at each other and we try to hold each other accountable sometime, but that oughta be the way it should be it seems, husband and wife. But uh maybe another man or somebody in your prayer group for a Air fellowship group or something to hold you accountable, it may help. I encourage us as a church. We should really not just be concerned for our kids, but to pray for each other and encourage each other to do this and do better. But when do we teach our children? We've looked at the need uh to do it diligently. When do we do it? And we see from our passage here we do it constantly, all the time. You know, look at verse uh verse six and seven and eight, all through there. You shall teach them diligently to your sons, you shall talk with them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, When you rise up, you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, they shall be as frontals on your forehead, you shall write them on the doorpost of your house and all your on your gates. What are we to teach our children? All the time, not just family devotions. We're so prone as Christians to separate the sacred and the. In the secular, you know, and separate the two. We're to teach our children all the time about Christ. As you walk by the way, as you walk by the way and you see garbage lying along it, you tell the little ones that this is God's world. And we're not supposed to do that. There are occasions all the time We should be waiting like tigers to pounce on and to take the opportunity of that moment, the teachable moments, to teach them about God and what it means to love Christ. Jesus, isn't that the way he did it? He didn't say Come and sit down and take notes, he said, Come and be with me. And his disciples went with him and he taught them as he went. And that's the best way to teach, isn't it? And that's the way we need to be as we go to teach these little ones what it means to love Christ. Uh this uh about a year ago next month, a good friend of ours was killed in Beirut the week before the big blast, Mike Fuller. We got the message early on on Monday morning and as Carol and I were on our bed crying. Jonathan came in and said, Daddy, Mom, why are you all crying? And uh we looked at him through our tears and he said, Oh, he said, Why are you crying? Mike, uh he's in heaven. And he said Well yes, Jonathan is in heaven, but we explained to him how he still grieved for Gail and two little children, one who we never saw. And uh and that we were sad. And that was occasion to teach Jonathan something that we couldn't teach in the same way with the same impact about our love for other Christians as we could right there. And we need to do that. We need to be looking for those teachable moments. And that certainly is the way that Jesus did it. Well what do we teach them? We teach them to love God. You know, look at verse verse four. Here's what we're good at, verse four. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. We might say that's good doctrine. The Lord is one. Everything that has to do with theology. And we're pretty good at that. Teaching our children theology, we ask them the catechism and and uh I we do that, I believe in that. But that's not our problem. I don't think. And that's not at the root of the problem of why each generation gets a little colder. We're good at passing from generation to generation the concepts of Christianity. The doctrines of, you know, the catechism question, what is sin? Then is anyone a conformity unto or transgression of the law of God? And then we go on through what that means. You know, we have all the we're so good at doing that. But how good are we at passing on from generation to generation? Love for God. A passionate love for the Lord, the one who gave his son, that we might have life. That's what we're to teach them. Yes, we teach them doctrine, but we teach them what it means to really love God. Not some mild dose of God. of academic Christianity that's conceptual and all these ideas. Yes, we need to teach them that. But we have to teach them how to love God. That's look at the flow of the verses. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, the great concept Commandment, and then right after that, supposed to teach this to your children. I think that's at the heart of the missions problem that I stated earlier. That the generation becomes Christians and they have a love for God. He's changed them. But they're parents you know, they they're good parents. They teach their children about God, about Christ. But maybe they don't do as good a job as teaching them to really love Christ with all their heart. When kids grow up, oh they know the answers, but there's kind of a coldness that sets in. And I really wonder if this is one of the problems in in the Old Testament as well as in our modern Christianity, and maybe especially Presbyterianism, that we're real good on the conceptual stuff and the doctrinal stuff. What about on the greatest commandments to love the Lord our God? It's something for us really to think about. But how do we teach them to love the Lord their God? Well, look at the sequence here. Well, first I want to mention one other thing on that. I was gonna leave it out, but I think we have a minute to mention it. This is a historic problem, especially with reform people. It's interesting, at the time of the Reformation, you know, there was revival, people were excited, not only about sound doctrine, but about following Christ. And really knowing him and loving him. And a few years after the Reformation, late sixteen hundreds, a movement developed called Reform Scholasticism. And it became very cold and the and the the proof of being a Christian was not your life, but did you have your T's crossed and your I's got it? How was your doctrine? And it became very cold. And the reaction against that was the Pietist movement, which said the only doctrine you need can be written on one page in large letters. And you know, that was overboard the other way, a reaction to the cold, stale Christianity. And neither of those is good. What we need is both. We need sound doctrine, but the Pietas didn't last because they didn't have the iron of good doctrine. But the cold Reformed scholasticism didn't work because it just it wasn't obedient to the first part here about loving the Lord you got all your heart. What we need is both. It's not either or. We need both. And the the and the former is easier to pass on and the concept is easier to pass on. We really need to work on passing on love for God. Now how do we do that? How do we pass on love for God? It's harder than to pass on concepts. And this to me is the greatest truth in this passage as I've studied it and came to to see it. The last question there, who is to teach them? And I think the answer is people who are who love the Lord their God with all their heart. Now we get down to what we are supposed to be. Look at the sequence again. You shall love the Lord your God. God with all your heart, and these things shall be on your heart. Verse six, these words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart. And then flowing from the command of love of the Lord your God, from these things being on your heart, Then he said, next words, the very next words, you're to teach them to your children. The very next thing. Dear friends, that's what it has to be. We first have to love the Lord our God with all our heart. This is something that We first are supposed to be moving towards and pursuing that we love him. And then the next thing that we do is we teach our children, the children of the church, the the covenant community that we have here. I ask you a question. regarding setting these things on your heart. Are you a Christian? Have you committed your life to Jesus Christ? See you can't set these things on your heart unless you've come to him. The the greatest commandment here tells you and me that we can't keep it. Who of us can love the Lord our God with all our hearts, soul, mind, and strength, as Jesus said? None of us can. That's why we need Christ. This command tells you, if you're not a Christian, that you need Jesus Christ. You need someone to come and take your sent away because you can't keep this greatest commandment. Have you done that? You can't give your children what you don't have. So many people come to church for the children. That's the wrong motive. The first thing should be you come to church to know God to love him. You give your life right to him. And then out of that, notice the sequence, out of that flows you teach your children. But what if you are a Christian? We have to ask the question, are you a growing Christian? Are you a Christian that is uh growing in your look? Christ and your children see this and they model it. Again, I praise the Lord for a dad that did that, whether we're taking groceries to poor people or or or he I remember so many times he'd embarrassed me because he'd talk to people, you know, we'd be at a gas station, he'd be under the hood of the car talking about Christ to the guy. And I'd get embarrassed. I wouldn't want to take him with my friends, you know, but now I look back, I am so happy for a dad that did that. He modeled what it meant to love Christ. He didn't just tell me a family devotion existed. And I think that's probably where I fail the most. We need to live it. We need to model it for our children. We need to teach by example. It's more what we are than what we do or what we say. A couple points in conclusion here. That I couldn't help but mention real briefly. Some of you may not be from a Christian home, and I I've had people that it seemed to bother when I was mentioning something about a Christian from five or six generations of Christians that had family devotions and taught their kids love Christ and and uh and some of you may not be from that. I hope that doesn't turn you off. It's exciting to be able to start one, isn't it? My dad I was witnessing one of these times an embarrassment to a guy he said, How'd you like to start something that could last an Thousand generations. That's exciting. So if you're not from a Christian home, think about starting around. Also, of course, depend on the Holy Spirit. You know, this is a hard, exhorted sermon, something we need to do better at, I need to do better at. But let's remember we We you know maybe one of the reasons they didn't do so good in the Old Testament, and I think we probably do better today than they did then, is we do have the Holy Spirit. He's been poured out. We have the paraclete, the one called alongside to help us. Plead for his help. Because we're not meant we can't do it by ourselves, no matter how hard we try. We must as we try with diligence, we say, It must be the Lord through us by his Holy Spirit. Also be patient for God's coming. Some of you, your children may not have come to Christ. Remember the story of Augustine His mother prayed all those years and finally he came. Uh how many people do you know like that who came late in life? Be patient for God's time. Keep praying. And as you look at your failures, and then the mother says, Boy, I look at mine, I think of that when I told my dad, I'm gonna do That for my sons, and I think of all my failures. Yes, we need to take seriously these commands. We are commanded to do this. We're commanded to love God. But we remember who is our righteousness? Jesus Christ is our righteousness. As we fail, we take One look at ourselves and see our failures, we take ten looks at Christ and remember that He's our hope. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. Remember his forgiveness when you fail at doing this as a father or mother, as a single, or a grandparent. or whatever. But we must be diligent. We will never forgive us, but we must be diligent in this. A a Marine Colonel, this a friend of mine, told me once that his dad taught him there there are two ways to do things, right and over. And he'd always make his Marines, he'd always make his Marines do that. They do it right or they do it over. But he said one day he was thinking about that as respect w as regards his kids. And he said, you know, the things you can't do over, you better do right the first time. And that hit me like a ton of bricks. Boy, I get so busy and involved. Don't we all so prone to other things? The things We can't we can't raise our kids in this church over again. We better do it right the first time. May God help us to do that. Let's pray. Our Lord, we do pray the paracleet would help us to set these things on our our heart that we might know you and love you. Lord Jesus is our only hope. He's our righteousness. May He indeed convince us of His forgiveness when we fail. But may we be more diligent in these things with His help. And it's in His Name that we crack. In 264, I think it's so appropriate after hearing a message like that. You notice it's taken from Psalm 119. How shall the young direct their way? Notice the pronouns. Us talking about them. How shall the young direct their way? What's gonna happen? See all these kids and see the influences on. them. How shall they direct their way? What light shall be their perfect guide? Thy word, O Lord, will safely lead, if in its wisdom they can find well, it's easy to say. The kids gotta follow God's word. Listen, then notice the next verse. Sincerely I have sought thee, Lord. Oh, let me not from thee depart. To know thy will and keep from sin thy word I. I cherish in my heart. O blessed Lord, teach me thy law. Thy righteous judgments I declare. Thy testimonies make me glad, for their wealth beyond control. Upon thy precepts and thy ways my heart will meditate with all. Thy word shall be my chief delight, and I will not forget thy life. Does that make the point? Let's sing. God praise him. 264.