Well, let me say it's uh certainly good to see all the Garveys back This morning, can't believe two weeks since that terrible auto accident. The whole last section back there is all Garveys, extended family Garveys. And so we are just delighted to have you guys all back with us. And uh also uh notice that uh Tom and Trish Martin here from Knox Church, Tom, pastor of Sister Church of ours, and uh hope you have the day off. Didn't just sneak out, you know. But uh we come on this New Year's Eve, you know, New Year's Eve's the time when we start thinking about New Year's resolutions. Thinking about things you want to change. Recent issue of U. S. News and World Report, the cover article was 50 Ways to Improve Your Life in 2007. Here you go. 50 ways. Must be something there that would be of help, huh? Think of a list of things. What do I want to do to improve my life next year? Lose weight. Eat a better diet. Um exercise more. Be a better father. Be a better mother. Be a better husband. Be a better wife. Be a better friend. Be a better son. Be a better daughter. Less stress. Gotta get a hold of the stress. I saw magazine a couple days ago, had an ad in it, said three things for a nineteen for uh two thousand and seven. A little sticky, you know, and said Lose weight, clean the garage, have downtime. The thing that was checked, of course, was have downtime, you know Uh, you know, so you know, how do I get less stress in my life? Or maybe you're thinking, in two thousand seven I want to serve the Lord more, which for some of you may think It means more stress in my life. You know, how do I get balance? I need to read the Bible more, pray more, watch TV less, whatever. You know, on and on, all the things that you could be putting down Well, let me um let me offer an observation. These are all good things, no doubt about it. But it prompts a concern that I have about evangelical Christianity. I'm old enough to observe trends, you know, and I see things through the years. And one of the concerns in evangelical Christianity, that one of the trends that concerns me, is that I think we are drifting toward becoming a self-help religion. Now, that may be in part because there has been a kind of reaction, maybe an overreaction. to the victimization, blame everybody else for my addictions, for my dysfunctions, for all my problems, you know, it was my spouse's fault, my mother's fault, my father's fault, somebody Didn't potty train me right or something. You know, on and on we go with these things. And so there's been a kind of a take charge of your life, you know, Oprah and Dr. Phil and The Christian leaders are take charge, take responsibility. So what do we have now? We have support groups, which are good. We have a number of them. Very important. Accountability groups But there's a danger. The subtle danger is that we get together and we talk about the problems. We have things I need to change. I need to do this and do that. And there's a kind of a passing nod to the fact that we need Jesus to do this, but then we get our list all out and we make all the changes. And in a subtle way, we really depend on ourselves, especially if you're a kind of a culture like we are here. High achievement, perfectionistic. Hey, I need something to change. Just put it down. I'll write it down. I'll discipline myself. I'll change it. Well change something in 2007? Day, put it down there, you know? And the problem with that is if you are successful, very disciplined Then you will make the change, it would be behavioral change, maybe sort of superficial, but I can do the thing and I can I can focus on the behaviors because that's what people see, it's what I see. But if I'm a failure, then I I just I can't do it. I'm discouraged. I'm depressed. Where's God? So I'm either a self-righteous superficial success or I'm a a f an honest failure, you know. Now, where am I headed? I think our culture and Christianity, the church, is moving more and more in terms of behavior change. And that's exactly the opposite of the Bible. We say, well, if I change my behavior, maybe my heart will change. The Bible says, and Ezekiel says in particular, you must first have your heart changed, and then behavior changes for the right reasons. Now, a moment of review. We started Ezekiel four weeks ago Just messianic prophecies, so we're just taking a couple of looks at the pictures of the anticipation of Messiah. Four pictures. Chapter 17, we saw that the Davidic monarchy is going to collapse. It's a mighty cedar that's going to be cut down, but God says, out of that mighty cedar, I'm going to get a little shoot, just a little sprig. And I'm going to make that into a majestic cedar that'll be a refuge for little birds. Remember we talked about when you look at your Christmas tree, the season, think of that That evergreen and think of a little bird tucked in there in the branches, finding shelter and refuge. That's the picture in Ezekiel 17 of Messiah. Then in chapter 21, he goes on talking about the ruin of the Davidic monarchy in Jerusalem, and he says, a ruin, a ruin, I will make it a ruin. Until he comes to whom the rule rightfully belongs. Quoting there from Genesis forty-nine. That picture of Messiah, the one who is going to rule and set all things straight and right. And so he is the majestic refuge. He is the rightful ruler. Thirdly we saw in chapter thirty four. He is the faithful shepherd. Sheep can't take care of themselves. Sheep are foolish, they're stupid, they're stubborn, they're perverse. I want to go this way. And the shepherd says, no, this is the way to go. No, no, no, no, I'm going to go this way. Until our hearts break with the foolishness of our choices, and we come back and we say, Lord, I need a shepherd. You need a shepherd. I need a shepherd. Jesus is that faithful shepherd. But then there's one fourth last picture we want to look at. Before we move on. And without this picture, the others would be very incomplete. Now, there are many other pictures Ezekiel gives. He talks about the Valley of the Dry Bones, talks about the New Temple, and a lot of other pictures. This morning I want to just focus on chapter 36 and the picture that Ezekiel gives us of Messiah as a sovereign transformer. The one who changes our hearts. So that our behavior changes. Now you notice that I had John read a lot of verses there 16 to 38, because we generally look at Ezekiel 36 and focus on verses 24, 25, to 28. That's the meaty section there about the new heart and new spirit. As I've studied this passage, I'm convinced that what Ezekiel's talking about here is two transformations. And both of them must go together. Either without the other would not give hope. And the two transformations, the two mighty transformations that Ezekiel pictures Are a transformed heart and a transformed world. So two points in the message. First of all, the objects of transformation, new heart, new creation. And then the scope of the transformation. First blank, the objects of the transformation. First thing is our hearts. You see that? Particularly, look in verses 24 to 28, I will take you out of the nations, I will gather you from all the countries and bring you back into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean, and I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart. And put a new spirit in you. And I will remove from you your heart of stone, and I will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit in you, and move you to follow my decrees, and be careful to keep my laws. You will live in the land that I gave your forefathers, and you will be my people, and I will be your God. Ezekiel had made quite clear to them in chapter 20, you are not able to keep my laws. Time and again I spoke to you, and you broke my laws, you broke my Sabbaths, you went your own way. It just ingrained in you, you simply can't follow me. In chapter 11, verses 18 to 21, he says, Your only hope is to get a new heart. You can't do it in yourself. In chapter 37, the one right after this chapter, he pictures Israel as a valley of dry bones, unable to move, to rise, to breathe, until God breathes life into them. And gives them the new life, without which they simply would not be able to know him, to have that relationship with him, or to obey what he says. The core of the passage here can be distilled in verse 26. I will give you a new heart. And I will put a new spirit in you, and I will remove from you the heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. That's not about your behavior, it's about your heart. That's the root issue. What you and I need in 2007 is a change of heart, not simply the change of behavior. But then he goes on to the second thing: the creation. Creation itself is going to be transformed. That's the hope that he gives to his people. Verses 28 to 38. In fact, verse 29. You see the transition, they're both involved there, talked about new heart and a new creation. In chapter 11, verses 17 and 18, he had said that he was going to bring about a new creation. You compare what he says in these verses with Isaiah 35, Isaiah 65, 66, and you see it's all about what the new creation will look like. Palestine had been laid waste. The Babylonians had come in and they had razed the cities. They had brought a siege And then they took everybody out, so it was depopulated. Now maybe you've gone through some part of Howard County, some park, and You've seen a sign that says we're restoring this to natural, you know, it's natural. What it means is they're not going to spend any money on the lawnmowers and they're not going to keep it up anymore. They're just going to let it revert. Very interesting. I've seen that in a number of places. In fact, the place where we lived along the bike paths used to be a nice field, and then they reverted to natural. And what that means is After all the scrub and the weeds and everything start to lay hold, then you got the black locusts that start moving in and the stickers and all that kind of stuff and After a while you start noticing animals there that you hadn't seen before, and if the thing really goes natural, then you know wild animals start coming in. And you know, can you imagine Howard County if for some reason Imagine Howard County, and it's been depopulated except for a couple of dozen families. That's all that's left in all of Howard County. That's what Palestine would have been like Imagine what Howard County is going to look like in five, seven, eight years. The median strips are not going to have all the bulbs and the Bermuda grasses and everything growing and it's just going to be a wasteland. You're just going to grow up all rough, unhewn. And that's what Ezekiel was writing to. He's writing to a people who had seen the land totally uncultivated, no farms, nothing. And he says that this is going to be restored. It's going to be fully restored. God is going to change it. Now, the second point I want to focus on here is the scope of this transformation. Both of these things, the heart and the world, Ezekiel is saying, are going to be totally transformed. We're not talking partial transformation. It's a total transformation. I will give you a new heart. I will put a new spirit. I'm going to remove the heart of stone. And I'm going to give you this new heart of flesh. So I'm saying, beware of New Year's resolutions that you're able to pull off without a change of heart. Now they may be good resolutions and you know if it's take out the trash, you know, that's probably good to do and not wait around to see if you get a new heart to feel like taking out the trash or loading a dishwasher. But I'm saying the things that we think about in terms of my life, the issues that I want to see change. Are things that require a heart change, not simply behavior change. I like the mission statement in Desiring God Ministries from John Piper, and I think it illustrates the kind of thing I'm talking about. Their mission statement is to help as many people as possible embrace the biblical truth that God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him. Now that's a heart issue. That's not a behavior issue. In a nutshell, they go on, this is what that means. God designed us so that we most treasure or glorify what we believe will bring us the most happiness. That's why Jesus said, where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And he designed us to experience the most pleasure possible when he is what we treasure most. It's a brilliant design. Pleasure functions like a gauge in our hearts that measures how valuable someone or something is to us. Pleasure is the measure of our treasure. Now that's very memorable, isn't it, for the new year? Pleasure is the measure of your treasure. But it's unnerving too. When God is not our treasure, something else is, something infinitely less valuable. As John Piper says in his book, The Pleasures of God, it is not what we dutifully will, but what we passionately want that reveals our hearts. Not what you dutifully will to do, but what you passionately want that reveals what your heart is like. So the primary thing in 2007 is the cultivation of your heart. To get to know Jesus and the gospel better. That's the real focus. To be quiet long enough before Him so that the gospel begins to penetrate your heart. And it begins to affect the way that you think and act. That's where real root behavior changes. Successful change, not pharisaical change, not self-righteous change, not down into failure because I can't do it change. That's where spirit-driven, gospel-motivated. God-provided change takes place. It starts with the heart and works its way out to behavior, not the other way. Now the second kind of change, without which we would not have peace or hope. Driving over here this morning, I was thinking, Lord again, if you changed my heart, but you didn't change this world. That'd be good. But it'd be very deficient. If you change this world, but you don't change my heart, that'd be nice. But I wouldn't be happy. I wouldn't have joy, no matter how good the world was. What God does, what the gospel is about, is that God changes both those things. So the next verses, 28 to 38, is about that. And look just one verse, verse 36, verse 35, to see the scope of that change. He says in verse 35. They will say, This land that was laid waste has become like the Garden of Eden. The cities that were lying in ruins, desolate and destroyed, are now fortified and inhabited. Now, our first response, probably at reading a verse like that, is to think that that's hyperbole. What he is saying is, you know, compared to the wasteland that it was when Israel comes back and settles the land. It's going to be like the Garden of Eden in comparison. I don't think that's what Ezekiel means. He means it's going to be like the Garden of Eden. The reason I say that is again parallel passages, you look at Isaiah 35, you look at Isaiah 65 and 66. In Isaiah 66, for instance, Isaiah says, about the same period of time, looking at the same thing, he says, I am going to create a new heavens and a new earth. It's going to be like Eden. But it's at that point that you and I have a problem, a major problem with Scripture. And what's the problem? The problem is, it didn't happen. Ezekiel is saying there's going to come this time when things will be restored and Palestine's going to be like the Garden of Eden. You say, well, Cyrus said, go back and build, and they built, but that wasn't like any Garden of Eden. It was nice. But it wasn't the Garden of Eden. It was far from it. In fact, it's still far from it. The world is no Garden of Eden. So how is this promise fulfilled? And here is where I want to remind you, or maybe for the first time help you to see, a pattern for interpreting prophecy in Scripture. It's what I call God's pattern of provision and promise. The best articulation I've ever seen of this is in a book by Scott Haithman called The God of Promise and the Life of Faith in chapter 5. You hardly ever see it. In fact The only other copy I ever heard of it, I found out this morning that John McCurley has a copy. He and I, we're the only ones. But in that book, Hafeman talks about this pattern, the pattern of partial fulfillment and larger hope. Let me try to illustrate that for you. God comes to Abraham. And he says to Abraham, Abraham, I am going to make you a blessing to all the nations. I'm going to give you this land and I'm going to give you a seed. But the focus is, I'm going to give you this land to dwell in. There it is, Abraham. Abraham lives his life, he dies. At his deathbed, he owns one gravesite for Sarah. That's it. He owns nothing else in the land. And so Hebrews 11 says about the patriarchs, they all died in faith, looking for the promise. Why? Because Abraham said, God hasn't given me the land, but he gave me a supernatural son. When I was well past having a son, God gave me the Son of Promise. So since He gave me that, which was supernatural, I know He can deliver on the rest of it, and I live in hope. Now, years go by. He has a family that is growing. They grow to a couple million. They are then enslaved in Egypt. God comes to Moses and the same promise. I'm going to bring you out of here and I'm going to give you the land. And you're going to dwell in that land of milk and honey and peace and prosperity. And so what happens? Ten plagues. The tenth plague, the death of the firstborn of Egypt, and God brings his people out across the Red Sea. He drowns the entire Egyptian army. They go through the wilderness. They come into the land. But what happens? They never do drive out all the Canaanites. It's a land of peace and prosperity, but not fully. In fact, things deteriorate very quickly. So what do they say? We don't have the promise here. But you know what? God supranaturally delivered us out of Egypt, so we know he can deliver on the promise, and we live in hope, and the hope grows. Things get worse. Until finally the prophets come, like Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel, and they say, You guys have forfeited, you have broken the covenant again and again, I'm going to take you out of this land. I'm going to bring you into Babylonia and I'm going to put you in exile. And so they are taken into exile and they lose the land. And what's the promise of Ezekiel? I'm going to give you back the land. There it is again. In fact, I'm going to give you back the land. I'm going to make the land like the Garden of Eden. How's that? And he brings them out of the exile and they go back into the land. But it's not like the Garden of Eden. In fact, the Macedonians come against them, and the Syrians, and Antiochus Epiphanes, and the Egyptians. And then you've got the Romans and you've got Herod, the Maccabean disintegration of that household. And things go from bad to worse. And what do they do? They say, God supernaturally brought us out of the exile So it must be Messiah. It's when Messiah comes. Then we'll have the land. Then we'll have all that He's promised. And so Jesus is born, and what does He do? He preaches the kingdom. He says, not just about the land, it's about a kingdom. And I've come, and so the kingdom has come. And people believe on him, and he heals, and he performs miracles, and he dies. For your sin and for my sin. And he not only dies that our sins are forgiven, but he dies to give us a new heart. With the age that you became a Christian and put your your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, he gave you a new heart. And you look at that heart and you look at the world and you say, it's new, it's great, but you know what? It doesn't match up to the promise. I look at my heart. It's not as changed as I would think it should be. I look at this world. And it's a sad excuse for the kingdom. So what's the hope? Because Jesus rose from the dead, I know he has done something supernatural that impels me to continue to believe in him. And I have hope that when he comes again, he will deliver on the promise. And that's exactly what the Bible says. In First Corinthians chapter 15, Paul says As in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive. But each in his own turn, Christ the first fruits, then when he comes, those who belong to him. Then the end will come when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father after he has destroyed all dominion, authority, and power, for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. And the last enemy to be destroyed is death. Then the hope is fulfilled. Then it all comes Then the new heavens and the new earth, which is like the Garden of Eden. In fact, you know what? It's better than the Garden of Eden because there's no probation. You don't have to worry about anybody screwing it up and forfeiting it. And at that time, you will come to see Jesus as your treasure. And there will not be a single corner of your heart where you harbor any rebellion. You will come to know him as your treasure, and the delight in him will be exquisite. What about now? What does that mean? Why are you not more different with this new heart and new spirit? After all these years, perhaps, you've been a Christian, then you would think. Now once again, Andrew Sue, bless her heart. She writes your articles for my sermons because she always times them, right? This article is this week's World magazine. Let me quote to you. Because it deals with this question, why am I not more different? If I have a new heart and all these great promises have come, what is my hope in 2007? He says, Well, let's look at the evidences You're still short-tempered, but a couple of times in the last month you said you were sorry. Your marriage has its peaks and its veils, but you're still together. You sin every day, but you don't find it pleasant as much anymore. You're not blasé about it. You wish you could change. One thought in ten in your head is a thought of gratitude. But hey, that's a way up from zero. You recently wrecked a relationship, big time. But you went back and you tried to make it right, feebly, timidly, awkwardly. In the old days you wouldn't have even done that The first thing in your mind when you wake up in the morning is still, ah, blankety blank, it's Monday, I gotta get up, I gotta go to work. But at least the ninth or tenth thing on your mind nowadays is the goodness of God. Used to spend 15 minutes obsessing to every one minute praying. Now the proportions are beginning to reverse. As time goes by, the things of earth seem thinner, and the things of heaven seem more concrete. Sorrows abound, but comforts more abound. And these are less and less the comforts of escapism, but those of reality, the soon and certain return of the king. So what do you do when you look at 2007? Am I against behavioral change? No. What I want to challenge you to do as I challenge myself is to ask God to change you in a way that you cannot do. Don't talk about I want to get up earlier and I want to watch 15 minutes less TV, yeah, yeah, yeah. Talk about I want to be more generous. I want to be less self-protecting. I want to be less defensive in needing to prove that I'm right. I want to gossip less. I want to be more thankful. I want to do kindness to people who aren't just going to pay me back. You see, it's things that you look at your heart and you see, these are in my heart. They're part of me. I can't imagine me without them. And when I look at those kinds of things, I don't know about you, but I get depressed. Because I can't imagine it changing. And when I think of it changing, it feels like death. You know what I mean? Experience those kind of things? And when I get depressed and it feels like death, then at some point the Spirit reminds me, that's good. Because now you're not into management. Now you need to look to Christ. And it's when I look to Him to see, you change my heart, you give me the Spirit, you bring about that transformation. Then I come to him, and that's faith. That's not just self-discipline for ambitious, achieving, perfectionist, high-drive people. That's saying, this is for me who is by nature a failure, and if you change me, you get the glory. Brothers and sisters, we see that happen in two thousand seven. Our praise lifts up Jesus because it becomes very evident to you and to me. He is my hope. He is the one who transforms. Ezek promises that in 2007 your well your heart, your world, your behavior can change as the gospel. Transforms you. And he will give to you the hope of this broken world being transformed. And you live in that hope It becomes a tangible hope, not just a broken world that can't fix Iraq or North Korea or Darfur. But a world that is broken on the micro level every day. When I wrote this sermon, I finished it and everybody had gone from the office. No problem. Just hit print. The computer did one of those things that's the equivalent of sticking its tongue out at you. He just simply said, not on your life. You're not printing, bud. There's no connection. So I thought, uh nuts, I want to get out of here, but that's okay. Got a backup printer. I'll just do it on the backup printer. So I printed on the backup printer. I got a wide white stripe going down the whole message. Imagine me preaching that, you know, a little gap every couple words, you know. Our world's broken. Our hearts are broken And Ezekiel says, But you know what? New Eden's coming. And a new heart to enjoy it. It's going to surpass Eden. It's going to surpass anything that you and I can begin to imagine. And it may come in 2007. Live in the light of that hope. Brothers and sisters, the Spirit has come in you to give you a down payment in a changed heart. And in the hope of a changed world. It's not the completion. It's not intended to be the completion. But because you know that you're different because of Jesus Christ in your life, you know He will deliver. On the fullness of the promise. And you live in the light of that hope. This is so important that we're going to spend two more weeks exploring this a little bit more. Last summer, Kathy and I heard a preacher preach on this similar kind of topic of transformation in the gospel. We were so moved and struck by that that we went out and just prayed for a half hour after that. And I went to the preacher and I said, Would you be willing to preach that message on January 7th at Columbia Presbyterian? He prayed about it. He said yes. So we're going to continue this topic Next week, guest preacher, and then the week after to close it off. Because it's so important that you and I see That it's not self-help religion. It's not the accountability groups. I have a friend that leads an accountability group They have nine questions they go over every week. What'd you look at? How'd you spend your money? What do you do? And it's great. They're all good questions. But when he shared that with me, I said, you know, the Pharisees would love a list like that. You and I love lists. Until we fail, I offer you, Jesus Christ, to change you. Let's pray. Lord our God, as we come here, we recognize that we are about to take the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper is the pledge of that hope. It's the pledge that you, Lord Jesus, died for sinners. You died that we might be forgiven. You died that we might have changed hearts. So we might have your spirit coming to live as first fruits of the completed kingdom in our lives this next year. And so as we bring all the failures of 2006, we come to lay them in a trash heap before you. We come and we ask you to show us Jesus. Show us Jesus sufficient for all of our sin. Show us Jesus, who alone can change our hearts. Give us a longing, Lord, for things to happen in our lives this next year that we simply cannot discipline ourselves to do. That we would see you do because then you get the glory. We ask you to do that. We ask you to stretch our faith. We ask you to show us, Lord. To as we meditate on that in the next hours and the next few days, Lord, that you'd be leading us to grow in our faith and to grow in our hope. The hope of what this world will be like when Jesus comes back. And to live in the light of that hope. Lord, you know, as we sang at the Garvey funeral, as Jesse's funeral, we sang, we sang vigorously. Because we sang as people with a hope. And Lord, I thought as we were singing of the funeral of Robert Ingersoll, that Agnostic who criticized and slammed the Bible. And at his funeral, the program simply said, There will be no singing. How we thank you that Ezekiel gives us something to sing about, something to rejoice in. May our hearts now rejoice as we meditate on Jesus and take these elements by which we feed on him by faith. And Lord, if there's people here, and I know there's got to be, that don't know you. That they would see their need to have their hearts changed by Jesus. That you would make them miserable until they come to you as sheep who've lost their way. And ask you to forgive them and to change them, to give them new life. And so, Lord, we come and ask for you to fill our hearts and our lives with hope. Even as we come to you, who alone are our hope, we thank you for that hope. In Jesus' name, feed us. Amen.