Of the series of three on Psalm hundred and sixteen, which you remember was a psalm teaching us three ways to call on the names of God by which He has been a very good thing. reveal themselves to us. We saw that first of all we are called we are call on his names as we are driven To pray by our needs. In verse uh three and four, the cords of death entangled me, the anguish of the grave came upon me. I was overcome by trouble and sorrow. And then I called on the name of the Lord, O Lord, save me. You see, secondly in this psalm, that we call on his name as we rejoice in it. Verses twelve and thirteen. How can I repay the Lord for all his goodness to me? I will lift up the cup of salvation and I will call on the name of the Lord in praise. I will call on him because he heard me. Verse 6 and 7. The Lord protects the simple heart. When I was in great need, he saved me. Be at rest once more, O my soul, for the Lord has been good to you. So we call on his name and praise. Then the third thing that we're seeing this morning is that we call on his name as we speak for his name We're driven to his name in prayer. We rejoice in his name in praise. We speak for his name in proclamation of that goodness. Verses 17 and 18. I will sacrifice a thank offering to you, and I will call on the name of the Lord. I will fulfill my vows, this offering and this testimony, in the presence of all his people. Do you remember that Psalm one sixteen, we basically said, is a testimony. Psalm one sixteen Situation. This psalmist apparently was on the brink of death, and they were in a situation that overwhelmed them, saw no possible way out, and they said, Lord, if you deliver me in this situation, I will publicly offer a thank offering in the temple and I will proclaim your name to all the people who are willing to come and to hear of your goodness. And so you saw A couple of weeks ago, how I used the psalm as a pattern. And I showed how in Kathy's life, in my life, in the last weeks and months, uh God has had fulfilled this in our own experience that we saw in uh situation after situation as my mom was diagnosed with brain cancer And then eventually came to live for two months with us until she finally died of that brain cancer last month. How God objectively and situation after situation showed that He was answering our prayers and that He was taking Taking care of us and providing for us. Not only objectively, but subjectively. He was working in us. I've rarely had such a sense of God God is my heavenly father. It seemed situation after situation it seemed like I didn't know where to go and was anxious about the decisions to make, and God just took those situations and either made it very plain and clear by just simply removing the decision. There weren't any options. It was just simply there's the way to go. And open doors to show us. But beyond that, it was the peace that that he had given in my heart, the sense that he had called us to do this, and that God was going to take it through it. That he was in fact the heavenly father who could be dependent on. And if Kathy were sharing, she would tell you, and I checked with her to make sure. She said, you know, the thing that I really sensed through all of that was that God had changed minds for me. That even though I was a speck on a speck on a speck, and she said so many times I go out and I'm carrying where I am just this little speck on this little speck of a planet in the speck. of a solar system within the speck of a galaxy, you notice me. And you're caring for me in this situation. And it was an overwhelming sense of God's peace and his presence and his comfort through that. So that we were able to say with all our hearts, verse one and two, I love the Lord, for he heard my voice. He heard my cry from ancient. Because he turned his ear to me, I will call on him as long as I live. And we showed how objectively we may be in Difficult circumstance. You may be called to a very difficult circumstance objectively. My mom, as far as we know, never did come to faith in Christ. for which I had prayed for twenty-some years. But God can show his hand in your situation so that you are seeing that he is at work in your life. And so he said there was a basic principle of the Christian life that we see in Psalm one hundred and sixteen. And that basic principle is that God uses affliction to drive us to prayer so that as he answers those prayers, he increases our affection for him and our trust in him. So the basic principle is that afflictions increase affection. And that doesn't principle in the Christian life. Afflictions in your life are to increase and deepen your affection for God as you see his hand in your life. And so as we looked at that, we saw that it's not enough words just to pray. It's not enough for us to pray to us just to call on his name when we need something. God intends that we notice, that we track how he answers those prayers, and that that leads us to praise him. to acknowledge in our hearts and publicly that God is a good God. The opportunity, for instance, when Dick says, here's an opportunity for us to just Praise God to give thanks to Him. So we take advantage of that, to just pour out our hearts in a sentence or two to say, God, you are good. I've seen your goodness in my life. And of course, part of what we do that for is is to help us to examine our heart. Do I have anything to praise Him for? And if not, why not? What's happening in my life? Maybe I need to examine my prayer life. Maybe Maybe I need to go back and to repentance. Unbelief, or maybe I'm just not calling on the Lord. I'm just trying to gut it out on my own. But that we're aware of that. That we ought to be able to praise him for the things that we're seeing him do. But even the praise is not all that's involved. And so the conclusion of this series is for us to notice that the praise should lead to Proclamation. Interesting, isn't it, how this comes just a week before the missions conference. Well, you see there is a connection Now God intends that our praise would lead to proclamation. And I want for us to notice in this proclamation where he says there in verses 17 and 18, I will say Sacrifice a thank offering to you. Because you answered my prayer. I praise you for your goodness. I will call on the name of the Lord. How does he do that? I will fulfill my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. I want us to notice three ways that he talked about proclaiming his name. First of all, where he does it, secondly, how he does it, and then thirdly, why he does it. First of all, notice where he does it. He does it in the presence of his people. That's the first place. In the presence of his people. See that in verse 14. I will fulfill my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Verse 18, I will fulfill my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Verse 19, in the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midst of Jerusalem. Jerusalem is in the Old Testament often. a symbol of all of God's people as they're gathered with Him. And so you see here this emphasis on presence. In fact in the Hebrew uh there is a word that is put before the word It is something like in the very presence of your people. It emphasizes just a word to emphasize what's coming up. And so that word appears in both 14 and 18. In the very presence of all the presentation. That's where I'm stating that the Lord is a good God. And the point is very simple, and I've written it out Out there, when God has blessed me, I thank him by sharing it. How he has blessed me, that is, that's what I share, with others. And I do it for three reasons, according to Scripture. The first is You see there in verses five and six. He's telling all these people, all his friends are gathered around. They're all looking forward to the big feast, you know, because remember that that whole lamb's got to be easy. Eaten in one day. And so they're gonna have a lot of lamb burgers and they're gonna have all kinds of lamb chops and everything else that they can get. And they're all looking forward to that. But in the anticipation of that, they're listening now To what God has done in this friend's life. In verses 5 and 6, he says, I want to tell you, the Lord is gracious. He's righteous. Our God is full of compassion. Now I'm not just stating That theoretically, I've seen it in my life. The Lord protects the simple-hearted. People who are like Winnie the Pooh, he said, like me, can't take care of myself, need someone to get me out of scrapes and out of trouble. He takes care of us. When I was in great need, he saved me. And so you see, that's need we so need our faith to be encouraged like And so here's this fellow and he's having this feast and you know, there's his friend Levi and he just lost his job. You see, and down in the wolf actor And so uh you know, he he needs to hear that God is faithful. Here's Rebecca and her kids are running wild all over town and they're she's praying, you know, it doesn't seem like God's doing much in their lives. Who needs to hear? But God's still facing. And there's Samuel over here. He just found out he had cancer. And he's wondering where is God in all this? And he needs his faith and courage. And then uh there's Rachel over here, and she wonders she's ever going to marry the man of her dreams, whether God has ever got someone for her to establish a home with a man. And she's wondering where is God in that? And so in all of our situations there's things we're praying and we're saying Where is God in? And and if you get over the envy or the jealousy, you ever have a friend that just says, you know, hear about God has answered my prayer and saying yeah, well, I thought he's answering your prayer and I'm not And so sometimes you know we have to get over that a little bit, and once we get beyond it, we say, but but God doesn't love him or her more than me. His words are very clear About that. So the fact that God is at work in that person's life encourages me to keep on praying about the things I'm calling on. He is gracious and full of compassion. He will protect. I'm as simple hearted as the next one. He's going to protect me. He's going to take care of me. We need to hear from one another the proclamation of answered prayer. Because it'll encourage our unsaith. We really do. The second reason that we do that is to give glory to God. Again, verse 5 and 6, he's declaring the name of God. Telling you see about the character of God here that is reflected in some of God's names. I call on his name and here's who he is. He is the compassionate one. He is the one who is He is the one who protects the simple hearted. He is El Shaddai, who makes impossible things happen for the people who are weak. He's El Roy, who sees the simple hearted in their Let me tell you about God. You know, Psalm fifteen, excuse me, Psalm fifty, verses fourteen and fifteen. Tell us concerning the thank offerings. Thank sacrifice thank offerings to God God fulfill your vows to the Most High. Call upon me in the day of trouble. You're in trouble? Call upon me. I will deliver you and you will honor me. Specifically, when you pray and you are in trouble, and God hears your prayer and he does something in your life, you're to honor him, you're to give glory to him by proclaiming By sharing what God has done. This is one of the basic biblical bases for our testimonies of the Lord's Supper. Notice again where this is done. It's done in the presence of his people during a sacrificial feast. Sacrifices are over and done. We now simply commemorate in the Lord's Supper, what Jesus has done once for all. But it's at that time which is to us a new covenant thank offering meal. You see, it is that giving of thanks. It is the cup of Blessing and thanksgiving that we take at the Lord's Supper. That in that context we proclaim to one another God's goodness. That's a very biblical thing to do And it's important that we do that. I think sometimes when we come to the Lord's Supper, we have this idea that there's a few people in the congregation that like to talk. They're the ones that always, you know, very easy to get up and they'll share. But then there's the some of us, you know, we feel like well, but for me it's just very hard to ever stand up. My knees don't not They bypass each other when I stand up here. And it's very hard for me to say anything to a group of people. And so I'll just let the others do the speaking because that'll be enough. You know that robs the body. There's a little bit of selfishness if I say, well, I just like to listen to all the good things. I don't want to shoot off my mouth. If God has done something good in my life. He wants to use me to encourage you that you'll be able to pray more faithfully. And he wants me to to speak to honor him. Is a God of compassion and faithfulness. So I know that for some of it's a lot harder for others. hard to speak. And they stand up and they're clutching onto that chair and they're saying in halting tones, but as best they can get it out, is God did something in their life in the last week. a month, a couple months. And if you hear that, you know how much it means to know it's difficult to say. And you know what? The Lord gives so much more glory. He gives glory Glory because that person did it out of love for him, and he sensed that. And so maybe it's not quite as articulate as someone else, but it honors the Lord In the statement of doing that. Now I'm going to warn you, next week's the Lord's Supper. I couldn't pass up this opportunity. We're going to practice Psalm 116 next Sunday evening. And I'm going to give you an opportunity to be able to c declare, to proclaim something of the goodness in ways that I think will be very unthreatening to you. Okay? I can't tell you how I'm going to do it. You've got to come. But please come. Don't say, oh boy, I pray for snow. next Sunday evening or I think we're going to be busy or too tired or we're going to get the flu or something. Come in faith and let's see what God does as We seek to understand something of this goodness in our body and not just the kind of the faithful few that often give the uh words that are come more easily Because it's important. Psalm one sixteen tells us that we should proclaim his goodness in the presence of his people when God has been faithful. The third reason that he says to do it is because we're to proclaim this the scripture says to do this is that we're to proclaim proclaim his name to draw all people to the one true living God. Now that uh wasn't real clear that that should be the one true living God. God, he's also a loving God. But he is the one true living God. You see, verse four tells us that uh I called on the name of the Lord. It wasn't just faith that saved me. It was the Lord, Yahweh. It was Him. He that I It was Him that I called upon. And so verse 13 says, I'll lift up the cup of salvation, and I will call on the name of Yahweh. The Lord Because he's the one that provided salvation. Salvation is only in him. So for instance, if you look back at Psalm 96, it says that you are And I are to proclaim his goodness, not only in the presence of his people, but before all the nations who are to declare his glory and we're to declare his wondrous works among all the people. They would see that there is one true living God who hears the prayers of his people. For a Psalm 67 tells us, God has blessed them For what purpose? That we might declare his goodness to all the nations, so that all the people would hear of his salvation, and it would be declared among all the nations from 67 specifically states that. When Jesus came to the end of his ministry after his resurrection, after he'd risen from the dead, he said to his disciples, You have seen what I have done to fulfill the scriptures, how Messiah. should suffer and die and rise again. So now you go and to declare before all the nations forgiveness and repentance is declared in the name of the Messiah Jesus. And so declare it, don't just say, well I'm so glad God saved me, and it's nice to tell it at the Lord's Supper. He says, declare it among all the nations. People who are without Jesus need to hear this. And so that's why we connect this, you see. what we do with what's coming up. The missions conference takes what we're seeing here. Yes, God is faithful in his God. What do I do with that? And this next month we're going to see, here's what God does. God calls us to with that kind of a heart filled with praise and love toward him, to want to be used by him in our world and in God's whole world. to declare to praise and his wonders. No, you know, you say, well, I kind of tracking you up till that point, but as soon as you bring that in, then I begin to think, you know, I sort of clutch and I say, ah, you know, you kinda sneak in evangelism on it. I don't care what else you call it, Harris. That's what you're talking about. You know, name it, be honest. You're talking about going out and witnessing, you know, and man, at that point you lost me. You know, I'll s I'll I may even say something at the Lord's Supper, but when you talk about the people I work with and the embarrassing situation, that's tough. Well, you know, I hope this Helps us to see that we're not driven to evangelism by worry. We're driven to evangelism by worship. It's not the worry that we're going to let God down or something somehow, you know, we've got to get in our quota for the month or something like that. What drives this person to proclaim it is the worship. And that's the second point. How do I thank him? I mean Timmy, how do I pro proclaim him I proclaim him with a thank offering. I proclaim him with a thank offering. Now let me say uh even before Before I develop that, you see, when we pray, uh, if you're saying I'm not seeing a lot that's happening in my life to worship him for, And I I I frankly don't have a lot to uh that I want to give thanks for right now because um feel kinda dry and I'm I'm wondering what God's doing and I haven't really seen a lot of prayers happen My only suggestion to you would be don't keep praying alone. Pray with uh a spouse, pray with a friend. pray with your small group. Uh this next month you'll see in the um newsletter that's available to pick up today. I hope you get one of those that the cover article talks about extraordinary prayer that we're calling our congregation to because we're endeavoring to uh enter into an extraordinary project with this ministry set. And so we need to come together to pray. And we're calling you as a congregation. for the uh Sunday evenings in March, beginning March 14th through the end of April. Every Sunday evening, gather at the Potter's house for us to just simply corporately, the whole body, those services. all just jam into the pottery cup and we're going to call upon God and it's going to give some guidelines there about how we're going to do that. That we see Him work in our lives. One of the things that really helped Kathy and me when we were really down in some of these times in the last month and other times in our life when things have seemed very discouraging is that we forced each other day by day first thing in the morning to pray together. To hold each other accountable so that we would not just go off and worry by ourselves, but to need to pray together and lay those things before the Lord. So if you're having something enough. Pray with someone else or with a group of people who can ask you what God's doing that will help you in your prayer to examine your motives, to deepen, to change, to move, so that God will begin to work and win. You may never see if you just continue on your own and keep that all private. And then we see him work, we offer a thank offering. You see, the witness is to come out of our way worship. It's to come out of that worship that comes from the fact that God has heard us and that He is a good God. Witness comes from the affection that we have for him expressing worship. When you worship the Lord with affection, I love you. Remember that word means I want to be close to you. I want to have a relationship relationship with you. It's a passionate word. That desire makes you want to talk about them. You talk to people about the people and the things that you love. And it's that love that we need to cultivate that will enable Why is it that I love him? Again, see the reasons for these things. I because I I realize in summing all this up again that I am first of all precious to him. See that there in verse fifteen? Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his sins. I'm precious to him. Remember the death that we were talking about there is not uh simply that uh you know God really thinks it's uh neat when his people die. Uh it's That his their death is something that's very precious because their lives are very precious to him. This person was delivered from death. So he's saying, My life is very precious to him. I am precious to him. And that's the idea here. You are very precious to the Lord. Psalm seventy two, verse fourteen, says it like this But as for me, I will always verse uh Psalm seventy one, verse seventy Psalm seventy-two, verse fourteen, He will rescue them, his people, from oppression and violence, for precious is their blood. He rescued you. He rescued you from eternal death. And he did that because of the blood of his own son. Precious was your blood, so precious that Jesus took, so that you would have that cup of salvation. He took the very cup of salvation. Of wrath, the foaming cup of wrath, and drained it to the very dregs, so that that very cup of wrath became the cup of his blood, which he drank, giving his life. And so Jesus drained that cup of wrath so that you and I have only the cup of salvation, the overflowing cup of Psalm 23. of his blessings given to us in Jesus Christ. That place of heaven that we look forward to forever and ever. Because God gives us The cup of salvation to hold up, to call on his name, because he has loved us so much. You're precious to you realize how precious you are to the Lord Jesus individually. If you do, you worship, you thank him, and you want to speak about that But secondly it says that I'm freed. I thank him because I am freed by him. That's not verse one sixty-six. That should be verse uh sixteen B. And uh verse sixteen B tells us, uh, you have freed me from my chain. You freed me from my chains. I'm freed from the bondage that I was in. The bondage to death, the bondage to sin, the bondage to guilt, the bondage to my Tears, the bondage to my dysfunction, the bondage to my tears and my stumblings, as he speaks of in verse nine. You and I have been freed from this. We have a hope of heaven that nothing can take away. Whatever happens in your life, absolutely nothing can rob you of that. You have been freed from the bondage that held you up until Jesus came into your life. You are not trapped. By anything. And so as you and I realize the freedom that we have, how we're different because of Jesus, we want to speak of him. He freed us. The third thing is that he's belonging. I realize that I'm precious to him, I'm freed by him Verse 16 also says, I belong to him. Lord, truly I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your master. servants. You have freed me from my team. I no longer belong to Satan. I don't longer belong to myself. I belong to Jesus now. Belong to Jesus is freedom. I simply want to And so because we belong to him, we're available to him. And as we're available to him among other things were available to him to declare how good he is. First Peter chapter two, verse nine. So you were a chosen people A people for God's own possession. Remember his personal private treasure. A royal priesthood. A holy nation. A people belonging to God's wise. So that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful life. So, among other things that God has called us to do is to declare His praises. Because we've been called out of darkness, out of our bondage, into his wonderful light. And because we've been called into that light, then talking about him is not a burden, maybe I may be anxious about it. Uh you know, you may think that because I stand up here and shoot my jowls uh Sunday after Sunday about the Lord, it's no problem for me to talk about about the the Lord to people anywhere at any time. That's not true. I uh continue to be concerned for my image and how I look and don't want to be embarrassed and you know uh want to kind of preserve some modicum of respectability and acceptance among people. And so these are things I too fight in a situation like that. But you know, I found that in the experience of this, uh, that there had been some tension with my mother's lawyer when her will came up. whole thing because there was some suspicion about what was going on and all this and uh you know we really couldn't talk about that then but after my mother's death this past week I went up there. I couldn't wait to talk And I I got him in the car. We were driving off and I said, I'm gonna tell you a little story. You know he listened and you know, he he uh didn't exactly pursue it. He didn't say, you know, put his head on the dashboard and say, What do I do to be saved? But you know, there was at least uh, you know, uh you know God's doing something with this guy here. Then I had even more time to talk to the paralegal. We spent uh another couple hours together going over things, and I was sharing with her and and probing with her what her experience and she said you know she goes to church and she does these things but it was just so freeing because I wasn't having to talk about anything theoretical I was talking about what God was doing in my life God's freed me from my sin, but he's also been working in recent ways, and I've seen his hand, and I tried to talk with her about that, but she didn't show a whole lot of interest either. time I got back I began to think, you know, nobody around here is very interested in this, you know, and you begin to think that, don't you? I mean sometimes we begin to get into the point where we say, yeah, you tell I go down, I talk in my office where I work tomorrow. People just blow me off. They don't want to hear about this. It's sort of embarrassed for me. Well, that's too bad, you know, you've got all those needs that you need that religion stuff, you know, but well, you know, we're coping okay. You know, funny thing, you know, just as I was thinking that and I'd shared some of this stuff with Steve, you know, in Friday during the snowstorm the office depot delivery man. He's calling hauling all this paper in, you know. And the guy doesn't run right out. You know how those guys they haul it in, you know, they're off they go before you even say thanks for the paper, you know. This guy looks up and he sees a picture of our facility and he says, Oh, what's that? You know, and I talked, well, this is kind of strange. So I asked him if he went to church and, you know, no he doesn't. And does he have have any spiritual interest. And he says, well yeah I kind of do. Oh really? I mean you know right there he's saying oh boy we got one here Lord uh you know so uh I said, really, how come that? He says, Well, you know, I says, My wife's trying to get me in this stuff. I said, Really? Did your wife become a Christian? Yeah, yeah, I guess you could say that. Well that's that's really great. You know, what kind of things You ask it now. What can how can I help you? And so we wound up and talked just for a couple minutes. And I gave him a booklet, Are You a Christian? Put my name and my phone number on it and said, uh you know, take a look through this. And I think I'll help you out and give me a call back. And he said, Yeah, you know, he thought he did really seem very interested. And it was just encouraging to me again to see that as we take Opportunities to just in somewhat ever free way that we can to talk to people. There are people that God is working in who are interested. There are people that God is preparing, that He's working Through, because of whatever's happening in their life, good or bad, is drawing them to an interest in spiritual things, and you and I are simply available. as the Lord uses us in those opportunities. Whether it's in our world, the people that we rub shoulders with, or as we look larger in the next month to God's whole world and see our Participation in that also. Interesting to me as I read uh Dan Iverson's newsletters and prayer letters as we talk about as we read about what's going on in Japan, he talks about People tracking them going on toward faith. You know, as if everybody he sees is at some point on their way to faith. You know, and if we begin to see people like Well maybe this person's down where they really don't have much interest. But that's where they are in the step of where God's working. Here's someone else, and they're at another step. And so you look at people and you're like, And I look in my life and we say, where there are they in terms of where the Holy Spirit is tracking to produce in them faith in Jesus Christ and then simply be available. Take them from that step on to the next step. Why? Because we love Him. I love you, Lord. You've heard my voice. You've heard my cry for mercy. When I was in Sin, you delivered me from bondage. In this situation, you heard me. And so, because you've turned your ear to me, I will call on you as long as I live. And I will proclaim your Faithfulness in the presence not only of your people, but of all people. Let's pray now and think of two or three people you have a bird Let's bring them before the Lord right now and asking God to use us in the freeness of our own love for Jesus to be available to Him in their lives. For some of us, this is not easy because we think they get right down to it. I don't feel like I want to share very much. And so, Holy Spirit, we pray that you would reveal the coldness of the heart of that person. It may be that they've never come to know the freedom from the Bondage that Jesus gives as they lay hold of him and take the cup of salvation freely offer. And pray if that's the case for anyone here this morning, Lord, that you would give to that person. Eyes to see the sufficiency and the necessity of Jesus for taking away their sin, for giving them release, joy. Freedom and new life. Lord, if it's a matter of a coldness that's crept in because of sin, disobedience. A cynicism, a lack of faith, a lack of confidence, a boredom because of simply not seeing you work. We pray that you would work by your spirit. To jar any in that situation. See, that's not what you intend for them. You intend for them to increase in their affections as they respond to your afflictions and that they would see your work in their lives. And so Lord, we pray that you would speak to us, that we would reflect repent of our unbelief, and that if we're keeping things private, that we would determine to join with others to pray and not let you go until you bless. Lord, for some of us as we think of that and we do love you and we've seen your work, and yet we're still reluctant. We're stuck. And sharing that with others. We pray, Lord, that you would put on our hearts those two or three people now, that you would make us available by your spirit. Spirit to speak in their lives. And that we would be aware that, like this fellow on Friday that came into the office, you are working in people. That you bring across across our path. Lord, uh, I'm sad when I think of how many I may miss because I'm not open to getting involved in their lives. probing, discovering what's happening. And so Lord, we pray that for each of us you will do that. We'll make it simply available this week. To see what you will do as we proclaim your goodness to all people. Lord, use this next month to expand our vision in that. That we would declare your glory among all nations, for you are so great and so worthy.