Daniel Chapter Two Speaking Truth to a Secular Culture. I'm amazed as we go around and talk to people about Christ and ask the questions, if you were to die today and stand before God, and he were to say to you, Why should I let you into my heaven? what would you say? Most people say, hey, I think I'm trying to get I'm doing pretty well or I'll get there by being good enough. We in the church. It's amazing. Gallup says twenty five percent of the country says they're born again Christians. And yet so few people understand about grace. What's so do you think about it? And you look around our culture and it seems that we as Christians are having so little impact is that. And yet that's not what we see in the Bible. is often the case. And Daniel, I think, is a good example for us of how to speak truth and make an impact on a secular culture. It was a pagan culture, we have a secular culture, some real similarities. Daniel and As friends, they tell us a lot about how we should speak it, how to make an impact, as well as what we should say as we speak to that culture. They were prisoners after the fall of Jerusalem and of uh uh Israel and Judah, they were taken to Babylon and the s the few of them there, Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, Daniel and the others, you might say, Oh, they'll never have an impact on Babylon There's so few of 'em and yet we read that these guys really did have an impact. Daniel, uh King Nebuchadnezzar had a dream, and Daniel was the one that uh came and interpreted the dream, but none of uh Nebuchadnezzar's wise guys could interpret it. And so uh Daniel did, and look at the impact that he had. Let's read the impact. End of the story first, verse 46, after Daniel interprets the dream, Daniel chapter 2, then King Nebuchadnezzar fell prostrate before Daniel and paid him honor and ordered that an offering of incense be presented. To him, this king Nebuchadnezzar, falling prostrate before Daniel, the captive from Israel. 47. The king said to Daniel, Surely your God is the God of God, and the Lord of kings. And a revealer of mysteries. For you were able to reveal this mystery. Then the king placed Daniel in a high position and lavished many gifts on him. He made him ruler over the entire province of Babylon and placed the body. in charge of all his wise men. Moreover, at Daniel's request the king appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego administrators over the province of Babylon, while Daniel himself remained at the royal court. Let's pray. look at this portion of your word, we do pray that you will use us use it to help us speak. Our very secular culture. Lord, our culture is hurting. There's so much evil. There's so much untruth. that is propounded as truth. We pray, Lord, that you will help us to know how to say it as well as to know what to say. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm not gonna do the way we usually do in our systematic CPC sermons, and I feel like I'm taking my life in my hands, but we're gonna instead of going systematically like we usually do, even though your outline is systematic, we're gonna go chronologically. Uh so we're gonna read through the text Chapter 2, different parts. And you can fit in as we come to the different points, the source of truth, point one. We'll see that a lot of different places as we read through the text. The God is the source of truth, the God who speaks. And we know we have that in his word and scripture. And point two, the messenger. of truth. We'll be seeing all through the text how Daniel was a godly man. And we learn things from him about how to be a messenger of that truth. And then lastly the message of truth, what it is that we do speak to our culture. Start at verse five of chapter two. The king replied to the astrologers, This is what I have firmly decided. If you do not tell me what my dream was and interpret it, I will have you cut into pieces, and your house. turned into piles of rubble. But if you do tell me the dream and explain it, you will receive from me gifts and rewards and great honor. So tell me the dream and interpret it for me. Now that's a carrot and stick motivation with me. You know, in our country we say to a prisoner, You're gonna make little ones out of big or yeah, little ones out of big ones with a hammer. Uh in Babylon they told the soldiers you're gonna make little ones out of big ones. Is a uh you look at that uh I thought that was In Babylon, the king had that kind of authority to do something like that. Imagine that. To cut them in pieces and then to uh to make their houses rubble. So read on. Verse seven. Once more they replied, Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will interpret it. Then the king see they wanted to know the dream, not just interpret it. And the king answered, I am certain that you are trying to gain time. Because you realize that this is what I have firmly decided. If you do not tell me the dream, there is just one penalty for you. You have conspired to tell me misleading and wicked things, hoping the situation will change. So then tell me the dream and I will know that you can interpret it for me. Nebuchadnezzar, he wasn't a done he knew that these guys might get together and come up with some interpretation, so he said, You tell me the dream. And you see, uh, these fellows, look at the way they answer him now. The astrologer astrologers These are the wise guys. The astrologers answered the king. There is not a man on earth who can do what the king asks. No king, however great and mighty, has ever asked such a thing as any magician or enchanter or astrologer. What the king asks is too difficult. No one can reveal it to the king except the gods. And they do not love among men. They have a little bit of insight there, don't they? That no one can reveal except the gods. They're a little off, but they little true there. Verse 12. This made the king so anxious. angry and furious, but he ordered the execution of all the wise men of Babylon. So the decree was issued to put the wise men to death, and men were sent to look for Daniel and his friends to put them to death. They were included in what happened there. Now we look down and we see Arich, verse 13, and we look in this section we'll see about Daniel and how Daniel responds to this situation. Then Arieth, when Arich, the commander of the king's guard, had gone out to put to death Wise men of Babylon, Daniel spoke to him with wisdom and tact. He asked the king's officer, Why did the king issue such a harsh decree? Ariot then explained the matter to Daniel. At this Daniel went into the king and ask for time so that he might interpret the dream for him. Two things about Daniel here really impress me. You know, Ari uh he didn't go into Arick half cocked. I got all the answers. He goes and notice it says NIV that he went with wisdom and tact. Our New American standard tells us that he goes in with discretion and discernment. He went in with that kind of sensitivity to talk to To Arias. And yet Daniel wasn't a whimp. He was tough. Because look what he did right after that. We see boldness in verse 16. He goes right in to the king, the same king that says he's going to cut everybody up in little pieces. He goes into that king and he says Okay, hey, give me a chance to interpret the dream. And that's not just an isolated thing. We see Daniel through his whole life that kind of boldness, bold enough when he could be made Purina Cat Chow for big cat later on. He goes ahead and he prays to God. in front of everybody because he was a bold man. He was sensitive, but he was bold. You know, it seems that we don't have often that kind of balance. It seems that it's easy for some people to be bold but to become so brash in their Would it be so sensitive that it even becomes secret? Some of you high school kids, I know, you're so sensitive that you are a secret agent for the truth in your high school life. Maybe some of us adults are like that also. So undercover agents for the truth. But we see that I think there's a real danger to be brash also with the truth. We have the truth. We have God's revelation. And we'll knock anybody over that wants to we'll knock people over with it. It's like a a bull in a the China shop with the troops as we go around slashing people. Um, you know, it's our little E motto or maybe adopting, Have gospel, will travel. You know, after the and that old uh show, Have Gun, Will Travel, I like that guy. He was better than guys on Miami Vice had a better world than life view also, I think. But uh have done we'll travel and that's the way we are with the truth, aren't we? Half truth, we'll travel. You know, blowing people away with the truth and not being sensitive like Daniel was. You know, on the back of your outline illustration, Jan helped me give a good illustration of that. You see those telescopes? How we're supposed to look through God's truth? So to critique World Jan had those turned around. But are you there you are. She must be civil war, you know cannons. They look like cannons, ready to blow away the world with a truth. So we got 'em turned back around the right way. Uh, back to the other side. We'll get to that part in a minute. But the point is, we need to be sensitive with the truth and careful. 2 Timothy 2. 15, be diligent to show yourselves, approve them to God. Work on you need not to be ashamed. Accurately handling the word of truth, or N-I-V, correctly handling the word. the word of truth. We need to correctly handle the truth that God has given us if we seek to influence our culture. Hebrews 4. 12, the word of God is living, active, sharpen than any two-edged sword, piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow. able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And we take that bird, which is a sword and it's sharp, but some people, you know, finally swinging the sword and just cutting people up when it's more like a surgeon uses a scaffold carefully to cut where it needs to be cut. Okay. That's the way. We want to use the truth. I have a sad thing to report. A family came to our church one time and hasn't come back. They heard people talking about contemporary issues from a biblical perspective. But it sort of heard two different people doing that on the same issue. And uh and the people were speaking biblically, but it it turned them off and they left. We need to be careful with the truth and sensitive as we do that. We want to be bold. Something related to Daniel's sensitivity, I think, is how well he got along. With people, as he boldly told the truth. He was respected, maybe because he showed respect. You read through Daniel, you see, these guys talk respectfully to these pagan kings. They had the ability to somehow uh sit in that culture. And you know what we're talking. about as being salt and life, somehow to be in the world and yet not of the world. And it seems that people err on either side. Uh it's easy to wear as a badge of honor if we're ostracized from our culture. Whereas we see that Daniel rose the top under four different administrations. And three of them were completely different kingdoms that came in and took over. And Daniel, he was somehow able to do that, to be in the world, to affect it, and yet not be of the world. We need to learn how to do that. We it should not be a badge of honor if we get ostracized unless of course it's for principle. But sometimes it's just the way we come across. Uh I knew a guy in the in the Marines, second lieutenant, Christian, proud of it, looking for fights all the time. So to take on somebody on some little issue that didn't really matter. And his impact, his first two years in the Marines, was very little. I knew him very well, it was me. And I am very good at beating people on the head with my Bible. And I really think it was later on in the money's uh learned that uh we need to accurately handle the truth and we need to do it boldly and yet Daniel's a real good example for us. I got a lot to learn about that. But uh I said maybe the way To uh influence a friend is not to say, don't smoke in my house. Maybe a better way would be to get him an ashtray and to get to know him. I'm not sure that's right, but that's that kind of thing is something to think about, how we can influence our culture. Another thing about Daniel, looking verse 17 Daniel returned to his house and he explained the matter to his friends, Hananiah, Ishael, and Azariah. He urged them to plead for mercy from the God of heaven. Concerning this mystery, so that he and his friends might not be executed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. So Daniel wasn't in isolation, he wasn't an autonomous Christian. He went to find his friends. And these guys, that's their Babylonian names. That's Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These guys really hung together. That thing got kind of hot for him a little later as they hung together. But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, Daniel goes to them and he asks them to pray with him. And I don't mean counting a privilege to be in a fellowship of people like State B city. I'm gonna miss this place when we leave and go to Japan. But to be in a group where we can go to each other with our concerns, we can help each other to critique our culture. We don't do it independently and autonomously. We do it together. as we share and discuss. If you you know if you come out somewhere by yourself in a fellowship like this, you might ask, maybe I'm wrong and need to go back and look again with the combined wisdom of others as we look at the scripture. Excuse me. So verse 18 that I just read, if Daniel asked them to pray, it shows that he was a dependent messenger. He didn't say that he could do it himself. He wanted to pray to God and in prayer, the best way that we show our dependence to the Lord. Also, verse Verse 19, we see that the Lord, I'll read it. Verse 19, during the night the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision, and Daniel praised the God of heaven. First time we see, at this point, we're on the outline, we see the source of revelation. Revelation that God, the God of heaven, spoke to Daniel. And he revealed to him what he needed to know. Verses 20 to 23, we're gonna read later. I'll read it real quickly. We're gonna use it as a praise to the Lord. But look what Daniel says after The Lord reveals to him. Praise be to the name of God for ever and ever. Wisdom and power are his. Notice wisdom and power. I use this in the cult to worship. Twenty one. He changes times and seasons. He sets up teams and deposes them. He gives Wisdom to the wise and knowledge for the discerning. He reveals deep and hidden things. He knows what lies in darkness and light, and light dwells with him. I thank and praise you, O God of my fathers. You have given me wisdom. You have made known to me what we ask of you. You have made known to us. He includes his friends now. Well we see here how Daniel is a proud of the truth. He knows that it came from God, that God was the one that revealed it to him. And he gives praise to God, a beautiful prayer of praise, and lifts it up to the Lord. The glory to God. How we with the revelation that God has given us we need to give praise to him for it. In verse twenty four. And Daniel went to Ariak whom the king had appointed to execute the wise men of Babylon, and said to him, Do not execute the wise men of Babylon, take me to the king, and I will interpret his dream for him. Arius took Daniel to the king at once and said, I notice that, I have found man among the exiles from Judah who can tell the king what his dream means. Notice the last time Daniel went in, Eric didn't go in with him. At least the text does it say that he let Daniel going he don't want to be set up in the little pieces. But this time he says, King, I found somebody in verse 26. The king asked Daniel, also called Belshazzar, Are you able to tell me what I saw in my dream and interpret it? Daniel replied, No wise man, enchanter, magician, or diviner can explain to the king. The mystery he has asked about. But there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries. But there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries. He has shown King Nebuchadnezzar what will happen in days to come. Your dream and the Visions that passed through your mind as you lay on your bed at ease. As you were lying there, O King, your mind turned to things to come. And the revealer of mysteries showed you what was going to happen. As for me, this mystery has been revealed to me not because I have greater wisdom than other living men, but so that you, O King, may know the interpretation and that you may understand what went through your mind. Notice Daniel two times here says, It's not me, King, it's not me. And he over and over again says the source of the revelation is God, that God has spoken. Dear friends, how we need a God who speaks, one who has spoken authoritatively in order for us to critique our culture. We have need of revelation as we view the world. Look at the diagrams after through the telescopes, not the cannons, on the back. Our world and life view, we hear that a lot. And here's kind of it's a little simple, but it's a way I think to help us see. How do we view our world? How do we view truth, ethics, knowledge of God? The secular humanist would be the first one there. He looks at the world through the eyes of nature and reason. He says, hey, I don't need any outside Revelation. I don't need a God who speaks. I can figure it all out myself. My reason and nature will work just fine for me. See the problem with that though, a couple problems. When we say total depravity, we mean that the fall of Man has not just gone to our bodies and our morals, it's gone to all of our life, including our minds. Sometimes I feel like mine's a little more fallen. What is it? But our minds are fallen too. We can't see the world as we ought because our minds are fallen. Like Calvin said, so the person who is looking at the world to critique it without scripture is like the leary eyed old man who sees the book of nature of the world, but he can't read it. He knows there's something There, but he can't read it. He needs the spectacles of scripture to look at it, and then it begins to make sense. It puts things in its proper perspective. It gives uh insight into how the world really is. Or another illustration I found in you was this, you know, people dis truth about life, even if they don't read the Bible and believe it. But it's kinda like walking in a lightning storm at night in pitch black dark and there are flashes of lightning and you see bits and pieces of things. And you know, bits and pieces of truth. But you need the light of God's revelation. My word is a lamp under my feet and light under my path, Psalm one nineteen, to really see the world. Man also has an egocentric predicament. All of us bring our presupposition to our view of the world. And so we're looking at the world from the the net effect of our life and who we are. And we need somehow to get out of our egocentric predicament to look at the world. And that's what scripture does for us. We're able to look through God's perspective at life, at truth, and not just from our own minds and our own human reason. Couple illustrations in our society right now. Three of them. Twenty years ago sex education became other others peop people began to really push sex education with no morals. They said, Oh, this will be great, this will Solve all these problems in our society. A lot of Christians looking through the eyes of Scripture says sex education without morals, we're headed for trouble. Like Frankie Schaefer said. All roads from secular human humanism lead to chaos. And isn't that what we've seen in this regard? What has happened twenty years later now? There have been twenty-one million cases of herpes in our country. Uh fifteen plus fifteen million plus abortions. Yeah, the guys that were pushing this stuff twenty years ago, I'm surprised they can look in the mirror at themselves in light of the grief and havoc that has come about. in people's lives. Not that things wouldn't have been bad without it, but we've certainly departed from our prior positions and our morality and we see the effect it's had on our country. Uh I'm amazed over and over as people tell me of Christians now, uh the last five or six six years that miss a good number of people and said, I wish I followed God God's laws about sex before I was married because of the grief and how the other things, emotional things. It really works better to look at the world, to find our ethics through the eyes of God's truth. It really does. For you young people, it really does. Follow what God says in his word. For another example, homosexuality. Again, through the eyes of nature and reason, people said, this is fine, it's no problem. To me though, this is clearly an example of how blinded people are. As I look at nature and reason I would say, I don't even need the Bible to teach me that homosexually is wrong. It's just, you know, I tell it this isn't right. But people say, Oh, it is, it's okay. even though scripture says it's not. How blinded people are even natural revelations, aren't they? Without the Spirit and without God's special revelation which is scripture. And their ego centric predicament, they say it's okay and now there are fifteen thousand dead from AIDS approximately. Uh multiplying geometrically in our society, now touching even people that are not homosexual and as some say it could make the bubonic flag look like a picnic. It's sad. we see the results of not looking at the world through God's eyes. Or how about pornography? Christians said from the beginning, it's wrong. Looking through the eyes of Scripture, clearly wrong. And there are interesting things. Doing, like Frankie Schaber said, all roads from secular humanism lead to chaos. And what kind of chaos do we have now? Even the National Organization for Women has aligned itself with evangelical Christians to fight pornography. believe that. Why? Because they've seen the conclusion of human reason that pornography is okay. That women get raped. And that there are more sex crimes as a result. The evidence seems to be pretty clear that even they on our Now that's interesting. It shows we need God's revelation. We shouldn't be afraid to say the Bible says. And to persuade people that this really does work. It really is true. And we see countless other examples with Then if God's way really works, when all else fails, consult instructions of Maker. As a lady wrote in the Columbia Flyer a few weeks ago, it really is true. The revelation that God gives us is trustworthy. Commands are not burdensome. You young people, as you stress struggle with sex and other things that you know you tempted to do beyond what the Bible says, remember Jesus said like or without Jesus commands, his commands are not burdensome. And in that truth. For an individual to follow his commands is better. For a society to follow his commands is better. Hard sometimes, but better. It really is. Notice what Daniel says in the End of verse forty five, right before verse forty six, the last line. The dream is true and the interpretation is trustworthy. And that's what we can say about the book, like our priest wrote a few weeks ago. And we can say it unashamedly, as thinking people. God has spoken. He is there and he is not silent. We can go to his word to find truth and know like Daniel. It is trustworthy, as Al preached a few weeks ago. We can count on it. Some Christians are like number two. um more separate Christians look only through scripture at the world, and that's certainly better than number one. But I would think, you know, no creed but Christ, no book but the Bible, don't look at anything else. But I think we need to be like number three. And I would call that thinking Christianly about our world. Look first through the eyes of Scripture. God's special infallible revelation. And then through the eyes of nature. Letting Scripture precedent nature and reason. We have a lot of sciences here. That's great. And we want to learn from natural revelation, but we let Scripture be our infallible critiquer of all that we think we're learning from nature and revelation. Now how are we going to be able to do this? We must saturate. ourselves in God's divine revelation. We've got to know the book. We need to be looking at it. You you know, all of us, we need to be reading through the Bible, taking time to learn from it. You know, as in my quiet time that I fell in love with Daniel recently and got excited about about I've been thinking about how can we better be soft in our secular society. And read through Daniel in my personal devotions. I'll have six sermons, I won't let me preach them then. But I it's exciting to see to read the Bible and to let it mold our thinking. To get out of our egocentric predicament and try to look at the world from God's perspective through the eyes of Scripture. We need to saturate ourselves in what God says. What about our kids? Aren't they being influenced greatly? To look at the world only through natural revelation and through reason and we see the chaos that it's bringing in our society. We need to balance that with teaching our kids, family devotions, talking about God's word all the time. like Deuteronomy six tells us that boy they have strong influences on us. We need to bring God's truth into every area of our lives. If you're a scientist, a teacher, you kids in high school, junior high, we need to work and think how can we apply God's truth in the area of life where I am. You know, as you kids watch Miami Vice, Ann Record tells me that's a popular show. I've watched it once, okay? I didn't think it was too good. But uh as you watch TV programs to critique it From scripture. What kind of things are there that they have some truth to them? What kind of things aren't? As you and your business wrestle with ethics, uh you seek as a teacher how to influence that society. So think about the world Christianly. We need to read. We need to I hope you you know high school and college, when you read things, that you critique what you read scripturally and try to speak Christianly, yet sensitively, like Daniel did to our world. Well that's a challenge isn't listen to this quote From John Scott. He says, We shall continue to feel our personal inadequacy at doing this, speaking Christianly and impacting our society. Yet we should determine by his grace to infiltrate some secular segment of our society and raise his His flag there, maintaining without compromise his standards of love, truth and goodness. Politics? Parenting in the neighborhoods, you know, pray we have some kids from our church, growless, be politicians someday. And raise the flag. of Jesus Christ and to look at politics from uh through the scriptural context. You know, Christians from number two haven't done that generally. But if we think Christianly about our society, we look at all of life. How can we take God's revelation and apply it to where you are most of your week, in a home, with a neighborhood, raising kids, whatever, to think Christianly. It's hard to do. Harry Blameyers, quotes too good to pass up. Hence the modern Christian, a schizophrenic type, who hops in and out of his Christian mentality. mentality as the topic of conversation changes from the Bible to the day's newspaper, where the field of action changes from Christian stewardship to commercial advertising, where the enrollment changes from the vestry to the office. Where Christian is in one setting, we don't think Christianly in another setting. Thus the Christian who joins in the secular meeting may very well say to himself, It's no good talking about the kingdom of heaven or eternal salvation to these chaps today, obviously a Britisher. It's very vital to the work in question. Indeed for me, privately speaking, it's crucial. But for these people it's meaningless. There's a common job to do that is worth doing. So I'll forget about that kind of thing for the time being. Now this kind of thinking is not perhaps excusable, but it's certainly understandable. It results in Christian silence. The particular discussion and action go forward in the absence of specifically Christian thinking, with no infusion from the Christian mind. But note, no one imagines or one pretends that Christian thinking has contributed at the conscious level to the total venture. We need to think Christianly and to impact our society with what God says in His Word. It's hard to do this. We ought to maybe take Sunday school hours sometime and break up all our groups of whatever we do and think how we can raise the flag of Jesus Christ. in our particular area of business or school or whatever we're in. What are we supposed to address? What is the message to our contemporary society? We certainly need to address the felt needs of the society. Daniel addressed the felt need to King Nebuchadnezzar and he told about the four kingdoms that were gonna come up. You can read the rest of Daniel thirty one through forty four. It tells about that on your own. It tells about the four kingdoms of the Medes, the Persians, the Greeks, the Romans and how they would grow up and overturn him. And that's important. And we need to think. Felt needs and how can we speak to contemporary issues? We're going to have a Sunday school class on that. The next the third last week is going to talk about contemporary issues. But the bottom line of what we need to speak to our culture comes in verse 1. 44. At the end of all this interpretation about the other kingdoms, then Daniel says, And in the time of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed, nor will it be left out. to another people, it will crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end. But it will in itself endure forever. What kingdom is this? It's the kingdom of Jesus Christ. And all the things we tell people about ethics and everything else, we need to tell them about this kingdom. There there is going to be a kingdom which will come. It won't be like the Medes and the Persians and the Babylonians and all these that are listed in the verses earlier. There's a kingdom that's going to endure. And the people will have to stand before that king and give him a task someday. And we can tell them the good news that Jesus Christ is Sylvia Hamina told about. Now even we're guilty before him and we deserve his wrath. Now that King is a merciful King and a loving King and he sent he sent Jesus to die in our place, to take the punishment we deserve, that we might have life. That really is the starting place. For what we need to tell people. Yes, we should influence other areas. And we want to do that. Even if they don't become Christians, it's better if they're moral. Calvin called it civil righteousness. That would be good for our society. That's not lasting. We want to see people bow before the king of Christ. things, don't we? There's a kingdom that will last forever. May God help us to influence our culture. To think about, let's think about this sermon. And go on, how can I influence my little spear to the kingdom of Jesus? Christ. Let's pray. Lord, do help us to do this. We're not adequate to the task. Like Daniel, we say, Oh, it's not us, it's wise. We need your wisdom, Lord. Help us to turn to your word, to saturate ourselves in it as a concept. congregation, privately, publicly, in our families, that our kids would think Christianly. Lord guard them from the influences of the world that try to make them think unchristianly about their society. Inch by inch they drift away from it. Thinking in a Christian way. Help us, Lord, we need your help. In Jesus' name, Amen.