We are now back to Ephesians, and uh we actually can begin to glimpse the finish line at the end of Ephesians. There is life after Ephesians, and uh as I begin let me tell you something about your elders. When I uh took the we you know hadn't been in this since last fall and when I was planning that I would uh resume this after Easter I had in mind that we planned an offering, a special offering for our early debt retirement to be able to reduce the interest, pay off all the bonds for this facility. and be able to start the new facility, uh an offering taken the first Sunday of each May that started with a challenge that Max Bilke brought a couple of years ago where he stood up in a congregational meeting and he said, I'm looking for two hundred and ninety-nine people to join with me and giving an extra hundred dollars. That'll be thirty thousand dollars toward retiring the debt on this place. And I suggest We do that in an offering and we took off, and since the Lord took Max in September the eleventh on the attack on the Pentagon, the trustees have named that now the Max Bilke offering. Uh and so I thought that uh since we're coming up on that for our third year that it would make sense for me to preach on giving. And I had in mind a message from 1 Corinthians 9 on biblical motives for giving. I mentioned that a couple months ago to the elders, and uh they all said, nah, don't preach on giving, just get back to Ephesians. We'll just trust God for the offering. You don't need to do that. And I thought, wow, what a group of godly men that are saying, we'd rather hear from Ephesians on spiritual warfare Don't need you to kind of raise the funds for it and just have the freedom to get back and start write in on Ephesians. Driving home that night, the thought did occur to me that maybe what they were really saying was, for crying out loud, will you just finish Ephesians? Now I know that as we get back to this that uh some of you are ambivalent. Uh I hear from some people that um Boy, I'm so glad we're getting back into Ephesians and studying spiritual warfare and those principles. I'm eager to learn that. Great. And there's others of you that are saying, Oh no, we're back to the spiritual warfare thing. Boy, I remember what the fall was like and um sort of ducking to see what's going to happen. Now let me warn us, on the one hand, of superstition. You know, if I preach on spiritual warfare, something bad's going to happen. So look out. And we could be superstitious about that. On the other hand, there is a certain realism to that, isn't there? This is not theoretical material. We're not just talking about um ideas that don't bear on reality. Um spiritual warfare is real and therefore when we expose the tactics of the devil and the demons We can expect that they will respond with a particular fury and uh attack more viciously as possibility of that. Maybe I could ease your mind by saying that last fall we focused on the enemy and the spring we're going to be focusing on the armor to protect us against the enemy. Hopefully that will be an encouragement and hopefully very practical for you. Let me make one suggestion as we get into this series and this material, and that is that you consider Memorizing Ephesians chapter six, verses ten to eighteen and twenty, go on through. Um, I think you will definitely get more out of it if you do that. You might want to do that as a family so that you can recite it together, moms and dads and kids It will help you to see how the parts fit together and it'll make the messages, I think, more helpful to you. So just consider that. And if you, you know, get really rolling on this and you finish that thing, you might go back to the beginning of Ephesians and just kind of memorize the whole book before I finish, you know. But uh at least uh this section I think you will find that helpful if you do that. Now, before we get into the particular material of Ephesians 10, 6, 10 to 18 I feel like it's important because some of you have perhaps come to CPC since we were in Ephesians and don't know anything about it. And some of you may forget what it is all about again, to put that section in its context and to help us to once again see the overview of the book of Ephesians. Do you remember that there are two ways you can divide the book of Ephesians, and you need to do both of them. You need to understand the both to make sense of the book. And those two ways of dividing it are really two pictures. The first picture of the structure of the book of Ephesians is to think of Ephesians like a scale. And that comes from the critical verse, chapter 4, verse 1, where Paul says, As a prisoner for the Lord then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. Now literally what he's saying is, prisoner of the Lord, then, I urge you to live. And the word worthy there, you remember, is a word which really means, literally means to bring a scale into equilibrium. So that if you think of me as a scale, and on this side we have a 10-pound weight, I'm not in equilibrium. Alright? I'm disequilibrialized or something. And so then as you look at this you pour sugar on this side until you got ten pounds of sugar there and what happens? The scale is, the Greek word is axios, the scale is now in equilibrium. That's the word that Paul uses in Ephesians 4, verse 1. I pray, he says that you will walk in equilibrium with your calling. So what he's saying is I've taken three chapters to tell you who you are and what you have in Christ. Your new life and the gospel. It's all statements of fact. No commands. It's all simply this is who you are, here's what he's done, all these kinds of things. Now he's saying, I want you in the next four, the next three chapters, chapter four to six, I want you now to live that out in your daily experience. So chapters four, five, and six is mostly commands. Here's how to live. But if you look at those commands, every single command is based on some statement of your new identity back in chapters 1, 2, and 3. Check it out. So, for instance, he says, you have been delivered from the bondage of sin. Therefore, stop sinning. You have been adopted as God's own children, chapter 1. Therefore, stop living as an orphan, stop, start living as his child, chapters 4 to 6. You have been forgiven fully, freely, chapter 1. Therefore, chapter 4, don't be bitter against someone who has hurt you, but be kind, able to forgive them. You are living out of the gospel. That's what we mean by that. So that the message of Ephesians, you look at that little scale in your outline, you see there's two lines there. You could write a word above it and a word below it. right on that line, chapters one to three are the facts of the Christian life. That's what chapter one to three is all about. Just the facts Of who you are and what you have in Christ. Chapter 4, 5, and 6 are the commands of the Christian life. How to live it. So chapters 1 to 3 is who you are, A-R-E, put that word down there, and chapter 4, 5, and 6 is what you are to be. So the message of Ephesians could be summed up by simply saying, be what you are already in Christ. Now that's what Ephesians is about. And you need to understand then that this is the foundation for the second picture, the four postures of Ephesians. And you remember those, you know, you see them on top of every outline, can't forget them, sit, kneel, walk, stand. That's A way of summing up the Christian life. The sit and eel are in chapters 1 to 3. The walk stand are in chapters 4 to 6. So, what Paul is saying is in order to understand the gospel, you understand that you are spiritually dead and bankrupt. If you try to work for God's acceptance, his approval, his forgiveness, you'll keep working until you're dead. You will become a perfectionist and you'll never achieve it. The only way to find peace is to sit in Christ. Chapter 1, verse 19, he says, when Christ finished his work, God raised him from the dead and seated him in the heavenly realm. beside the authority and power. So Christ is seated. Now chapter 2, he says, you're dead. God has graciously made you alive by his mercy. Chapter 2 verse 6, he has seated you with Christ in the heavenly realms. There is nothing you do to earn that, to gain that, you simply receive it from God as a gift by recognizing and admitting your need. And so the Christian life is learning. Christian life is not simply, the gospel isn't simply a door into the Christian life. It's a path along which we walk the Christian life. So we learn how to sit and relax and rest in the finished work of Christ. Because we don't do that naturally, he goes on to the second thing, first sitting is chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. 13, then 3. 14, Paul says, So I kneel before the Father. on whom heaven and earth derives its name, the Father, in order that I might pray, what? Well learn and discover two things The extent of his love and the extent of his power for me. So you get up in the morning, you remember, you're laying there in bed, and you say, I am resting in the finished work of Christ this day. Thank you, Lord. Get out of bed, kneel. Lord, help me this day to understand more of your love and of your power, which is available to me. Give me the experiences. Give me the discernment. Help me to understand that and to grow in that. Now he says it's not all just contemplation. We're not monks. And so he says, get up, start walking. You don't fly, you don't leap, you walk, step by step, chapter four and five, up to six, nine. You walk step by step, obeying specific commands. Living in a body, stop sinning, specific ways, putting off the old life, new old patterns of thought. Remember the old dirty, filthy t-shirt, still have it. I thought I'd spare you. Putting on the new brand new life, the new life in Christ, you know, the new way of thinking and acting and behaving. And as you do that, he talks about the specific ways Seven different ways talks about then culminating that by being filled with the Spirit rather than artificial stimulation. Three relationships. Husband and wife, parent, child, employer, employee, all these relationships, he says, as you do that, as you're learning how to live out of the gospel in these new ways, you're going to meet opposition And so you don't just say, okay, well that's great, got I put all this stuff together, now I know how to do it. Why is it then that I kind of take step or two ahead and step or two back and seem like I'm never making any substantial, unhindered progress. Because he says you've got an enemy who's opposing you. So the fourth final posture of the Christian life is to stand. He says in chapter 6, verse 10, stand. He says actually in verse 11, stand. Verse 10 is be strong in the Lord. And he says, four times then, verse 11 to 14, stand, stand, stand, stand. Stand against the evil one and all the demons who are committed 100% to destroy you. to discourage you, to get you off track. And that's the section that we're looking at now. It's interesting, as I have thought about this since last fall, how I have become aware, and I'm sure you have too, the whole matter of warfare, and how I think That if Paul were writing in the 21st century rather than the first century, the illustration of spiritual warfare he would give would be terrorism rather than traditional warfare. I believe that terrorism, the kind of terrorism that we're reading about every day in the paper, seeing on the TV, hearing on the radio. Has many parallels that give you understanding and me understanding of spiritual warfare. For instance In terrorism, you do not have a visible enemy. Traditional warfare, people wear uniforms, you know who they are, there's the guys, there's the enemy, you can identify them. You can't do that in terrorism. They are invisible. They look just like everybody else until they let loose the explosives or whatever the deadly strategy was. Um there are no front lines in terrorism. Um people all just mix together and you don't know who the enemy is until he unleashes it And so there is uh the attack can be anywhere, it can be everywhere. It's the same way with spiritual warfare. You don't see the demons You don't know, uh you don't have the um any s sense of their presence until you feel the attack And that's simply how you know that they're there. In um traditional warfare, often there was a a lack of hatred. Um one of the problems that uh the military leaders in the Civil War and First World War had was the two sides fraternizing. You know, in the Civil War they were often related and so it'd be cousin Bill or Sam or something like this. And And they didn't really hate the other side in most cases. They they um they were related to them and so uh there would be often this getting together. Um World War One, one of the problems that the generals had was uh first Christmas uh crossed the lines. Uh the Germans, French, and the English were uh laying down her arms at Christmas and having a sign together, you know, and they'd say, well let's you know let's put it aside. We'll go back to fighting tomorrow, but you know, we we're fighting officially, but not personally. That's not true in terrorism In terrorism, the enemy hates you. He not only hates you, he hates everything you stand for. And he's out to destroy you. That's you see, that's significant in terrorism. That's that's much closer to spiritual warfare that we experience. The whole strategy of terrorism is deceit. It's to make you feel secure so that you are off guard, so that the attack will work. Exactly the same thing in spiritual warfare. The organization of terrorism is the same as spiritual warfare. You have all these minions of all those who are out to destroy in their territory their particular assignment. And that's under the control of the arch enemy who has the master plan for the destruction of the enemy. So on and on and on you can go. And so as you think about this and hear about the news Be thinking of the things that there are to learn from Ephesians 6 about spiritual warfare as terrorist tactics So Paul says, stand, be alert, be on guard, be like the stewardesses in the airplane when David Reed tried to ignite his shoes, and immediately when they smelled the sulfur, they were on it because they were alert. You see, that's the way we need to be spiritually. And so Paul says, stand. Now, how do you stand? Well, he says very clearly in verse 10, stand in Christ's strength Put on the gospel armor, each piece put on with prayer. Remember at the beginning there you dare not uh the the strength, uh he says you dare not, the armor flesh will fail you, you dare not trust your own. That's exactly what Paul is saying here in Ephesians chapter 6. Why is it that I so need his strength? We will be going over that, by the way, the next two weeks. I want to expand on that one verse, this idea of our weakness and his strength that we need in order uh to understand in order to be able to appreciate the armor and know how to put it on. Well, why is it? You know, what do you do? You stand. How do you stand? It's in his strength. Why do you have to stand in his strength? Because verse twelve tells you our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world. and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. It's because you are assaulted by superhuman demonic spirits When the Gadrene's man was uh who was demoniac uh was chained, he could break the chains. Demons are superhuman in their strength You cannot stand against them. I cannot stand against them. So remember back in the fall, we looked at a basic primer on Satan. And you see the basic points there. Don't have time to go over those. If you uh want to review it or haven't heard it and want to get the information, get the tapes uh that are in our library, can buy them or borrow them. But you remember we looked at Satan, saw that he's a real person, not imaginary. He's powerful Very powerful. But he is not nearly as powerful as God. It's not that Satan versus God, and you know it's good that the Bible tells us God's going to win, because you know, sometimes it looks like they're pretty equivalent. Satan is created, he's a creature. And God is infinitely above him in power, might, glory. So Satan comes, remember, we saw from the angels. Perhaps a third of the angels rebelled, not sure, some indication, but Revelation 12 talks about that original rebellion of angels who are now the demons, the fallen angels, who are malicious. Remember that the devil doesn't want to destroy you because he particularly hates you. He don't give a He doesn't give a fig about you. He simply wants to get to God. It's his vengeance to wreak on God, and you're made in his image and precious to God, and that's why he wants to destroy you. That's the only reason But he's malicious, and his particular strategy is to deceive. He wants to always get you to think he doesn't really matter to get spiritual realities out of focus Uh it's always this idea of getting us to distort our thinking. I was particularly aware of that this week with my wife's family to realize how many people have this notion that I'm going to heaven because of something I've conjured together to believe that has nothing to do with how I live or what the Bible says or who Jesus is and I'm perfectly content to live that way. That's defeat. And so that's his uh strategy. He also destroys. Remember we saw that that uh he can destroy us uh physically, emotionally, spiritually But never apart from God's overarching sovereign control. He is defeated. And that's the main thing. He's defeated. Christ defeated him at the cross and at the empty tomb. He's on a chain. He can still do do great damage. He can inflict uh wounds. He can lead astray. He can Inflict illness, but only under God's control and within his good purpose. The book of Job is the classic illustration of that kind of thing. We'll look at another illustration next week. And so we see that Satan is defeated, and as Christians, though he is a threat, we need never and ought never to be in terror of him. And so how do you have this power? Paul says you put on specific pieces of armor. Verse 10 and verse 13. Put on the full armor of God. And that's what we're going to be looking at over these next weeks. He says, put on that gospel armor, especially, verse 13, in the evil day, the day of evil. And so you and I need to learn how to put on that armor before that evil day comes, so that when that evil day comes then you at least understand some of the principles. You see here these flowers that are right below me and along the side here. Those are from Pete Floyd's dad's funeral And uh the Floyd's have been going through an evil day. That day is not necessarily just a twenty four hour period, but you know, and the Lyme's disease, the weakness that Patty's had and the lupus diagnosis and death of Pete Stad and just so many things, um that's that's the day of evil. And that's where they and we need this armor. We desperately need it. And so I'm praying that this series for this spring will be eminently practical for you and for me to understand. What the armor is and how I can put it on. The armor is made up of six pieces. Now, you might, those of you who have photographic memories, remember he said five pieces before. Uh I said there were five pieces, defensive and two offensive. Well I've changed my mind, okay? Fortunately I changed before I preached it Uh last fall I was thinking it was that way, but in my study since last fall I've now become convinced that there are six pieces of armor. Paul's not making a distinction particularly between the offensive and defensive What he's making, a distinction between the first three and the second three. You'll see there is a distinction. The first three are what you have, the second three are what you take. We'll talk about that later But the first three are the three B's that you put on, the belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, and the boots of the gospel. The second three that you take are the shield of faith, the salvation helmet, and the sword of the spirit. We'll look at each of those, what they are, and how to put them on, how to wear them, how to use them, to help us day by day in very practical ways. But we need to remember he is a defeated foe, and the armor is so that we may stand against him. It's time for us as Christians to stop living defensively. Living cynically, living as if the outcome is uncertain. And so I want to call us to faith I want to call us to rest in the finished work of the victory of Jesus Christ and learn how to go out on the offensive against the evil one, claim territory, and to be able to know his power and his strength available to us. I hope that will become more meaningful to you. Let me end this morning with five questions that I would like to suggest that you take for this week in a practical way to meditate on out of this material I've just shared. Five questions, take one a day, and then uh the one that means the most to you, take one or two more days. You may want to think about that. Here's the five questions I propose you consider. Number one Is my Christian life based on the gospel? That is, am I living out of the gospel? each day by faith. What do I mean by that living out of the gospel? What I mean is, for instance, what is the practical difference That the truths of Ephesians 1-3 make in the way that you think about yourself, or the way that you respond to the commands Of chapters 4, 5, and 6, for example, the command to not be bitter but kind and to forgive, how do you respond to that You see, living out of the gospel is to not think, well, I've just somehow got to forgive that person and just stop thinking about it. But it's to appropriate the gospel of your forgiveness, to be able to apply that. Or when you read chapter 5 and he talks about learning to do what is pleasing to the Lord so that you will know his unique distinctive. personal will for you, not disclosed in Scripture. How do you do that? You see, you you learn how to live out of the gospel and pleasing him You learn how to resist temptation, discouragement, deceit of the evil one. How do you apply the truths of chapters 1 to 3 in your daily living in chapter 4, 5, and 6? So here's what I'd suggest you do this week. Take 15, 20 minutes, that's all it will take to read chapters 4, 5, and 6. Notice an area there that you feel like this is an area that I am not living in harmony With these principles, this command, the way God wants me to live. Now, what is that based on in chapters one, two, and three? Trace it back, go back to one, two, and three. So that's tricky, sneaky, you gotta speed the whole book Well, you know, just whatever you need to read. Maybe maybe you'll only read three verses and you'll get caught up in that and then you'll just you know trace it back. I don't know. Go back and look at what you s what you see of the gospel resources in chapters one, two, and three, and apply that. To your identity. Take that. Apply that to that area in chapter 4, 5, and 6. And focus on that particular area this week in order to experience something of the power of Christ. Now that leads to the second thing. Am I consciously living the four postures? Again, think about, we talk about, you know, first thoughts as you wake up in the morning. Learning how to rest in the finished work of Christ. Learning how to pray. Kneeling. And let me suggest that you try kneeling this week and you're praying for at least part of the prayer time. I don't kneel my whole prayer time. Sometimes I'm kneeling and I get all stirred up. I get up and I start running around or something. But try some part of it kneeling to help you to focus To ask God to show you the love and the power of Christ available to you. And then think about the walking. That takes you back to the first point, you know, chapter four, five, and six, how it's related to chapters one, two, and three, what's a specific area, and apply it. And then the standing. uh that you would be aware of the evil one and is trying to deceive, to tempt, to discourage you Do you see, are you consciously standing against him in that? Which of those four postures is the one that you need to focus on? Because this is the one you say, this particular one is the weakest in my life. Lord, help me to grow in that particular posture and to focus on it for this week or month or whatever. Third question. Are you aware of your need of Christ's strength each day? Verse 10, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Are you aware of how pathetically weak you and I are? without Christ and our attempts to always deny our weakness, to never want to recognize it, to admit it And so what happens is we move along, we fail, perhaps in some dramatic way, and as a result we feel like we're failures, we're defeated, and we feel alienated from Christ. And that's exactly the point when the Holy Spirit is saying, I now you finally are in touch with reality. You are weak and pathetically helpless. Now I want you to see Christ's strength and his power. I want you to run to him. Not away from him. And yet you and I are so concerned to protect our image. That we miss how the Holy Spirit is trying to show us, me, you, your heart, and to show you your need of the gospel and how great a Savior you really have. You only discover that in weakness. And in failure. Let me give you a personal illustration. A couple weeks ago we had our Easter service. I felt like it was a powerful service. uh glorious in the music and the praise, um the gospel of Christ resurrection and his peace and commission and His power force. Uh just it was just a glorious time, wasn't it? I mean wasn't it a great time? Yeah, I'm just glad somebody else thinks so. Well during the last hymn, um, you know, just full of all this and I during that last hymn uh with dignity recessed to the fact door there to greet the mad rush of people that would be coming out right after the service left. I was glad that we'd agreed I wasn't gonna do a benediction, you know, and all this stuff in my mind When I hear Tom looking around, and I look to see him looking around, I hear him, where's Mr. Harris to do the benediction? Now, did I think at that point as I hurried forward in a less dignified manner Did I think somehow I didn't hear right or we messed up on our communication, but that doesn't really matter. The important thing is just go do the benediction. No The immediate thing that was in my mind was, I want you guys all to know I didn't mess up on this. And so I say a dumb thing like He says something about the benediction. I said something like, Well, you told me not to do one. You see, what am I doing? I'm needing to establish my responsibility righteousness. I'm not a guy who misunderstands and messes up. So it must be your fault, you see. And I want everybody to know that it must be your fault, even though I don't know if it's your fault. I'm sure, because I don't want to admit it could be my fault, that it's got to be yours. And so I said something that made my dear friend Tom look foolish. And I'm very sorry for that. I'm ashamed of that. And I've told Tom and I tell him again, Tom, I don't even know where you are. Where I saw you before. Maybe he left. He doesn't want to endure this again. Oh, there you are back there. I'm very sorry for my doing that. It was it was out of my own selfish need. Um do you see how that is the opposite of living out of the gospel Do you see that my knee-jerk reaction at that point is to defend myself, to make me look good, to show you I know what I'm doing? And here's the critical statement. Because I believe that it's more important to be right than loving. Now, I don't know if there's any of the rest of you who have that problem, but that is a lifelong problem with me. I would rather be right than loving. And that's because I'm living by the law See, that is the essence of law-living. The need to establish my rightness. That's the essence of moralism. That is the opposite of living out of the gospel. It's what alienates me from Christ And so it was so good to be able to go home and to admit that I was ashamed and to go and to know the forgiveness of Christ for the Spirit to reveal that's the kind of heart I have And to wash me with the gospel, and to see a bigger understanding of the gospel, than in admitting my own wrong to know that the gospel really does meet me and meet you. At your deepest need, the deepest needs of your heart. What's the issue for you? You go on and think about being aware of your enemy and aware of your armory, but where does this strike you? You see, this is a small incident But life is full of spiritual warfare, not on exorcism of raging demons, but on that level. That's where it happens. That's where the rubber hits the road. That's where we want to explore spiritual warfare and gospel armor in the weeks ahead. Let's pray. Holy Spirit, help us to see, to know our hearts, and to know how we are so prone. I am so prone by knee-jerk reaction, even after a glorious service of worship, and that's the that's the hideousness of it, it's even in a worship service that I react. in living out of the law to establish my rightness rather than out of the gospel. Our hearts are so deceptive. Lord, we pray that you will reveal to us our hearts and how the gospel can change that, to give us the freedom of not needing to protect ourselves, to want to be more right than loving. But that you would show us in these weeks ahead the strength that is available in Christ as we put on the pieces of armor. And rejoice in them and learn how to use them in really practical and specific ways day by day In the warfare that we're involved in. I pray, Lord, for each person here, you would use these questions to search their hearts and to draw them closer to you. To see what all this means for the issues in each of the lives that are represented here Lord, Holy Spirit, meet us, we pray, and show us Christ in Jesus' name. Amen.