Well, you remember that uh before I left we were doing uh the favorite sermons of the first twenty-five years. And the last one that I did was on the overview of the book of Ephesians. uh series that I had preached, 125 messages from 1996 to 2002. And I'm taking just a couple, I'm doing uh three from that that are really combining a number of messages. And um the one I did in July was kind of an overview trying to point out that That one main theme of the book of Ephesians, which can be summed up by simply be who you are, or be what you are Not some new age idea, but it's saying the gospel. Be, that is, uh, bring your experience, your daily experience into equilibrium. with that calling that you have in Christ to be seated with him in the heavenlies above all bondage and defeat in this world. The new life that Jesus gives you. As we looked at that, we saw that Paul uh unfolds that in four postures First of all, learning what it means to be seated with Christ, resting in his finished work and in the privileged position that he has And because we can't understand that, he talks then about kneeling, praying that God would open your eyes to see. something of the dimensions of his power and of his love for you. And And then seeing that, get up and walk, begin to walk in simple steps of obedience and trust to the commands that he gives for how to live day by day. And as you do that, he says you will need to stand, stop, stand, because you'll meet resistance. You will not be able to do that without resistance. And it's that fourth posture that I would like to look back at you with this morning. um a summing of messages we spent months on, the fourth posture to stand. But it's one that we so easily forget And I think as we draw the end of the summer and begin to think about the fall, it's good to remind ourselves of this whole matter of standing in Christ. You see, why is it so hard for you, even as a Christian, to live the Christian life? You ever wonder that when you're discouraged? You know, you think, why is it so hard still to resist temptation? Why are you still a slave to food or certain kinds of food or drink or Why is it that you are not able to resist certain amusements in order to cope with stress rather than finding rest? in Christ. Why is it that when you agree with your spouse, you know we really ought to start praying together? And let's just pray together three times a week. That every time you try to pray together, you fight. You know? I mean that's that's the time where there's the tension, that's the time where something happens, it interrupts it or you you know you think, you know, every time we try to do this, why is it that when you uh Try to get here Sunday morning in an attitude of worship. Sunday morning is the time of the greatest tension in the family. That's when the kids are the worst. That's when everything seems to fall apart and you know and you fight on the way and all you know, why is it? But those things happen. Why is it that when you decide I really ought to be in a cell and be in fellowship with brothers and sisters in Christ? And so you wind up getting in a cell and you say, here it is, you know, I found these people and the first couple of months, boy, it's just so great, you know, this is terrific, you know, we're so close and everything. But And then gradually you discover that the most obnoxious Christian in the whole church is in yourself. How'd that person get in there? And you didn't see this and you begin to think, oh, you know Yeah, I th I thought that, you know, these were just minor little irritations. Nobody's perfect, but you know this person's grading on me, you know, and after you begin to make lame excuses for why not to go. And after a while, you know, you know that you you just don't want to go anymore. think, you know, there it is, another discouragement. I don't go and I feel lousy about it. In fact it seems like every time I want to say the Lord that I want to step out on faith, I want to trust you and I want to obey you in this new area. I want to give it over to you. Seems like I fail more than I succeed. anybody have that kind of experience? Why is that? I thought John was putting his hand up over there. You're just moving it around robbing, okay. You know, now why is that? Well, you know, I got good news for you. Paul anticipates that. Paul says that you can expect that kind of resistance In Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 10, the beginning of the last section, he says, finally, now before I end, I want to tell you: be strong in the Lord and in the might of his strength. Because you're going to get resistance. And so you're going to have to stand against that resistance. So this statement, verses ten and eleven, finally be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power, put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the Against the devil's schemes is one statement that has four parts to it. And I want to just unpack briefly those four parts. for us to see. All the material will be covered for over a period of months, but just kind of a brief reminder as we Come to the end of summer and think about the fall. First thing then he says is finally stand. You need to stand. Four times he says, stand, you see them there in the green. Take your stand against the devil's schemes. Down to verse thirteen. So that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything to stand, stand firm then. He repeats this again and again. You need to stand. This is the posture of resistance. And why is that? What is it that we're resisting? The Bible says three things There are three things that are the sources of resistance to our intentions to trust, obey, and love Jesus The first, the Bible says, is your flesh, that sinful nature that craves independence and idols and Wants to go my way, to have my things, my inordinate desires, sometimes for good things, sometimes for evil things, but it's to crave, to grab and grasp. Secondly, the Bible talks about the world, that God-hating system of values that seems so plausible to us, but are set dead against God's glory. And then thirdly, talks about the devil, Satan, spiritual evil forces, persons. that seek to exploit our flesh as well as the world's values that are kind of what the air that we breathe in order to make us to disobey, to distrust, and to not believe the gospel and to follow and love Christ. Paul talks about those three. Remember back in chapter 2, where he described our basic problem in chapter 2, he said, as for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins. In which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world. There it is, the world. And of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit is now at work in those who are disobedient. That's the devil and the spiritual demonic forces. Verse 3, all of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature, and following its desires and thoughts, the flesh. Um Clinton Arnold, theologian and writer, uh said in one of his books something I thought very insightful, he said the Bible Paul, in particular his writings, uh focuses on the flesh in some places, and other places he focuses on the devil. And he says you have to take those the combination of his writings to get a balance. For instance, in the book of Romans and Galatians, his focus is on the flesh, the problems in us. In the book of Ephesians and Colossians, his focus is on demonic activity, the resistance outside of us. And if you look at that and you look at church history, it's interesting that different traditions focus imbalanced on one or the other of these. I believe that the Reformed community tends to focus more on the flesh, the problem of our evil nature, and tends to minimize, not pay as much attention to spiritual warfare and demonic activity. Our charismatic brothers and sisters tend to focus on the demonic activity, the demonic forces, and not as much on the evilness of our heart and our sinful nature. You do one without the other, you know, you've got uh Romans and Galatians, or you've got Ephesians and Colossians, you don't put them together, you have imbalance And my prayer is that Columbia Presbyterian, where I think out of our Reformed tradition, we tend to focus more on the flesh, the evilness of our nature We need to also recognize Paul's emphasis here in Ephesians on spiritual warfare, on the opposition of demonic um minions under Satan, the archenemy, who is out to destroy you, to discourage you, to distract you, and to recognize that So that's what I want to look at. Paul says, take a stand because, you see, he says that this is against the devil in his schemes, verses 11 and 12. He says, take your stand against the devil, because, verse eleven, uh put on full armor so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes, verse twelve, for our struggle is not against flesh and blood. It's not just against uh either ourselves or Other people, but it's against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. So when we looked at this, we saw how I believe we can understand this by an analogy that other Christians didn't have. sadly, the analogy of terrorism. I think spiritual warfare um is illustrated very much by the tactics of terrorism in our day You think of terrorism in contrast to conventional warfare, and it illustrates what Paul's talking about. For instance The enemy in terrorism is invisible. You don't see him. It's not like he wears a certain uniform and you can identify him. This is a person who may look harmless. Uh and so it is in spiritual warfare. You don't know the enemy. You can't see him. You don't detect him. You think that things are okay. There's no front lines. No place where the battle's defined. The battle's all around you. Battle can be taking place at the place you least suspect it. And in conventional warfare, oftentimes uh the soldiers that were involved in that didn't have any particular personal animosity toward each other There's a number of stories about how in civil war, when there were those times of lull between the charges and the battles, the soldiers would actually exchange goods tobacco for tea or various things that one had and the other wanted and they would talk to each other and meet during World War One There were times in across no man's land that the Allies would hear the Germans singing Christmas carols during the holidays, and they would join in and sing with them. Uh there was a sense that uh we're here and nothing personal, I may need to kill you, but there's not a personal animosity. That's not true in terrorism In terrorism, the enemy hates you. He wants to destroy you. There is a bitter personal animosity. That's the way it is with spiritual warfare too. The key strategy in terrorism is deception. There's nothing that's forthright about it. It's to catch you off guard. And so you drive up and down I-95 in Maryland and what do you see on all the signs? You know, I used to tell you about, you know, alerts for traffic and this and that, and you still do when you need to, but you know, if you don't have that, what's it say? Report suspicious activity. Then there's a number of tips. What's that saying? It's saying be alert. Don't be all caught off guard. Don't be lulled into thinking everything's okay. If you notice anything that looks suspicious, let us know. You see, you and I don't realize that right here in this room, there are minions And myriads of minions of Satan's forces. Satan is not unique in, and Satan is not alone in what he's doing. He has hundreds of thousands, millions of demonic forces. Remember we talked about probably a possibly a third of the all the angels ever created are demonic now. And that those those forces are right here, even as I'm speaking, to get you to think this is silly or You know, to think about what you want to do this afternoon, or to be distracted in one way or another, or want to needle your brother or sister, or you know, just whatever it is Uh and we're oblivious to that. Yeah, it's kind of like radio waves, you know You're sitting here and all around you there are stations playing music, doing talk shows, all this stuff. There's TV signals. going past you all the time. You know, there's all channel eleven, channel two, all this. It's all going right past you. It's right here. See? Um cell phone conversations. There's people that are talking, you know, and all and their signals are going right through here, all over. Internet, wireless internet connections, all that all that stuff here, you know. After a while you begin to wonder how you can breathe. You know, you've got all these signals filling the air, it's just clouded with it, you know. And yet it seems empty. Why? Well, because we don't have the receivers here. We don't see it. We don't detect it because we don't have the receiver that's tuned in. And what Paul is saying in Ephesians 6 is, brothers and sisters, tune in to what's going on. Tune in to Satan and his schemes, to the rulers and the authorities that are out to destroy you, that want nothing more than to deflect you from Jesus. If you belong to him, they can't take you from him. But they can cause you to forget the cross, to focus on your idols, all the other things. And so Paul's saying, tune in. And you've got to keep tuning in. You know, you've got to keep tuning day by day to become aware again of the signals that are out there. And so Paul is wanting to get us as the book of Revelation to see the things that we don't see with our naked eyes. The book of Revelation is just that kind of reveal, you know, the nature of spiritual reality. Well, um When we went over this, we looked at the the nature of Satan. Don't have time to go over it, but let me just uh just kind of go through the list of the things that we looked at, the basics about Satan, to remind you, see there in your outline. And Satan is a real person. He's just not some idea or pre-scientific fable. He is a real person and he's a powerful person, far more powerful than any of us here. The weakest demon. is vastly superior in strength and power to any human being. Ocultic horror stories certainly demonstrate a lot of that power And yet he's created and therefore he's limited. Some people underestimate Satan and others overestimate. Satan is not omniscient. He is not omnipotent. He is limited in his power. Don't fear to talk about him. Don't fear that he will torture you if or something bad will happen if you think about him. He is limited, but he's malicious. He wants to do anything to destroy you and your family He'll try anything, any sneaky attack, and particularly deception, because that's his nature, to deceive you. He wants to deceive you, and if he can't deceive you, he may try to destroy you He is able to inflict illness, depression, discouragement. Those things are possible And yet he's defeated. And we must never forget that Jesus Christ at the cross defeated Satan once and for all. In fact, that's so important. I want to take you a minute for you to just say to the person, to the right or left of you, Jesus defeated Satan. So you get that in mind. Confess it. Say it to somebody. Right and left the right. Jesus defeated Satan. Go ahead. Do it. They believe that? You know, it's not about saying it, isn't it? He said, Jesus defeated Satan. You know, do you believe that? You see, what Paul does here is he shows you in chapter two the three areas of resistance are flesh, the world, the devil. And then he shows you how Jesus has conquered in each area. After he shows you how your flesh, dead to sin, just nature that is craving and all this Then the very next verse, but God in his mercy give to us a new nature. He's raised us up in Christ and seated him in the heaven seated us with him in the heavenlies In chapter three he speaks in chapter four excuse me he speaks about the world, talks about how We are no longer part of those whose mind is futile, whose minds are darkened, who are captured by their cravings. But he says we have been given a new mind. Our system, our The way we think is not captured by the world now? He talks in chapter one about how the devil is Defeated in that Jesus, he says, This power is at work in you, the same power that was at work in Christ when God raised him from the dead, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion in every name that can be named both in this age and So in chapter three he says, Pray that God would, out of his riches, give to you the power Be empowered so that Christ dwells in your heart by faith, for he is able to do exceeding abundantly beyond anything we ask or think. Therefore, chapter 6, verse 10, be strong in the Lord. You see, there it is The indicative statements, Jesus has conquered Satan. The command: be strong in Jesus' victory, his strength. That is your only hope. That is my only hope. It is not principles, it's not simply wisdom. But how do you get that? Your only strength is in Christ, to see both your weakness We'll talk about that more in the next message. And his strength. We'll talk from 2 Corinthians chapter 12, that idea of his strength in our weakness. But how is it that we lay hold of this? So the final point, fourth point, by putting on the armor that he provides There's a lot of uh, you know, the good news is there's there's a lot of talk about spiritual warfare today to make us aware of this reality. The bad news is there's a lot of silliness that's being taught in that area. For instance, that Spiritual warfare's essence is to cast out demons and in order to do that you need to know their names. Uh really the big advantage if you can know the name of the demon and the territory he's over. And some of this kind of teaching. The problem is that Paul never says to do that. Paul doesn't say that there's any virtue in knowing the demon's name or the territory that he's been assigned. I think there's some truth to those to that. Fact, but we are not instructed to do that. What are we instructed to do? Paul's crystal clear. Put on spiritual armor. That's what he says to do. Verses 14 to 17. And so when we went through this, we looked at that. There are three B's and three S's. Six pieces of armor. The three B's are the things that you have in Christ, the gospel. The three S's are the things that you take. The B's are more, just be aware of this. The S's are the things that you do. We talk about that, only have time to remind you of what they are. First B, the belt of truth. With a belt of truth around your waist. Satan's essential strategy is deception, so he'll speak lies to you God is good sometimes, but he's capricious. You never really know. You can't really trust his goodness. And the bill of truth you take and you say, no, no, no, no. God is good all the time. I can always trust his goodness. It's an awareness, you see, of the nature of God, of reality. There's the breastplate of righteousness. Satan accuses you. How do you think God is going to answer your prayer the way you've lived this last week? You don't deserve his blessing or his favor and on and on and on and on. These accusations come and you hold up that breastplate and you say, yeah, you know me, I'll add some to you, you know. Wanna keep going? Sure. But My relationship with my Heavenly Father doesn't depend on my righteousness. I hold up the breastplate of the righteousness of Christ. And I hide behind that. It's my joy and my strength and my claim. And that's all the righteousness that I need. And I stand in that alone. You remind yourself of that. That's spiritual armor. That's spiritual warfare, you see. Then you just put on the boots of gospel peace. That peace that comes out of the awareness of Christ's righteousness that gives you both peace with God and the peace of God. So that you can move, boots, moving forward into battle. Then Paul says, you take three things, the three S's, you take the shield of faith. You take that shield against the fiery arrows of the evil one to discourage you, to tempt you, to drive you away from Christ, and you hold up that shield and you deflect those. And you're able to take gospel promises to deflect those arrows. And then you take the salvation helmet You remember when we went through that, I said, I believe that the salvation helmet is speaking about the hope of salvation when Christ returns. That's what I think he means there. The reason I say that And uh the song will sing, and John really captured that, the helmets gleam because a helmet doesn't just protect The helmet was a decoration. The idea of the decoration of the helmet was that it was fitted so that you could put plumes and feathers and all these things so that when you walked in anticipation of the victory of that battle That when you had all of your enemies in chains, you wore the helmet in all its glory because the hope had been fulfilled. That's the hope I think that he's saying. He's saying, take that helmet of salvation, take that hope of Christ's final victory And then take that sword of the Spirit, the third S, the sword of the Spirit, coming back like full circle to the belt of truth. Take the sword of the Spirit, like Jesus When Satan came against him in the wilderness with three temptations, and Jesus three times quoted from the book of Deuteronomy, memorize scripture. Use that scripture as a weapon against the evil one. And then finally he says, surrounded with all prayer, and that's the third part, verse eighteen, pray in the Spirit with foralls, all occasions, all kinds of prayers. All the time praying for all the saints, not just people you like or are close to, but praying beyond that to those who are in the body, those who are missionaries of the Colburns believe that when they go back we haven't forgotten them. We pray for all the saints So Paul is saying that having taken the armor, prayer is the climax. And why is that? Because if we really understand our vulnerability, we will pray I still continue to maintain that at Columbia Presbyterian we do a lot of things right. I mean I say that simply because I'm convinced of what God has said in his word that there's a lot of things that we do that I believe are in keeping. That's certainly far from perfect on it But a lot of things that are right. But we don't see as much of his power as you would expect. And I believe a lot of that is because I don't believe we're really convinced that we're as vulnerable and weak as the Bible says we are. If we did, we would see a greater proportion of people at our Thursday morning concert of prayer I know it's hard to make, but we might even have people saying, Oh we'll start another one at another time that more of us can make. Or the Sunday morning when we're here On the alternate service from the one you worship at, the team that prays for God's word to go forth in power. We would see more than a couple of people in each service involved in it We would see in ourselves and in our own times and our families and personally more time devoted to prayer, not because we have to think about something to pray, but we are aware Of the battle, and we're crying out to Jesus for protection for his power, for his deliverance. I believe that if we laid hold of that, brothers and sisters, we would see God answer prayers in this next year. that we will not see if we continue. The status quo, prayer is something that you do kind of along with because you ought to, but without that internal sense of urgency. All prayer. Prayer on all occasions, all kinds of praying, all the time for all the saints. So finally, a couple of last comments and thoughts. Are you aware of all three of these areas of resistance? Which one, world flesh, devil, which one of those three do you tend to ignore And as you go into the fall, which of those three do you need to become more aware of? Let me suggest that if you don't see any great difference between the world's values and the kingdom values, that it may be you need to focus on that matter of the world. It may be that Satan has blinded you to see how radical the Christian life is. And that you're thinking, well, you know, it's just kind of a few things that you do, but you you know, you're not a whole lot different from people who are not Christians Then think about and focus on what is that difference of the world system and the kingdom value system, or if you find that you tend to rationalize and blame shift and think as a victim in terms of all the things that are going wrong in your life. You may need to focus on the flesh. You may be more oblivious to what your heart is really like. And you're always thinking that your heart is, you know, kind of bad, but when you really do things that are disgusting, shameful, then you think, well that's not really me. And you need to come to the place where that is really me. That's my flesh. That's what I'm like. And I can't just blame the devil or somebody else. But if it's that you're in a place where you're always trying harder And you're always beating yourself up about why can't I do this? And I'm just, you know, and I'm just always introspecting. I'm always kind of caught in that discouraging cycle It may be that you need to give more acknowledgement to spiritual warfare and the enemy that is out to destroy you. You need to recognize that there is someone who is exploiting those things in you. Someone who is seeking to discourage, to depress you, someone who is seeking to take everything in your family and twist it so that you want to give up And sometimes we need to stop and recognize the enemy in the battle. So the second thing you see there What practical difference does this reality make? Whether it's temptation, whether it's illness, whether it's discouragement, whether it's depression? The practical reality is the gauge Of the vitality of your prayer life shows how seriously you and I take spiritual warfare. If we take this truth that Paul's giving here seriously, we will put on the armor and we will pray I mean we don't I don't have to convince you. All you have to do is see it. Just as I look and I thought about this during vacation, I think, the more I think about it, the more I see, that's the third point, my need. daily, hourly, for Jesus' protection. And to be so glad that He has defeated the evil one. That I can come to Him and I can be safe in Him that I am ashamed at how I continue to look at human saviors and circumstances to change into if only's, you know, if only my kids would listen to me, if only my spouse thought about my needs and not just theirs. If only my boss wasn't unreasonable and just would be able to be somebody it could listen to and think about more than his or her own agenda and on and on and on and on. And you know, we think about The psychological things we'd like to change and all the rest of this. You gotta remember, next time we drive down I-95, report suspicious activity, be alert. There's something else going on. Those things may all be going on. You know, your your flesh nature, the conflicts, the world system. But don't forget the days, the weeks ahead. That there is a myriad of evil, superintelligent, powerful beings that want to destroy you. I remember after 9-11 Former Secretary William Cohen was on the television, former Secretary of Defense, and he was saying, we fully expect That on American soil we will see weapons of mass destruction and chemical and or biological warfare in the near future. That's three years ago, almost three years ago now. We haven't seen it. The danger is you drive down ninety-five and you see Report suspicious activity, orange alerts, and the rest of this. And you begin to think, well you know, I'm beginning to feel more safe. Maybe there's people that don't really hate us all that much. Re We thought back in like in 2001, there were people that really hate us. And occasionally you see some glimpses. But maybe it isn't that bad. And that's exactly in spiritual warfare, what Satan would have you to think. Really not that bad. This place really is kind of like home. Paul says, Wake up, tune in, see The spiritual warfare that is going on around you. I remember when I was a new Christian that a fellow who greatly influenced me used to talk a lot about Satan, and I began to realize This world isn't home. It's not safe. It's not a place that I can just relax and forget about spiritual uh animosity. Not that Christians can never relax, laugh, and, you know, let loose, but we're always aware. There is an enemy, and our only safety is in Jesus. It's in Jesus. It's in Jesus. Let's pray. Ah, Lord Jesus, Lord Jesus, help us to see our safety, our security is only in you. It's not in things changing. It's in you. And Lord, help us to see the vulnerability that we have outside of you. Of the evil that is intent on destroying us and our families. But Lord Jesus, help us to see and appreciate the victory that you accomplished over Satan, who is like a malicious dog on a leash. And you will come and finally destroy him. Lord Jesus, how we thank you for that hope of seeing him finally destroyed once and forever. Help us, Lord, to cleave to you, to cling to you in these days, to meditate on these pieces of armor. Maybe a A piece of armor a day and think about what that means for each person here to think about what each of those means in their life that day and see what you will do in people that that really cling to you. We want to honor you in that way, Lord Jesus. Amen.