Turn together to Acts chapter two. Uh don't don't don't worry. Um I'm not gonna lay any crazy stuff on you. This is interesting standing up here, uh I can see there's another congregation over there with a guy that looks like Before I do that, um I just want to Remind you, those of you who are Bible scholars, you know there are three major feasts in the Old Testament. There are three major ones. There's several of them, but there's three major ones. So you know what they are. First there's the feast of what? Passover, then there's the Feast of Tabernacles, and then there's the Feast of Pentecost. Alright. Now we know what the Passover is all about, right? That's when the Lamb of God was slain and the Blood was smeared on the door on the doorpost and on the lentils. And God said, When I see the blood I will what? Pass over you. Alright, we know that was fulfilled when Jesus died on the cross, right? And his blood was shed. The Feast of Tabernacles, what was that? It was a harvest feast. Remember, that was when they would celebrate, they'd get all go out and in the field and get all the grain and put it in the tents and stuff like that, and the harvest would be over and they'd have a tremendous feast. But the Feast of p Pentecost was a feast uh does everybody know the other name for it? The piece of plant. Wheat or first roots or something sort of thing. That's when you go out and get a little sample of the different fields and see what kind of harvest you get. You put it on the table and you praise the Lord for the kind of harvest you have. So the Feast of Pentecost was in essence a precursor to the Feast of Tabernacles. That is, what you saw on Pentecost is what you get at at Tabernacles, all right? Okay, so here we go. Here comes the fulfillment Oh yeah, by the way, what is the fulfillment of the feast of uh of of tabernacles? You'll find that in Revelation chapter seven. You see the fulfillment of that. But here's the fulfillment of the feast of Pentecost. On the day when of Pentecost. When the Funday of Pentecost came, all the believers were gathered together in one place. And suddenly there was a noise from the sky which sounded like a strong wind blowing. It filled the whole house where they were sitting seating sitting. And they saw what looked like tongues of fire spread out and touched each person there. They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other languages. There were Jews in Jerusalem and religious men who had come. From every country in the world, when they heard this noise, a large crowd gathered, and they were all excited because each one of them heard the believers talking in his own language. In amazement and wonder, they exclaimed, These people who are talking like this are Galileans. How is it that we all hear them speaking in our own languages? We are from Parthia, Media, Elam, Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontius, Asia, Sigaria, Pamphylia, Egypt, the regions near Libya Near Cyrene, some of us are from Rome, both Jews and Greeks, converted to Judaism. And some of us are from Crete and Arabia. Yet we all hear them speaking our own languages about the great things that God has done. Amazed and confused. views that kept asking each other, what does this mean? Now you know some of our Pinecophical friends use this quite a bit, but I want to suggest to you that what's happening here is that God is making a very clear statement. God is making a very clear statement that the gospel of Jesus Christ and the life of the church is not limited by culture, language, race, or anything else and that's the one unique thing about Christianity. I've studied all the other religions of the world and they all expect you, they all require you to buy into a certain culture or a certain language before you can get the full treatment. I've got some credit. belong to a certain religion, I'm not going to mention any names, but they claim it's the religion of their roots, but they can't even speak to God in their own language. They can't even sing in their own in their own language. The other so they claim it's the religion of their roots. That's the unique thing about Christianity. And I think one of the great tragedies that we face today is that we in the Church of Jesus Christ have a left have allowed the world to get the impression that Christianity is a Western European thing. Well in many parts of the world they don't want to become Christians because they do not want to lose their whatever nationality. If they're Arabs, they don't want to become unArab. If they're Jews, they don't want to become unjuves. If they're Asian They don't want to become unasian because the impression is that Christianity is a Western thing. But actually what's happening here in the book of Acts, God is saying it doesn't make any difference what culture you come from, what language you come from, the gospel is true. And you can come to Jesus Christ wherever you are and be saved in your own culture. Spiritual unity and cultural diversity. We're going to look at two churches today, and we're going to see how they handled that. the implications of what happened here on the day of Pentecost. If you notice if you go to Revelation chapter seven, you'll see that there are people around the fellow from every race and nation and language and children and young and every other thing that you can say does. Praising God. And so you look and see here on the Pentecost is again what you're going to get uh at the end. So this is a sample of what's going to go on later on. Now we're going to look at the church in Jerusalem. Spiritual unity with cultural diversity in the Jerusalem church. And we're we're going to later take a trip up. North, and we're gonna look at the Antioch Church. We're gonna look at how to handle that Jew Gentile problem or that Jew Greek problem, and we're gonna see if we can't see some parallels to maybe some insight how we can handle some of some of these things today. Now, according to the Jerusalem church, after After the festivities of Pentecost had died down and everybody had gone back to their various places, the church of Jerusalem was left with Christians from the various populations who were living there. Some of the Christians, some of the uh uh disciples were Jews. Jewish. And of course they were the majority members, weren't they? And others were Greeks, and they were the minorities Things haven't seen so much, have they? Alright, so so but but they got along, but unfortunately in those days, the church in Jerusalem had the spiritual unity. But they did not have the cultural diversity. Because the leadership was Jewish. The whole cultural sentiment with the church took place was Jewish and all the rest of that, and they operated along that system. And later on, as the disciples continued to grow and more people came into the church, daily, pretty soon you began to see some problems. Now, now let me kind of set this up for you a little bit. Jews and Greeks in those days could not get along. The Jews couldn't stand the Greeks. As a matter of fact, They hated them. They called them dogs. They didn't like the fact that old Alexander the Great standards went down there and ripped them off. Remember uh Antiochus Epiphonus and his boys? Remember what they did? Well they didn't like them. too much. They didn't they didn't care for these Greek folk too much, you know. Yeah, that of course Greek was a generic term for anybody who wasn't Jewish. You know. All right, but you wouldn't want your daughter to marry one, right? Okay. So but there was a lot of animosity. But now what you got are Jews and Greeks in the church together and they were worshiping Jesus Christ together. But you had beg but you began to have a problem. They were trying their best to live by the teachings of Jesus Christ. They were taking care of widows. They were bringing all their goods to the apostles and the apostles were distributing the goods and all the rest of that, and nobody had need until you get around to until you get around to chapter six. I'm going to kind of run through Acts all the way up to Acts 11. Chapter 6, Acts Chapter 6. Sometime later, starting to verse 1. Sometimes later, as the number of disciples kept growing, there was a quarrel. telling that they started fighting the church? Yep, that sure was. There was a quarrel between the Greeks and the Jews. The Greeks claimed that their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution of the funds. Well what do we have here? We got a situation where the church was affected by the sinful Animosities that existed outside. Jews and Greeks didn't get along. And now all of a sudden you begin to see people that stuff come on into the church community. Whenever you have people of different cultures with races and understandings, You're going to have misunderstandings. But that should never deter us from giving it God's way. The way He showed us on the book on the day of Pentecost and the way He's going to show us on the uh in the in the fulfillment of the Feast of Tabernacles. But they began to have problems. Let me show you what what's happening. You see they used to meet together in the homes and break bread. But nobody had homes, you know. You know how it is because of the the uh the the rules, you know, in In Jerusalem, you know, you couldn't have clothes lines in the backyard or or the house had to be certain colours and you know You know, how's the pickle butt so big, right? You know? All right, so so they had to whenever they wanted to get the big group together to distribute all the goods, they would meet over in the in the uh interfaith center. All right. They would meet over you know at the at the temple. And that was a big place so they would get together. But unfortunately the temple in Jerusalem was segregated. Now. Can you do you believe me on that? Now I know what I'm talking about. Because you see the simple in Jerusalem there was this huge court. Right? This huge outer court. That was called the court of the Gentiles. If you were a Gentile, you went to the temple, that's as far as you got. You got to the outer court. They kept the animals out there too, for the sacrifice, by the way. They kept them there. Then you had a a a a court inside of that called a Alright? Then a smaller point inside of that support for the Jewish men. And so that's the way it was. Now I've I've often wondered how they could tell, you know, because everybody in those days pretty much had the same complexion, you know? How could they tell? Well there are ways, you know. Hey brother Hey let me let's go to the temple together. Oh wait a minute, let me uh let's go over here to the uh the mentor, you know. Not go understand what I Okay. Alright. So so here they were. They were dealing they had to meet it as a large group in the temple, but the temple was segregated. So that's the the Greek widows. had it stay in the outer court, and the Jewish widows would be uh on the court in the side of that, and the apostles who were all Jewish were distributing the goods. Now watch what what would happen. Let's say let's say two widows needed a car. All right? You know what I'm saying. Um this rapid transit you know, they had to finish the subway or whatever, you know, they they needed a car, right? And there are two rich guys in the church who gave cars to the church. Uh one guy gave uh would give uh uh uh a BMW five thirty I with air, you know, five speed, the MSM digital consent, stereo radio, right? With radio tires and and the whole and the whole list, right? That would be one for in silver gray of course. And the other would give a a nineteen forty nine steer baker that was in great faith except it didn't run, you know. And and all the female So it didn't give me two cars in the church. Well, when the distribution took place, who would get cursed from the church? When it came from the inner court, it would kind of go go fast. And the first people who would see would be the Jewish widows and then the Greek widows. So the Greek the Greek widows would always give the leftovers. You know how it is on Christmas Eve when you try to go and do your Christmas shop and everything's picked over, isn't it? Well that's what it began to happen. The the Greek little were getting the leftovers. And so there was a quarrel between the Greeks and the Jews. Now, it wasn't. That well, here is a classic case of institutional discrimination. All right. It wasn't that the apostles and the church were trying to be prejudiced or anything like that. They didn't have to be. And that's one of the tragedies of of of of of there are two manifestations of sin, there's personal sin and there's institutional sin. And one of the things the apostles weren't prejudiced. I mean they had you know, Peter had learned a few things, remember? As a matter of Peter was about to learn some things, he did have some problems even at that point. But of course Given the mentality of the day, given the way the Jews thought that salvation was only for them, only limited to their race. You know God didn't do not He didn't give those land and all those promises to a race that he gave it to a people who had faith, right? But of course Peter didn't quite understand it. But he was okay, you know, he was doing okay at the time. It wasn't that they were prejudiced in their heart. All they had to do was just go along with the rules of society, and the society would do the discrimination for them. And so what happened was that you had a case where because of the institutional patterns of the way people related to one another, you'd have a case of discrimination. So, what are they gonna do about this thing? Well, they had a church meeting and uh they got together and started discussing it. The other thing that was going on here is that when you have people of different cultures coming together, the two people have different understandings of what their needs are. Now I know this is a very interesting thing when I was in Chattanooga Um w we uh I was pastor in the Church of Chattensa and uh we had a very strong deacons um uh ministry. Or no, that's right. So this is re a reformed church that's a you know. We like to say we reformed people that say de aconyl, yes. So the academic Uh do y'all say that? I don't know. Whatever. So we have to song chickens in the street. And here we would deal with people who who uh this is an incredible thing that murder back there. I didn't I didn't realize they used to handle money. I've never seen themselves We get distracted either. All right. Yeah, that's right. Okay. So we Now we would get uh notices of people who were about to get you know, thrown out of their houses and all the rest of it. So we'd go out and try to help 'em out. And here they would you know, they would be destitute but they'd have cable fees, and we'd say, Well what's you know, what's going on here, you know? And of course the nice middle class thing would do and say, Get rid of your cable and you can eat. But then when you think of people in that kind of a situation, that perhaps that was their only coping mechanism. You know what I'm saying? I mean I'm not gonna ultimately say that it was okay to have cable and you starve to death, but on the other hand, uh I think that can begin to understand some of the kind of things. Given the mentality, given the the value system of poverty, and you know poverty has its own value system, you know. And middle class has another value system. And that's another thing that we've got to talk about. You know, the whole difference between the poverty culture in the middle class culture, you know, that's something to think about. As a matter of fact, if you bring poor people together in the church and rich people together, we'll say middle class people, you know, none of us is rich. Oh, I don't know, maybe that's a Okay, no. You know. And and you know what happens, and I've seen it happen so many times. The poor people look at the middle class people and they say they're too materialistic Because the middle class people think it's about the preservation of property. You know what I'm talking about. Because they don't want to be bad stewards, poor stewards of what they got. So they say, let's do it, let's get this thing, let's get a good one, and let's take care of it because we don't want to replace it. it. Poor people on the other hand think in terms of using property. They'd use it so they use it up. So it breaks that the file. And of course the poor people look at the middle class people and say, they're materialistic, how can they be Christians? The middle class people look at the More people say, Rick for stewards, how can we be Christians? You see what I'm saying? Most people tend to be Future oriented. Achievement oriented. We're going someplace. We've got to do this. We plan to do this. Poor people. They're just busy this isn't the Bible for today. This is the Bible oriented. It's Christ's oriented. It's a different way to think of it. We talk about reaching over between cultures and races, we've got some very tough things to deal with. And one of the reasons why these Jews and these Greeks begin to quarrel is number one, the patterns of discrimination that exist in our society, number two the fact that is that they did not understand each other too well. But all they were they gonna do let it go? No, they had a church meeting that said, we got to choose seven deacons who can take care of this mess, who can get the bugs out of the system and take over the whole distribution. And we're going to put them in charge for the Jews and the Greek girls, so they chose certain deacons. Now, stay in the church meetings. Well, we're talking about people from different cultures now. Stay in the church meetings. The Greeks are being discriminated against. The Greeks are getting the short end of the stick. You've got to choose seven deacons. How many Greeks, how many Jews would you put on the thing? Now remember, the apostles are all Jewish. All the Lie Jews of the church are all Jewish. But suppose you make up a of your deacon board. I'll tell you how I'll tell you how they did it. They chose seven Greek deacons. And not one person was a was of a of a Jewish culture on there. Even though some of those guys were ethnically Jewish, they were culturally Greek. They chose seven Greek deacons How do I know? Let's let's imagine that we have somebody from uh Mexico standing outside the door and somebody from uh Pascagoula, Mississippi standing outside the door. All right. You nervous you never seen them, all you know of are are their names. Uh one of 'em, her name is Beulah Mae Smith. And the other one is Jose Rodriguez Santiago. But every one of those guys had a Greek name and that was the most interesting thing. They put the Greeks in charge of that whole thing with those the Greeks that would get their shot of the street. And when they did that and they chose seven deacons, they did that, and you don't hear any more from the Church of Jerusalem of any Jewish widows complaining about the reverse discrimination. You don't hear any more from the Greek widows saying that they get they got left out. Whatever they did, they had the understanding to weed out the problem. And a lot of times one of the strengths of a church that has people of different cultures in it is that they are able to see things. Some people from one culture can see something wrong that people from another culture don't even realize. Members of the church didn't even realize, they didn't they weren't even aware of the the patterns of discrimination that were happening in the society because they warmed up. They were benefiting from it. You know, why look at gift talks in the mouth, you know. All right. by the way, this is the beginning of affirmative action. Okay. All right, all right. Now one of those Greek peakers was an especially brilliant young man. A man with discret and all that kind of nut. All that kind of stuff. His name was what? Stephen. He was a tremendously gifted man. Let's look at Stephen here. Acts chapter six, verse eight. Stephen, a man richly blessed by God and full of power, performed great miracles and wonders among the people. So he was a fool for some men who were were the who were from the synagogue of the freedmen, as it was called, which had Jews from Cyrene and Alexandria. They and other Jews from the part from the provinces of Sicilia and Asia started arguing with Stephen, but the Spirit gave Stephen wisdom that when they spoke they could not find a way, when he spoke they could not find a way to refute him. Now this is an interesting thing going on. You can expect that those who are outside the church, namely the Jewish religious establishment, you Expect them to hate Stephen because I'm going to tell you what Stephen was doing. Stephen was a Greek and he had discovered that he did not have to become Jewish to become one of God's people. He did not have to switch cultures before he was accessible by God. And that's what he was saying. Say it loud, I'm Greek and I'm proud. All right. Okay, he he he made that tremendous discovery. That God does not discriminate. God does not require you to to switch cultures or switch languages before he will accept you. The except for Stephen and all of the speakers, and when Stephen began to read the scriptures, he began to see some things that were different from what the religious establishment had been saying. But notice the people who were arguing with Stephen. The people who were arguing with Stephen were not Jews, they were Greeks. And you wonder, why would a Greek argue with another Greek who had discovered that you didn't have to become Jewish to become one of God's people? And I'll tell you why. In my neighborhood we call them Uncle Tom's. These are Uncle Tom's Greeks. These were people who had already paid the price, they had already alien alienated themselves in their own culture, they had too become Jewish in culture. Thinking that that was the only way that God would accept them. And when they had done that, they were intimidated by Stephen saying, You don't have to do that. And they began to argue with Stephen. And eventually they brought Stephen before. the council. And here as you began to see in Acts chapter 7 when Stephen was brought before the council, you begin to get a glimpse into the Greek perspective that Stephen had. Understand in those days, the religious establishment, the existing establishment was saying that God only cares about Jerusalem and God lives exclusively in the temple And that's it. God has never been involved anywhere else. He doesn't care about anybody else except what's going on right here in Jerusalem and in this temple. And so when these people prophesied him before uh the council, they accused him. They said, he is speaking against the temple. And of course the elders of the council began to look at Stephen and say, Now is that is that true? I want to hear what this boy has to say about the temple. Now you see of course today we we find out a thing orthodox by asking them if they believe in tubers or something, right? Right? Or or or the in-turn the the new thing of puff. Have you ever ever heard of pu The homogeneous unit principle, all right? I don't care what Stephen had to say about anything else. I want to hear what he had to say about simple. And so Stephen begins his defense, and I want you to notice that Stephen is making a point here to say that God has been at work in other parts of the world than Jerusalem. That Jerusalem is no more important than any other part of the world. That God can work wherever he pleases. Okay, I'm not going to read this whole thing. The whole chapter you ought to look at it. I outlined it as follows. In verses 2 through 8, Stephen talks about Abraham. Didn't Abraham spend time in the Holy Land in the land of Canaan? He sure did. But Stephen talks about how God dealt with Abraham when he lived in Mesopotamia. That's where Iraq and Syria are today. So God dealt with Abraham. when he was in Mesopotamia. And Stephen is making the point that God was at work in some other part of the world. In in verses nine through nineteen he talks about Joseph. Didn't Joseph spend time in the Holy Land? Of course he did. He grew up to the age of seventeen But Stephen makes a big point of saying how Joseph was dealt with by God in Egypt. And then in verses 20 through 22, he talks about Moses. And Hamosis got his PhD in Egypt, by the way. I mean he went to the University of Memphis. Alright. Alright? And one of the things that the council has been saying, all of our one of the misses They have perpetuated was that we have always been loyal to Moses. And the first time we heard of Moses, we've always been loyal to Moses. But in verses 23 through 29, see what it says. He says, you cope in history despised and disrespected Moses. And Moses came out there, remember who tried to stop that fight? Who you who you think you are, Buster? You gonna kill me like you kill that attention? What are you talking about, man? I don't know what you're talking about. Yeah? You do the book of the baby? Have you seen that smoke character? Right by the Egyptian Bureau of Investigation. All right. All right. Moses had to flee, right? He makes a big point about that. And then verses 30 to 34, he talks about how Moses encountered God. But the important thing is the ground was so holy that he had to take off his shoes, and that ground was at Mount Horab in the Sinite Desert, not in Jerusalem, in the Holy of Holies. Verses 35 through 43. Stephen told us how when they got to the promised land a year after they left Egypt, they decided to reject Moses because they thought that God was using Moses to set him up for an ambush. Remember that? Hey, we don't go back to Egypt man bigger for this stuff. They got giants and M sixteens and all that. And then verses forty-four through forty-seven, the long-awaited thing when Stephen begins to talk about where God lived, what Stephen talked about. about how God lived in the tent, in the tabernacle in the desert. And then in verses forty eight through fifty, Stephen starts talking about the temple. And what does he say about the temple? Just a very short thing about the temple. He says, Bah even wanted to build a temple, but Solomon built a temple, and by the way, God doesn't live in brick and mortar! The temple is not even according to God. And that was it The counselor was mad at him. Stephen realized his life was at the very end, and so he takes the opportunity to point his finger at the pastor's face and to say you Are in rejection and rebellion of God. You're hard at it, you're sticking there. Verses fifty-one through fifty-three. And verses fifty-four through sixty is a tragic account. of how Stephen was lynched. This is a this is a classic lynching. Of course we think of lynching as hanging, right? But the hanging isn't really the technology by which it is taken that that is carried out. A lynching of evidence is an illegal, illegitimate execution of someone by mob violence without due process of law. Of course, in their face the technology was stoning. It doesn't make any difference, but this is this is classification of a religion. Now, you may ask why would the church in Jerusalem all this trouble to do the look at the kind of trouble they got into. They were going along just fine. As long as they denied Greeks any access to any power in the church. As long as they kept Greeks as second class citizens. They would have been they would have gotten along just fine. Nobody would have bothered them. But what started getting them in trouble was when they had the audacity to let these Gentile girls come in and have leadership positions in the church because you see they had they had their own synagogues, by the way. They don't need to join us. That's what they said. If they have an adapter, they go, God's there. God's said. That he does not discriminate. And they did. To make matters worse, you get to Acts chapter 8, verses 1 through 3, and Acts chapter 9, verses 1 through 2. You find out that a young man was there who sponsored that whole thing by the name of Saul. And we find out that Saul in Acts chapter 9, that Saul would breathe murderous pressing against the disciples. of Jesus Christ. He hated them. And as if Saul was so angry at them that he became a hitman. Alright? A hitman for the religious Sabbath. I mean he was running around knocking out Krishna's rifle last time. You might wonder why the church in Jerusalem bothered to go through all those changes to do things God's way. They came under persecution because of that. But I tell you what funny thing happened on the way to Damascus, didn't it? But all along the way to make a hit got hit. And converted. I suggest to you that the church in Jerusalem was an okay church, the overall. They had all the marks of success, but they didn't really become the church's power until they added cultural diversity to their spiritual unity. They came under persecution, but the worst enemy that rose up against The Jerusalem church became an extremely powerful church because it did it God's way. And I success with the challenge that we face today. Now let's look quickly at the Church of Antioch. see if we can see some other kind of things there. Here was the church that had the opposite problems in Jerusalem. Jerusalem had the spiritual unity without the cultural diversity. They added the cultural diversity The Antioch Church had this cultural diversity without the spiritual unity. Alright? That's the opposite problem. Acts chapter eleven. Acts chapter eleven. And it says, and unquote, and I quote. Some of the believers, uh verse 19, Acts chapter 11, 19, some of the believers who were scattered by the persecution which took place when Stephen was killed, went as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch. Telling the message to the Jews only. Isn't that something? Here they were in the Jerusalem church and they had learned that God does not withhold his salvation. from anybody because of his culture. And here they go up to Antioch and they decide they say we're going to limit this thing to the Jews. You see, you know what the mentality was? We ain't going to do that. Because look the look the trouble we've got in Jerusalem. We just want to preach the gospel. We don't want to get involved in all that social stuff. We don't want to get people tased. Get them on the lifeboat. Forget about that other stuff. Well what about those Greeks? Wait a point. They have their own religion. So notice what happens. believers from Cyprus and Cyrene went to Antioch and proclaimed the message to the gent to the to the Gentiles also, telling them the good news about the Lord Jesus. The Lord's power was with them, and a great number of people believed and turned to the Lord. Uh I might add a little parentheses here if you don't mind. Do you mind if I get into a little bit of ethnic prize? Can I share uh share with you a little bit of ethnic prize? All right. You see uh sirene is on the continent of what? Africa. You see so when uh African brethren, the heard that the Greeks weren't here in the gospel of Antioch. We the we uh uh the such sort of our missionaries. Okay. you know, they they sent some missionaries on the point. They they picked some guys up on from uh s from Cyprus and they went over there and proclaimed the message to the Gentiles also. So in essence what you had developing in the in the Church of Antioch, you had a segregation situation here. You have the the Jewish uh church over here and the Greek church over here. Never the two ancient meetings. Now saints let me say something here. Oh by the way, they were successful too, weren't they? They were really the church works, weren't they? Think it's understandable for the Church of Jesus Christ To be a church with many congregations. And it's understandable to have congregations in your city or in your area that reflect the cultural makeup of your population. You know what I'm saying? If I speak uh uh Korean. Uh that's my primary language. That's better for me to b worship the Lord in Korean. There is nothing wrong with that per se. If I clap on on two and four, another clap on one and two, Okay, but but but but when we allow that cultural diversity to become to to become cultural isolation, that's where we get into trouble. The problem with the Antioch Church is that they had these different congregations, but they never The church is a body made up of many congregations. The leadership should have been getting together, but they didn't. They didn't want to spell their testimony. Jews would say, Well, we don't want to associate with those over there because Some of our Jewish friends might be mad at us. They might think that we eat and cork chops with it or something, you know. And the Greeks are saying, Oh man, those two those two stuff up I ain't gonna look at All right. So you have two different churches and they didn't they didn't even know each other existed hardly. Alright, now watch this. News about this reached the church in Jerusalem, so he sent Barnabas to Eniah. When he arrived, he saw how God had blessed the people and was glad and urged them to be faithful and true to the Lord with all their hearts. Barnabas was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and faith and many people were brought to the Lord. Now Barnabas was was a pretty good guy. But Barnabas when he would go up to to Antioch, he he'd go up to the Jewish brothers and say, you know, Lukayim uh, you know, uh All right, you know, you're doing okay. Alright, of course the the Jewish church over here, they call themselves uh Lemud Yeshua HaMashiach Yisrael, all right. Uh disciples of Jesus, the Messiah of Israel. Well he go over to the to the to the Greeks. Oh, yeah, ripped off. You know that That's the kind of guy to find him. He was a great guy, but he didn't let him stand in those streets. He just couldn't get it together, you know. He just didn't quite have it, you know. And and uh over here he he can kick out We sit over here and say that, oh, we were that old talk religion. Talk about religion. You know, we didn't like it used to be. He couldn't get into it, you know. That's the Thomas was a great guy, see, because he was steeped in Judaism. He used to be a Jewish priest, you know. Uh Acts uh around about four or thirty six somewhere along there, you find out that his name uh became Barnabas. He used to be a priest. So he he had a hard time communicating to the Greeks. Um he needed a guy like Stephen who had a Greek savvy, you know. what I'm saying? But Stephen's dead and he needs to get to him and says, What kind of kick? Man, I need to go in there and help him with these Greeks, you know. But there was a guy and said, Oh, I know, I know just who I can get. There was a guy who who heard Greeks uh who who heard Stephen's defense and rumor had it that he was in his hometown digging some of that same kind of stuff out of scriptures that Stephen used to dig out. You know, what's the thing? Saul. Oh, yeah, I'll I'll go get Saul. So we he booked the reservation on the first thing Stephen, you know, he went over to the Tarsus and So here we go. So Bonabas with the Tarsus to look for Saul. When he found them, he took them back to Antioch and for a whole year. The two of them met with the church and taught a large group. Alright. So Barnabas gets Saul. So Barnabas would go over to the Lamun Yeshua Hamashiachray and said, Now look, brothers, it's okay for you to worship Jesus Christ. It's a wonderful thing that you see him as a fulfillment of prophecy and all that kind of stuff. But you got some Greek brothers across the track that walk that worship Jesus just like you. They sing different, they talk different. Exact different. Paul, I would be over here. Right on, right on, brother. You know You know those crazy handshake, you know how those bitch used to do. You know, you've got some brothers over here across the text. They talk different, they sing different, they you know but they love Jesus just the way you do. Why don't you leaders sometimes get together? And eventually after a whole year, the leaders did come together. The leadership did come together. Well the problem is when you bring these two congregations together, whose identity is going to be predominant? Will it be Jewish or Greek? Somebody said, Hey, I got an idea, why would you choose an umbrella identity? Well what what well what is your suggestion? Why do we call ourselves Christians? Ah, that's a good idea. So they were called Christians for the first time in Antioch. And that was the identity that they all tied into. So you had a church in in uh in Antioch. Antioch that had the spiritual or the cultural diversity without the spiritual unity. But when they got into the spiritual unity, watch what happens. The Church of Antioch then became the sending church for Paul and Barnabas and later Paul and Silas. And they reached many, many, many people. throughout Asia Minor, uh Macedonia and Italy and all over the place, even Spain perhaps, uh, because of that ministry. The Church of Antioch was doing okay. But when they did it God's way, their power and their and their administration was multiplied unseen times. Acts 13, one, we'll we'll look at the session. The confederated session. Oh no, this is the Presbyteria, alright? And this is this is very interesting. Here's the Presbyterian. All right. All right. In the Church of Antioch there were some prophets and teachers. Barnabas, now we know about Barnabas, right? He was an ethnic Jew and was of Jewish culture. Alright? Simeon, called the black man. Now he was one of those African guys that would stand up. Okay, no, he wasn't a Jew, but he was a Christian. Lucius and Cyrene, another one of those African guys, right? Okay, so he was an ethnic Greek and was out of Greek Manion, who was Bebernor Herodsaw's brother. Manion was an interesting guy. He was an ethnic Greek, but he was brought up as a Jew. And Saul, who was an ethnic Jew. who was raised in Greek culture. And that was the the Presbytery. You see, they had different congregations, but they had a relationship there. And I would suggest to you that they were able to share insights back and forth. one another. And when the Church of Antioch was able to send out Barnabas and Saul, they really sent a team out that had the whole waterfront covered. I think that's the challenge we face today. I think one of the reasons why the church in America is so anemic is because we do not fellowship with one another cross culturally. We don't work with one another cross culturally. We we allow culture to become our idol, become our God, and it separates us. Hey, it's great to have cultural diversity. There's all kinds of I praise the Lord for uh my studies at Westminster Seminary. It certainly wasn't uh uh in the context of the culture I grew up in, but I learned some things. And I'm sure they learned some things at Westminster too. I know when I left Westminster everybody was saying Amen in class You know, I was the first one. But I I think that's one of the wonderful things that I I think it's a tremendous thing to see how God's grace works in various cultures in various ways. It's a tremendous thing to see. And I think we're really missing out on something. I think that's a challenge that the church here in Columbia faces. That's a challenge that we face in Bulgarian. And I think that we need to really begin to think along those lines if we really want to see God do mighty things through us. Prayer for unity and cultural diversity. That's the challenge we face today. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this time together and we pray that you will, by your grace and by your power, and by your spirit, cause us to have the kind of outreach and impact that the churches of Jerusalem and Antioch have. In Jesus' name. Amen