Amen. It's been a joy to be part of the preaching team during this time. And um this week they they said you can preach on anything you want to preach on. We're not in a series at all. So this is a kind of a single sermon. And um I thought about one of my favorite passages, maybe one of your favorite passages, John chapter 4. It's a It's a great story about Jesus, his one-on-one interaction with a woman at a well. And you probably might know that story. And uh we'll talk about it a little bit, but we're going to look more at what happens after that story. Because that's where I really want to go with what happens after that incident. The Gospel of John. John was the beloved disciple who leaned on Jesus. During the Last Supper. This story of the Samaritan woman is only in the Gospel of John. It's not in the other three Gospels. John wrote his Gospel after the other three. Just a little bit of background. The disciples, okay, they've been down in Jerusalem and down south in Jerusalem, and they're heading up north to Galilee, okay? And uh this is the first part of the chapter, and So that's and so they have they go through this area called Samaria, which is between Galilee and Judea. They go through Samaria And uh and Jesus has this one-on-one conversation. Let's pick up, I want to pick up the story at verse 25, where he's been going back and forth, and he's been uh challenging her and about living water. And she begins to speak, let me take a swig of water right here, as a matter of fact. Living water. And she picks up, he's talking not just about literal water, but spiritual. More that her spiritual thirst might be be quenched. And and the conversation moves on. And then in verse 25, let's pick it up right there. The uh NIV translation today. The woman said, I know that Messiah called Christ is coming. When he comes, he will explain everything to us. Then Jesus declared, I who speak to you, am He. Just then the disciples returned and were surprised to find him talking with the woman. But no one asked, What do you want? Or why are you talking with her? Then leaving her water jar, the woman went back to town and said to the people, Come, see a man who told me everything I ever did. Could this be the Christ? They came out of the town and made their way toward him. Meanwhile, his disciples urged him, Rabbi, eat something. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you know nothing about. Then his disciples said to each other, could soon have blood and food? My food, said Jesus, is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work Do you not say four months more and then the harvest? I tell you, open your eyes and look at the fields. They are ripe for harvest. Even now the reaper draws his wages. Even now he harvests the crop for eternal life, so that the sower and reaper may be glad together. Thus the saying, one sows and another reaps, is true. I sent you to reap what you have not worked for. Others have done the hard work, and you have reaped the benefits of their labor Many of the Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me everything I ever did. So When the Samaritans came to him, they urged him to stay with them, and he stayed two days. And because of his words, many more became believers. They said to the woman, We no longer believe just because of what you said. Now we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this man really is the Savior of the world. God's word. Let's pray. Let's pray. But we just thank you for this portion of your word. Lord, I pray you would use it in each of our lives to To sanctify us, to draw us closer to Jesus, to encourage us, challenge us, rebuke us, whatever needs to happen, Lord, as we walk with you in our lives. Lord, I pray that we would Most of all, we would know that you have provided for us living water, that which satisfies us, that we might satisfy others. In Jesus' name. Amen. My title is interesting. It's the Spirit of Jesus or the Spirit of Jonas. The question mark The Spirit of Jesus or the Spirit of Jonah? Where did I get that from? Well, the Spirit of Jesus. I'm thinking about Acts chapter 1, verse 8, where It says that the Spirit will come, and you'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the world. The Spirit moves us out into mission. And that that that's a that's the promise in the book of Acts, that the Spirit comes and they're gonna be people of mission. In fact, that's often called the Luke's version, Acts version of the Great Commission. You heard that phrase, the Great Commission, probably. Several commissions in each of the in the in the New Testament But then the spirit of Jonah, you you might know the story of Jonah. You probably know that in that book there's a there's a big fish, and Jonah spent some time with that big fish You may know that that was discipline from God. You may know that uh that God had said go this way. He said he went that way because he didn't want to go that way, because he didn't like those people, and so he ended up in the fish. And then there's a revival that takes place because after he's in the fish and gets regurgitated on dry land, he says, okay, God, I'll go. And so he goes and he preaches a very loving message that said, God's going to burn you up if you don't repent. That was his message, essentially. And they did. The whole city of this great city of Nero. They repent. They come to God. So he's a great missionary who's going to be excited about God using his message, right? Well, no, there's the fourth chapter. You remember that fourth chapter of Jonah? He's sitting on a hillside looking at the city, hoping that their repentance is only temporary. Hoping that eventually God would burn them up. So God has to deal with Jonah. There's a spirit in Jonah that's an ugly spirit. It's not a spirit that wants people from all over the world, all people of the world to know the Lord our God. It's a spirit that says I really don't like those people. I hope you, God, don't like those people. I don't want those people to get saved because of their history, because they've done some things with our ancestors and forefathers. So God. Actually, he knows. He even says in that chapter, chapter 4, God, I didn't want to go because I knew you. I knew you loved those people. I knew you would save them. He didn't want them saved. That's the spirit of Jonah. We talked about the Great Commission. I call this the Great Rejection. He rejects those people. He's rejecting those other people. Now, here's the good news. The good news is that God, in chapter 4, he kind of works with Jonah. He says, Jonah, look, listen to it. Watch this, Jonah. God begins to disciple Jonah, trying to get him to understand this. We're going to see that in John 4, Jesus does the same thing with his disciples who have that spirit of Jonah. And see, the good news is that most of us have a little bit of Jonah in us. Right? Most of us have some people, those other people who we don't care much for. The good news is that God cares for them and God works with us, giving us more of a heart. For people not like us. See, the primary agenda of God is to patiently move to challenge our cultural comforts. And move us into cross-cultural mission. God wants us into cross-cultural mission. And that's not just overseas somewhere. God wants to move us to have a heart for people who are not like us. Who it may be a little more difficult and complicated to share the good news with them. So I've got four movements in this passage. Verse 28 and the following is kind of the end of the story with the woman as As um you see that she comes to understand who Jesus is. Jesus is, I who speak to you and he, I am the Messiah that you you and your people have been longing for. And so she leaves her water jar. to go talk to people in town. Now the fact that she left her water jar probably means she didn't she was coming back. She wasn't just startled because the disciples were coming. She was coming back. She she intentionally went to go get people to tell them. This is a sign of of regeneration that she wanted that that that she had experienced Jesus for real and now she went to tell people about it. One of the great Signs that a person truly has come to Jesus. I want to give this woman a name. Let's call her Juanita. Juanita. I don't like saying the Samaritan woman. Let's give her a name. My name. Juanita is a Samaritan, which means it's there's some there's some history there. She's kind of a half-breed from Judaism. She's kind of a they have they're kind of a cult if I can put it there. They have some distortions of the of the Old Testament faith. They had the they had this they believed the first five books, that's all they believed. So she was a Samaritan. There was great antagonism between the Jews and the Samaritans. Juanita is a woman. She's a woman. Second class in that culture for short. She's an outcast. There's a cultural clue here that you need to know. It tells that she tell us that she was there the sixth hour. That was noon. That was it was the this was the time she came to the well at noon. The norm In agrarian cultures like this, religious cultures, is it um the women would go about nine o'clock in the morning to get the water for the day. And they all gathered together. It was a social time, okay? How was your night? How'd your kids? Your kid was sick. How's he doing? It was a social time to gather with the other women. She doesn't gather with the other women. She comes at noon. She's a social outcast. Jesus in the interaction says, give me a drink. Jesus sees her as an image bearer. Just think of it. Jesus, the Son of God, says, we share something in common. I'm thirsty, you're thirsty. He he he so he sees her as an image. So often when we are sharing our faith, We don't look for common ground. Look, if Jesus can find common ground, I think we can too, amen. Yeah, he sees her as an image bearer. She's a risk taker. Juanita is a risk taker. We know that she's got multiple men that she's had relationships with. Takes a l you know, it takes a lot to get back off uh get back after you've had some failures. She takes risks. She's a seeker. She's looking for love in all the wrong places. She's a seeker. Maybe she's seeking more than just the love of men. But towards the end of the discussion, we find that she's a real she is religiously informed. She knows a lot about religion, about Awesome was the true mountain, Zion and Jerusalem, down in J Judea? Where the Jews said was the proper place to worship. They had their temple there. Or Mount Gerizim, where the Samaritans had their worship. The great debate, which is the right place? She knows about that. She also knows that the Messiah is coming. The Messiah is coming. He'll tell us all things. So Juanita's a very interesting person. In contrast, by the way, to John chapter 3, this man Nicodemus, this religious ruler who was the the real opposite of her. It's funny how John in his story has this This religious man, very upper class kind of, but respectable guy. And then you have John Four, this woman. But Juanina is so excited that she leaves her bucket to go get others. And this is a sign of her conversion. She's apparently repented. She believes that Jesus is the longed-for Messiah. Next in verses 31 and 38, we see the rebuke. The rebuke. The dialogue in 31 and 38 is quite stunning. It's stunning. Let me read some of it again. 31 to 38. Disciples say, eat something. He says, I have food to eat that you don't know about. They say, what are you talking about? You've got some food? They say, well, did someone bring in food? Maybe that woman brought us some food. They don't know what's going on It says my food to do the will of God. My food, that which strengthens me, that which energizes me, that which charges me up, is not just food I get charged up by doing something else, by seeing people come to know God the Father. And so he says in verse 35. Four months more and then the harvest, you say? I tell you, open your eyes and look at the the fields. They are ripe for harvest. I believe that as he says that he says, open your eyes and he says, turn around, and the woman is coming. With people that she's brought from the city of Sikar. It's a stunning dialogue. Now, why this rebuke We need to understand a lot something about the geography. And I talked a little bit about it, but this is even more. Again, I said that up in Galilee, the northern province, is where, you know, the Sea of Galilee and where Jesus had had much of most of his ministry. You have Samaria in the middle, and you have Judea, Jerusalem, Bethany, those areas down south where Jesus you go down for temple and for things like that uh uh during the pilgrimage. But he did most of his ministry up north, okay? Um on the east side was the Jordan River, okay And the norm for people, the Jewish people, who had a lot of, there was a lot of cousins and uncles and grandmas up in Galilee and Judea, a lot of Jewish people The norm was not to go the straight route through Sikar and Samaria. The norm was to go around the Jordan River into the Perea area. And then come back towards Jerusalem. Why? They didn't want to go step on Samaritan territory. That's the depth of the antagonism that they had with the Samaritan, those Samaritan dogs, as they called them. In fact, you might remember John the Baptist had a ministry of baptism for forgiveness for confess people to confess their sins, and he and he had that ministry. Outside the Jordan River, because that's where the highway was. That's where people were traveling more. Okay? Now why do I go into all that? Because if you have a Bible, look at verse 4. It's startling when you read the Bible. It says this. And John wrote this later. He says, now he had to go through Samaria. See, the bottom line is the norm was not to go through Samaria. The norm was to go around. You didn't want to touch Samaria. But John, looking back, says Jesus had to take us through Samaria. Let's assume let's imagine that you live in Glen Burney. And your grandma, so your mama lives in Towson. And you want to go to grandma's house. You put your GPS in. GPS says you can take 695 that way, 695 that way, key bridge, you can take uh tunnel, whatever, but you can get you can get up north that way. But there's also another route you can take. You can you can kinda you know, Russell Street and you're you go through by by the stadiums and you around Pratt Street and you kinda wig your way through you and and you you you kinda go up Charles Street And yes, and and and now there's a lot of re there's a lot of reasons why it's preferable to go around. Right? You all know them. I know them. Lots of reasons But Jesus says, no John says Jesus had to take him through Charles Street. Jesus, why you got to go that way? Why do you have to go that way? No one goes that way. Look, why did Jesus send the disciples into the city? Why didn't he go along with them? Did he send him in t to get lunch? Okay. He says that in verse eight Did he send them in because he wanted he knew he had the conversation with the woman at the well? That's true. But that's not the primary reason, I believe. Though those are good reasons. The primary reason. is because Jesus Jesus is not interested only in hungry bellies of the disciples. He's even more importantly interested in the hungry hearts of the Samaritan people. That's Jesus. That's our Jesus. And the disciples are like many of us, aren't they? They're Orthodox. They're committed to Jesus. But when a situation in a situation like this they're interacting outside of their own comfort zone, their familiar environment culturally. somehow the the spirit of Jonah begins to rear its ugly head. Again, remember, Jonah writing this story because the other few gospels didn't put it in there. I think about that quite often. Now Matthew was writing his own gospel. Mark is writing the gospel of Peter, who discipled him. Maybe Matthew and Peter were just too embarrassed about this story to put it in their gospels. Luke did research in his gospel. Maybe in his research, no one told him this story. I think the 12 were really embarrassed by this. They didn't want this story out. But by the Spirit of God, by the Holy Spirit, John, he puts it here for us to see. See, the twelve, like most of us, are molded by the great rejection, that spirit of Jonah. Culture seems to always swallow up our theology, doesn't it? We know the Bible says this, but our cultural comfort gets in the way. Yesterday at Faith Christian as well, there was a funeral I I got the privilege of doing the eulogy of a woman named uh Karen. Um Um she and her husband Kevin had a an amazing church journey. They they they came to Christ in a church that that was that is very, very Afrocentric. They're African Americans. Then they became part of a church that is absolutely anti-Afrocentric. It's a very Anglo church. Most people would say it's fundamentalist. And they eventually ended up at the faith, Christian Fellowship and became a balance, a real spiritual home for them. But their journey showed that they were able to press against that comfort thing, that spirit of Jonah. They just wanted a place where the Bible was proclaimed. They believed in the brotherhood of all who know Christ. And they lived it out. They leaned into that truth. Sadly, this is very rare. Very rare. Most followers of Jesus are more like Jonah than like Jesus. We fall back into our own cultural comfort so easily. So we see Jesus rebuke of his disciples, telling them that God has planted seeds there. Let's talk about the revival. Verses 39 to 41. 39 to 41. Many of the Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the women's testimony. He told me everything he ever did. So when Samaritans came to him, they urged him to stay with them, and he stayed two days. He stayed extra time. Because of the words, many more became believers. So Juanita returns with this harvest from the city of Sikar. So Jesus goes into town and they urge him to stay. He stays two extra days. And I imagine the disciples said, oh no. You know, stay two more days early feeling uncomfortable. Listen. God reached Nineveh despite the reluctance of Jonah. And God is reaching Sikar, the city of Samaria, despite the reluctance of the twelve. God is seeking worshipers, those who will worship him in spirit and in truth. And he wants to do it through people. Jesus reminds them the Spirit has gone before them planting gospel seeds. Others have planted seeds. Reminds me of 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Paul said, I planted, Apollos watered, God gave the growth. Neither he who plants nor he who ourseth anything, but only God who gives the growth. Our responsibility is just to be available to the Holy Spirit. to be open to the fact that God can use use us to reach anyone if we're open to anyone as the Spirit leads us. Mid to go. Willing and able and eager to be used by by God In our urban ministry cohort for the seminary, we had um a few weeks ago a guest uh on on the zoo on our Zoom meeting with our urban ministry students. His name is Bill Crispin. He's a long time um urban uh church planter in the Philadelphia area. He's been he's been at it longer than Craig and I. He's been at it for a long time. And um he we he just told us his testimony and told us gave us some of his wisdom. One of the things that was the fascinating stories of his life was how he was at Westminster Seminary back in 1968. And he was planting, he moved into the hood, into South Philly, to plant a church. To his home. So he and his wife had a house and they began to have you know Bible study. Evolved into a church. He had some youth many things going on. It happened real quick in a couple of months He told a story about one day he got a knock on the door and he said there was a a six foot eight African American man standing there who said, Why are you here? He said, he said, uh uh I'm here to to plant a church. Because of course the word of God now that he was planting a church. And this six foot eight tall black man said, oh, so you're going to be like those other white guys who come to the city thinking that God's not already here. And Bill Christmas says he was so convicted. And he let that man disciple him and show him the city and show him the places where God was at work in the city of Philadelphia. And God used Bill Crispin to to a Christian school and a theological education over the years. But he says it began because he humbled himself to know that he didn't know it all. And he needs to come under others because God had already planted seeds in Philadelphia. He wasn't coming as the great Messiah, the great savior He's coming to participate with what God was already doing in the city. And so revival takes place in the city of Sikar. And because of that, look at verse 42. They said to the woman, We no longer believe just because of what you said. Now we have heard for ourselves. We know that this man really is the savior of the world. He's not just the savior for Jews, not just the savior for Samaria. He is the savior of the world. They understood because of the crossing of this cultural, this deep cultural chasm, they said this Jesus is the savior of the world. In verses 23 and 24, Jesus told this woman that the Father is seeking true worshipers from every tribe and tongue. People who will worship him in spirit and in truth. We see that depicted in Revelation. Of course, written by the same John, the same writer Who paints that picture of a vast array of multilingual, multi-ethnic, multicultural worshippers? Revelation 7, 9 to 10. John says, after this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne, before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands. crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. The Savior of the world. And that's what that's that that picture is is where we're headed. The body of Christ is headed to that place where all will be the Lamb's throne. John 17. John shares that prayer that Jesus had. After the upper room experience where he prays for the unity among his followers who are going to be different. He prays they'd be united, that the world would see that unity. Acts chapter 11. You might remember that it says in the city of Antioch, the disciples were first called Christians. Before that, they were They were followers of the way. They were followers of Messiah Jesus. They were this Jewish cult. But in Antioch, Luke shows us that something different was happening. This wasn't just Jewish. There was a major Gentile population that became part of the church. It was no longer just a messianic synagogue. It was a different kind of a thing. And what brought them together? It was Jesus Christ. So they were first called Christians. Christ became the key, not their Jewish roots. In Ephesians, where Paul in chapters 2 and 3 talks about the unity of the body of Christ, he ends that section with a prayer. A prayer for the Christian church and for the Christian mission. And in that prayer, he talks about God being able to do far more abundantly all that we can ask or think because of this unite, this unity. That's taking place in the church if the church is doing what the church ought to be doing. The unity of the body of Christ. Embracing all the divides of our broken world. In 1933, British author James Hilton published Lost Horizon. a novel about a mysterious fictional utopia named Shangri-La. Over time the term became synonymous with idyllic but isolated places. In 1962, Shangri-La became the code name for a secret proposal to build a 15,000-acre community in a rural Howard County called Columbia, Maryland. The creator of that secret proposal was James Rouse, a Maryland native who dreamed that Columbia would be a garden for the growing of a people. Ralph was a staunch believer in the possibilities of positive social impact resulting from the responsible and ethical development of cities. Rouse wished for people to engage with the built environment in such a way as to promote unity and community. Rouse sought to create a culturally diverse city. It's a great vision. And maybe to some degree Colombia has become that. But I have a feeling that there's much more to do. Because I know people. I know people are by nature we w we lean more into that spirit of Jonah than the spirit of Jesus. And I know that the ultimate utopia, the ultimate shalom that God wants is through his church, because there's the power to pull it off. Because it's a supernatural thing. It's not normal to want to cross barriers. It's not normal to want to be uncomfortable. It's just not. What are some of the comfort barriers that we face today in our world? Well, ethnicity Definitely is a big barrier. There's the gender barrier. Sometimes men, women, there's a rift there. There's age. Sometimes old people don't like young people. Young people like old people. Isn't that true? If you're parents, you understand that. Temperament. Sometimes people are just different. And you just don't get along with people because they're just different than you. They have a different way of looking at life. They're just, you know, you're you're the extrovert person. This person's just kind of quiet. They're temperamental. They're just and you just don't get it. You can't, you know, that's that's a barrier. You'd rather be around being around people who are like you. Socioeconomic status, that's a big one. That's a big one in our society. Physical capacity. You know, think about the fact that that much of Jesus' ministry was was dealing with people's bodies. The deaf, the blind, the mute. People have physical infirmities. Mental and emotional capacities. You know, it's uncomfortable being around people who kind of have emotional issues or mental issues. It's not easy, is it? You'd rather not. I'd rather not. But God brings him into our life to disciple us, to transform us, to show us that we need to depend more on his spirit. And not on our own natural self, that spirit of Jonah, which is a natural spirit. Oh, there's the issue of political opinion. That's a big divide, isn't it? Particularly in our world today I can't I I I can't be unified with someone with a different position on on politics. Education You know, you can't I can't deal with someone who just doesn't understand and someone who's not not not educated. I can't deal with people who who can't read and can't, you know. That that's a major barrier. Look, in our world today, especially with social media, it is so easy to find those who are just like us Who believe just like us, who feel just like us, and to sit in our comfortable space and have our nice, safe conversations as we condemn those other guys. Who just don't get it like we do. It's the spirit of Jonah, folks. What does unity look like? What does gospel witness look like? What does it mean to lean into the Spirit of God? Songwriter says this. Got a wife and kids in Baltimore, Jack. Went out for a ride and never went back. Like a river that don't know where it's flowing. I took a wrong turn and I just kept going. I met her in Kingstown Bar. We fell in love. I knew it had to end. We took what we had and we ripped it apart. Now here I am again. Here I am down in Kingstown again. Everybody needs a place to rest. Everybody wants to have a home. Don't make no difference what nobody says. Ain't nobody like to be alone. Maybe you don't know that song. Maybe you do. Of course. Everybody's got a hungry heart. Everybody's Got a hungry heart. Lay down your money and you play your part. Everybody's got a hungry, hungry, hungry heart. It's an old but still very reliable truth from Bruce Springsteen, the boss, is how do we respond to the diverse world around us? A world of hungry people. Not hungry because people are good. Not hungry because people by nature seek God. Hungry because God, the Holy Spirit, is working in people. Prompting them with curiosity. Do we wonder if maybe the spirit just might be working in the other person's life Or ready to plant more seeds? To maybe even be a harvester of seeds that have been planted. The good news is that God is seeking true worshipers from all peoples of the world. He wants to involve us so we might feel the blessing that comes from being used by him in his great mission. But like Jonah and like the 12, God is also concerned about sanctifying us, molding us in this process. So Saints, let's repent. Do we so easily reflect the divisive Jonah spirit? Let's ask the Lord to help us lean into that spirit of Jesus. Let's pray. Well, thank you that you're a God who works in incredible ways. You work in spite of us. But you have a incredible love for all people. Sometimes that boggles our mind. Hakik love so-and-so. You're a God who who who seeks people, who prompts people. And yet you want to use us as the means by which they might come to know you. I pray you'd use uh this message in our lives to remind us that you're a gracious God, that even in our In our weakness and in our poor spirit, you work with us. Do your work with us, Holy Spirit. Mold us, shape us. Show us on a day-by-day basis what it means to just be a vessel in people's lives But we we've come as sinners, and yet we know that you invite sinners to come to you. So we do that now as we begin to celebrate this Lord's Supper in Jesus' name. Amen.