We begin the last section and the last posture in the book of Ephesians, chapter six, verse ten to the end. And notice how Paul begins the section. The first word in your translations is what? Finally, and I know that there are more than a few of you who can strongly identify with that word. Finally, 95th message on this I got back from vacation and found on my desk somebody had placed there a couple of sheets that said that uh this was an excerpt from the Religious News Network of May 26th. the year 2010, in which it was talking about how there was uh some research done and showed that uh by that year Uh the Columbia Presbyterian Church had changed its name to Columbia Church, the Ephesians Church, because I had set a new record in the number of messages on Ephesians after finishing the first series by July 2002, which is about right, that I've noticed there were some questions and so began to review some material and found that there were less than 20 people who had been here since the beginning of the series. And so after some questions and new material began the series once again. And after going through it the second time, we began to develop a website on it and some study materials and uh then began to realize there was some real confusion about Ephesians and we started the next series a third time through and we're up to 350 messages and counting. And I understand that, uh, you know, that's that's fun because a number of you just kinda like kid me about how long I spend on Ephesians. Well, um, you might look at this last section and say, but we're about there. I mean, you only got eleven more verses. For goodness sake, how long can you talk about eleven verses? Well, let me uh put your mind at ease. Um these have been ver some of the most intensely studied passage uh verses in scripture The classic study on it probably was done by William Gurnal in the 17th century called The Christian in Complete Armor, and uh that devotional study of this goes over eleven hundred pages. Martin Lloyd Jones, who preached more sermons on Ephesians in the 1950s than Oliver planned to preach, published eight volumes. of those sermons after the um series because people thought it was so worthwhile. Two full volumes of the eight are on these verses So two whole volumes on Ephesians chapter six verse ten to the end. Very important passage. In fact, the fifth message that I ever preached to you as a congregation, uh of which there's probably only a couple of you here, back in October fifteenth, nineteen seventy-eight, when we were still Columbia Presbyterian Fellowship and just a group of people gathered Uh the fifth message was on Ephesians chapter six. Uh these verses on where would Satan likely attack us as a church. We're just forming at that point. Twentieth anniversary, October nineteen ninety-eight, I preached two messages. One of these verses, looking at where Satan would likely attack us at that point. Now in the year 2001, I'm planning to go through it verse by verse. This fall, I plan to do nine messages. on the first four verses, verses ten to thirteen. A lot of material there. It's kind of a a foundation We'll be looking at some of general material on Satan and demons and the rest of that. And then we will take a break Because of other things that we will need to get to in November, December, January, February, March. We won't get back to it till April when we look at the particular pieces of uh armor and then the two weapons, five defensive. two offensive weapons uh in April and then, Lord willing, we will actually finish the book by the summer. Now as you again look at that first word there, finally, and you think we've got a long ways to go before the finally is final, that word is important for another reason. That word gives you a clue that this is the beginning of a new section And it's important to see how this section fits into the rest of the book of Ephesians. So what I want to do this morning is just two points. I want to look backwards at the whole book of Ephesians to see the context of this section. So if you haven't been with us for the series, give you just a little bit of a taste. And there was a message I did back in the spring that really gave an overview of Ephesians. So if you're interested, you can get the tapes on that But then I want to secondly go forward and give you kind of an overview of these eleven verses, verses ten to twenty, to see the big picture, lay it all out, the overview this morning, and then beginning next week looking at it bit by bit. Remember that the book of Ephesians is about the four postures of the Christian life. You remember that Paul began in chapters one and two in the first half of three to talk to us about what it means. To be seated with Christ, what it means to sit as a Christian. The first thing that you need to learn to do as a Christian is to sit. Because he talks to you there about the finished work of Christ, the gospel. Remember back in chapter 1 in verse 3 Paul said, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. And he talks about those blessings. He unpacks those in the next couple chapters. He says that you were dead, spiritually dead, in your sins, in the way that you used to walk, in your self-gratification. All of your life centered on yourself, following the prince of this air and of this world in disobedience, that you were under God's wrath, but that out of his mercy, he made you alive. He raised you up with Christ in his resurrection. He forgave you fully your sin. He not only forgave you your sin, but you're not even on probation with a clean slate to see how you'll do now. He gave you, Paul says, Christ's righteousness. You are blameless in his sight. And so God has not only given you a clean record, not only given you the righteousness of Christ, but relationally, he says, He adopted you as his children. You belong to him. Just as we adopted Sean and Samuel this morning into our family, far more God has brought you right into his household. He has made you his children He's made you precious in his sight. It says in chapter 1 that Jesus was raised from the dead, chapter 2, verse 6. We were raised with him. He was seated In the heavenly realms. You and I are seated with him. And you can't really fathom all of what that means, can you? I mean, how does your mind grasp how precious you are to God in the gospel? And so the second thing he does is says, you need to learn to kneel. He says in chapter 3, verse 13, I get down on my knees and I ask God that he would give to you a sense of his power and his presence and his love. That you would say, Lord, open my eyes. And remember we talked about how I suggested that every day you think about doing this and if you did it for a while and maybe got out of it, maybe it's a good time to get back. into that for a little while. You wake up in the morning, you say, Lord, as I lay here, I want to remind myself that I am resting in your finished work, your righteousness this day. It's not what I do, not what I earn. It doesn't matter how I live this day, I have the righteousness of Christ by faith. I get up, kneel by the bed, say, Lord, give me the mind to be able to understand your power, your presence. the length, the height, the depth, the width of the love of Christ, this thing. Then you'll teach me something about your love. My mind will be open to grasp it. Then you walk into the bathroom and you say, Now I'd learn to I want to learn to walk in your ways. Remember chapter 4, verse 1. It was a pivotal verse where Paul talks about as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you that you would live a life. The word literally there is that you would walk, and in your Bibles it probably says worthy But we talked about how that word worthy is the Greek word axios, which means to bring a scale into equilibrium. So Paul says at the very middle of this book, this precious book, he says Now he says, what I want you to see is I've talked to you about the weight of glory, all that you are and have in Jesus Christ by faith, nothing that you do to gain it. Free gift offered to you in Christ. If you've never received that, I sure hope that you will today. Not go another day without Christ in your life. He says, now having done that, he says, now what I want to do is urge you that you will walk in equilibrium to your new identity and privileges of being seated with Christ. So then he begins to talk about how you do that. He talks about what it means to live in the body, so that you live in the body, learning how to speak the truth in love in cells and in various fellowship uh formats so that you're able to to speak the truth in love to one another. He then talks about the holy life that you live. He talks about putting off the old self-serving nature, putting on that new God-glorifying nature. Putting on a whole new way of thinking and acting. Seven times, seven ways he talks about putting off the old nature, putting on the new nature. That's the walking. Seven times he uses the word walk. Learn how to walk. Third posture. this book. Learn how to walk. Walk in walking out of the gospel, you see. Walking in your new identity. The seventh of those is putting off artificial stimulants and putting off the stimulation of the Spirit, putting on the Holy Spirit. Who gives you true joy, true power. And he talks about how the Spirit gives you this new power and joy in three relationships. Remember now we're moving into chapter five, where he talks about marriage, parenting, and work. Husbands, wives, children, sons, daughters, moms, dads, workers, supervisors He says, this is the way the Spirit gives to you, a new attitude, whereby you serve other people rather than trying to domineer them and control them. That's by the Spirit. Now, after he's finished all that, you see, we just finished that in chapter 6, verse 9. You look at that, maybe your mind's reviewing some of this stuff and been going over, and you say, you know, I've been trying to do that stuff. And it seems like I take two steps forward and one step back. I try to apply what you're talking about. I know I've got an evil heart But it seems like every time I determine, Lord, I'm going to trust you, I'm going to rest in you, I'm going to try and be a better wife or husband or son or daughter. Worker, supervisor, mom, dad, whatever it is. All these things, tongue control, I'm gonna try not to gossip, not to twist the truth for my own benefit, build up rather than take down Love rather than bitterness. You remember all those things. And you look at those things and you say, Why is it that I find it so hard to do it Where is the power of the gospel in my life? I'm so disappointed, I'm so discouraged. Sometimes I wonder if it's even true And Paul says to you, finally, there's one more thing I gotta talk to you about. Lest you give up, lest you're discouraged, lest you think that God's promises don't really have power behind them, Paul says, finally. One more thing we got to talk about. You haven't factored in the opposition that is set against you every single day That you live. And so he begins this section: Be strong in the Lord. And in his mighty power. Now this section has, and we're moving into the overview. This has three parts to it. So Michael, would you flip that up, please? And uh I want you to see, just so you can get a glance at this thing, just kind of the overview. Now, let me tell you I'm I'm out on a limb here again. This William Gurnell gives a different breakdown to this. Martin Lloyd Jones gives a different breakdown to this. This is the one that makes sense to me because I think it's the flow of Paul's thought. The three sections there are, you see, the what, the why, and the how. I don't know if you can see the how, but there's a green how down there. And so what Paul does is there are three controlling commands. Now, if you haven't noticed it already, I'm not following the order of the outline that you had there. I revised that whole outline. I've been studying this stuff since spring. On Thursday I revised the whole outline. Yesterday I took the whole thing, scrapped it again, rewrote the message. This is a tough passage to get a hold of. And I want to try and give you the best view. So Don't worry about the order of stuff, the data's there, but just listen to me and follow through as I'm trying to walk this through with you. Three commands that you see there in the red, they're in that first section. What is it that Paul tells you to do? First thing is to be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might or Literally, it is be continually empowered in the Lord and the might of his strength. Now, we're going to see next week that that's military language. And the Bible is full of military language. I believe that Christians today do not give enough acknowledgement to that. And so Paul is saying, you don't see what you're up against. You think that you can manage pretty well on your own to understand the gospel and to live the Christian life, to live out of it, and then you're surprised when you fail. Maybe you're surprised because you don't know how radically evil and self-centered your heart is. I'm continually discovering that to my horror and amazement, how radically self-centered, how radically cold my heart is toward the Lord. But in addition to that, there is an external enemy. Who is seeking at every point to resist your faith, your desire to love Jesus, your desire to love other people? And when you begin to understand your heart Then you realize how very weak you are and how very much you need strength. How is it then that you begin to lay hold of his strength? He says, put on. The armor of God. So the first thing is be strong in the Lord and his mighty power, then put on the full armor of God. That's how you gain his strength. Now, armor is not something that we identify with very easily, right? I mean, when's the last time you put on your sword and buckler and helmet, you know, maybe some of you feel like you need that in the jobs that you have, but you probably don't actually wear that stuff. So it's sort of quaint to us, until you begin to understand your heart and the opposition against you. Just yesterday I was reading a book by John Eldridge, where he talks about uh going out on uh the lovely East River, not in one in New York, but uh in Colorado And doing some fly fishing, and he said it was a summer evening, and I was just really getting into it. And I first couple of casts. And he said, I sense the Lord saying to me, John, put down your rod I want to talk to you. I want to spend some time with you. Now he says, was I delighted at that invitation? He said, no, I was irritated He said, Lord, how about in the car on the way back? You know, I'm really kind of getting into this now. Could you sort of hang on? He said, then all of a sudden I looked at my heart and I realized what an addict I am to my pleasures. Satan takes the most wonderful things, the pleasures of our lives, and twists them to become idols. And when you know the susceptibility of your heart, you begin to understand the kind of adversary you have that will twist everything in your life. To drive a wedge between you and Jesus, to put you back into bondage, rather than the freedom that Christ offers. Then you say, Could you tell me again about that armor? I mean after the first message I had somebody come back and I said, We gotta wait till April to find out how to put on the armor What are you accusing us? No, no, no. It's just gotta work out that way. Hang on. You can read it yourself. But you know, when we understand our hearts in the opposition Then we're interested in the armor because the armor enables us to do the third thing so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. The devil is scheming. And you and I need to stand against him. Four times he says stand. So that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes, down there in verse 13, so that you may be able to stand your ground and after you've done everything to stand. Verse 14, stand firm then. So four times Paul says, you need to stand. That's the fourth posture of the Christian life. What does it mean to stand? It means that you're in a struggle and you need to resist. And we'll look at that in a couple of weeks and unpack that word stand. But right now all I want you to see is that Paul is here talking about A struggle in which we need armor, we need strength in order to be stand, why able to stand. Why is that? And so the second section deals with the why. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, it's not against people and circumstances, but it really is against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore, put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground and after you have done everything to stand. What's he saying? Paul is saying, you need his strength, his armor to be able to stand, because you are in a deadly pitched battle with demons. You have an enemy more crafty and powerful than you can imagine who is out to destroy you and to destroy your family and to destroy your ministry. to destroy your integrity, to destroy your faith, to make you ineffective, depressed To drive any possible wedge and wall between you and Jesus Christ. And in our secular age, Satan's most common strategy. It's to cause you to ignore him, to forget about him, or to dismiss him. And so my job this fall is by God's grace and power out of his scriptures to convince you in your heart That every day you are in a pitched battle with demons. Not to scare you Not to frighten you, we will look at the victory of Jesus Christ that He has gotten over the evil one. Many Christians avoid talking about spiritual warfare because it's spooky. And he said, Well, you know, I don't want to start thinking about the devil and demons and all that kind of stuff. And I've known people who've gotten into that and they get kind of weird and man, that just seems like a road I don't want to go down, so I just kinda like You know, focus on the positive and walking in Jesus, and I'd really rather not get too involved in this kind of stuff. Now again, that's that's devil's schemes He wants to get you to not think about it. You don't need to be frightened. It's like water and fire. Have a healthy respect for it. But with Jesus Christ there is victory. He has defeated the evil one. And so you and I walk in his power, and we don't need to fear the devil. Amen? There's a difference between fearing him and having a healthy respect for the power that he has and how he wants to destroy you. So you see, what I want to do is to recapture That as a congregation, we are aware of spiritual realities. Martin Lloyd-Jones, in his two volumes, of all the messages he preached on this, observes that um through church history a good deal was written about Satan and his schemes and wiles and spiritual warfare and all that And you see that in the early church fathers, you see it in the Middle Ages, you see it in the Catholic mystics, you see it in the Reformation The classic work, as I mentioned, written on this, was by William Gurnell back in the seventeenth century, Christian in Complete Armor. You also have John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, which is basically a book about Satan and spiritual warfare. In fact he also wrote a Second volume, after Pilgrim's Progress, two volumes Pilgrim's Progress, but then also the Holy War, which is about that. A lot was written, he says, up until about 1880 Around 1880, literature, Christian literature on Satan and spiritual warfare all but disappeared. And why was that? Because around that time there was introduced into the church what has been called holiness teaching or victorious life movement, some of these things out of Keswick conferences, La Bible conferences. The emphasis of those conferences and that teaching was the way to live the victorious Christian life was simply to abide in Christ and to rest in him. And therefore, military language, the language of struggle and strife, was unspiritual. Now that was those who were still striving in the flesh. If you've really become mature as a Christian, You're just resting in him, letting the Spirit kind of move through you in a way where you're almost passive under his control. Now, Lloyd Jones says that was a very unhealthy movement, and that continued until you have around, well, the year 1941 is the next great piece of work on Satan. And that was by C. S. Lewis, called the Screwtape Letters. What's interesting is that when Lewis wrote that in order to once again bring the church's attention to Satan's schemes and his wiles and the rest of that. that most people who saw that, particularly it was in England, uh, that read that, thought he was kidding Thought he couldn't really be serious, that he thought there were literal demons who kind of played these things in our minds and did these things. That this was kind of a joke. It was all sort of a satire. But Lewis was deadly serious. Now, the good news is that since that time, people no longer laugh, and there's a lot more written about Satan. I have a stack of books about that high in my study on demonology, Satan, spiritual warfare, all these things from all kinds of angles, 15, 20 books. And I've been looking through and continue to look through as we go through this series. Bad news is they're not all very balanced. Some of the stuff that's being written today is, in my opinion, more superstitious than spiritual. And when we get into this, Satan wants to always get us twisted and bent in order to get off of the cross and get off of the mark of what it is that Paul is trying to instruct us in. So you and I very much need, I believe, in our time to look at this passage, to study it, to understand it, to see how it's uh working out in our lives, and to be aware that as we do this That Satan is likely to intensify his attacks upon us. Once you expose him That enrages him. Now, see, as Lewis said in the beginning of Screwtape Letters, the one thing Satan can't stand is to be ridiculed, because the essence of Satan is his pride. We don't need to be in craven fear. But I do appreciate a few of you who have said to me, Al, we're praying for you as you lead us through this series for God's protection. For you and for us as a congregation. And let me tell you, without trying to be dramatic or scary in any way, if you Begin with me to say, I want to understand the spiritual warfare and the battles that we are in. I want to understand that this fall. Then you can expect that there will be ways that you will see that that you would not choose Now why is it that you and I don't see this? Why is it that this still seems somewhat theoretical, and even as I'm talking to you, I'm saying there is there are demons that are around us trying to get you to write this off, to poo-poo it, to not take it seriously, to do whatever, but except to say I understand I need to be strong in the Lord, to put on the armor, to trust Christ, and to engage in the spiritual battle. Well, it's kind of like if you were sitting over in Centennial Park and you're there on the grass and you got there at dawn and You know, nobody's around, so it's perfectly quiet, and you're on the b on the edge of the lake and you're looking out and everything is quiet and peaceful. Don't hear anything, nobody's even walking their dogs yet. You don't hear anything. It's just quiet and peaceful. You breathe the air and you say it's so fresh and clean. And I say, do you realize that you are being bombarded by radio waves? I mean, do you realize And you got probably about seventy-five or eighty oh ra eighty radio stations that are coming through to you, you know, some dimmer, some short wave, some all kind And and boy, and what about the TV stations that are coming to you? Man, they're all around you, they're going all over, and you know, and then besides that, well the cell phones. Boy, you know think of all the conversations that are passing all around you that going every which way and you're oblivious to it and and then there's wireless internet you know and you and you know by the time I'm finished you're wondering that you can even breathe you know You say, Oh, I didn't know the air was so full of all this junk that's all just moving in there and I don't see it. Why don't you see it? Because you don't have a receiver So other stuff's there. It exists. But you need a receiver to detect it. And my job by the Spirit of God is for this fall to equip us spiritually with receivers To understand demonic activity, spiritual warfare, the power of Christ, and what's really going on in our lives. Now I encourage you to double the efforts of this series to consider memorizing the verses That you do that perhaps as a family project that you take together and you say, you know, we're going to take these verses and and uh just start this week with verse ten and you know it's not that long. Look at it. I mean, you know, you can Hey, you got all fall? And that's only down to verse thirteen, but you know, work your way through it. That could be really good, good and you go through that. You might go back to chapter five and, you know, work your way up But to memorize it is going to help you to see from God Himself what He is saying. And it'll help you to grasp this and to say, why did He say it this way and not that way? So the idea is that this fall we begin to receive, tune in to spiritual reality. To see that demons are real, that they are powerful, that they are cunning, and they are incredibly evil. That's what he says. Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Do you believe that? Some of us have experienced that more than others. In direct or indirect contact. But you know, he's also saying there that since you're in a spiritual battle, there's no neutrality in this battle Either you belong to Jesus in his army, and Satan is your declared foe Or you may think that you're neutral and you say, Well, you know, I I'm not against the Bible and Jesus and I just haven't come to a place where I feel like I really need to make that commitment. Maybe you're a kid, you're a teenager, and you say my mom and dad, but I you know I haven't really personally felt the need for Jesus. If you've never done that Then Satan has you in his kingdom. That's what Colossians says. And you're in bondage. Your eyes are blinded And you're an enemy of Christ. No matter what you think, you know, no not really. So the first question you need to ask is whose side are you on in this battle? There's a battle going on. Whose side are you on? Are you sure that you're on the side of Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ is a warrior. He has provided through his finished work life for you. But when you receive that life You are commissioned in his army. And things don't get easier. They get more difficult. Hate to tell you that, but they do. Because now Satan is set against you to destroy you. But you have the power and the presence of the risen Christ to protect you. The ironic thing is that today we live in a day that is nearly obsessed with the idea of adventure. Maybe it's because we live such boring lives and so many other things we do, but people are so obsessed with our adventure, you know. You know, the best-selling vehicle in the last ten years has been a sport utility vehicle. Now why Well, it's because of the ads that show these things up in the Tetons or on the edge of a cliff or out in a wilderness somewhere, and everybody looks at that and they say, yeah. Boy, do I identify that's where I'd like to be. Do you know that less than five percent of sport utility vehicles ever leave a road? But you see, it's the it's the image of adventure. Or you take TV sports You know, we root and we love these teams and we love the extreme sports and the stuff that we look at because we we love the vicarious sense of adventure, competition, winning, pitch battles, and the rest of that. We get all caught up in that. Do you know that if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, every day you're in a pitched battle against demons? Has that enough adventure for you? I mean, if you belong to Jesus Christ God needs to open your eyes and my eyes to see what we're involved in. To see that you and I are involved in a spiritual warfare. In which there is no neutrality, there are no prisoners of war, and that Jesus Christ has called you and me To be involved with him as the king, the champion, the victor, who is driving back the host of hell, who calls us to serve with him to know his power and his presence in this battle. And that battle is not just for missionaries in deep dark Africa. It is in your office, it is in your kitchen, it is before your computer screen, it is in your yard, it is right here. Brothers and sisters Are we up for the battle? You ready to enter into that and begin to see what it's all about and what it means to stand against The evil forces that would destroy us individually and corporately, and to know the power of Christ. But let's get started. Let's pray. Father, we ask that in Jesus' name you'd open our eyes that we might see spiritual reality. We would begin to see what you are doing in driving back the forces and the hosts of hell Lord, turn on our receivers that we might begin to understand demonic activity, that we might begin to understand that the struggle is not simply in our flesh, but it is in an external foe that wants to destroy us. And we begin to treasure your power and treasure the cross and treasure the armor that you supply, that we can stand and know that we can stand. We don't have to be intimidated by the evil one. We can stand in Jesus Christ and we can know victory and and uh we could know progress In walking and living out of the gospel that we have not known, as we begin to engage the enemy directly. Lord, we ask you to teach us and show us what this means. And to protect us even as we go forward. In Jesus' name. Amen.