It is a privilege to be with you. We've uh certainly have a privilege uh to have been in your fellowship before and certainly uh are Thankful the L way the Lord is working in your midst, even as we've heard this morning and in uh the lives of those who God is really calling to Himself. The scripture that I would like to read this morning is taken from the Old Testament in Exodus chapter thirty three. significant conversation that Moses has with God. We are picking up this conversation in the middle. It's a rather lengthy conversation. It begins back in chapter 32. And it says the conversation has taken place just following the time when God has brought them out of the land of Egypt. Delivered them out of slavery, delivered them from the hands of the Egyptians, and there at Mount Sinai They have forgotten all that God has done and worship a golden calf. And now Moses has a conversation with God Moses pleading with God, and the Lord speaks to Moses Moses pleading with well when God has said, I'm going to destroy these people, Moses said Please don't destroy them. And if you would even think of destroying them, rather destroy me, rather block my name out of the book of life It would be not enough just to start a new people from me, which God said he would do. That wouldn't be good enough. God says, All right, I won't destroy them. And we pick up that conversation in verse thirty three in chapter thirty-three. Then the Lord said to Moses, Depart and go up from here, you and the people. whom you have brought out of the land of Egypt to the land which I swore by Abraham. I'm reading from the New King James, I'm sorry. Isaac and Jacob say, To your descendants I give it, and I will send my angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanite and the Amorite, the Hittite, the Pharisee, the Hivite, and the Jebusite Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey, for I will not go up in your midst, lest I consume you on the way, for you are a stiff-necked people. When the people heard this bad news, they mourned, and no one put on his ornaments. For the Lord had said to Moses, Say to the children of Israel, You are a stiff-necked people, I would come up, I could come up into your midst in one moment and consume you. Now therefore take off your ornaments, that I may know what to do to you. So the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by Mount Forab. Moses took his tent and pitched it outside the camp, far from the camp, and called it the tabernacle of meeting. It came to pass that everyone who sought the Lord went out to be uh to the tabernacle of meeting, which was outside the camp. So it was whenever Moses went out to the tabernacle that all the people rose and each man stood at his tent door and watched Moses until he had gone into the tabernacle. And it came to pass when Moses entered the tabernacle that the pillar of cloud descended and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses. All the people saw the pillar of clouds standing at the tabernacle door, and all the people rose and worshipped each man in his tent. So the Lord spoke to Moses face to face. As a man speaks to his friend, and he would return to the camp, but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not depart from the tabernacle. Then Moses said to the Lord, See, you say to me, Bring up this people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, I know you by name. And you have also found grace in my sight. Now therefore, I pray, if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your way that I may know you, that I may find grace in your sight, and consider that this nation is your people. And he said, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. And then he said to him, If your presence does not go with us, do not bring us up from here. For how then Will it be known that your people and I have found grace in your sight, except you go with us? So we shall be separate, your people and I from all the people who are upon the face of the earth. So the Lord said to Moses, I will also do this thing that you have spoken, for you have found grace in my sight, and I know you by name. And he said, Please show me your glory. And then he said, I will make my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. But he said, You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live. And the Lord said, Here is a place by me. You shall stand on the rock, so it will be So it be shall be, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand while I pass by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back But my face shall not be seen. Thus ends the the reading of God's word. Space this morning of seeking God's glory As a way of speaking to each of us of our need of revival or a need of renewal The need of revival, a need of renewal, need of being brought back to life. We use the word revival of a perhaps of a of a play or an artistic work or a style that has been brought back from the past. So when we speak here historically, we speak here of revival as a restoration out of a condition of spiritual decl decay or decline to a vital relationship with God Usually when we speak of revival we speak of being brought back And when we speak of revival here, it's speaking both not to those of us who have known God and grown cold. We have known and been very moved in our hearts of knowing the very presence of God as Dave spoke of just this past Tuesday or Wednesday, the 2nd of February. knowing the very present and living on that particular present experience. But it's also and that being very real But each of us having had that particular experience, realizing in our own lives that we too grow cold And if there's anyone here who has known that particular experience and felt that you're a little bit better than the the Israelites is saying, no, I would never grow cold towards God. I would never throw up my build up my golden calves in my life. I'm different. I'm I would never be like that. Either you never really were a Christian or you've just become a Christian. We do grow cold. The reality of spiritual entropy in our lives we must face before God. The children of Israel had to face that. They were called by God a fifth. connect people. But it's also for those who have never known God that we need to use this word renewal revival as well because we realize that all of us have been created in the image of God, to know God and to have a a personal relationship with God. But not having that, and whether by self-admission or not, there is an ache because we are separated from God. And whether we recognize it or not, that is why we are unfulfilled. That is why we continue to replace it in seeking and longing for other things, as we even heard in In the testimonies this morning, seeking to fill what only God can fill in our life with something other than God Himself. We call it idolatry. The great need for revival and renewal is the great need that each of us have. Because we have been created in God's image, we all Need and because we have fallen away, born in sin, we are all born as we read was read in the passage from Ephesians. We have been born in trespassing. We are dead. But we need to be brought back to life. That need of revival, that need of renewal. Some of you know the second law of thermodynamics. I'm not a physicist, I don't know it very well, but it goes something like this. That if you leave something to itself, it will go to a more to more disorder and randomness. It will run down Law of spiritual dynamics is when we leave unattended Our spiritual life, it will run down and grow cold. In our house in Japan that was rebuilt after our uh first house was destroyed by fire. We uh heat our downstairs with a wooden stove. I've learned a little bit about this, uh that if you don't tend to fire it it it goes it cools off and eventually burns out. You've got to keep putting the fuel on the fire. The law of spiritual dynamics, if we don't continue to stir up And continue to pour on the fuel of God's mercy and grace that He gives to us as the means of grace through His Word, through prayer, and through the fellowshipping together of His people. We burn cold. Spiritual entropy, entropy is a reality in our lives. We need the need of spiritual renewal and revival. But through this great conversation that we have between God and Moses, we not only see the reality of of spiritual entropy, of growing coal, of a people who had had God working in a mighty way in their lives, of delivering them from slavery, delivering them out of the house of bondage and bringing them into taking them towards the promised land. of a people than when Moses went up and they just gone for forty days and without him. Where do we go? And they be they come to Aaron and say, Build us an idol And so they they go to worshiping a golden calf, forgetting, not tending to the presence of God in her life. But we see in this conversation that spiritual renewal revival is possible. And we also see here how we can prepare for renewal and revival, and we can also see how it is made possible to us. The possibility, the preparation, and how it is made possible to us Revival is possible. Renewal is possible. The presence of God is possible in our life. It is possible to know the presence of God in our life. Without it we ache. Without it, we despair. Without it we doubt. Without it we are cold. Without it, we are lost. But God by his holy is holy and just and good. And his holiness, his justice, his goodness can be present in our life He can be in our midst. He can be with us. Because God is personal. God is a personal God. He has a God of personality. He is a person. He is transcendent and he is imminent. He is imminent and he is transcendent. He is not just some kind of spiritual be of spirituality. Which leads some people to say that I can feel just as close to God on a golf course as I can in a church. There's the awe that is left with his creation to us. That is true. God has created, and we are in awe of his creation. But God is so much more than that. God is personal. God is a person. Not just some power, not just some ostophilia. And he becomes intimate with us. He makes himself known to us. God has made himself known to us in these last days. He has shown us his mercy. He has shown us his glory. How? In his son Jesus Christ. He's come to us in person and speaks to us. He has makes himself known to us through his grace, through his love, through his mercy, through his goodness. We can know his presence. in that personal way, because God Himself is personal. And He speaks Speaks personally. He speaks to us through his word. Speaks to our hearts and we hear as his spirit speaks to us. His wisdom passes by, and our fears are taken away. His mercy passes by, and our guilt is taken away. Yes, God is a personal God, and his presence in our life in a personal way is possible to us. He has shown us his presence. He has shown us his glory. Both To us or to has he shown it to us through his word in the in the personal lives of many. He showed himself to Abraham. And Abraham went out to a land he did not know. To a land of promise that God would give him. He spoke to Jacob. He spoke to Moses. He spoke to John. But he speaks to us. Jonathan Edwards, in a time of great spiritual renewal and revival in our country. Spoke of it this way, I would hear but a word, and my thoughts would soar. I only want to think of him. Edward was overwhelmed with the presence of God as God spoke to him. And we too may become overcome, overwhelmed by the presence of God as God speaks to us through his words and by his spirit. The holy, wise, powerful God speaks And he melts away our fears, our anxieties. Yes, God's presence. Is possible. And this is what Moses is pleading for. Many times we mistake the presence of God for what is not his presence. As we read in the first three verses, we see as some of our own mistakes for what we think might be God's presence in our life. For God Himself said to Moses that I will give them the land. I will take them to the land that I promised to Abraham. And he said, I will give them victory over the enemy, the Canaanites. And he said, they will live dwell in a land flowing with milk and honey. But my presence is not going to be with him. And we might think that That because we're we're we're we're we're blessed with so many physical things, that this is a a way of saying to us, God is with me. Or we think that if there we have power, we have prestige, that God is with us. And God is saying, you can have all that But my presence is not going to go with you. And so that even in our churches we might think, oh, when we have our all the seats When we have met the budget and when we don't have any disputes within our with among ourselves, God is present with us. The guy can say, you can have all of that, but you won't have me When we Moses was saying, Lord, you must go with us. He was saying, You must show me your glory. You must show me yourself. And that showing of God's glory, a showing of himself, we read in verse. 19. The Lord said, I will make my goodness pass by you. When we desire the presence of God, we do not desire in a personal way, knowing His goodness, His character, Himself revealed to us. And as he reveals himself and his character and his goodness to us through his grace, we see that that goodness comes to us through the mercy that he has shown us through Jesus Christ. You see, we can ask for all these blessings that are abundant to us for the things that we think that are necessary in our life for happiness and joy, but it may not be the presence of God. Because we have set the agenda rather than God setting the agenda of his presence But God said, You may have all that, but not me. But when he Moses continued to plead, and God said, I will pass by with my goodness. And God revealed his goodness, his grace, and his mercy to them. I will have mercy upon whom I will have mercy. I will be gracious to whom I will. Have compassion. And God breaking them of their will and their spirit is so that He would be present to them in their lives. The grace That was to abound. How did Moses prepare for this? And we see that Moses to prepare for this did three things Oh, just sort of a a preliminary to this, already we we we see here that that God has told Moses that these are a stiff-necked people. A stiff-necked people, a stubborn people. They want to return to their their ways without depending upon the Lord, or not knowing his presence. So they had grown cold in their relationship to him. And Moses pleads, I don't know, a stiff-necked people, a a a people who were were idolatrists. They had come to depend upon something other than God Himself. And so Moses brings the word of the Lord to them. And says you are a a stiff-necked people, and God is not going to go with you. And they they mourned. And there were three things that that Once again that God in in preparing them, use to prepare them for God once again showing his presence to them An agli see of first of taking off the jewelry. The jewelry here was what was used in idol worship. They had brought their jewelry to to Aaron and put it into the the fire and cast out the the golden calf. And now they once again had come with all their jewelry on. And Moses said, take off your jewelry. Take off those idols Those idols in our life, and how would we identify those idols in our life? Those idols were which says that anything that I must have Other than God in my life. Something that I must have to be happy, other than God And it takes a real brutal evaluation in our own lives sometimes. Maybe we could just ask, can you think of maybe today, maybe to have to go further than this morning, of of maybe yesterday, where you got angry? Why did you get angry? Why did you get upset? Was there something you just had to have, and because you didn't have it, that's why you got upset. But what was it that you had to have? And I think there we can see the idols in our lives. I want respect for my children. And respect from our children in and of itself is not a bad thing. The Bible says children, you're to honor your mother and father. You're to obey them. But there is a way in my own pride, in my own way, that I can put that before God And if they don't respect me, look out. And I can get pretty upset with them because they didn't respect me. Didn't you hear what I said? But you see, I have put their respect for me, I put in a way I can put their respect for me ahead of my relationship to God. And in showing his love and mercy to them. It's become more important for them to respect me than for them to walk in the way of the Lord, or for me to walk in the way of the Lord. I've gotta have that money. You see, and if I don't get it, or it's at all costs, the idols we heard in our lives. That keep us from the presence of God in our life because we have put that ahead of our relationship to God and God's relationship to us. We have become stiff-necked and we brace up, but hard will be the fall of the stiff-necked That's what Proverbs tells of a stiff-necked person. Hard will be the fall. We don't know how cold we've grown sometimes. We don't know that we're standing out in the middle of a of a freezing snowstorm. So all of a sudden it hits us. Our hearts have grown cold because we have Put on these idols, the jewelry of the things that we think we need. So he says, take off your jewelry and mourn. You are a stiff-necked people. Break down the idols in your life. And then secondly, we see how he went out and he built a tabernacle. He built, he went out to meet with God. In Judges chapter 10, we read of how the children of Israel had built idols. And God said, I'm not going to be with you. And they recognized that this was wrong. They tore down their idols. And they waited on the Lord. And here we see Moses going out to build a tabernacle. Going out and seeking the Lord to wait upon the Lord that he might come and show his presence to them. And so having recognized our own coldness of how we have grown cold, taking off the idols of our we too must fill that tabernacle and go out and wait upon the Lord and plead that the Lord might show his presence to us. We can't plan a revival, but we can desire the Lord's presence in our life. And so Moses went out and he built a tabernacle. He went out and he called upon the Lord and he prayed. And that was the third thing that Moses did. He prayed to the Lord. And what did he pray for? Well we begin in verse 13. Now therefore I pray, if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your way, that I may know you. And I may find grace in your sight, and consider that this nation is your people. He prayed for himself. Moses prayed for the assurance of knowing the grace of God in his life, knowing that he had found favor with God. And any praise for the people. And consider that this nation is your people. Yes, it was important that he know the grace of God in his life. But if there was going to be renewal and Bible among the people, he knew he had to pray for the people as well. That they might know that I might know that this nation is your people, that this congregation Is your people. That this body of Christ is your people. That you are present with us. That you are showing your grace that each of us are knowing your grace and mercy in our lives. And then he he also prayed for the for the nations in verse sixteen. For how then will it be known that your people and I have found grace in your sight, except you go with us So we shall be so so we so we shall be separate. Your people and I from all the people are upon the face of the earth He prayed for them as a nation, that the other nations might see that God is present and working among them. That they too might come to glorify him as well. His own personal need, the need of the people, and the need of the nations That others would know, that others might see God present among us by his grace. And how was this presence of God made possible? This presence of God was made possible in the midst of his people because one was willing to stand in the gap. And to plead for them. And Moses here is a type of Christ to us and for the people. So we read in chapter 32, verse 32. And yet now, if you will forgive their sins, but if not, I pray, block me out of your book. Which you have written. Jesus Christ, the Son of God Came and was willing to stand in our place. To be blotted out in that darkest hour of our human history. When the skies turn black at noonday, when Christ himself on the cross said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He forsook him for us. And Christ was willing to stand in the gap for us. And because Christ has stood in the gap for us God's grace and mercy is to us. The mercy and grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. The grace of God present to us through Jesus Christ, which we receive by faith Broken in spirit. Nothing in my hands I bring. Simply to the cross I cling. In Christ alone is life. Because he stood in a gap and he took all that I deserved The children of Israel deserved to be left. Separated. They had done everything to disgrace God. But God, in his great grace and mercy, through his Son Jesus Christ. Has been willing to pay that price for our sins He left the courts of heaven for me, for you. And all those who in faith come to him know his presence. And when we grow cold May we be driven back to pleading that he might continue to show himself to us in his goodness. He has promised I will never leave you or forsake you. I confess I leave him. I forsake him. I'm stiff-necked. I have built idols in my life. And there's an aching. But that brings us back to pleading. Lord, show me your presence. Show me your glory. Show me in your goodness. Be present in my life. Be my life. Be present in us among your people, not because we have All the seats filled and our budgets met and their people are getting along together. But your presence and we live, knowing your grace and goodness to us, that's the source of our life, and that's the source of our daily relationship. You are in personal relationship with us. You're the God of relationship to us. That the nations might see. This is not something for me to hold bottled up As mentioned earlier, hid under a bushel. But no, he uses those others that we become a light, that the other nations might see your presence with us, and that they may be drawn to you as well. And so it's always that outward thrust, not simply to t to hold it into myself. We are stiff-necked people. Oh may God break us. And may we He be present with us God, show us your glory. Show us your glory. Show your glory to your people. Show your glory to the nations. That you might be glorified. Shall we pray? Father, we are a stiff-necked people. Building idols, building substitutes for you that will never satisfy But Lord, take the ache in our hearts so we know that only in you we can be satisfied. Lord, show us your glory. That you might be glorified in us. And that the nations would come to glorify you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.