You recall that Paul tells us in the book of Ephesians that the Christian life can be understood in terms of four postures. The first thing that you and I need to do is to learn how to sit. We are so performance-oriented We are always trying to prove something by our efforts. Always trying to prove that I'm a good person to myself, to other people. I want babies to put out their arms to me, to show I'm a nice guy. I want dogs to come up and lick my legs to show I'm a nice person. Anything that will demonstrate to you that I'm a good person. And I work and I work and I work at that. And it's exhausting. And the gospel comes and it says, it's fruitless. You're dead in your transgressions and sins. Your heart is really evil and it's set against God. Your only hope is that God out of his mercy sent his son Jesus who lived the perfect life you couldn't live Died a substitutionary death to take your record upon himself, pay the curse, pay the penalty for that, rose from the dead in order to give you new life. So the Bible says that because his work was finished, In Ephesians 1. 19, it says that God seated him in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority. Jesus is King of the universe. He sits because his work is finished. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 6, the gospel is that Paul says that you and I, if you believe in Jesus Christ and give up on your own efforts to satisfy God But you learn how to rest in Jesus' finished work. The Bible says you are seated with Him. So you rather than working and working to show, to prove how good you are, learn to sit. And give up satisfying God in order to get his approval. The very first point of the gospel is to learn to sit and to rest in Jesus Christ. And if you're here this morning and you've never learned how to sit and rest in Christ, I invite you to do that. But then Paul goes on and he says, the second posture of the Christian life is that you kneel because you realize that you're helpless And you can't even absorb all of what the gospel is about. So you kneel and you ask God to do two things every day. Number one, he says you pray that you be empowered by his Spirit in you. Because you recognize that you don't have the strength to just even apprehend to understand what it means to rest in Christ. But then he says, you pray also that your mind would be enlightened so that you would understand something of the dimensions of the love of Christ. This is Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 to 21. And he says that love is limitless in its length and breadth and height and depth. So you kneel and you ask God, Show me, Lord, today, your power and your love in my life. But then you'll just stop there. Just think about it. We're not called to be those who sit in monasteries or on flagposts to simply contemplate the gospel. You get up and you walk. And so Paul says in chapter 4, verse 1, as a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you that you will walk in equilibrium to the calling that you've received. That walking is not leaping, jumping, flying. It's step by step learning how to live out of the gospel. The gospel is such good news That God doesn't simply want that life to be something that you know is for you, but he wants that life to be something that is at work in you. And so by faith you walk. First of all, he says in chapter 4, learning how to walk in community, in the new community of faith. Then secondly, says chapter 4, beginning in verse 17, that you would learn how to walk in that new life by which you put off the old life, the old ways of thinking that are self-centered, self-absorbed. And you put on the new life of Jesus Christ, which is God-centered, which is passionate for Him, and which seeks to follow His example, His commands. And as you do that, seven ways he talks about doing that, you discover that it's maybe not as easy as it sounds. You know, Paul says in chapter 4, in verse 17 I tell you this and I insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer live as the Gentiles do in the futility of their thinking. Then he goes on and he says, put off the old life and put on the new life. Sounds pretty simple If you've been a Christian for a while, you know it's not that simple, is it? You think I'm taking a few steps forward, I take a couple steps back, I'm stumbling, I'm sliding all around. What's going on? And so Paul comes to the fourth posture in chapter 6, verse 10. Finally he said, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Now let's have that up on here so you folks can follow it. You notice there's three parts to this third section. He tells you what you're to do. Then he tells you verses twelve to thirteen why you're to do it, and then for the rest of the passage he tells you how to do it. I'm just going to read verses ten to thirteen. That's what we're focusing on now He says, finally, this last thing, be strong in the Lord then, and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God, so that you can take your stand. All The red stand four times stand against the devil schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground. And after you have done everything to stand, stand firm, then, and he talks about the armor. This word stand, the fourth posture, is like that word be strong that we considered a couple of weeks ago, a military term. It's not stand like just stand erect. The word stand is kind of stand. Stand with your feet planted, able to resist the enemy that wants to knock you off balance. It's that kind of stand In fact, it is used in military language of that day, which means to hold your position and don't yield it. There's really two pictures in this word that help us to grasp it and what it means, two visual images that might help you as you think about that posture span. The first, and there are the two points you see here, the first is the opposite of fleeing, it means to resist, as in to stand your ground. To resist The other picture, the other meaning is of that of the opposite of falling asleep to stand to be alert. That's the blank and point to. To be alert or to stand watch. You see those two ways used in 1 Peter chapter 5. And that's such a helpful passage. I want to read to you. verses eight to eleven because it uh it has both these pictures in mind. In verse nine, Peter Talking in the same context about opposition to the evil one, uses the same word that you have here in Ephesians 6, where he says, resist him standing firm in the faith But now notice, beginning in verse 8, what Peter says. He says, be self-controlled and alert. See, that's the second idea. Don't sleep. Be self-controlled. Be alert. Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Resist him, standing firm in the faith, because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kinds of sufferings. And the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, will himself restore you, make you strong Firm and steadfast. To him be the power forever and ever. And all God's people said, Amen. That's what it says there, by the way. That's a great passage, isn't it? You know, that's one that takes on new meaning in days like we're living in now. And uh you may find it helpful to actually memorize 1 Peter 5, 8 to 11 As a comfort, as something to encourage your heart, both in the need to stand against the temptation of fear and to know that it is God who makes you strong. Um, I think that's the same thing. You might consider memorizing Ephesians 6, 10 to 20. That can also help you a great deal in this time. And I'll help you to get more out of the series as we look at what it means to stand in the Lord. Now, I want to suggest to you four reasons under this first idea of resisting, standing your ground, why you can and why you need to do this. And the first is that the honor of your captain is at stake in it. In the Old Testament, you have the story of Uriah. who was one of David's soldiers and was called to stand in the forefront of the battle. Because what he did reflected on David, his captain's honor, Uriah was faithful, and he stood. Even though in that act David was betraying Uriah because he had committed adultery with Uriah's wife and he wanted to cover himself and get Uriah out of the way. But your Jesus, your captain, asked you to stand in the forefront of the battle for his honor. He has never betrayed you, but rather has given his life for you. And what you do in those little temptations day by day. Whether you stand and resist, or whether you compromise, either honors or dishonors Jesus. It's not just a matter of it affecting you, you know. When you decide to visit that porn site on the internet, instead of standing Then you are dishonoring Jesus and giving Satan a small victory. If you turn on the TV and watch a show that you know really isn't One that the Lord would have you to watch. It's not helpful to your mind, your thoughts, where you repeat some juicy bit of gossip about someone else who you really don't like anyway. These are ways that we dishonor the captain of our souls. In Leviticus chapter 26 and verse 37. God said that one of the curses that would come upon his people if they were disobedient to his covenant was that they would flee in terror before their enemies and not be able to stand And though you and I be cowards like David, and though we be vacillating and weak in our own strength Leviticus 26 points us to the one covenant keeper who stood against the enemy. Who defeated him in his Colossians 2. 15 says, made a spectacle of all of his enemies And because of his victory, you and I are able to stand in his strength. See, that's what Leviticus is saying. It's saying, you don't have the strength. If you don't follow me, you're going to run in terror. And the enemies in the Old Testament, remember, are always pictures of the demonic hosts. As we see those and encounter those in the gospel. They're a picture to teach us what they're like. And so the Bible calls you and for me to recognize our weakness and to stand in the strength of the Lord Jesus. That honors him. Secondly, you can stand because he's given you all that you need. You are equipped to stand. You can never say, I couldn't resist that. Do you remember the pattern of Ephesians? Every command in chapters 4, 5, and 6 is based on a statement of what A fact in chapters 1, 2, and 3. Remember? So what does this command stand based on? Chapter 3 In verse 17, Paul says, and you being rooted and grounded in the gospel God's love. Then he talks about his power available to you, see. So the idea is there that when you see this command to stand, to resist Satan's temptations, attacks upon you, your thinking, your behavior. That you go back and you say, now what is it that I'm rooted and grounded in? And Ephesians 3 says you are rooted and grounded in his love. So in order to resist temptation, you must always remind yourself It doesn't matter whether I am successful or fail in this particular temptation. I am rooted in the love of Christ. It's his record before God. I sit in him and I am fully accepted because of him. So I'm rooted in his love. It's not the pressure, you better not fail, or God will get you. But it's you are already covered with his righteousness. You are rooted and grounded in his love. Now do you want to dishonor him? And so you are grounded in him, but then the second thing is he says you have his power. I pray that you will Be strengthened with his power, exceeding beyond anything you could ask or think, which he says in Ephesians 3, is at work in you And so you're standing as you realize your own weakness, and you realize that you are fully equipped. And then he goes on to tell you how, all the pieces of armor. It's not just in general. Ephesians 6 verses 14 to 17 tells you about the particular pieces of armor. Don't wait until we get to that next spring. Uh it's not as if I'm gonna be on ten to thirteen, remember, for six months. It's just that only for another month and then we'll be in other things. Come back to it, but Look at it now. Read those verses and see what it means to gird your mind with truth as opposed to the error and the lies of the evil and all the rest of those pieces of armor. And know that he is sufficient. Adam had no excuse for eating of the fruit that was forbidden to him, because God had given him everything he needed for his full satisfaction. And as William Grinnell says in his classic, The Christian in Complete Armor, Christian, do you need to eat of the scraps of Satan's table? When God has given you the key to his own cupboard of all that he is and provides for you See, every time you and I sin, we're saying that God is not sufficient. He really can't satisfy. We have to provide for ourselves. Resist that lie. That's what he's talking about. Resist it. The third thing is that he's saying it's your only protection in a deadly conflict. Your safety spans only in your standing, because if you retreat there is no armor for your back. All the armor is for your front. Grinnell says it's like William the Conqueror when he landed on England's shores, sent away all of his ships. So that his soldiers would know there was no possibility of retreat. You stand and fight or you die. And Grinnell says that a Christian is only safe when he resists. Because Satan would love to toy with you, destroy you, and separate you from Jesus. You don't turn and run. The book of Hebrews is about that, you know. In the book of Hebrews, those Christians were wavering in their faith because They had tasted of persecution. And they looked at the days ahead and they saw that things could get a lot worse. The book of Hebrews may be a book that's more precious to us, particularly a passage like Hebrews 10, verses 32 to 39 for us in the days ahead. Where in Hebrews, these Christians are told, Remember those earlier days after you had received the light, when you stood your ground, you stood your ground in a great contest in the face of suffering? Sometimes you were publicly exposed to insult and persecution. At other times you stood side by side with those who were so treated He sympathized with those in prison and joyfully accepted the confiscation of your property because he knew that yourselves had better and lasting possessions. Things were brought into perspective. When you thought you could lose what you had here. And so do not throw away your confidence. It will be richly rewarded. You need to persevere so that when you have done the will of God, you will receive what He has promised. For in just a little while, a very little while, He who is coming will come and will not delay. But my righteous one will live by faith. And if he shrinks back, I will not be pleased with him. So we're not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who believe and are saved. Why does he say shrink back and destroy? By the way, that's another passage you might want to memorize in days like this. Why does he say shrink back and destroy? Didn't I just say that you're covered, you're rooted, and grounded in his love? Tom Bissett says in his book, Why Christian Kids Leave the Faith, one of the main reasons is that as you grow up and you you think you have a relationship with Jesus And then there is something besides Jesus you must have. You're going to decide all your career goals by what will get you the most money and the most comfortable job. And that the extension of God's kingdom and his glory and the use of your gifts isn't really a very big issue. You just you want to be comfortable. There's a particular guy or a particular girl that you've just got to have You've got to spend time with them. You want to be in an intimate relationship with them, even though that's not healthy and it's taking you away from the Lord Jesus Step by step you say, but there's nothing wrong with this, and there's nothing wrong with this, and there's nothing wrong with this, and you go step by step. You don't resist. You just keep moving down, you rationalize Until that idol blocks out Jesus Christ, and after a while you have no interest in him. That's what he's talking about. Shrinking back so that you really find out You never really had that relationship. You were kidding yourself. Step by step by step. Satan wants to deceive you. He wants to get in, to seduce you. You need to stand. Let me ask you personally, is there something in your life right now that you have got to have? You must have it Even though it is sucking the life out of your affection for Jesus Christ. Something Something that you barely can admit to yourself as an idol. In the name of Jesus Christ, resist it Acknowledge it, recognize it, cast it away, but Satan use it to destroy you. Whatever it is. And then the fourth thing, finally, is that he says that standing is the only successful way to deal with Satan Because if you try to negotiate or rationalize, you're going to be lost. Do you notice that Ephesians 6 he he says that you are sufficiently equipped, put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. When the day of evil comes, that that thing that is creeping into your life and it moves further and further, he says you've got to put on the armor so that after having done everything you will stand Uh he says that you must stand against the devil's schemes. He wants to negotiate He says, this sin is no big deal. It's just something you want and it's really not a big deal. And if you'll just let me have this with you, we'll enjoy it together, and it won't hurt your reputation. You can do it in private, nobody will know, and I'll never tell, and we can enjoy it together. And as long as you begin to dialogue, as long as you entertain those thoughts and say, well, but Rather than to simply draw the line and say, no, it's wrong. I will not negotiate. As soon as he gets you to negotiate, he has you. James 4:7 says Flee, excuse me, says resist the devil, and he will flee from you. An example of this kind of negotiating is given right here in Ephesians. Remember in chapter 4, he talks about in verse 26. That in your anger, do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you're still angry. And do not give the devil what A foothold. What's he saying? He's saying somebody's done something. It's really hurt you. Once, repeatedly, deeply And that anger festers. You don't deal with it. You don't become reconciled. You tell somebody else and they say, boy, I don't blame you. I'd really be ticked too. Boy, that's that really hurts. I can't believe they did that. And as you become justified in your bitterness, it grows. And you feel your victimization turning into a delightful, malicious bitterness that wants vengeance. But of course you're a Christian, so you're not going to take vengeance. You just tell other people to have them pray. Help me to know what to do. What are you doing? You're negotiating. You're playing, you're playing. And what does Paul say? He says you're giving the devil a foothold. You should have resisted that and acted the way Scripture says he talks about that at the end of chapter 4 and other places in Scripture. What's a place in your life that you're negotiating? A place that you haven't resisted. You've just said I need to think about this. And while maybe, you know, you're entertaining and you're playing with sin. The second picture that he gives helps us in that. Because the second picture says the opposite of sleeping, be alert. Stand watch. Be on your guard. Remember that you notice again that's in uh chapter 6, verse 11 Where he says, put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. Notice his schemes. Be aware of them. Be alert to them. 1 Peter 5, 8 Be on your watch, be alert, be self-controlled, look out. Do you remember that David was caught off guard When he should have been out in the battle, 2 Samuel 11, contemporary paraphrase of that is that Instead of going out to war, and again remember, the war was with the enemies of God, picture of the demonic warfare of today. Instead of going out to war, David decided to surf the net. Just kind of kick back and watch a few TV shows and just see what happens without any regard for what to be alert to And uh tuned in and there's Bathsheba. And his life was never the same. Be alert. Remember, Jesus said to his disciples, Stu Batstone reminded us in Matthew 26, tonight. Tonight's going to be a day of evil for you. Satan's going to come. You guys are going to all flee and forsake me. But I'll meet you in Galilee, an assurance of his grace, so tender. What's he doing? Trying to shame him? No. He wanted to show them their weakness, their need to stand in him. Remember they didn't do it and they just protested, don't worry about us, we'll take care of ourselves and then he goes out and Gethsemane is praying and what do they do? They fall asleep. Remember what Jesus said to them? Watch. Instead of sleeping, be alert. Because your spirit's willing, the flesh is so weak. You see, it's not until you and I realize that we need to be on high alert to watch because we don't have the strength in ourselves. that we really are able to resist those ways that Satan wants to discourage you, to disarm you. To make you wonder where Jesus is and why your Christian life isn't going anywhere and why you're not making progress in faith. Read recently, just a couple days ago, another little piece of Internet news hadn't seen this in anything else, but it said that Israel is on high alert right now because they're expecting terrorist attacks in the next few days. So they're on high alert. One of you this week is going to have the day of evil, as verse 13 of Ephesians 6 says, come to you. More than one of you. Satan's gonna do something to try to catch you off guard. He knows how to do it. You on high alert? Where you're saying, that's okay I can take care of myself. I'm not gonna think about it. That's spooky stuff. I don't want to start thinking about Satan and demons and Then you wonder why you fail and fall, and why those habits hold you in bondage and why you're not seeing the Lord's strength and power Let me ask you, if you were Satan, how would you attack you? What is your area of vulnerability? You say, well, you know, I don't know, there's all kinds, you know. Well, you know, just If you were going to be Satan to this week, drive a wedge between you and Jesus, cause you to dishonor him, cause you to fall, what would you do? If you force yourself to guess, I bet you'd be right. Even if you say, well, I don't know, maybe it would be gossip Whatever comes to your mind, you see, that's you probably have pretty good insight. And so Satan Who knows you, in some ways knows you better than yourself because he doesn't have to kid himself that you're really better than that. He knows you is able to move in unless by being alert and by determining that not in your own strength but in the strength of Jesus Christ you will resist. And so I suggest to you there are three ways that you can seek to resist Scripture, supplication, and the saints. If you're not regular in the word That is, gird your mind with truth, then you're never going to stand. If you don't pray as a way of life, not just for some particular immediate urgent need. But the way he says in verse 18, praying on all occasions, for all situations, for all the saints, not just yourself, prayer is a way of life. You're not going to stand. Unless you are with a fellowship, so that as in chapter 4 he talks about your speaking and being spoken to, given the truth and love, so that you're not tossed about, as he says in verse 15, but you're able to grow and stand. You're going to be disappointed. Because it'll catch you. Maybe in the area where you think you're the strongest. You know, I grew up in a solid evangelical church, even though I wasn't a Christian. When I became a Christian One of the first people that raised the in fact Paul was the first person ever, I remember it, that ever raised the question with me about was I possibly gifted to go into ministry of the word And a man who I highly admired and regarded encouraged me in that direction. And he was a man who I particularly regarded for his integrity. He was a man that turned neither to the right nor to the left. He lived what he spoke. And I highly respected him. Years later, I found out they had to leave the ministry of the Word because of an adulterous relationship. I found out also at the same time that the associate pastor of the same church, 1,200 members solid evangelical church in the Philadelphia area, had to also leave the pastorate because of an adulterous relationship. How can that happen? How can that happen? Do you think That you are immune to some great fall or to denying the Lord. If you do, you're naive. I could do it, and so could you. Our only hope is in the strength of Jesus Christ. Not that I have trusted him sometime in the past to go to heaven. And I sort of move along day by day in my own strength, practical agnostic, just kind of functioning on my own. But day by day, to depend on the Lord. Lord, make me alert to see where the evil one wants to come in, to divide me from you. Lord, help me to resist in your strength, not in my own. And to see him honored. You know George Bush were to defeat the terrorists Imagine how much glory George Bush would get. He'd go down in history as the man who made the world safe for terrorism. Jesus Christ has conquered the spiritual terrorists who would love to destroy you, body and soul. And he gets glory when his people rest on him and rely on him so that we show that he is the one who has conquered. That's what gives him glory. One last illustration from current events. Before September 11th, most people couldn't even pronounce Osama bin Laden, let alone know who he was. And all of a sudden, everybody's interested on who this man is, what are the organizations he's associated with, what are their strategies. He's on Time Magazine, U. S. News, and World Report cover issues This week. Everybody wants to know about him. Why? Because the basic principle of war is know your enemy. Know how he thinks. Don't underestimate them, don't overestimate them. Osama bin Laden is neither stupid nor God. He is finite. He lives in one place with limited knowledge. But he is highly successful in terrorist activities because of minions Who are loosely associated with him, but committed to the same cause and out to wreak havoc any way they can. It's exactly the same in the spiritual world Don't overestimate Satan, don't underestimate him. Look to the Lord Jesus, who has conquered him and who enables you to resist and to know his power against fear. Against temptations, against compromise, that this week he can serve in a way that will bring honor and glory to him Who is your strength? Let's pray. Lord, we come to you now as weak, vacillating, compromising people, and we are so naive. That week after week we go out of here and we just don't even think about how consciously we need you. But Lord, we've been shaken nationally to recognize our weakness. We've been shaken to see our vulnerability. And we pray, Lord, that you would use that lesson to help us to see that just as we are called to stand against terrorist activities You call us to stand against demonic terrorist activities, and that our only hope is in your strength, in your protection, in your salvation. And so Lord, now we come to you And we ask you to give us eyes that see those areas of our vulnerability, to see the idols that we negotiate with that are choking our love for you. Lord, help us to be realistic and to see ourselves as we really are, even right now. To turn over those idols and to forsake them to come to you, to trust you, to love you, to see you as our hope and our deliverer. That you might get glory in our lives this week. Because we will see you strengthen us against the enemy. We want to see that, Lord. We really do. We stand in you. In Jesus' name. Amen.