And see it as teaching about anything except the matter of money. And so I was afraid, and I went out, and I hid your talent in the ground. Again, Jesus says the kingdom of heaven is like a man going on a journey who had called his servants and entrusted his property to them. And so this view of communism, that everything belongs to the state and that the citizens are simply the managers is one view, but it's on the wing. to audit the accounts to see what they've done with what he has. to direct a proper use of the understanding of Earth Day, because there's three views of Earth Day, three views of the Earth in terms of how we see it. And so they set everything up and uh they were blowing up the front lawn and crashing cars through it. He's the owner of it all. He gives us the goals. in a greedy or insecure way, saying, I've got to protect myself, I've got to take care of myself. And there's many Christians who come to church and do all the correct things, but their hearts are far from Jesus Christ because their hearts are set only in this world. drapes off my windows, the car out of my driveway. I think when we hear a preacher talk about money, we generally have two negative reactions. Do we become rather cynical about con artists in clerical guard? Can suspect a number of you are that way because I find that I'm that way. And all of the paid staff volunteered a cut in salary. That in his church the pastor hadn't spoken about money for ten years. God's principles of giving, not out of anything that I get out of it. We're not taking polls. I mean by that, it's not about talents of gifts, skills, and abilities primarily, it's about talents. It was a measure of money derived from weight, worth of one talent worth over a thousand dollars. And so the parable of the talents is not primarily about our skills and gifts and abilities. And as those things amounted up, then along with that cry for freedom and the influence of the Christian church within those countries, there also came the cry that the state doesn't own it all. It's all mine to do what I wish with it. And those who want to hold the earth sacred but also see no Creator, and therefore the earth itself becomes divine. And that's a threat to Christians. of the right use of the earth. And because we do that, we do it as a trust to him, and therefore we're accountable for how we treat the earth. And uh they had a beautiful house there, and they were approached uh by a television show to use their house for a set. Now the people who were in the house were tenants. He says stewardship is the use of God-given resources for the accomplishment of God-given goals. Let me say that again. And that portion is a decreasing portion as the years go by. to the Lord, but not just what you give in the church, but what you spend on clothes, cars, candy, anything. And that's not saying that you have to have a prayer meeting every time you go out grocery shopping, but it is done with a spirit of dependence. out of a sense of loyalty, love, and obligation to the owner, and those gained two more. And so I hid it. They weren't used as offerings of worship to me. The one faithful in few things was put charge over many things. On the fact that you're my heavenly father, you've bought me with a price. to spend. Everything we do is wretched. But to his kingdom to seek it first and his righteousness and let the rest of these things be taken care of. It's all an expression in the way that I use it, whether buying something for myself, the needs of our family, a giving to the church, helping out someone in a gift of love. I'm not gonna have any more fun. Well, let me tell you straight out as I begin this, I don't work on commission. But we do live in a day of materialism and ignorance about giving. But the problem with that is if we're never challenged about the biblical principles of giving, then our materialism and our confusion about how to look at our money Is unchecked and uncorrected and untaught. Because we have a tremendous ambivalence about money. It causes stress and guilt and temptation. And yet we love it. That we hold in secret and don't want others to see, in fact, what a grip it has on us. And how it was not only his love of money and the greed that he had that was his undoing, but it was the secretiveness of it The fact that he would not get it out in the open and would not let the light of day shine on that reed that was his undoing. And so when I bring into light in a message, or in fact, a series of three messages on money. And so I urge you to come back. Do you realize that the Jesus spoke more about money than he did about heaven and hell combined? If you look through the New Testament, you will find in Jesus' teachings about 500 verses on prayer and faith. Is often described as a parable about talents. But let me tell you that the parable of talents is not about talents, it's about talents. And I want to look at one of those this morning for Matthew chapter 25, the parable of the talents. And dealing this morning, the first of the three messages, with the general subject of stewardship, that this parable of the talents Again, Jesus said, It will be like a man, the kingdom of God, that is, will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted his property to them. To the one he gave five talents of money, to another, two talents, and to another one talent, each according to his ability. The man who had received the five talents went at once and put his money to work and gained five more. But the man who had received the one talent went off, dug a hole in the ground, and hid his master's money. The man who had received the five talents brought the other five. Well done, good and faithful servant. His master replied, Well done, good and faithful servant. Whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him, and throw that worthless servant outside into the darkness Where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. He's the owner. The first is the view of communism. Talking about how the exposure to Western civilization had given to China an insatiable desire for things A second view today is the view of capitalism. The third view is the Christian view. It all doesn't belong to the state, it all doesn't belong to me, it all belongs to the Lord. I will be audited as as to how I managed what he gave to me to hold and to trust. A day which I predict you will see celebrated with greater and greater prominence in the following years of this decade. No concern about those who come after me, the abusers, but the alternative to that today is the worshipers of the earth I think of an illustration of how this is done that was uh publicized not uh too long ago. Uh the owners, uh the people who were at the house there said, fine, go ahead and use it. They were treating the house as if it was their house. And so that's the way it is with the things that God gives to us. Ron Blue, who is the head of a Christian financial counseling organization, has an excellent working definition of stewardship, which I offer to you. Jesus Christ has died to take your sin and my sin. And therefore, we're under his just judgment. And because he has done that, he says, You and I have been bought with a price. Everything they did with that was a spiritual decision. It's all a spiritual decision because it reflects the sense that you see that what you have belongs to Jesus Christ, and that what you're doing with it reflects your relationship to Him, not that you are separate and independent from Him. A spirit of stewardship in what you buy and how you buy it and what it's used for. Not to be ascetic, but to enjoy it, but to enjoy it as under the Lordship of Christ, open before Him. You invite Jesus to be a participant and the Holy Spirit's leadership to be involved in how you spend your money. Because all decisions are spiritual decisions. The five talents were put to work because of love and a sense of trusteeship to the owner and gained five more. Because of a very poor relationship, an untrusting, negative relationship with the owner And in each case, you notice how the owner responds. You've been faithful in the few things that I gave you. But he said, and how you use that, you've been faithful. In the light of eternity. But what he has is taken away because it's revealed that he has no relationship with the master. And never used under his lordship to please him as an expression of gratitude to him. All those who come before his throne, he's going to say, I never knew you. You might have done everything else that would look respectable and Christian to other people, but I know your heart. Gain two more. was given to a widow who gave what was the equivalent of less than what many or any of you kids would have as a weekly allowance. Living responsibly under His Lordship, but to be able to say it all belongs to you, Lord. Whatever it is, buying the things that we use, not just so that we can use them for ourselves, but for hospitality, to minister to others, to share with others. That's the hard view. You've given your life for me on the cross. I'm your steward. And uh wish I hadn't gotten trapped into bringing my girl here for pioneer girls to hear this for whatever reason you're here. Uh the church that had been going through a difficult time God has provided, and uh over the last month uh the giving has been much better. Very interesting that a couple of years ago there was an article in U. Now, oftentimes, Christians view that the capitalist view is the biblical view in contrast to the communistic view, but let me suggest that neither is a biblical view. But we have responsibilities for it all. Really worth very little in the light of eternity. And he gives to you and to me right now the opportunity to invest what he has given in order to express our gratitude to him in a very tangible way. And Lord God, if you haven't spared your own son for me, how will you not with him also freely give me all things? Is that when somebody speaks to us about money, particularly as a Christian, we tend to feel defensive and guilty, don't we? Then you and I find, as we hear something like this, a kind of a negative reaction of defensiveness and guilt, and we want to avoid it. Now the fact that I've told you I'm going to do three messages on this, I hope, doesn't mean it will have record low attendance for the next two weeks. The Bible's a very practical book. Master, he said, I knew that you're a hard man, harvesting where you have not sown, gathering where you have not scattered seed. Today in Western civilization there are primarily three views about property ownership. Interesting that that view is on the wane to the degree that those countries and societies, particularly Red China and some of Eastern Europe, have been exposed to Western affluence. This whole idea of stewardship is one that uh is grossly abused not only by unbelievers but by Christians today that these are entrusted to us for us to manage until he comes again. to manage that in a way that's pleasing to him. Even if you took me on my own basis, you could have used the money and put it to great to better use than that. And one of the things that we do is with a generous use of our money, devoted not to ourselves Can bring him pleasure. Because of the tremendous abuse that there has been among televangelists in our day in that area On the other hand, you might be thinking, yeah, but he's worried if it doesn't come in, you know, then he's going to get a cut. But I'm speaking to you out of principle in this matter. Matthew chapter 25, beginning with verse 14, let's hear God's word to us. Come and share your master's happiness. So you knew that I harvested where I have not sown and gathered where I have not scattered seed? The first principle is that God is the owner, we are the stewards. That's the unique view that says there is that the earth is created by a creator. And to have new life in him. So every spending decision is a spiritual decision, because it is either done under the Lordship of Christ in an attitude of submission to Him. Money tests and reveals our hearts. And the one with the two talents, he says the same thing. And so we need to see that what Jesus is saying here is that what we do in this little bit of time, this very temporary bit of life that we have. But the most important thing is that he says, having done that, you come to share in your master's happiness. The things that you and I have are the opportunity that we have to demonstrate our love and gratitude to Jesus Christ for what He's done for us. So many times we as Christians say, if only I had a lot of money, possessions to steward, then boy would I be generous. Now don't use that as an argument if you say, I don't get a weekly allowance. It's not a matter how much you and I have. Is an expression of love that pleases Jesus. What's his motive? But Jesus spoke a lot about money. The man with the two talents also came. Take the talent from him, and give it to the one who has the ten talents. About stewardship that I would like for us to notice from this portion of God's Word. So everything that you and I have is given by the Lord. Every spending decision is a spiritual decision. Show me what you do with your money. The way you use your money reveals the kind of relationship you have to Jesus Christ. The opportunity to use limited resources by faith to please Him. Jesus Christ gives to you and to me right now a unique opportunity in all eternity. But Lord, what I have now is an opportunity to use under your Lordship as an expression of thanks for the life that you have given to me. He's given to you and to me everything that we have. When you and I receive some great gift, our hearts look for a way of saying thanks, don't they? How you use the things I have given to you, reflect whether or not you're grateful to me as your Lord. He was given a response in verse 21 by the master. Sometimes I think you have the idea and I get the idea. Where do you fit on that scale there? Let's bring before him our hearts right now. It's the opportunity to say, I trust you. They were approached by the B. Lord our God, we find that we have slipped in our materialistic culture that sees only the temporal, finds satisfaction only in those things which we can enjoy right here and right now. And see, in fact, that you are the one who has given everything for us. Surveys have been taken about how Christians look at money, and money is usually spoken of in very negative terms. And what we do right now, Jesus says, is going to affect the life that we will have in eternity The greatest commendation given in the entire Scripture to an offering given to Jesus Christ Take away that sense of guilt and all those things that uh make us look at you as a hard master. Affects all the rest of eternity. The slave of the verse 22 was given two talents, less than half of the first. We have slipped into the view of being owners rather than stewards. Do you really see that? He calls his servants. Hear our repentance for our greed and our lack of trust It's the attitude, not the amount, that counts. You see, money isn't negative. He tells us what to do with our lives. Probably uh makes a number of you a bit uneasy. We're not going to know what your response is to it. And that then brings us to the last principle of this parable, and that is that it is the attitude, not the amount, that counts. Hear us, Lord, as we give to you even for this week all that we have in Jesus' name. But do you notice? He has the right to it all. There's first of all the abusers of earth, those who uh see that there is no creator and therefore all these things are simply mine to use in the way that I desire and And I didn't use it for you. Receive our hearts as we now dedicate to you all that we have, and come honestly before you by faith. So in contrast to abusers and worshippers, there ought to be the idea of trustees of the earth And Jesus said, that woman is the one who's the example of giving Everything we do is re reprehensible in his sight, and he just sort of tolerates it. I receive these things from you with an open hand and I invest them for you out of my love, out of my trust. Stewardship is the use of God-given resources for the accomplishment of God-given goals. But he says, you didn't even use it wisely. Well, I want to talk to you this morning about your money. What's he going to get out of it? And that's something that we've got to anticipate and to be able to fight against in our understanding You're gonna take it all away from me and you're gonna have me live as an ascetic. L. Can be an investment in eternity. We're the managers. Do you understand that? Or do you take the view, Lord Jesus, He's given everything for me Stryker series, and they wanted to use the house for a set on one of their shows. We love it more than we often would be willing to admit how much we love it. Mastery said, You entrusted me with two talents. You have been faithful in a few things. He entrusts his property to them. The response in verse 23 is exactly the same as that in verse 21. You see that clearly in this parable, in the three people that are discussed here. I don't understand all of what that means. And so the owner called back and he said, What are you doing to my house? I belong to you, and everything I have belongs to you. The Christian view is that everything belongs to God and that we are the managers. My eye is not on these few years. Sixteen out of the 38 parables that Jesus taught were about money. He tells us that we are bought living sacrifices offered to him. It reflected their relationship to the master and the owner. Everything that I have, physically and spiritually, I owe to you. A steward is a manager. The government is simply to manage it so that it is conducted fairly. We have the responsibilities to use this in a way that will accomplish his goals. That leads to the second point, and that is that money tests and reveals our hearts. It's not necessarily positive, it's neutral. It's simply a matter of our attitude in what we give to the Lord. It's up to you and the Lord in what you're going to and how you're going to respond to what God's saying to you in these three weeks. When in fact that's very obviously what it's directly about. Not only the fact that you give a portion of that to God. But Jesus says, these are the few things I have given you. They were used simply to please yourself. You hear the preacher said we're supposed to get a weekly allowance. You'll probably have me going around uh not enjoying anything. Everything belongs to the state. You, the person that says you're a hard God. Be brave. And in fact it wasn't their house. He is the one who owns you. S. The one with the one talent says, I was afraid because you're a hard man. There's nothing we can do that really pleases the Lord. As soon as I hear somebody talk about giving money, particularly under religious guys, to his organization, I get a little suspicious. This whole idea of stewardship is is appropriate, particularly on a day like today, Earth Day. What these servants did with the talents, the money, representing all the things that God had given to them. And therefore, I'm going to put you in charge in my kingdom of many things. And the most precious thing of all is to share eternally in his happiness. Just pray And so I speak to you about money out of principle And so I would be unfaithful as a pastor if I did not declare to you the whole counsel of God and what the Bible says about money. News and World Report, China's Me Generation And so the master comes and he judges that evil heart. We're so used to hearing preachers talk about giving money in order to make themselves rich on religion. But Jesus Christ came and gave his all so that you and I would have life. On the one hand, Christians tend to look at money rather negatively Not only money, possessions, but everything that we have. It corrupts. His is the right, ours are the responsibilities Well done. See, here is what belongs to you. In contrast to communism, everything belongs to the individual is the view of capitalism That is, it's a parable about our gifts, our skills, and our abilities Do you see that everything that you own really belongs to Jesus Christ because you have been bought with a price and belongs to The five who gained five more, the master says, Well done, good and faithful servant. What you do with the things that you have, whether held to yourself Now the second negative reaction, I think that we might be feeling on this Five talents, uh six, seven thousand dollars. Uh money is seen as something that we don't talk about in church if we have integrity. And then the man who had received the one talent came. It tells me that there's a society and that there will be responsibility, a joyous responsibility, in which I can't fail And that was obviously a good thing in that pastor's ministry And when we recognize that, He's made it, He's made us. Currently 2% among the churches in the United States, when the average is given of typical income. You gave up heaven, that you might give out of your riches to become poor, so that we through your poverty might become rich. Master, he said, You entrusted me with five talents. And they said, Well we want you to know we're going to be crashing and blowing up cars in your front lawn. If you do, then you see that Part B tells us every spending decision, therefore, is a spiritual decision. And so, of course, the master isn't the way he described. Let this area of your life be exposed to the Word of God. I will put you in charge of many things. You have been faithful with a few things. There is no personal vested interest in my speaking to you about your giving. We belong to him. I don't have a heavenly father to take care of me. So that one day you and I will share in his happiness. And at the end of my life, the owner is going to man is going to audit my accounts You had no relationship with me, and that was demonstrated by what you did with the things that I gave you. Verse 20 tells us that one was given five talents. Responsibly. It's dirty. And all of a sudden somebody uh was tipped off and they called the owners of the house who happened to live in New York. If you trust Him and look to Him for the forgiveness of your sins. And it's your responsibility to take care of my food and clothing and shelter and my family, as I'm responsible in working for those things. And if your money is hidden to yourself, You've been faithful in a few things, put you in charge of many things, enter in to share your master's happiness. They're to manage it. I didn't say that. They had no authority to tell the BL striker crew, go ahead and blow it up, because it look looks like a lot of fun to us, you see. And the trustees turned that down and the congregation turned that down. Well then, you should have taken my money and put my money on deposit with the bankers, so that when I returned I would have received it back with interest. Isn't it good to know that this week, how you use your money You're thinking, uh, I don't think I'm gonna enjoy this sermon It's a parable about money. You might have come and you might have sung the hymns on Sunday. After a long time, the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them. For every one who has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. In other words, even if you understood, if you have a very legalistic notion of what God is like, at least use the things that you have. And your heart was revealed by what you did with your things. That the fact that we're saved by grace means that And you don't say, Lord, excuse me, now I'm going to go lock the door while I go decide how I'm going to spend this paycheck. And so he's cast into outer darkness, where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. You're gonna ha you're gonna take the carpets off my floor, the This view is obviously a bit on the wane the present time He's the owner. Now the Bible teaches that he owned you all along, but you and I have rebelled against that ownership. It's what you and I do with the things that we have that make them negative or positive. I don't know about you, I And talents in that culture were money. So also the one with the two talents gained two more We hold the property in trust from him. Well, let me tell you that uh we had recently a rather severe financial crisis in our church. See, I have gained two more. The man is going on a journey, he calls his servants, he entrusts the property to them, and then he comes back. To enjoy it. My eye is by faith. There's three principles All that He's given to you and to me are total sum of earnings of our whole lives. It's associated with greed. Do you realize that when you and I die, that opportunity will be gone forever? You remember a couple of weeks ago I spoke about Judas Iscariot? But if you get one, I guarantee you that what she gave was less than what you kids have for a week. He has a right to our lives and all that we possess. How do you feel about that? See them in their bulletin outline. And that's something I don't think we as Christians ought to be threatened by. Then when he comes in that day to judge You know, like giving every way everything, and then the deacons have to pick up everything, you know, for the rest of the congregation. It's a necessary evil I don't know if you read about it, but there was a family that was living in West Palm Beach, Florida. I better keep my money for myself, because if I give it over to you, if I really lay it on the altar and say, Lord, it's yours to do what you wish. The earth itself becomes deified in a pantheistic view, where to hold the earth sacred I must worship it. The one given the one talent, took that one talent, kept it to himself, dug a hole, hid it. If Columbia Presbyterian has a great year, I don't get a percentage. This is the first two blanks. The Bible teaches. But God tells us that there are things that we do that please him Now let me say, as we look at this parable of the talents, And he says, You're not only evil, you're stupid. I have laid it on the table. This is basic to stewardship. We pray, O Lord our God, in the quiet of our hearts now, take away our defensiveness. Therefore, this the first two points of that, under A, God has a right to it all. I've got to fend for myself. We are the stewards. And they had a few things to answer for when he came back and found a crater rather than a front lawn. I won't be even be able to afford two fifty for a video this week. He spoke about money and possessions five times more than he did about prayer. His master replied, You wicked lazy servant See, I have gained five more. I will put you in charge of many things Do you see? The first negative reaction is that we tend to feel cynical, don't we? Jesus Christ has said, I've given to you a way of saying thanks. The one who had two talents put those two talents to work. And so let's look at this parable, just as D Jesus taught it, to see what he has to say to us. In heaven, we won't have limited resources. And so we keep it private, like a locked-up idol. You'll find over 2,000 verses on money and possessions. It's his property. He never admits that he is hard, the way that the evil servant described him. And I think it's interesting that we as Christians look at this parable and Come and share your master's happiness. Just a few things. But it's all private Did you invite Jesus to look at your checkbook? Show me your checkbook, and I'll tell you a lot about your relationship with Jesus Christ. And it's good to know, isn't it, that we can please Him in this. God is the owner, we are the stewards. He gained five more. And then he went on his journey We manage the earth. You might have talked the correct doctrine Money is not usually seen by Christians in a very positive sense. Money is a tremendous opportunity. Or I want all that I can get You're fooling yourself. They said, that's fine, go ahead. Come, share your master's happiness. He has entrusted it to them. Amen. So I'm not especially worried about a cut. I think we ought to be taking leadership Ours is the responsibilities. That open-hearted view of the things that we have. I heard read recently of a fellow that boasted Look at verse 14. And you will be separated from Jesus Christ for eternity. His master replied, Just a few things. We have resisted his right to our lives. Not a word different. You see, it's revealed your heart toward me. It doesn't matter how much or how little you have. Everything, become introspective. But it's gone openly before him. No cut from that. In fact