And I think some of you know the show's creator and host, Garrison Keeler, much better than even I do. We are sinners by nature, and therefore we cannot stand before the Holy God and the Holy Creator on our own. That's the kind of explanation we can have before our God. Now, it would be really silly of me to try to call Sandy's father daddy. We're ministers before God because we stand between holy between sinful man and the holy God. But on the other hand, there's a second error that also stems from pride, and that is fearful self-consciousness of yourself. Where you know true competence, true fulfillment, true purpose, true meaning in your life for the men. Maybe, maybe you're a new believer, maybe you're fairly young in the Lord, or maybe you've been walking for years and years with the Lord. And that kind of boldness before God. And you can come boldly to your daddy, confident that he cares for you, confident that he will hear and meet all your needs Reading from the New International Version, let's hear with expectan expectancy the reading of God's Holy Word. That he had nightmares. with the holy God of the universe. God standard in perfection is way up there. Or as great as they might be, because I've never eaten them. of the letters, but of the spirit, for the letter kills, but the spirit gives life during the reading of God's Word. a little insufficient, a little incapable, at least every now and then, then wouldn't it be great to go to a box of these biscuits and whip them up and have that strength and have that confidence and have that sufficiency? And sufficiency and confidence to approach God. A yellow rubber glove. Just like a rubber glove. Would be. For all God calls you to do, then I suggest you fall into one of two mistakes. you are able to do on your own, or on the other hand, you are not attempting enough for God. To stand before the Holy God. Freedom and confidence. It gives us the privileges of his firstborn son. Only God through Jesus Christ. to cry out, Abba, Father. In Jesus Christ. says in verses 5B and 6 here, our competence comes from God. The letter kills. The New Testament doesn't allow that kind of thinking. empty rubber glove. By God's law, on your own. In a life that's really meaningful, you need to let Christ take control of your life as Lord as well as Savior. We'd be glad to answer any of your questions. And your capabilities and service to him. in a few moments. just what makes smart heart a tick. companion. advertised virtually every week. And why do we have no confidence as human beings? perfect. On our own. Our sufficiency is not of ourselves, but rather all of God's grace to us in Christ. Christ. Through the blood of Jesus. our son. our duties, all our requests, knowing that he cares for us because we belong to Jesus Christ. the Spirit, for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. It is not a bet, the letter referring to the law, the letter killed because it brings condemnation, because it brings knowledge of sin. It doesn't mean completely different from the Old Covenant, as though it had nothing to do with the Old Covenant, with the Old Testament, but it means more in the sense of better, more glorious in Christ, lasting. That you've never come to trust in Jesus Christ alone as your Savior. lying there by the sink. And your own inadequacy to stand before God and before man, you must recognize your own insufficiency on your own Only then will you know and enjoy the confidence that coming to the Holy God of Daddy brings. petrify you so that you you're used to the words coming over your lips and you can uh confidently in day-to-day situations share with people that God brings into your life We want to know that strength. a little different, a little uh something to pique your interest, but I'm afraid instead it probably confused most, if not all, of you, for Swingly. Such confidence as this is ours through Christ before God. That I really enjoy listening to a certain public radio show on Saturday evening. Powder milk biscuits. The slogan and what these tasty morsels promise to give you in the slogan. Before God and confects in ministry to other people. When he talks about the word confidence, you see, we have no confidence before God on our own It's particularly striking. competence before other people on our own. Christ. does not just pronounce us innocent. New life to us, to people who are dead in sin. We are all ministers of the New Covenant. It's like focusing on the empty lever glove as it lies loose there without seeing the hand that fills it to make it alarm, to make it useful. You have no confidence on your own before the pure holiness of God. And you must come humbly to Jesus Christ, laying your life down before Him and asking Him to fill you, to stretch you, and to fill you with life by His Spirit. So you can boldly come before God as your daddy to lay all your cares before him, confident that he cares for you because you belong to Jesus. Because he is your Lord. Maybe the thought of sharing your faith verbally with a non-Christian petrifies you. In the new covenant. And we want, Lord, to know our hope to know the riches of the glory of the inheritance we share in him. Fill us with your spirit. better than powder milk biscuits. The Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians 3 talks about this. family Bible and opened it up and laid it on that man's chest. with it. with her father. After you've done it with a choir, see what you really want to do. We just live. We're like limp rubber gloves. And filled like an empty rubber glove before the Lord. From the very same root. to be filled with a life that is not our own. Think about it. You see, perhaps you hand your your own man or your own woman, and you can take whatever comes your way. But you must realize, my friends, that both both the loose rubber gloves and the one that's puffed up with hot air Both of rubber gloves are going to be crushed by that Baltimore phone book. And he will do it. That's crazy. To be done. And I want you to see with me this morning how we are qualified and we are sufficient for all that we are given in life. Through God and through His grace. And I really detest them. Paul makes that so clear in verse 4. So that you can stand before God as your father, as daddy, and so that you can be competent and adequate before other people in service that really counts. Where you are new to yield to him because you know that you're insufficient on your own. But the thing that I like most about powder and biscuits, do I sound like commercial here? They give shy people the strength to do what needs to be done. But it's all of God's grace to us in Christ. In and of ourselves, we stand condemned before the holy God of the universe. We have no confidence before God on our own. R. 1 Peter talks about it this way. But perhaps you're already a believer. Either way, you need to daily claim your bold confidence before Jesus Christ, before God in Jesus Christ. Now I confess I used to feel that way, and sometimes I still feel that way when I start relying on my own strength, when I start relying on my own power. Put yourself in those kinds of positions. He has made you confident. Confess it and leave it behind and come to Jesus and ask to be forgiven and spill and used of Him. Our adequacy before God and before other people is not of ourselves, but is rather awe of God's grace to us in Jesus Christ. And we can stand before the holy God in Jesus Christ. Remember also that you are competent before other people, because as Paul said, he has made you competent. Well, my friends, you and I, as believers in Jesus Christ, have a strength available to us far greater than how to resist it. We're not sinners because we sin. And therefore, therefore we sin. Old man. and frequently does so in joy and in confidence. I encourage you to gain that kind of experience. Father, help us to know these things. a slogan to go with it. But it's all of God's grace to us in Christ. More beautiful. Perhaps you feel that your life is pretty much in control. Are the commercials for fictional products that are interspersed all throughout the show. And even that is something that's negative and just an obstruction. If you've never made Jesus Christ your Lord, I urge you, don't put it off. On our own, we are not sufficient for our for all that God calls us to do. And we will give you all the glory for this, for we know it is by you that these things are done. But our competence comes from God. You've never made that personal decision. Oh Father, we want to know our Savior. We have a strength far greater than how to fix it. C. So fearful self-consciousness stems from pride just as much as arrogant self-sufficiency. God's law demands perfection from us. That's how crushed we would be. Spohl says it this way. We can stand before the Holy God as free people, as forgiven sinners, as people justified and redeemed and set free to stand. And no, we have competence before other people. The letter condemns. You are ministers before God in Jesus Christ. Your self-image is shot and you really feel inadequate before other people. But I would encourage you to seek training, if that's your case if that's the case for you, to seek training in this church's excellent evangelism explosion program and gain experience in verbalizing your faith so it doesn't Whatever God called you to do in this church, as a minister of reconciliation Turn with me, if you have your scriptures with you, to the second letter to the Corinthians, chapter three. And uh some of you probably have seen this best-selling book in the bookstores called Lake Woe Begone Days. Now powder milk biscuits, like most of the products on the show, has a slogan to go with it. We can't stand up on ourselves before the Holy God. What a great product. He had nightmares that he was that man, that he was under the weight of that huge Bible. She can call that man daddy, knowing that he loves her, knowing that he cares for her, knowing that he will meet all her needs. That we're s we're go between we're mediators, we're ministers in this sense. I hate to use them. You see our tasks are too are too big for us. The word translated competent here has the sense of sufficient, qualified, capable, even appropriate. Paul doesn't allow that kind of thinking. So it is when we blow ourselves up, puff ourselves up with hot air. Extreme shyness is focusing on yourself instead of the one who fills you. Because the barrier of sin has been removed and you have adoption and the expansion. You see, not only can we not stand before God like a wimped rubber glove, but we're actually crushed by the weight of God's requirements on us. In central flight, our elder brother shares his inheritance with us. And to help you to come to that point where you put faith with your uh trust in Jesus Christ alone And finally, we also want to know your power at work in us through Christ. That's the covenant that we share in Christ. Remember that you have confidence before God. He will do it. Good morning and it's indeed a great privilege to be here with you again. A yellow rubber glove. And as he was lying there dead in the street, some person, somebody that Twain called a thoughtful fool, took one of those huge Bibles, one of those huge You see the word Abba there, if you wanted to translate it in today's language, it's something like daddy. We want to know that power she works through us to reach those who don't know me, to meet their needs. And that root is pride. Perhaps you've already committed your life to Jesus Christ. Now perhaps you're sitting here today and you realize The judge does not just acquit us of all guilt and sin. And whenever I get the chance, I like to listen to this show on Saturday evenings from 6 to 8 on public radio. But the Spirit gives life. Perhaps you sense your own inadequacy in life. Such confidence is ours through Christ before God. Allow Christ to stretch you and fill you like a rubber block. Honor when we are prostrate and condemned by God's law. And the author of Hebrews says it this way in chapter ten, verse nineteen. This morning I want you to see with me that our adequacy is not of ourselves So we need to be stretched and filled with the living Christ in order to stand confidently before God and in order to be competent in ministry to other people. And furthermore, you need to claim the competence in ministry that God promises you through his Spirit. If you fall into fearful shyness, confess your selfish pride before your father. But my wife really likes to use them. We can cast all our anxiety on him because he cares for us. And perhaps you realize that your life has no real meaning or purpose. And use us for Christ's glory. But I'll just share with you uh a couple things this morning and one of them is You'll be crushed, you'll be condemned. I don't know if you have rubber gloves around your house, but we have them around my house. We have no inner means of support. Don't put it on. We have a source of strength, we have a source of power that is far better. He describes his own source of confidence We can call God daddy in Christ. We want to know Jesus Christ and know Him better. You see, on our own, we have no strength, no sufficiency in and of ourselves We are not sinners because we sin. I I have no relationship with him. Put yourself in a position where you know you're inadequate. The word that is translated here, confidence, in verse 4, is often used in the New Testament in the term in the sense of adequacy. Now you say to me, Oh, not me, Mark. We sin because we are sinners. We sin. We can cry out, Daddy. And it's a product called powder milk biscuit. And it's so central Padomo biscuits to the show, but not only does it just have a slogan, but it even has a jazzy little plume that's called the Totomo drag that they play every time the commercial comes on. And so on our own we're crutched where we can do nothing but lie prostrate like that old man. God's standard is perfection. Always out of your reach on your own. That you're doing a pretty good job of being your own boss, of calling your own shop, and you've got your life pretty much in order. Break us. Now I hear some recognition coming from you guys out there. This gets the given confidence and sufficiency to do what needs to be done every day. This is the contrast Paul is drawing here. As great as powerful biscuits are, my friends He tells of an event that had a great impact on him. Paul says this in in chapter two, verse sixteen. It can't really do much with an empty rubber cloud. You are a minister of the New Covenant. And we'll be looking at what Paul has to say here in verses 4 through 6. Well, it's because of our sin and our rebellion in our hearts against the Holy God. Confidence to approach God Ephesians 3, verse 12, says it this way. She likes to use them to do the dishes. Then rest on Christ's promises and allow his spirit to stir you to action, to stir you to know your sufficiency. The crushing weight, the weight of God's law that would crush us as sinners on our own, is now removed in Jesus Christ. We have adoption into God's family through Jesus Christ. Our sufficiency, our adequacy is not of ourselves So on our own, we have no confidence before God. If you haven't made that kind of decision, I or the leaders of this church would be glad to talk with you We are made to be stretched. We stand his forgiveness. We're ministers of reconciliation, as Paul talks about it later in 2 Corinthians. Don't think that tomorrow you can repent. There are many things I'd like to be able to share with you all this morning about myself so that you'd know a little better. We have no way to stand up for the Holy God on our own. Break us of our pride. Just like a a rub a rubber glove on its own cannot stand up much less do anything useful. You see, again, we're like empty rubber gloves. So there the man was lying in the street with this huge Bible on his chest. Because of our adoption in Christ, my brothers and sisters, we can bring all our most intimate needs to our Father. You've never transferred your trust from yourself and your own good works to Jesus Christ alone for your salvation. You see, by nature, by nature we are sinners. And perhaps you've come to save in faith and trust in Christ alone for your salvation. Uh it would be pretty stupid of me to try that. Allow yourself to be stretched by Christ and used for him and used for his glory. He has made us competent as ministers of a new covenant, not First thing, our adequacy is not of ourselves. I I've told some people that I think that if there really is no such thing as cutting with biscuits, someone ought to get wise and market such a thing because there's a huge market. It's a new covenant that we belong to. When we think we're sufficient in and of ourselves. You have confidence before God as an adopted heir in Jesus Christ. Our very nature is worse Use us to build his kingdom here in Columbia. You see, we as Christians are all ministers of this new covenant. It's always higher than you can reach on your own. You see, it would be like a rubber glove under a huge stack of Baltimore stone books. You see, we are ministers of a new covenant. We have no confidence before God on our own. And we need to avoid both of those things as we see ourselves in Jesus Christ. On the one hand, the first area is arrogant self sufficiency, like blowing up an Garrison is a very gifted and creative man, and he's a fascinating storyteller The Holy Spirit breathes new life into dead people. The thing that I like best about powder and biscuits is it's the slogan. We have competence before other people in ministry. You can take it on the chin. He says rhetorically. This is the beautiful Reformation doctrine known as the priesthood of all believers. You see, I have a friend named Kennedy who calls her earthly father Daddy. Break us and fill us. We sin because we are sinners. You see, folks, we are like Only then We are made to be stretched and filled by the living hand by Jesus Christ as he lives in us by his ear. Whether you see your own inadequacy or not, you will be crushed. Maybe just the thought of talking to a believer about Jesus scares you sick. But on the other hand But the judge takes us home to his very own home as his own son. We have confidence to enter the most holy place through Jesus Christ. You need to come daily I uh I guess I should apologize for the confusion on the title. And moreover, in Christ we have adoption into God's family. I'm not a minister. But when I do the dishes, there's other dogs loaded here by the side of the sink, linked and likely. We're not very useful on our own. He has made us competent as ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter, but of the covenant. Tomorrow you'll turn to Christ. And we pray in Jesus' name. We can have no confidence before this kind of God. Not that we are competent to claim anything for ourselves. Perhaps you feel a little bit like a lit rubber glove. You have either have sinful overconfidence in your own abilities, you have pride in what Some of you know what I'm talking about. Daddy! It's focusing on yourself as something worthless, something useless. You're tough. And it goes like this. And uh in fact there's a pair that sits beside our sink regularly. It's not very useful. We're ministers before God. You're too comfortable in life. And use you for his glory and use you for his kingdom purposes. And on our own, moreover, we have no competence before other people. It's all of God's grace to us in Christ. That law that's weighing down on us lets us know with its pressure that we are sinners. Put yourself in a position where you have to be stretched by Jesus Christ and by his spirit. As a child, he saw a man shot dead in the street. And this show, as some of you will know from the title, the sermon title, is called A Prairie Home I'd be I feel pretty foolish, to tell you the truth. Our confidence to stand before the Holy God is through Christ. It's a new covenant that we are ministers of. It's always lower than you than you can drum up by your own energy. You must recognize your own insufficiency We want to know the power that raised Jesus from the dead and that you have promised to us. And those of you who know uh the show know that there is one product in particular that is In him and through faith in him, we may approach God with It's the cry of a little child before a loving father. I might be your pastor. Far better than any of the 16th Powder milk biscuits, they give shy people the strength to do what needs to be done. He was under the guilt of that sin. My wife likes to listen to it too. Not a minister. But some of my favorite parts of that show And who is equal to such a task? What a great product. Amazing. Mark Twain tells a story from his childhood It's not very productive. Um just for the record, the title I intended was You can handle it. That's what we can do to our Heavenly Father. We're ministers of reconciliation, calling sinners to be reconciled with sin. Are you ready? Others of you still have no idea. We have confidence, confidence before God Now there's there's two errors to avoid here. This is what Romans 8:15 means, when it says our spirit Extreme shyness stems from pride. We have inherited a sinful nature from Adam. I'm just an ordinary Christian. When we have arrogant self-sufficiency, it's like blowing up an empty rubber glove. I can't think of much of anything you can do with an empty rubber glove, except maybe clock range. And we have no competence before others on our own. Amen. Surely everybody needs this kind of thing every now and then. I might be your pastor. Paul talks and infers this. Because of Jesus Christ, because we belong to him. We are reveled by birth as well as decisions. We're becoming a moderate fan, let it say. And a week afterwards, Twain said, We are given all the rights that belong to the firstborn. And it is not of the letter, meaning That's the kind of relationship we have with the whole Under the weight of God's law. We have none of those things before other people. And what does this does the word new here mean? Who is equal to such a task? 2 Corinthians 3, 4 through 6. You see, if you feel adequate on your own But Sandy, Sandy is a different relationship. He was under the weight of God's law. Our confidence before God is through Jesus Christ. We're all priests before God. Part of it's my fault. Instead of looking at Christ in you. You see, we are under God's death penalty. We can go to Him as Daddy with all the God. You're not letting yourself be stretched. The Holy Spirit reads But you are ministers. This man, a man he knew to be a profane. Powder milk biscuits. Like Lindsay wrote above, we're created. But I hope that'll become clear. Two extremes that both Under the weight of his demands on us. Second Corinthians to the That's how flat we are. She can call him daddy. I meant it to be God's law is You see, the judge. Everybody feels We have no The answer is no. But you see, We're all ministers. In Christ. Well it means