Where he is called to lead the mission and to oversee the churches which were plagued with false teachers, heretics. Paul knows that Timothy often feels unsuited and overwhelmed with his calling to lead this great mission. But the word of God is not bound. We live in a time where many are leaving the gospel and communities of faith. I mean what a wonderful time. And yet in less than 300 years from the death of St. This is particularly true in developing countries before mechanization arrives. I woke up one morning, feet frozen like stumps. How he's come after you, how the Holy Spirit was given to sustain and strengthen you. And he just asked for prayer because he was feeling overwhelmed with a sense of pessimism. And he was just really depressed. Well they found out that uh Rosie uh entered the race at near the finish line. to uh our son Calvin and uh daughter in law Amber and uh this baby was ten pounds Do this now, even through this week vessel, we pray in Jesus' name. were faithfully transmitted to the next generation. uh in the relay Paul is passing on the baton of his leadership to Timothy. Yet we saw last week that when God wants to do something great, he looks for weak people. He looks for weak people because as 1 Corinthians 1 says, God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong, so that no one may boast before him. But look it up 24. He remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. so that he would not be surprised. or those who who were used to be part of an organized church but are done with that. And many of you parents and many of you grandparents know the ache in your own hearts concerning that. to continue the mission of making and multiplying disciples. through Paul's words to Timothy in our calling to make and multiply disciples. And what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrusted faithful men who will be able to teach others also. The theological foundation of the apostles and prophets, the sound words, the sacred deposit entrusted to Timothy. And so Timothy is to entrust to faithful men, reliable men, reliable men and women. who came to Jesus were very interested in Jesus and where are you staying? And so the very first thing, and I think that order is correct, is that Jesus wants us to be with him first before we do anything They were just being with Jesus, watching him teach, hearing him teach, watching him do the miracles, watching his interaction with the Pharisees and the scribes. It was a beautiful testimony uh this morning with the banda and tailor and just the you know the the transitioning of leaders, of strong leaders in this body. This whole body is seeking to create a spiritual extended family to raise the next generation. who just graduated in the church planning renewal track and he's in the process of helping to plant what we call microchurches. Going through J. And he's still been praying with him every week. It is the hardworking farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops. However poor the soil, inclimate the weather, or disincline the farmer, he must keep at his work. by Oakport Road and and during the uh summers I would trim the Christmas trees. Our God is a God who works by means, and he will never bless the soul of a man who pretends to be so high and spiritual that he can get on without them. that were the forerunner of our Olympic Games, which were well known in Paul's days. uh who appeared to have w won the women's division uh with an impressive time but there was some suspicion because they couldn't see any But she had to play, you have to play according to the rules. I myself will not be qualified for the prize. and suffering as a matter of course. One of our church fathers in the address to martyrs said, No soldier comes to war surrounded by luxuries or goes into action from a comfortable bedroom, but from the the makeshift and narrow tent. We're at war and it kind of sobered the realities of how people were living. of the army that stormed the beaches of Normandy on D-Day in southern France, who froze in the snow-covered mountains. in the forest of Ardanne, and who fought in the bloodiest battles in the trenches of the Western Front. And he said, I was just an ordinary soldier, just 20 years old, a rifleman fighting with my buddies in the foxhold He said in just seven weeks of combat, our platoon of 38 men had only one original member left. And as in any war, there are days when there's all out warfare. Having experiential acquaintance and fellowship with God Himself. He says, usually I we don't follow up with people when we ask to pray for, but I want to tell you, thank you for praying. uh the story behind the 24-7 prayer movement. Practice violence and remember that he who prays is fighting against the devil in the flesh. The birth of our uh granddaughter, uh Isabella Garriott, was born yesterday in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Anyhow, we're I'm not gonna give you too much too any more information than that. Showing yourselves to be my disciples. And so we pray, Holy Spirit, you you would open our ears, our eyes, our minds to hear, to see, to understand your word. That you would embolden our hearts to courageously obey and apply your word, that you would be glorified in honor in this place today. uh to his lieutenant in the faith, young Timothy. and self-centered leaders who either needed to be corrected or who were abandoning the faith because of the persecution against the people of the way, the followers of Christ. Paul in the first chapter seeks to encourage and to exhort Timothy to guard the good deposit that was entrusted to him, to fan into flame the gift of God. that he has been given, for God did not give him, God did not give us a spirit of fear, but of power, of love, and self-control. in his encouragements to Timothy here in 2 Timothy 2. And what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. with his wife preparing the meal. He felt comfortable enough to jump into the deep end of the ministry pool by asking such questions. and suicide, of moments of despair, and revelations about my own idolatries of ministry success. the statistical realities of the loss of members and the participation in the church. who cast a vision in our last General Assembly to see a thousand new churches planted within ten years, which is about a hundred churches a year acknowledge the challenge as a denomination. And so here in 2 Timothy 2, Paul is writing a letter to Timothy to help him face his fears and to strengthen him in his calling, specifically the calling is one of fears, and uh he freely raises those fears and the hurdles he must overcome and we too need this strength to overcome our fears and the weaknesses so that each one of us here can fulfill our gospel callings. And what Paul is referring to here is to pass on to that which was entrusted. That they might teach others also. And the second part is come and be. In Mark 3, he appointed twelve, designating them apostles, that they might be with him, and that he might send them out to preach and have authority to drive out demons. And Luke, what we see is Jesus gives these instructions that he's apprenticing his disciples in the movement of disciple making. in uh Mark uh or in Luke chapter 9 and then with the 12 and then he sends out the 72 and in Luke chapter uh 10. Be with Jesus, apprentice to Jesus, live as missionaries, and multiply disciples. Uh that is. uh sharing kind of uh the opportunity of Metro Baltimore Seminary. It said every congregation was a missionary society and every Christian believer a missionary inflamed by the love of Christ to convert his fellow man. Well we find the mindset, and the mindset that Paul then moves towards is the mindset of a soldier, an athlete, and a farmer. He toils at his job. as to expect a believer to attain much holiness who has not been diligent about Bible reading, his prayers, and the use of Sundays. is wise. But then he gives the illustration of the athlete. Efforts to win this evergreen reefs. would r would would result in severe penalties and public shame. uh photographic witnesses uh of her in the in the race and uh further uh investigation recorded all report also that she had cheated in the month before that in the New York City marathon. in the framework of a soldier. the French government gives to non-French citizens induction into the famed Knights of the French Legion of Honor The designation shared by a select group of war heroes who helped to liberate France. Some, he said, lost limbs to the bouncing beddies, the German mines that popped up into the air and detonated. He was forced from the front lines in the winter of 1944 because of the frostbite and gangrene. That is in Christ Jesus. Never mind how weak and shy and timid you may feel, Timothy. We have an enemy who seeks our destruction and disablement. Hold the rules and and do the strenuous discipline like an athlete. We need grace. You know, Jude uh mentions these words. encourage but keep yourselves. Be mindful. be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. is a gateway to life, suffering, the pathway to glory. Remember Jesus Christ and his resurrection. We had a set as I was I was not looking forward to the elders meeting, the session meeting. eleven thirty or past twelve because of all the issues that they're addressing. But it wasn't until after the session meeting that he was informed that there were three men who were praying for 90 minutes while the session was meeting. field of play in prayer we join the team actively shaping the outcome of the match, challenging and occasionally outplaying an aggressive opponent. opposed to the church and the best thing we can do therefore is to put our fists together and pray. experience Marie and I are having uh just uh in your worship and hearing the testimonies and seeing God's good goodness here. Well, Lord Jesus, we are grateful for new life. Lord, you said, if you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be given you. prison under the cruel Emperor Nero, and he knows that he will never be released except by death, which he senses could take place at any moment. Paul's preoccupation and chief concern was to make sure that the the positive truth, that the gospel and the teachings of the faith Paul knows that Timothy struggles with feelings of apprehension and faint-heartedness. Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as preached in my gospel, for which I am suffering, bound with chains as a criminal Tell me your biggest ministry blow-ups and messes. My stories. I remember sitting at his dining room table with his infant son on his lap and two of his other preschool children playing with some toys on the floor. with the army or to serve in any public duty, but he shall stay at home and make his wife happy. into strong positions and the pain that that caused. But I told him too about Christ's faithfulness and of his mercy and of his sustaining grace. This went on for about 90 minutes, and afterwards he said smiling, thanks. I hope that I could last 30 years in the ministry. Good deposit. Faithful, available, and teachable. the message of this good deposit and to pass it on. Come and see. before we go out on mission. of God, just being with Jesus. uh that he's now engaging them into the mission. In Matthew 28, they have graduated. Chuck and Elaine Cullen, who apparently live in the Columbia area. that uh this man was responsible for discipling him when he became a Christian. The athlete and the athlete, the farmer's life is totally devoid of excitement, remote from all glamour of per of peril and of applause. Uh I I grew up uh with my grandfather who had a farm behind her house. The Lord bring in new sons and daughters into the harvest. where every kind of hardness and severity and unpleasantness is found. If he is loyal to the gospel, he is sure to experience opposition and ridicule. In 2009, at the age of 85, 64 years after the end of World War II, he received the highest honor Everyone else was either killed or wounded. He lost all ten toes and permanently lost feeling in his left leg. We didn't think of ourselves as heroes. He is calling Timothy to find his resource. I don't know what that might be for you, but every Christian needs to consider themselves, herselves, himself as soldiers for Christ, according to Paul's words here. He said he was very clear and quick not to tell Timothy not to be strong in himself, not to grit his teeth, to set his jaw. to be slaughtered. humiliation, suffering, or death in your ministry calling, remember Jesus Christ. But somehow in the process of uh working in the bullet room, I locked myself in, like the lock was on the other side and I couldn't get out. truly happy in God Himself. uh this subdued lask, you know, uh, you know, about my particular trial. We have got to remember Jesus Christ. He said, but this particular session meeting went unusually well. And there was no question that those prayers were being answered, that God was strengthening these elders in the work of ministry. And right before this passage, Paul says to Timothy, you are aware that all who are in Asia turned away from me, among whom were Philegius and Hermogenes. of moving into the hood as a country boy married to a suburban wife without any training or mentoring. Well, I violated that. Well, if I were to say what's the we we often think about the message of the gospel, but there is a method to disciple making that I believe is in the scriptures, a method. We don't have time to go into those details, but then at the you know they're apprenticing in the process. about the early spread of Christianity. The fruit, you know, the share of the crops. that there are no spiritual gains without pains. I think it's one of the things that uh people would say uh during the Second War, we are at war. of God. uh unlock myself. uh chief call. Thank you, Wayne. 23 inches and uh two-hour labor, pretty good. So uh this is appropriate, strength to multiply. The saying is trustworthy, for if we died with him, we will also live with him. to renovate and then commuting to seminary in Philadelphia from Baltimore all the while Maria is expecting our first child. I should have been less active in our first year of marriage. In some sense it was like I felt like somehow I helped inoculate him, uh that he was given some kind of grace by hearing my failures and the messes of ministry. These were, this was the gospel. That is the picture of our that's our heritage. Let's say I know what the hard work entails for farming. He was feeling very burdened by the session, the meetings with elders. And saints, soldiers, we need to use the weapons that God has given us. What is the line between being fools for Christ and being foolish? Because we only could plant 26 churches last year. To multiply the mindset and the means to fulfill God's calling to multiply grace-filled disciples in our world. It's affordable and it's a credit and you can hear more next week. Cheating or rule breaking in ancient Greek sports was considered a violation of the sacred traditions associated with the games. Soldiers on active service do not expect a safe or easy time. but to be inwardly strengthened by the means of grace in Christ Jesus. There is a great book, Pete Gregg wrote Dirty Glory, Go Where Your Best Prayers Take You. And you know, we too live in a time of fears in the church. It went from 12 to 120 to like 350 million, the largest faith in the world in less than 400 years. But the other part of the fruitfulness of sharing the crops is is uh of the winning, of of seeing The Christian life is not a walk in the park. Well, how do you and I get the means? Prayer is a constant, violent action of the Spirit as it is lifted up to God. As a ship is driven upward against the power of the storm, thus we must all practice She was honestly rock, you know, removed from uh disqualified and uh and what a humiliation that was Which like how'd that happen? I got a testimony from one of the graduates of Metro Baltimore Seminary, Stephen Vega, who uh shared with me that there's a man by the name of Chuck Cullen And he says, share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. Remember, engage, keep yourselves in the love of Christ. And so we need to be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And of course we know that it is God who who grows his church. Jesus is risen from the dead. I. The largest growing religious population, they say, are the nuns and the duns, those who do not identify with any faith. This is not his invention. Packer's Knowing God chapter by chapter, two to three years. The classes are all on Tuesday night. Why? What a beautiful and they spent the day with Jesus. But you know what Jesus was doing? Uh next Sunday, by the way, we're gonna have a plug for uh we're having the you know Pizza with the Professors in the parlor. Forty, five hundred churches are closing their doors annually. Hold this in your memory. 5. Every morning we can say with Jeremiah, Great is thy faithfulness. And that's what Paul speaks about in verse 1 and 8 through 13. Remember Jesus Christ risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as I as preached in my gospel, which I am suffering, bound with chains as a criminal. And he just called out to a few people, would you please pray for me? Because in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who has loved us. I told him about the foolishness of starting a church plant four months into our marriage. He says, above all things, see to it that your souls are happy in the Lord. And so I I had one of the tenants uh on my phone. I thought we just got married uh like yesterday. And then he says, no soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him And actually if you look at the gospels, you'll find that uh for about a year and a half the disciples didn't do anything. Well it's good to be back two weeks in a row here at the Columbia Presbyterian Church. And I was taken back by this rather forward question. It says, when a man is newly married, he shall not go off Reliable men. And Paul says, remember Jesus Christ risen from the dead. Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. Verse 5, an athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. This uh these are part and parcel of a soldier's calling. You know, Jesus said he prays all night for which disciples that God was calling him, his father was calling him to choose. Day by day seek to make this the most important business of your life. I told him about laying hands on leaders and ordaining men too fast, about placing weak men. Jesus rises from the dead and he gives them the Great Commission. That is indispensable. And he's talking that the fruitfulness of such a hard-working farmer is holiness and converts. Keep yourselves in God's love as you wait for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to bring you eternal life. Keep this in your mind. But Timothy was to do more than to preserve this good deposit. He was loving his disciples. There were no missionary societies, no missionary institutions Lord, we confess that there is absolutely no way that we can bear any fruit, much less much fruit. Last week I got an email from a dear pastor friend who's been in the ministry for decades and decades and decades. These are not his imaginations. And so here in the 2 Timothy 2, we find that God strengthens us through So now of course they could only win if they competed according to the rules. That's where we've come from. And Paul says in First Corinthians nine, I do not run like a man running aimlessly. The best soldiers in my platoon never got to come out of the foxholes. And so Paul can say, like in Romans 8, for I'm convinced that neither ma neither death nor life nor any power or trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger of sword will Trust in him at all times that people pour out your hearts to him for God is a refuge. The exercise strengthened his resolve and helped him to put into perspective his own fears. John to the whole the whole population of the Roman Empire, which then represents the civilized world, was Christianized. Uh he said to pray is not to plead from the sidelines, it is to invade the And he remained in combat despite being shot in the left arm. They carried me to the aid stations. And of course, Paul is chronically showing him how to do that. What we need is fat followers of Jesus. We heard, we read in the word this morning from uh from John, the Gospel of John, this first incident of these two disciples of John. So we're designing this seminary to equip co-vocational leaders. Lord, I'm grateful for hearing these testimonies from Amanda and Taylor just on the nurturing of the children in this place. What a tremendous vision and image and investment. Amen. Keep your souls happy. Word of the Lord. What was that like? He wanted to make sure they knew that they were beloved before they were performing anything. And how do we continue to suffer like a good soldier? We're trying to equip ordinary believers to be everyday missionaries, equipped to be disciple makers where you live, work, and play. And Paul talks about the day of evil. Keep this. Like a runner who wants to anchor the baton firmly in the hand of the next runner. We need to have faithful brothers and sisters that can take We hear the words of Jesus to Simon. And Paul can say, I can face death all day long. Paul is suffering in a dun uh dark, dank dungeon in a Roman Hard work is the indispensable aspect or character of good farming. I should as soon expect a farmer to prosper in business who contented himself with sowing his fields and never looking at them till harvest as expected Uh and what we see and actually in all four Gospels, or the pr particularly Matthew, Mark Be strong. I told him about occasions of slander We planted 22,000 Christmas trees and We find the hardworking farmer, we find the rule-keeping athlete, and now we find the soldier. I think they attend here, so I can see some people shaking their heads. Uh some of us might remember uh Rosie Ruiz in nineteen eighty, uh the eight nineteen eighty Balt the uh Boston Marathon runner. But one of the interesting things that the Shaft writer said in History of Christian Church, she said this. And he says, I just, you know, so we have a great men in that session, but they there's lots of different opinions and it's often very s messy. It is the hard working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops. We live in a time of great and growing forces that seek to snuff out and to weaken the gospel in our midst. Apparently this is our twelfth grandchild. This helps me to know what I might face so when stuff like this comes, I won't be surprised. 80 to 90 percent of churches in America are either stagnant or in decline. How do we do this? You are not alone. My father-in-law, uh Donald Dawkins, Maria's dad, was a war hero They often go from either 530 to And of those 26, we also realized that there were 14 other churches in our denomination closing, so we net at 12. And the very first thing is, he says, come and see. Keep remembering who Jesus is, what he's done. No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him. If the athlete must play fair, the farmer must work hard. You know, Proverbs 11:30 says, The fruit of the righteous is the tree of life, and he who wins souls Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Follow with me. If we endure, we will also reign with him. I should have stayed home and made my wife happy, like Deuteronomy 24, 5 says, which I didn't know the verse at the time. Spending a day with Jesus. And so in essence, Paul is saying to Timothy and to us, when you are tempted to avoid pain, And so last week we launched into the opening chapter of Paul's final words, his last letter. All of us are in this space because there are believers who saw themselves as everyday missionaries. If you aren't keeping your souls happy, you are in danger of forgetting of who you are. Um but actually today's message is on the strength to multiply. Steve is a retired uh uh state trooper This is the gospel of God's grace of Jesus Christ. She had she was in a yeah multiples. So uh let's pray But uh Bishop Raoult talks about the the uh It is the fight of our lives. That is what a young church planner boldly asked me one Sunday after a worship service over lunch. Church researchers and mystiologists are presenting this They were experiencing the grace. Such athletes gave themselves to that strenuous self-discipline and training to give their best They take hardship and risk. He like other honorees considered himself lucky. Paul knows that Timothy's personality Uh he grew corn and Christmas trees. Similarly, the Christian should not expect an easy time I call I called and texted, uh, but he wasn't home. And he said that his wife, Elaine, would uh bring Diet Coke, cranberries, and unsalted cashews. The nurse cut my shoes off with a razor blade. He says, You then, my child, my son, be strengthened by the grace. And by the way, he introduces these three images, these three characteristics of a believer. And he was part, You can do it. Erwin Int, who is the Mission to North America Coordinator for our denomination. He must share in sufferings with his comrade in arms. Uh he was having difficulty creating sermons. And what we see here is the mission They're living as missionaries, and then You are a beloved son, you're a beloved daughter, but you are in Nawar. Uh uh you know that twenty-six uh point two mile finish line and it was later uh Simon, Simon, Satan is asked to shift you like wheat. Successful farming depends as much on sweat as on skill. Well, this is our context. Some of you might know that experience. There is a method of disciple making, I believe, is very clear in the scriptures. And so Paul turns his attention to the Greek games. For Paul, for Timothy, and for all believers, death And in fact it ended at 920. How do we stay in the fight? And 30-something Timothy is in Ephesus. And two-thirds of our youth who grow up in church leave with when they reach adulthood. What a beautiful picture that is. The secret of all true effectual service is joy in God. He and he and he said uh this past week But also I was grateful that You know, uh Donald Dawkins witnessed mortar shells land in foxholes killing men in his platoon. He said I love George Mueller's And then I get this email yesterday. Satan is a But some plant and some water. But every day we also wake up to war You should seek above all things to have your souls They're using jacuzzi's now in living rooms to help birth Tell me your leadership failures. But anyhow, he said that Chuck uh met with him two hours every Thursday night. Uh Tertilian, uh You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus. I can be considered sheep. He saw soldiers break down in tears, unable to carry on. Satan will use those times where he'll throw everything at us. And so I started to tell him It's a it's a pleasure. Of buying a deteriorated five-unit apartment house. He said, we lived like animals hacking slit trenches in the frozen mud. Man, what a great, wise God that we have Well, they were captivated. I do not fight like a man beating the air. You know, we the Nike uh you know, just do it. This past week, uh Uh we we are celebrating uh Wow, we need help. He was to pass it on. Well, Steve just share with me this week We find that. Yes, every day we wake up to the mercy and compassions and the goodness. This is to my Father's glory that you bear much fruit. If we deny him, he will also deny us if we are faithless. Unlike the soldier, See prayer. This was not some kind of secret knowledge or private revelations. He quotes Martin Luther. What a what a wonderful This is our Rome. We're going to take it in the reverse order, farmer. In December, they amputated. And so The mission. How do we work like the hard farmer? And he says, I will never shrink from declaring my belief that Corn and Christmas trees. And so Paul continues. They became Jesus' disciples. And so to be with Jesus, but the second is to come and do. No, I beat my body and make it a slave so that after I priest others Prayer is spiritual warfare. Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything. This is a beautiful picture of discipling and disciple making. He says, I can't remember the last time our session meetings accomplished so much. And so we are called to work and to plant and to water. Keep yourselves in God's love. Anyhow Me. He said, I got to come home. Sift you like wheat. This is our Ephesus. Paul did not say And uh when he uh he says I used to sell corn on the stand by the He didn't say any of that. How do we Uh at Baum, we call it What a beautiful And the method is come and see. Thanks. How