He tells his father, look, these many years I've served you and I've never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat that I might celebrate with my friends. I think if I were the son, if I were the father, I'd be walking out the door and saying, son, get in here. And so we're really just barely scratching the surface. In hopes that others will say how grateful they are to the type 2's thoughtful care. And the son took things a little bit farther and missed some of the point. And then he's and his hands are covered in flour, and one of the other bakers starts to doze off. This big smile comes on his face. And he turns around, and as he turns around, he sees all these people who are waving like this, like they want donuts, and he's got this grumpy face. If you had known me, you would have known my father also. And then ask, what are the benefits in this life that come with justification, adoption, and sanctification? One, two, three. That came in this morning. I'm uh I'm entrepreneurial, but NFs are somewhat interesting. To follow the rules and do things the right way. I'll be reading the whole parable, but zeroing in on the older brother. that brings real security to the Christian life. Who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. And he arose and he came to his father. For my son was dead and is alive again. These many years I have served you, I've never disobeyed your command, and yet you never gave me a young goat that I might celebrate with my friends. He was devoted to his father's law and he was devoted to his father's service, but he was entirely out of sympathy with his father's heart. Maybe some of you remember Fred is a heavy set guy, bald head, dark mustache. And he says to her, somewhat jealously, I'll bet the guys who are at make supermarket donuts are still in bed. And he's kinda barking at them a little bit about how they make the donuts and why they make you know and and and the ingredients and that kind of thing. When you make donuts this good, there is one reward. of doing the right things to get the right outcomes here in 2020. We bend over backward to do favors so that people will say something kind or be in our debt. And I really appreciate your assistance with the barn that we built. We can do it intentionally. How many of you come to me and say, hey, that was a decent sermon? in the work of Christ for me, in my connection to the Father, and He is my way to get there. to somebody that's hard to interact with, that doesn't give you the response that you want. We've got to step out in confidence and faith, knowing that it's being with the Father where we find our security. I was the one that had um the new responsibilities first, because I was the oldest, you know, the first one to drive and the first one to stay home for a weekend by himself and because I was the oldest. In this parable, Jesus illustrates the extravagant grace of the Father through a story about a wayward younger son and a self-righteous older son and the love of their father. And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in the country, and he began to be in need. I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Now his older son was in the field, and he came and drew near to the house. What he asked what these things meant. This is the word of the Lord. Maybe you're not going to get two-thirds of the inheritance if you don't obey the father. the older brother and the heart of the father. That their fathers tell them to do. And the and the alarm clock rings and it's one of those alarm clocks with the actual bells on the top kind of thing, and the alarm clock rings and he's on his side and the camera's facing him and Time to make the donuts. He wakes up, they go back to work. Nope. But humbly consider others better than ourselves. But we're really not interested in the why. He goes out to him too. And all that is mine is yours. It goes from being about following the rules to about who you're connected to. When the Father says, all that is mine is yours, he's saying that because you are with me, because we are connected, because we are in relationship, you get it all. Because relationship is so much stronger. At the end of this parable, he leaves everybody hanging. And the father addresses the reward in his response. Because we're talking about being adopted. And the rules become a glimpse into the future of what our world will look like and how it will work. And where lying doesn't exist, where you can actually believe the car salesman. Being with the Father through Jesus and knowing the security of that reward will begin to shape our hearts now. Some of them faster than others. We are grateful for the work of Christ, his life and death and resurrection, and it's in his name we pray. But but I was the one that was responsible for watching the younger two when my parents were out. And he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours. Turns off the alarm clock and the first thing he mutters is Time to make the donuts. And as this line is ending, you see Fred the Baker, he's it the store looks exactly the same as they do now, right? And so there has to be some sort of reward for being connected to God the Father. I'm a bundle of constantly looking for someone else to kind of tell me where I stand and to make sure that I'm doing the rules the right way all the time. Not many days later the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property and reckless living. The guy's kind of miserable to be truthful. Forgetting in the process that we are to work as if working for God, not for people. Because he has an older son who's disrespecting him. What are you going to do? To remind us that even though we sin, there is peace of conscience because Christ has paid for our sin. and that we are going to make it. Meaning that there are rules to follow, like there there's there's still stuff to do, right? And I would encourage you that most likely those opportunities are going to come where you find the most security, not related to the Father. Thanks, Lord, that you're at work in us through your word, through your spirit. But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fatted calf for him. One word, and it's the word with. Like all this work has actually caused him to miss the connection. You see, the avenue to relationship with the Father is through the life and death and resurrection of Jesus. No. By giving them to us or taking them away from us or never giving them to us. Where nothing comes before the one true God. Help us to obey as an expression of love, not as an expression of obligation. Lord God, we pray that as we open your word, that you would speak to us, that your Holy Spirit would be at work in our hearts and that we would be different people. So in addition to a ridiculous, somewhat challenging name, there are some other things you should know about me. I am the firstborn of three sons. The NF never feels as if they know themselves. If a Neogram is your preference, I'm a two. This morning, we're going to have the scriptures teach us about the security of the Christian by examining the older brother in the parable of the prodigal son. This parable of Jesus is pretty well known. But the father said to his servants, Bring quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring the fatted calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate But he was angry and refused to go in. It's very obvious for the older brother that his presenting sin is self-righteousness. He's done all the work and gets none of the reward. All the things that he thought were true about how you receive inheritance is gone. And now it all doesn't make sense. He was totally out of sympathy with his father's heart. He gave his younger son his inheritance, which was kind of this way of saying, Dad, I wish you were dead. I'm sure not without a little parting fatherly advice, but kind and gentle and encouraging. He is so excited to have him home. He just wants him home. He's not slipping him in the back door and saying, Man, I'm really glad you're home, son, but let's see if we can manage this social disgrace that you've become. To cajole his son to come in. It always has been. The father exhorts the older son to come into the party by saying, It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for your brother was dead and he is alive, he was lost and is found. For our lives is through the life and death and resurrection of Jesus. the peace of conscience, joy in the Holy Spirit, and perseverance to the end. I know you might be thinking, isn't there a little bit of financial security in there for us? God doesn't guarantee health, wealth, status, convenience, length of life, or a bunch of other things that we so desperately look for to make us secure. He reminds us that even in the hardest times, in the midst of a global pandemic, in the midst of a tumultuous country, there is joy in the Holy Spirit. These benefits are fashioned around being with the Father through Jesus, not so much centered on what we think we need in the moment. Right? If you find that you find security in money, it might be the opportunity to give. Not as just to get the reward. Maybe maybe it's social expectation, right? And he said, There was a man who had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me. But when he came to himself, he said, How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread? When his younger brother came home after squandering his father's estate And the father brings him in without hesitation. And then it doesn't. If uh you know anything about Myers Briggs, I'm an ENFP. Now think about the impact of this, right? Does he go in? To be confident in our relationship with you, with others, with life G. This is his security. That's where I struggle. My wife Joy and I were discussing the text this week, and she said that the father's thoughts might be that striving has kept the older brother from realizing that he is the father. He is connected with us through Christ, and he wants to secure our hearts and our lives. And as Morgan said, we find ourselves entirely out of sympathy with our Father's heart. And when he sees the younger son, the younger brother show up, he runs to him. In a lot of ways, it feels like Jesus looks at us and says, What would you do? Additionally, as we live sympathetically with the Father, our understanding of law changes. And you say that it is because of our relationship with you that we are secure. Relationship to a person like this father is very hard to break. Yeah, four. Of the rules now. for those who are with the Father through Jesus. I I'm working on it. The older brother had worked and worked to be perfectly aligned to receive the reward that was before him. He does all these things. So let's talk about the heart of the Father. Campbell Morgan is a theologian and pastor, and he comments on this passage. Why is the son so angry, so hurt, so indignant with his father? Jesus does something very clever here. Because your security is found in the work of Christ, because He's the avenue to be connected to the Father Instead, he uses those things, health, wealth, convenience, that sort of thing. Well, the rules have become an expression of love for the Father. But but lying doesn't exist. To look for something other than Jesus, other than the Father, to give us significance and security The father attempts to redirect the thinking and behavior of the older son using one preposition. But you get what I have because I'm your dad. The older brother, he followed all the rules to get the reward. Brothers and sisters, Christian, God is at work We want to be molded to look a little bit more like Jesus Christ, a little bit less like the sinner that we wrestle with every day. You see, what gets Fred the Baker out of bed in the morning isn't serving people, and it isn't making an excellent product. I also believe that the Father is going to give us opportunities to express our confidence in his security. In all the busyness, you missed it, son. Look, the list goes on and on. We can do it accidentally. Somewhere he has got it into his head that the way he receives the reward of his inheritance comes through the work that he does. So let's look at our hearts as we try to live sympathetically with the Father. We're talking about being connected with God the Father. He clasps his hands and he says, Good morning, folks. Does he dig his heels in and just get more stubborn? And I can't help but think of John 14, 6 and 7, where Jesus says, I am the way and the truth and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through me. They are an expression of love. And he's taking off his robe and putting it on him. I'm working on it. There is perseverance to the end. But while his while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion and ran and embraced him and kissed him. It's kind of like the good little children who get dessert eat all their vegetables. How am I going to get rid of my reward? As he walks out the door to go to work, his wife hands him his lunch and his her hair is still in curlers. This is the place where he finds his confidence, where he finds his significance, where he finds his worth. I'm a pastor, not a mathematician. He was lost and is found. He gets up early. He reaches out to him too. He says, You're with me, and so all I have is yours. His father came out and entreated him, but he answered his father, look. And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him back safe and sound. And just as that scene is ending, the narrator comes on with a voiceover and he says, of course. From now on, you do know him, and you have seen him. Lord God, we are we are filled with insecurity. And now I'm this idealist who is always feeling like he doesn't quite know himself. So when we move past Jesus' time, past 1981 and Fred the Baker, we find ourselves in the midst of a complex tangle. Thanks. Then you see Fred the Baker at it you know making the donuts with fellow bakers. They taste so great, people buy an awful lot of them. And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, and no one gave him anything In verse 31, the father responds to the son's accusations by saying, Son, you are always with me. We aren't so easily distracted. And you'll look for them less and less. It's received a lot of extra attention in the last decade, decade and a half, because of Tim Keller's book, The Prodigal God. Now, noticing that his older son is not at the party. We can do it just because we don't know what we're supposed to do. Didn't matter that he wanted him dead. We just want the reward. They are a vision of the future. I am the stereotypical responsible one. Have you ever noticed that before? He heard music and dancing. The Father has been nothing but gracious throughout the entire parable. Truthfully, it's easy to slip up and disobey. The answer tells us that the rewards are the assurance of God's love. Now here are the word of God from Luke 15, 11-32. But what you see in who I am is that I'm a bundle of insecurity. Maybe I didn't find you in these three, but somewhere it is our human instinct, it is our sinful flesh. You see what the word with does? Maybe it is, and maybe it isn't. And so what people say is actually true. He uses these ingredients, and he does it in order to make money. It's in Christ's name we pray. All of the community knows that the older sons get their inheritance and good older sons do all the things In fact, more than without hesitation, he brings him in with celebration. Oh, and when did you get a chance to reorganize the pantry? So I'm this eldest who feels this responsibility to But the father goes anyway. Lord, make our hearts alive so that we can live sympathetically with you. Son, thank you for supervising the piling of the fields today. It happens with our kids. How is this working? One description says that NFs are seeking at any given what NFs are seeking at any given time is personal identity. And as a result, he's insecure. In 1981, Dunkin' Donuts released the commercial with Fred the Baker. Have you ever noticed that at the end of this He's taking off his ring and he's putting it on the younger brother. So my goal here is to dig a little bit beyond the passage and try to examine the heart of the older son. Finally, brothers and sisters. The fact that the father leaves. And the website Your Aneogram Coach says that the weakness of a type II is that they will confidently insert their helpful support. And what I want you to hear through the scriptures this morning is that it is a relationship with God the Father through Jesus. If you've done any reading on the older brother, or if you've just been reading along here, Well, what's the purpose of following the rules? They are what we are hoping for. My whole deal is I want to serve you, so you'll pat me on the back. And they began celebrate And Fred reaches over and just beyond gently slaps him in the face. It happens in our jobs. You get what I have because you're with me, not because you did those other things. If you find that you find security from people, it might be the opportunity to do something selfless. You see where I'm going with this? And the answer tells us that the rewards are for. Amen. And he invites him into the party. Amen. Uh I'm uh I'm an idealist. And he has to leave his guests. Help us to obey as an expression of seeing the world that you are making. Whatever the reasons that the older brother had. Look at this elder son, and what do we find? Help us to believe that. But I perish here with hunger. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. And he called one of the servants and asked, It happens in our relationships. Didn't matter that he squandered all that the father had. He has clearly demonstrated that by the way he redeemed his lost son. To remind us that He loves us. I'll do the work to get the reward. I'm not associating with that jerk of a younger brother. But there's also this opportunity to step out in faith, and he's gonna provide those opportunities to step out. It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for your brother was dead and is alive, he was lost, and is found. Imagine for a second a world where there are no idols. But what is it that's just below that self-righteousness? Like you can't have the dessert unless you eat the veggies. My security needs to be found It doesn't matter how much money you make. And actually, this is addressed in the Westminster Shorter Catechism, question number 36. So instead of having to do them, we get to do them. Right? Or maybe the father taught his son the right things to do, the right way to work, the right way to be a son. It's destroyed. But he gave it to him anyway. You see, relationship is mu is a much better avenue than obedience to receive security and reward. So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country. It's the only cheerful line that he has in the whole commercial. And he goes with a gentle and loving spirit It moves the older son's security from obedience to relationship. What does the older brother do? It is being with the Father where we find our reward. Like he's looking at the racks of donuts. You could see the dad saying to the son, it has kept you from realizing your security. The avenue to security And the answer is no. I'm uncomfortable. And and the and any of these could be a sermon. I would like to propose to you that the older brother is so upset because he's insecure. And adoption seems to be the right one for us right now of those three. It's not that my younger two brothers are irresponsible. And then he's shuffling through his house. Imagine a place where every life is valued as an image-bearer of God. Because the security of your father is becoming more and more significant. We'll do all the work. And we are forgetting that we are to do nothing motivated by selfish ambition or conceit. We'll do anything to bend their behavior to our will instead of shaping their hearts to the will of God. It's embarrassing, frankly. All of the older son's striving was about the reward. And it isn't a fairy tale, but an imminent future. We tow the company line in order to get the promotion. Put yourself in that place. You will find that your need for those other securities will slowly dissipate. He has to stop doing the job of host. That's not what he says. The older son strives and strives with the rules, looking for them to lock in his inheritance. Sorry, I don't mean to offend any car salesman We struggle. It doesn't matter. It looks great. This is the point And when he sees the people, He's getting shoes and he's throwing a party. And then freely allowed him to leave. Let's pray. Treat me as one of your hired servants. You see him walk past the bathroom door, and he's mumbling. I'm not going in there. It's very selfless. Kind of like me and people. Actually, this whole point could probably be several sermons. Well And he divided his property between them. This blows up the older brother's expectations. And um You know, flour goes flying. He's like, invite the town. They're actually pretty decent guys. What is it that's that's making him like this? We've talked about that. And we just don't know what the older brother is going to do. It's all for you.