He's also the guy that wrote the commentary on the Song of Songs that I refer to through the series a number of times, the best contemporary scholarly translated commentary on that. Her husband's well known for he sits in the council meetings with other civic leaders. For I'm giving you good guidance. Don't forget or turn away from my words. uh because he's more comfortable with that to actually use that in preaching this morning. Cry of the Soul, Intimate Allies, and some of those that we've used here at our church. I told I told them last week that I was having you and then I get one more shot at it last next week where I finish it up. And I don't so I'm not gonna have anything to rebut, you see. I knew it would be like bringing Coles to Newcastle, uh, as they say. Proverbs is an interesting book because it has a a like a preface, you know, you open a book and there's a preface that tells you what it's about. Through these proverbs, people will receive instruction and discipline, good conduct, and doing what is right, just, and fair. These proverbs will make the simple-minded clever. And let those who understand receive guidance by exploring the depth of meaning in these proverbs, parables, wise sayings, and riddles. These kind of proverb collections are the address of a father to a son. I think all biblical books have a specific audience in mind, an original audience. That gives insight into how people should speak to each other, how we should handle money, how we deal with difficult people, and so forth. She calls out to men going by who are minding their own business. I was appointed in ages past at the very first before the earth began. Before the mountains and the hills were formed, I was born. I was there when he spread the limits of the sea, so they would not spread beyond their boundaries. So in these two passages plus elsewhere, Jesus associates himself with woman wisdom. And then we're going to look at a male equivalent of that passage, which is outside the book of Proverbs. She goes out to inspect the field and buys it. She has no fear of winter for her household because all of them have warm clothes. She carefully watches all that goes on in her household and does not have to bear the consequences of laziness. There are many virtuous and capable women in the world, but you surpass them all. This ideal woman is a culmination of all the descriptions and teaching about women in the earlier chapters of the book. of the Septuagint, the Greek translation. Their children will be successful everywhere. The wicked will be infuriated when they see this. However, he's secure because he knows that God will bring him the victory in the end. Getting wisdom is the most important thing you can do. Brought them all the way from uh San Bernardino, California. uh closer to the water. Uh you probably know him more from a number of his writings. popular books that he does have that um really help to bridge the gap between scholarship and helping us as believers uh are books like how to read the psalms, how to read Proverbs He's also one of the translators for the New Living Translation of the Bible. producing another book on marriage series of Bible studies and the DVD that will be out shortly. Well hopefully about a year and a half. That's also because the the um I bro in the first service I brought up a uh NIV and I didn't realize how my uh sharing with the people who came to the marriage conference over uh the past couple days. perhaps foregrounding uh married couples, but I want to point out that this sermon is going to highlight a um characteristic that Proverbs puts forward that is important for every Christian to cultivate, whether married or unmarried, and a word especially to use single people who would like to be married someday. And most people who Christians who read the book of Proverbs kind of mine it for little bits of of good advice about how to live life. Those who are immature or naive, I think the more pejorative simple-minded is used, it is to help them grow in wisdom. And by the way, all that is important for us not o not only as individuals, but also for us as married partners. Is that the son needs to love another woman even more than his own wife? To love his wife properly, a husband needs to love this other woman even more than the one he marries. But actually, we need to read that section in the light of the first nine chapters. Most of which are the Father speaking to the Son. in her relationship with the Son. But the Father also warns him that there's another path, and that path is a crooked one. make the transition into Proverbs 10 and following, we're going to see that the Father is going to present the Son who's walking on the path with a fundamental choice. She has prepared a great banquet, mixed the wines, and set the table. Leave your foolish ways behind and begin to live. Now in the ancient Near East, a woman inviting a man in for a dinner implies more than just a good meal. Stolen water is refreshing, food eaten in secret tastes the best, but the men don't realize that her former guests are now in the grave. Because Proverbs chapter 8, we actually have wisdom's autobiography, beginning in verse 12 and following. It says, I wisdom live together with good judgment. Good advice and success belong to me. And how happy I was with what he created, his wide world, and all the human family. When we hear that her house is on the highest point of the city. And so we learn here that wisdom is more than just, you know, some good advice. Who loves you indeed, but you are totally dependent on him for every aspect of your being Woman Folly's house is also on the highest point of the city. the firstborn of creation. And we say woman wisdom is Christ and Dame Bolly are all those other things that try to take precedent in our our life. The primary thing I want you to notice is how both of them are kind of human echoes of woman wisdom. She finds wool and flax and busily spins it. Her lights burn late into the night, her hands are busy spinning thread, her fingers twisting fiber. She's clothed with strength and dignity, and she laughs with no fear of the future. And the men will get theirs in a moment. Who can find such a virtuous woman? In particular, we see the association with woman wisdom and the contrast with woman folly. Let me make a little side note here. As a matter of fact, just under the surface of the English translation and explicit in the Hebrew is military language that describes the noble woman. from warrior language. Indeed, beauty and sincere charm should be admired, but only for what they are. Her courage as she reaches out to a torn world, and most importantly, her deep trust in God, our goals for all women. It's technically called an acrostic. The first line begins with A, second line with B, third line with C, except it's Aleph, Bait, Gimel, and so forth. addressed specifically to men and then secondarily to all people. They themselves will be wealthy and their good deeds will never be forgotten. Even though we New Testament Christians see these verses through the eyes of grace, the law still plays an important role in our life. In plain language, the law of God is expressed particularly in the Ten Commandments, tell us how to live in a way that pleases God. The law becomes the guideline to us for a life of gratitude. The man is a warrior who goes out into daily life ready to encounter the forces of darkness that seek to undo him and those around him. You single people, if you want to prepare for marriage, then deepen your relationship with the Lord. whom as we've seen is wisdom himself. My father told me, take my words to heart, follow my instructions, and you will live. She will place a lovely wreath on your head. Don't have a lot of those. But uh he's maybe even more well known for his co-authorship with Dan Allender of books like Bold Love. Old Testament scholarship, but to bring it into the real world to help Christians. a message from a book that I'm presently doing a lot of work in for a commentary that's coming out in a couple years Aging eyes are failing. So, in any case, um I'm really extremely glad to be with you, and Alice and I have enjoyed conference, I thought it would be appropriate to preach from the Proverbs a message that will be specifically This passage will tell you the most fundamental way to prepare for marriage. 2 through 7 is such a preface, and for now I'm going to just read through verse 6 and I'll pick up verse 7 a little later in the sermon. There it says, the purpose of these proverbs is to teach people wisdom and discipline and to help them understand wise sayings. However, the majority of the book is the address of a father to his son. wise they can enrich their wisdom from this book. uh one of the most important metaphors that is developed in the first nine chapters of the book is only really understandable If you under if you imagine yourself to be the young son who is addressed by um by the father I think the response would be surprising. Well, her name is wisdom, and she speaks and is spoken about in the first nine chapters of the book of Proverbs. Proverbs is really composed of two major parts. uh bits of advice and warnings and observations on life that we'll often abstract out and apply to our life snares and and potholes and things that he might harm himself on. The man is walking, the young son is walking on the path. At Proverbs 9 verse 13 and following, there is another woman whose name is Folly. who is calling to him. that the father wants the son to enter into a relationship with. uh eight chapters, but I'll draw your attention for your later further reflection to Proverbs chapter eight. So she's the epitome of virtue, and she shuns all evil. I was there when he established the heavens, when he drew the horizon on the oceans. What house is built on the highest point of the city? Of Yahweh's the true God's wisdom, and ultimately stands for Yahweh Himself. The beginning of knowledge is the fear of the Lord. Fear of the Lord, not meaning horror of God and running away from Him because we're scared of Him, but it also doesn't mean something as bland as Simple respect. Think about this though, reading Proverbs as a Christian. And we remember what the New Testament says about Jesus Christ, we can think of this choice for ourselves in sharper terms. Colossians 2 verse 3 says that Christ is the treasury of God's wisdom. And that is the virtue that Proverbs is fundamentally calling on you to embrace. My point is that in the New Testament, Jesus reveals himself as the epitome or incarnation of Yahweh's wisdom. of the Gospel of John. In the beginning, the word already existed. Nothing exists that he didn't make. The relationship between the Word, who of course is Jesus, is similar to the relationship as it's described in Proverbs. Now I wanted that as background, the picture of woman wisdom and the uh exhortation to fear God before we turn to two passages. One at the very end of the book of Proverbs, the poem of the virtuous or noble woman They are a man and a woman, a wife and a husband who emulate or imitate those characteristics Reward her for all she's done. and and study them yourself. And so I'd suggest us were to read Ruth and the Song of Songs to get a fuller picture of what a virtuous woman is as well. This woman is an initiator, as is Ruth, and as is the woman in the Song of Songs. The picture is of this woman as going out into the battle of life and waging war against the forces of chaos. She does not single-mindedly pursue her own happiness and career goals. Her husband allow her her work allows her husband to thrive at work as well, and he's engaged at the city gate, and as the NLP makes clear, that's where the civic lit leaders are But most importantly, I want to underline the fact that the noble woman fears God. Human beauty isn't evil and charm doesn't always have to be deceptive. While the picture is presenting a a kind of concrete woman, and you'll notice that she comes from the upper classes, her character of strong compassion and wise. marriage, uh a description from the father to the son concerning what type of woman he should be looking for. to the man in the book of Proverbs, but you interestingly get an analogous text in Psalm 112. that are similar to those used in Proverbs 31. 31, 10, and following is a poem that has a distinct structure. On the noble woman. Praise the Lord. Those who are righteous will be long remembered. They are confident and fearless and can face their foes triumphantly. to the fear of the Lord. In the light of the fear of God, all other fears fade into insignificance. with our spouse might find ways to encourage faith in them as well. Directed to those who pursue wisdom, and that is a crown of glory. They, that is the men, are generous, compassionate, and righteous. This psalm links the fear of the Lord with obedience to God's commands. Thanks by uh by observance of God's law. This is the case, though the Psalm also recognizes, like Proverbs 31 with its military language, that life is a battle. And has confidence in the future. But to summarize, I would say the best advice the Proverbs gives for cultivating a strong marriage is to develop a deep and abiding relationship with God. To fear the Lord shows that you understand your proper place in the universe. for single people as they anticipated, but for married people to continue to develop their relationship with God as the most important part of their relationship, partly to weather the storms not only of the battle out there, but also the battles within marriage but to grow together as we repent and forgive each other, and as we point each other toward the ultimate goal, which is to be like Christ. The Son, and again now we are the Son, in order to develop this intimate relationship with woman wisdom, and I'm thinking of Proverbs 4, 1 through 9. My children, listen to me, listen to your father's instruction, pay attention and grow wise That we might pursue and embrace wisdom, who is none other than Jesus Christ Himself. And we pray that we might fear you, Lord, and that we might also, as we interact truths that are addressed to that original audience, how do they relate to us? Um Proverbs, and you'll have to uh excuse the Old Testament professor to give you a little lesson in how to enrich your reading of the book of Proverbs as we go along Broadly. Verses one through six. God and his creation. She gets up early to prepare breakfast for her family. ethics, his passion and hope from what is revealed in Scripture. And uh this is typical of ancient Near Eastern wisdom texts, whether they're from Mesopotamia, Egypt, or Israel. non-biblical uh wisdom text is that even though the mother doesn't speak, the father mentions that he's also representing the mother. We as later readers uh need to put ourselves in the place of the sun, which is a little bit difficult for women readers and and also for us But if you would ask the father of the book of Proverbs, what is the single most important thing that a son should know about marriage? path ultimately leads directly to life. to woman wisdom. Come home with me, she urges the simple. But before the man can respond to this woman's invitation, he gets another invitation. So you see the son h has a conflict here. With a relationship with God. Verse that says, the beginning of knowledge is the fear of the Lord. Ishtar, all those idols of the ancient Aries, fail Jesus actually associates himself with woman wisdom. Is sort of a human incarnation of woman wisdom herself. you will notice that that all of the attributes of wisdom are placed here I understand as permission. These words are among the last of the whole poem, but really provide the foundation for the rest. Uh sometimes when troubles come into our marriage, our life seems to fall apart, and that only enhances the the difficulties But the admonition to place our fear of the Lord above all other things means that We have our fundamental relationship with God who will never let us down. Somewhat older males. She, the wife, must love this woman even more than her husband. That he is walking on a path. And so what we see is woman wisdom is a poetic personification So accepting the invitation of woman wisdom means that you are entering into a relationship with the true God. of wisdom. It is an ideal composite picture. Who is called in the book by the way a virtuous woman, and then followed by the song of songs At the conclusion of the poem, because she cares for her family, her children also praise her So again, I present the book of Proverbs and particularly these two passages, Proverbs 31 and Psalm 112, for your further reflection. to their uh son. And even though we're not Romans or Galatians, we read these texts and ask, how do these So what this preface is telling us is that the book of Proverbs is for everybody. relationship. Trembling acknowledgement that your God is a God who is powerful and sovereign. She's worth more than precious rubies. Some of the description in Proverbs 31, 10, and following is a fundamental requirement. But number two, the picture of the woman as involved in commerce does kind of debunk some of our stereotypes of the ancient Israelite woman or even the modern Christian woman. But uh the book has a lot to say about family life in general and marriage in particular. And uh and the sun presently is right walking on the straight path, the path which is well lit, the path which is smooth, and the path which is protected by God. closely exegete or interpret these this passage or else Psalm 112. We've been just delighted to have Tremper and his wife Alice as our speakers in our 2003 marriage conference this weekend. And again, if you're a woman reader, uh you need to put yourself in the place of the sun and kind of reverse things a bit. all of the false gods and goddesses that in the ancient Old Testament setting s were attempted to seduce the Israelites away from the true God. Verse 30 Charm is deceptive and beauty does not last, but a woman who fears the Lord will be greatly praised. So let's turn first of all to Proverbs chapter thirty one. Proverbs 31, 10-31 is thus a hymn to a noble woman, a godly woman. And also I'll be reading from the NLP, but I do want you to recognize that this psalm is in the first place Who is then woman wisdom? Colossians chapter one um talks oops Heavenly Father, we pray that we might take the Father's teaching to heart Um as the father speaks about the past, he also introduces him Okay, well Peter Lee probably is one guy to console on that, but uh seriously some of the more um It says the woman named Bolly is loud and brass. personification of Yahweh's wisdom, but Jesus associates himself with it. As you read through Proverbs 1 through 9, the Father tells the Son, and remember, we're the Son, we're the reader, we take the place of the Son. And um he is the uh Robert H. You know, I pay my respects to Yahweh. Wisdom has built her spacious house with seven pillars And Psalm 112 does the same thing with the with the man Just a few comments about Psalm 112, and again a passage that I bring to your attention for your further reflection later. Let me let me develop that the teaching of Proverbs one through nine a little bit more On the book of Proverbs. Don't turn away from my teaching, for I too is my father's son, tenderly loved by my mother as an only child And in chapter nine, you get the climax of this teaching. Happy is he who fears the Lord. I could barely read the thing. And as I read through Psalm 112 with you, notice how this man is described in terms Colossians 1, 15 and following says, Christ is the visible image of the invisible God. It also describes when it says that she brings back good to her husband, the word is literally and clearly plunder. Well, as I said, the book of Proverbs teaches a lot directly about marriage and also has much practical advice. Verse 22 and following says, The Lord for me from the beginning, before he created anything else. Again, as I said, Proverbs is directed toward young men, so it's not surprising that you get a description as these young men are considering And in particular, notice how they are both said fundamentally to fear Proverbs 31, ten and following says, Who can find a virtuous and capable wife? But in the Hebrew Bible, Proverbs is followed by Ruth So he just So here he is to come bring God's word, brother. Thank you for that introduction, and I knew better than to preach on the Song of Songs uh after listening to some of Alan's excellent uh sermons. Not every woman, for instance, needs to be involved in business as well as on the home front. They will grind their teeth in anger. He's also no miser, just like the godly woman, with his own wealth. Don't turn your back on wisdom, for she will protect you. With her earnings, she plants the vineyard. But I can imagine as a woman, if you read that, you might say Thirdly, I want to just highlight the fact that the noble woman cares for her family. They do not fear bad news. Let her deeds publicly declare her praise. What that means, it's a poem that moves from A, B, C, C. But um but we do that for every biblical book. Life itself was in him, and this light came to everyone. Insight and strength are mine, because of me kings reign and rulers make just laws. An entire generation of godly people will be blessed. The order of books in the Hebrew Bible is a little bit different than the order of books in the English Bible, which actually follow the structure, sorry for the technical lesson. Who is this woman? This man will not fear other people because the fear of the Lord is his focus. And going back to the seventh verse of the first chapter that completes the preface, you'll remember that famous Christ is the one through whom God created everything in heaven and earth. But I do want to underline a couple of things. And whatever else you do, get good judgment. Her husband can trust her, and she will greatly enrich his life. She's like a merchant's ship. They will give knowledge and purpose to young people. To those without good judgment, she says, Come eat my food, and drink the wine I have mixed Before he had made the earth and fields and the first handfuls of soil. She will present you with a beautiful crown. He's written many, many books. The other path leads by a roundabout way to death. She's always thinking of the future, so when trouble comes, she's ready Now the fact that the book of Proverbs is addressed to a son, a young adolescent male, uh means that That is the attitude that Proverbs is calling all people to embrace. Or Santa Barbara, California. Learn how to be wise. Two of them are a woman whose name is Wisdom who is speaking to the Son. He was with God, and he was God. And that may be why it starts that way. Proverbs nine, verses one through six He hears this voice on the highest point of the city inviting him over for dinner Well, it's the temple. So it's actually because it's a bigger font that I feel more comfortable with uh She's ignorant and doesn't even know it. I know where to discover knowledge and discernment. The other little interesting sort of Hebrew note that I want to make is that Proverbs He would tell his son that the key to a healthy, strong marriage A godly man is a word-centered man. So I could think of no better way to close this passage than to turn to another place where the Father exhorts So Mark was kind enough to enter that in to the PowerPoint. Um Alan mentioned that uh I feel more comfortable with the New Living Translation. So we turn back to Proverbs 9, we get a more than a hint. Gundry Professor of uh Biblical Studies at Westmont College there She makes belted linen garments and sashes to sell the merchants. They will slink away, their hopes thwarted. When darkness overtakes the godly, light will come bursting in. All goes well for those who are generous, who lend freely and conduct their business fairly. And that path, of course, represents life. They give generously to those in need. Currently he and Dan Allender are uh working together on a project for Intervarsity Press So I'm I'm I'm very happy to be bringing you When she speaks, her words are wise, and kindness is the rule when she gives instructions. I was born before the oceans were created, before the springs bubbled forth their waters From that, we determine that Folly represents She brings food from afar. Well it's important, more important to keep that in mind with the book of Proverbs, as we'll see, because Come home with me, she urges the simple. Charm is deceptive and beauty does not last, but a woman who fears the Lord will be greatly praised I don't think that this is presented as a blueprint that every woman needs to follow. They confidently trust the Lord to care for them. Um one of the most popular that I know a number of you have in your libraries is his fictional Acadian autobiography. And he is actually not going to preach on the Song of Songs. Proverbs ten through thirty-one is the part that we typically read, and that's where you find those short, pithy She quilts her own bedspreads. It is knee-knocking Learn to be wise and develop good judgment. He's hearing from both woman wisdom and and also woman folly. And when we do And it's not only important She's energetic and strong, a hard worker. Like the godly woman, Psalm 112 tells us that the godly man has an unshakable confidence in the future. Perhaps when I was reading through Proverbs 8, you notice some similarity to the opening Without faith, beauty and charm are totally worthless. Psalm 112 then describes such a grateful man. Right. Her efforts have as their goal the betterment of her family. The godly man fears no one or nothing except God. If you prize wisdom, she will exalt you. Well, as I say, we learn a lot about her throughout the first And when he marked off the earth's foundations, I was the architect at his side. And that gives us the power, again, not just to weather the storm of an intimate relationship between two sinners. She has sent her servants to invite everyone to come. Wisdom begins with One where which is dark, and that darkness hides I was there when he set the clouds above, when he established the deep fountains of the earth So we have been delighted to have a guy who not only has a passion Her house is on the highest point of the city. We pray this in the name of your Son. We learned that from the Song of Songs. First of all, woman wisdom, and then secondly, woman folly. But I hope they're intriguing enough for you that you'll go back Who's the woman I'm referring to? Proverbs 1 through 9 is composed of a number of lengthier speeches Well, first of all, let me say that we're not going to Love her, and she will guard you. Um For instance, the book of Romans is called Romans because it's addressed to the Roman Church, or Galatians because it's addressed to the Church of Galatians. So But even more interestingly, in a number of places of which I'll mention two Her husband stands and blesses her. And so since I was out for a marriage Most biblical books Proverbs nine, just before you Yes, happy are those who delight in what he commands. That big difference. She gets up before dawn to prepare breakfast for her household and plan the day's work for her servant girls. Let those who are wise listen to these proverbs and become even wiser. Again. John chapter one begins Their good deeds will never be forgotten. Let's pray. And I encouraged him. We welcome you. We thank you, Lord, too, for the promise Now, many of you know Proverbs as a extremely practical book, and It implies the development of an intimate relationship. She sits in her doorway on the heights overlooking the city The first All who fear the Lord will hate evil. And uh but what's unique, just as I kind of a side note about the book of Proverbs, among all these other She extends a helping hand to the poor and opens her arms to the needy She dresses like royalty in gowns of finest cloth. First of all In the first place It's the temple in Jerusalem, Mount Zion. But as we do Because he lacks fear If you look And uh and it goes from A to Z The purpose of the book, if you turn to Proverbs chapter 1 She will not hinder him, but help him all her life. Like the godly woman, the godly man is generous with the poor. To those without good judgment, she says, He was in the beginning with God. Let me highlight the following couple points. The hymn places charm and beauty in their proper perspective. That's right. And Proverbs chapter one verses It expresses God's will for us. If that's woman wisdom, real quickly, who then is woman folly? He existed before God, made anything at all, and is supreme over all creation. And therefore, as Christians, we read Proverbs 1 through 9 But let me skip down to verse 22 and following, where we learn about her relationship with The answer might be, well, no one, because this woman And if you've studied through the book of Proverbs, by the time you come to this place. He loves the word of God and draws his One one was right at the fire and the other one was forty-fifty miles removed. Proverbs 8 isn't a prophecy of Christ, it's a poetic So I may do a little revision here just to accentuate that. She watches for bargains Rulers lead with my help and nobles make righteous judgment. Can you believe that? Thank you. In the case of this woman, active in the community. Put yourself back into the time of the ancient Near East. You don't find anything comparable exactly They will have influence and honor. So that's what we'll have on the screen. But some of it He's in relationship with God and expresses his joyful thanks. But when they are so, then they should be scorned. Her husband praises her Embrace her, and she will honor you. She calls out from the heights overlooking the city. That's why I hate pride, arrogance, corruption, and perverted speech. We get the clue that allows us to answer that question. I was his constant delight, rejoicing always in his presence. Amen. But like Proverbs 31, Psalm 112 puts pride of place. He created everything there is. Woman wisdom is the woman Such people will not be overcome by evil circumstances. You can compare that with your own translation as he uses that. So let's take a look at Proverbs chapter 9. If you look at Colossians chapter 1, Indeed, they're repulsive. But it's also for those who are already mature, those who are They both are inviting him to an intimate Even that term noble woman is taken from So it's parental wisdom. Number one How many of you guys have that? Or it's about wisdom. It stands for Marduk.