Don't you remember the command we talked about just a little while ago in this sermon series from 1 Peter 1? It's God's word. Dickens understood that the idea of substitution, when presented, is really a moving concept. There is a scene in The Dark Knight Rises where Commissioner Gordon and Lucius Fox and Alfred and a police officer named Blake won't give you his first name. If they redid Chariots of Fire now, starring Hussein Bolt, the quote would be this, I made myself fast, and when I run, I feel my own pleasure. Is he a special man who embodied the noble good within us all and inspired us by his perseverance that we can achieve all our untapped human potential? Through the discipline and the determination, I can do it. You're called to this. That's where the example comes from. Verse 17 of chapter 3, look at chapter 4, 12 to 19, and look at chapter 5, verse 9, after the benediction today. Peter is directing his reader and us in turn to the prophet Isaiah. Peter wants his readers to know Jesus is the Jewish Messiah. You recall when Jesus said in Matthew twelve, Out of the abundance of our heart, what? And if necessary, use words is like saying, give me your phone number, and if necessary, use numbers Why do you think there's so many admonitions in the New Testament against gossip and strife and envy and malice? He bore Anna Pharaoh, the Greek term there is to carry the burden, to be weighed down by, to incur. I guess I'll just kind of languish here in a big heap until, you know, God collects his church. But to give us that reality check that we need, we have a shepherd who has borne our sins in his body on the cross. The week before last, heard from Peter in verse 13 of 1 Peter 2, where he says that we are to be subject uh slaves to masters, but we liken that to our modern-day counterpart, employee to employer. And I said, that's my posture too, only I just keep it inside. And he was the good teacher. on our palates. To present Jesus Christ as the keeper of the law, the covenant keeper, the one who has done it for us. Live holy lives. Peter's readers were suffering. In Isaiah 53, it says that he was assigned a grave, this one who would come, with the wicked, though he had done no violence, nor had there been ever any deceit found in his mouth. uh life is like a box of chocolates or whatever. It manifested itself outwardly, but that's because he was absolutely pure. Your heart's already formed the paragraph. Sacrificially and substitutionarily atoning for their sins, and through his victorious resurrection from the grave. Through him, we have also obtained access by faith to this grace by which we now stand. When Luke records those words, they hurled more insult. Peacemaking, when reviled, he did not revile in return. Do you remember last week we looked at John 19 briefly and Jesus before Pilate? Not because Pilate's will is powerless, but because Pilate's will is guided. He said, he was kind of taking a riff on the uh St. And if we don't promote and proclaim Jesus Christ and Him crucified as the source and the enabling power for how we're able to live in this life, the hope that we have within. If we don't make it clear that it's Jesus Christ and his work living, dying, and rising on my behalf, then I draw glory to myself. has been powerfully demonstrated right up to the last minute when he's to go to the guillotine in the place of Darnay, Charles Darnay, who was accused of spying in the French Revolution, the way this story is set. And he lived on this earth in that body. The heavenly dwelling. And so Peter says, listen, he bore our sins in his body. I want to get it. There is none of us who is righteous. The submission of our Savior on our behalf is in view. The shepherd, the one who leads and feeds and guides and directs. And so Peter says, and I'll say it in conclusion, Peter says, listen, he set the example, he suffered for you The ultimate healing is to be adopted as a child of the living God. Be pleased to have your word go forth in power, the power of the Holy Spirit. Lord, I pray that you would be pleased then to work in such a way that we've seen you do before, that you meet us in a particular way, particular to each of us as individuals. Meet us where we are and bring us to where you would have us to be. When I did that hands on hips thing last week, we heard laughter from a family up front, because that's the posture of their youngest. so that you might follow in his steps. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. For you were straying like sheep, but now have returned to the shepherd and to the overseer of your souls. What do you think of him? uh pictured on the cover of a Christmas card. Is he an example of how to live, how to live out our days on the earth, growing in wisdom and stature and in favor with your concept of God and with your fellow man? Is that who Jesus is? We answer, yes, he is the baby born. That if followed, he will lead us into a life of joy and peace. mere example glasses today. Nobody can do this. We can see Scripture the way it's intended to be seen. And then the word comes in very quickly, immediately, with that status of lawbreaker heavy on your heart. Strive for peace, Hebrews 12 says. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Do you feel the weight of the law? Because I have become for you your righteousness, your wisdom, your peace, and your joy. Last week we we finished with verse 21. The do as I do example, sometimes it scares me when they do that in my house. Peter says, Jesus suffered for us, leaving us an example, so that we might fulfill our calling. The scriptures make it very clear that Christ is the fulfilling, the fulfillment of all the prophecies concerning the Jewish Messiah. Peter may recall Jesus' instruction, the fact that although concerned with outward behavior and action, God is much more concerned with our heart Neither was there found ever any deceit in his mouth. You already have what you want to say. He came to establish peace with the rebellious creation through his life, perfectly lived, through his death. Knowing that suffering produces endurance and endurance produces character and character produces hope and hope And he had to endure shame and scorn in order to do it. He uttered these words, demonstration again of his heart. and the evils of the world. Peter says, of Jesus Christ, the God man, the eternal Son of God, who took on flesh, Peter says this: that he continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. He continued entrusting himself to the one who judges justly. It's that same loving and sovereign God who created all things is the one who sustains and governs all things. I came across the Heidelberg Catechism on this point, question 28. by his providence still upholds all things. And with a view to the future, we may have a good conscience in our faithful God and Father, that no creature anywhere shall separate us from his love. John Piper, Pilate's authority over Jesus is subordinate to God's authority over Piper to Pilate, quote, this. for entrusting himself. The Son continues in that for all time. He's not just our example. And even as the uh the seamstress or whoever it is that's going to the guillotine as well, she says, You you have such confidence. I can't even go on. The idea of substitution and the latest of the Batman trilogy series, Dark Knight Rises. Are standing graveside, and Gordon is reading from A Tale of Two Cities. And you are my friends, Jesus said, if you do what I command. Don't give any ground, college student, when you're debating whether or not Jesus had a real body. in a sovereign loving God, a heavenly father who knows best. Olympian, fastest man on the planet right now, gold medals all over his neck. Who offers himself to you and to me as Savior, overseer of our soul, episcopas, the one who examines closely our lives and speaks into it. If you are willing, remove this cup from me. The other type of person in this room are those who are still straying. So if you're still straying, if you not come to the point where you've surrendered your life and everything that you are to this one who is the great one, the shepherd and overseer of your souls. I hold before you Jesus Christ. The Savior who bore your sins in his body on the tree, so that you might die to sin, live to righteousness. So we die to sin. Please myself include, Lord, that you would take us where we are now and bring us to a deeper place with you. That's not what Peter's teaching. The ultimate healing that's being referenced here, that's referenced in Isaiah, is healing from the damage that the fall in the garden has brought to you and me. And secured inheritance in store for us for ever and ever and ever. As we place our hope in the life to come. You've returned to the shepherd and to the overseer of your souls. Unless a shepherd guides them somewhere else. Admonition that we are to willingly, willingly, submit ourselves to leadership wherever we find ourselves, submit ourselves as And our Lord Jesus Christ. If possible, remember Romans 12, as far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. And so what Isaiah prophesied about, what Jesus lived out, and what Peter reflects on is that this one committed no sin. Justice at all costs. Swift and severe on who? Praise be to God that He's given to us a wonderful message of redemption in Jesus Christ our Lord, and he's given it to us. to every human institution. It has eternal consequence, your answer to that question. Yes, he has laid down for us the loftiest ideals that mankind has ever encountered or will ever encounter and skilled enough to separate soul from spirit, to discern the motives of your heart and mind, because it's a desperately wicked heart that it must cut through. The absolute perfection. This will be the clip that they take from the recording and put me out there on the internet with. I said it because I have the authority of the Almighty God to say these things, do these commands. Jesus said, I lay down my life for you. Jesus Christ came to reconcile a people to their creator, and he came to his own, and his own received him not. We would maybe go to the other extreme. It's only when we're clothed in the righteousness that Christ has provided, when it's received by faith, when we're walking with Him in the grace by which we stand, that we can address right and wrong. You can see this in the Son, the willing, absolute, without reservation or hesitation, submission of the Son to the Father. Since all creatures are so in his hand that without his will they cannot so much as move. entrusting oneself to the just judge. uh authority that was pilot's uh that it embodied pilot. Instead of glory to him. Right? We see the heart change of the disreputable lawyer, Sidney Carton. When Bagira the Panther and Mowgli are standing over what they think is the lifeless body of that lovable bear Balu after the battle with the vicious tiger Shir Khan. Hath no man than that he lay down his life for a friend. You're walking with Christ. And I say, you need to get around people who are also in that same boat, and let's, you know, figure this thing out in a much more consistent way. And when Peter says that we now die to sin, it means that sin no longer has any power over us. And jars of clay, this wonderful treasure. Gracious God, thank you for the privilege to come into your house once again. I'm called to submit. I want you to consider for just a moment. If we read the scriptures through mere example lenses, we're in trouble. So he's left you an example so you might follow in his steps. And so they were suffering because they were claiming Christ as Lord, as Redeemer, as friend. His heart was pure, blameless, spotless, without any guile or shadow. When reviled, he did not revile in return. Ongoing forward motion. Than the God who made us, giving himself in place of us. The first type of person in this room, under the sound of my voice, are those who have returned to the shepherd from their straying. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. God's Word for us. We run a real risk with this text to view Christ And that is what Scripture does. Randy already told us that he's the one, Jesus, who was grace-embodied. Three kinds of examples, I guess, that we could get into. That's who Jesus is. Jesus leaves us that example. He set the example with regard to purity. We often hear the phrase, you know, well uh I just I just better stop talking now. Does not put us to shame. As the physician, Luke, is recording these scenes from the cross. Someone in your place. And Bagirah quotes Jesus from John 15, and he says, greater love. See it, hear it, and receive it. Reserved for me. This means to be removed from or to cease to exist or to be separate from In humble reliance on his grace. Sheep are gullible. Does that. That's the Christian's confession. Well, this week we look again at 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter 2. Through mere example lenses. Wants us to see the commandments are good. Wants us to see through the words lens as well that we are lawbreakers, that we've not kept this law. So he is the epitome, the quintessential. You see, I think that's what Peter wants you and me to see today. Forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. Absolutely. Because that's what our heart naturally produces. Jesus bore our sins in the body because we need a savior from sin His cross, where we behold God's love, displayed what we sang. You were here perhaps last week and you heard that we You're called to be at peace with everyone, you bunch of troublemakers. But Jesus can give the third type, the perfect type of example. See Jesus. And we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God, Paul told the Romans, he continues in Romans 5. Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit. This word for die in this passage is the only place that this is used in the New Testament. Is not, as much as we desperately desire it to be, is not simply physical healing in our bodies And today we see the source of that submission. He was also setting the example with regard to peacemaking. When reviled, he did not revile in return. All others who hope in other things will be put to shame and destruction When we encounter evil, we vacillate maybe between a couple of extremes, the exaggerated principle of an eye for an eye. That we may be patient in adversity, thankful in prosperity We see that right up until the point of his final breath. Have you thought about that? Commissioner Gordon reads these words. We really respond to the idea of a substitute. Allusion to the Eric Little story. We just sang, as I ran my hellbound race, indifferent to the cost. He looked upon our helpless state. And experience the ultimate in healing. Heavenly Father, please help us to understand this truth, and I pray for all of us. So the You who were once straying like sheep, but now you've turned Let's look at verse 21 to 23 just a little bit closer. You can't cut verse 21 out. He says, He bore our sins in his body But he is so much more. Consider 21 to 23 as a mere example. Feel that weight, but now see Jesus. So Jesus came setting forth the example with regard to peacemaking. The idea of substitution makes our hearts soar. And he bore your sins in his body, so that you might and I might die to sin. Peter doesn't even stop. You get that? Right now, with that before us, just that little momentary example of mere example lenses, do you feel the weight? Please help me see it. And Peter says, listen, he entrusted himself to the one who judges justly. For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example. And so it it paralyzes our uh soul into inactivity, and we just eventually uh any pursuit of the godly life falls by the wayside. Be subject to every human institution for the Lord's sake. Or we read God's word and we say, this is a standard that's way too high to obtain. Jesus committed no sin. You're called to pursue peace and to pursue holiness and to trust God in all things. It's a body, a real body. You're familiar, probably, with Charles Dickens, A Tale of Two Cities A pastor friend that I read was quoting about uh Hussein Bolt, you know, familiar with this guy. That's what Jesus has done. He sets the example for us. And we glory in the cross. Isaiah 53 says, But the Lord has laid on him, on Christ, the n the iniquity of us all. We live and pursue the holiness. Who is he? Let's get this swift justice worked out. It's what Paul is teaching in Romans 6. It's an imperfect tense, but it implies or it indicates repeated past action with a continuing Yes, he is the only way for you and for I, for me, to truly know who we are and why we exist. We read God's Word and potentially can see it in a couple of different ways. Christ suffered for you. That's the question that I think must be answered by every person on the planet. It's the revelation of God to man. Lean not on your own understanding. No. It's good. He says, die to sin, live to righteousness, and then I would suggest respectfully, then experience the ultimate healing. It belies the fact when we do that that this is the living word of God. Remember, we were made to bring him glory, not ourselves. He says, for to this you have been called, listen, because Christ also suffered for you. No, not one. I want to read from 1 Peter 2, beginning in verse 21, God's word for us. My mom always said, you know, if you can't say something nice, then don't say it. So if you think of it this way, what Peter is saying there is, as the Son has always done, trusting the Father's loving will to be right. It's it's our literature and all the great stories, the idea of substitution is woven into the fabric of the greatest stuff. Today we see the sweet submission of the suffering servant. We don't tamper with the word of God. Sheep need leadership. That's dying well. And we could view Jesus as simply an example or merely an example. Strive for peace and strive for holiness, because without which no one will see the Lord. That's what the example is here. And so we have the example that Jesus calls us to in three ways. You just decide, I'm going to be somewhat polite in the setting, and I'm not going to just blow your hair back. It's interesting to see the verb translated um Pay attention. They were living in the midst of a world that really does hate God. And when he was raised from the dead, he had a body. You're not doing it perfectly because you can't. That guy, right? It's a far, far better thing I do than I have ever done. He's the baby born to a virgin 2,000 years ago in a humble setting. You should commit no sin. Maybe you recall, maybe not, where we talked about the example, this concept of the example. Ultimately, in that day, our hope in Christ will be absolutely vindicated. I want that. It's a good thing. You've edited it, you've redacted it, you've sent it off to the printer, it's come back, you've read-inked it, and you've fixed it. Romans 5 tells us that we have peace with God. We'd like to give a pass for everybody so that when it comes our way, we don't have to deal with our own hypocrisy. We're sheep. Who is Jesus Christ? When Peter says he suffered also for you, that's the picture. He's our substitute. He doesn't lay it out there and say, well, y'all take care of that, will you? Francis of Assisi um you know comment, you know, and he said, saying, preach the gospel. Don't fall asleep. The do as I say example. He just makes it very plain. Which brings us to the glorious, even more so, part of this good news. We need a substitute. He set the example with regard to peacemaking. Why? You know, the rose-colored glasses that people put on sometimes. Something you deserve and somebody else taking it. Do you see Jesus as is he the good moral teacher who, among other lofty ideals, gave us that wonderful golden rule? And Peter makes that clear, and we need to know this because he lived as one of us. And he set the example with regard to providence. In the garden, when the cup of God's wrath is passed before him, Jesus praying. That's how Christians pursue holiness. I hope so. Because there's examples that we live out all our lives What do you think of Jesus Christ? In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will make your path straight. That's the source of comfort in our times of suffering. So there's two types of people in this room. I don't raise myself up as an example. What profit is that to us resting in the providence of God? That's our experience. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to him who judges justly. Reckon yourselves dead to sin. Sheep need guidance. For the sake of the Lord. Let me pray for us and uhsk the Lord's blessing. It shows us the beauty of God's holiness. And we ask for these things in Jesus' name. No deceit was found in his mouth. He committed no sin. Everybody? It's the revelation of the Creator who wants us to see the beauty of holiness. So Peter says: listen, Jesus left us an example so that we might follow in his steps. Isaiah holds forth the suffering servant, the one who would come, the Messiah, the one the nation of Israel was waiting for. They are perfect. That's there. And the scriptures discuss us as sheep, not to make us walk through life all depressed and everything. Why? Let's have it exacting. He set the example with regard to providence because we don't trust And Peter says, listen, we need to remember this. Peter's readers were suffering. It was derivative authority. He says, do as I say and do as I do. And that's the picture. Pilate had the authority to crucify Jesus, but it wasn't Okay? Our mouths speak. Someone else. And Kevin DeYoung tweeted saying That's what we're called to. That's the one I like my kids to. His mouth spoke. I guess that was for jungle book part two. See Jesus. Now all I know is grace. I read a tweet this week from uh J. I never put the hands on hips. Do you see him as the cute little baby wrapped in swaddling clothes? You know, with the Olympic spirit fresh You shall be holy, for I am holy. I want to see Jesus too. He's the perfect. See me later if you don't get it. Not thinking we can do it, but knowing that he has done it, we pursue holiness Because his heart was absolutely pure. Why? Jesus says, from an anguished, pleading cry, Father Good. My mom always said, you know He came to seek and to save, and hanging, bruised, and battered and bloodied from all the beatings that he had received on the cross. In Luke 23 I'm scared of dying. Christopher Nolan and his brother, they recognize this Sheep need to be told where to go to eat. Today we see the power that comes to you and to me, ordinary people, rebellious. Makes all the difference in the world. He's so much more For the Lord's sake, be subject to all and every human institution. For this you have been called, Peter says, sarcastic tone in view. But what he says that prefaces that phrase is so important. So what do what do we mean by providence here? We don't. Right? But nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. Let me pray for us Why? The highest ideals They are righteous. Jesus didn't revile when he was reviled. And that body is now fit for heaven. It's as good as done. What Isaiah spoke of, we find in Christ. We want to lash back. Continued in trusting himself. With regard to purity, no deceit found in his mouth. That's our Lord. He's the absolute example. For Jesus, he was pure inside and out. What listen, what does it profit us to know that God has created and I don't know if you've thought much recently about the idea of substitution. Because he set the example with regard to purity, because we're not pure. I say this on the authority of God's word. We all like sheep have gone astray. We don't raise up the leadership of this church as an example. Beloved, never avenge yourself, but leave it to the wrath of God. That's dying with the confidence that God is on the throne. With regard to purity, perfect. More than that, we rejoice, listen to this, in our suffering. But in humble reliance on God's grace, you're allowing the shepherd to lead. Thank you for preserving us this week and for watching over us. Well, Disney didn't go on to quote the next verse Because we're naturally war-mongers. He suffered in our place. It's not that we say, oh, I can't I can't I can't live a holy life. He is all those things. Consider for just a moment verses 21 to 23 through the lens of mere example. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Is this God in the flesh? They are good. He committed no sin, and neither was deceit found in his mouth. I can't do the Ronald Coleman impression that I wanted to, but We can see it as a lofty ideal that potentially Look at chapter 1, 6 and 7. Listen, just as an aside, if you're here today and you're wondering about that very thing. He came to establish peace. Do you know what happened after he said those words? That's the example that Jesus set. I hope you get this. Amen. For this you've been called. No deceit should be found in your mouth. I'm here to tell you that if you're like me, if you get to that point where you're saying, look, I I should probably stop now. Out of the good treasured up there, good comes forth. But there is no more beautiful picture. We experience that healing in the now. He walked among us. I'm not going to try to spoil this for those of you who haven't seen it, but And then Peter references Isaiah 53 again. In fact, there's a real risk that we read all of Scripture through mere example lenses. This is it, man. Pilate is in the hands of Jesus' loving Father. Submit to your leadership the good, the bad, and the ugly. Because everything I read was scripture. Just do as I say, all right? Because when we start to think about justice and the concept of justice And I quoted from Piper And then he breathed his last And that's what we see in Peter's second half of this text. See Jesus We're going to try to move in threes today. Father. His heart change Believe it and walk in it. I'm one of them, so I can say this. Well, we could put on I am your life. Live holy lives. And he led us to his cross. That's Jesus Christ. Servants to your masters, the good and the gentle, as well as the unjust. You see Jesus continually entrusting himself to the one who judges justly. But that's what my heart wants to do when And you may experience the same type of persecution. We want to get an ounce of flesh. We're continuing this little mini-series on submission. They are true. Christ suffered for you, leaving you the example. And guess what? We praise you for hearing our prayer. Amen. Because you can't do it. Walt Disney knew this. It's a double-edged sword. It's a far, far better rest I go to than I have ever known. And I have lived them as well, Jesus says. Look at those. That's the grace that we want to live out. Sheep will eat a grass field down to the stub and they'll stand there and starve. I saw another tweet this week, and if you will permit me two tweets per sermon. Because I don't like that example showing up. Is he just an ideal? And that's what Peter draws our attention to. It's a other words for die are more common. This is just I I've got to stop right there. Listen to this answer. D. Now, he did it, you should too. It shows us that we don't achieve that. Jesus is not intimidated Listen. And that's who Peter puts forward. Look at chapter 2, verse 20, look at chapter 3, verse 14, look at It still does. Greer. And that's who Peter wants his readers to see. I'll come back in a couple of millennia and see what I got. Jesus came to be the peacemaker. Only two types of people That's the one who died in our place. It's here, so you gotta deal with it. That's what he was doing Please hold my hand as we go. He was a peace pursuer, and you should be too. You think about that Yes. That's the only way he could substitute himself for us. We don't raise up membership in this church as a hope. And yes, he is the perfect example. See, he says, For to this you have been called. How about you? We want to make sure they pay. That's him for you. This is submission. Sheep are stupid And then last week we uh made an attempt to look at the By his wounds you have been healed. And I can't either. With regard to Then we live to righteousness. In Jesus' name we pray. It's sharp He had a body Out of the evil stored up there, evil comes forth. Remember the animated classic jungle book? Everybody, okay, right, good. He bore the wrath. I pray, Lord, that now you would. The ultimate healing. They look like little Tim's. You know, I mean it's I He died. We're far from it. We cannot achieve that. Amen. Peter doesn't say This is not me. Now that's Everybody got that? To what? We raise up God's word Or