Ought to be able to witness, to demonstrate by example to the flock the importance of witnessing. I won't be that bold. No, the name of Father didn't go up from us to apply to God's relationship to us. To set you free. Then in Ephesians 5, remember I was saying that we are to be continually filled, an ongoing process, being filled with the Spirit. But I would suggest to you that there are some very good things about what they have to say, the power of possibility thinking. that is possible, strengthening in your inner being. And to develop your inner being so that you can be a strengthened person. And I did that to focus our attention on the last part of 2, chapter 2, which is the foundation for our passage this morning. as a Christian. Yet you just don't seem to be able to do it. To witness with a great weakness. The alternate reading, for this reason I kneel before the Father, from whom all fatherhood in heaven and on earth derives its name It's the basis whereby we can even say to our children that we love you as a father, cares for his children. Now, when my little girl falls off the jungle gym, I don't go over to her and slap her hand and yell at her and tell her she shouldn't do that. See in Ephesians the first chapter verses 7 and 8 and then down in verses 18 and 19 in Ephesians 1 I wonder how richly we experience the continued blessings of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that power is available through the Holy Spirit. And God says that's not the way to achieve a spirit-filled life, the one in which we are dependent on God Himself. to give us of his wealth, of his glorious riches, to promise to overcome our weaknesses The mind, the soul, the spirit. A change because Jesus Christ himself, Jesus Christ Himself dwells in your heart. The way in which we can do that is to have the Word of Christ dwelling richly in us to change, to convert. I wasn't expecting to see the closeness of the work of the Trinity tied into the Christian life again, as it was so dramatically a couple of weeks ago. Instead, it is something that is meant to be out, to be lived out in the community of believers. Towards one another in the body of Christ. You just freeze up and the words don't come. Get physically sick in anticipation of his minister coming to pick him up at seven thirty to go witness him. Is keeping you down, making you feel like that car that is just mired deep in mud or on ice. To learn how to implement it, to learn how to make it part of the fabric of our lives, God will do wonderful things. As I have studied this passage in the last week or so, I have simply been amazed at the outlandish promises that we have contained in this prayer. The wonderful things that God promises that He can do and He will do through His power in those of us who are His children. In this prayer, we're not going to exhaust this passage. For God does not want us to be controlled by our weaknesses. To be replaced by God Himself in our lives. Will give you strength. we can uh apply that word, that relationship in our families. Of God's great love as Father for us. So that he can make us get in a car wreck or come down with the flu. in the saints with his incom incomparably great power for us who believe. There is speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, spiritual psalms. And there is submitting to one another. Again, you recall that I mentioned that all Christians have this power. If anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ And he has been telling me of the the great need that he has to simply depend on God for everything I had to think of my own experience here, and think of the fact that so often it's easy for me to depend on our pastor, Alan Harris, to depend on our session. And this is equally a problem, equally significant a problem in the Christian life. Going through various programs of that nature, sensitivity groups, trying to encourage you to become more assertive and more in touch with yourself And that is doing it God's way. God's power changes, renews, revigorates all of those aspects. 2 Corinthians 4:16, therefore we do not lose heart, though outwardly we are wasting away, yet inwardly, in the inner man, we are being renewed. Why is it that we are accustomed to being under the control of a sin, a weakness, that just seems to dominate? In which we are we see from two different perspectives what it means to be filled with the Spirit of God. But we have seen once again that Christ indwells us through the Holy Spirit on account of the love of God. The context is of the church. How long, how high, and how deep his love is. I'd like to begin this morning by asking you if you have any weaknesses Now in all three of these cases there is something that is keeping that individual down. Terms that more reflect our relationship with our children. And even that, that expression of love of a father for his child is pale, is weak compared to what the the gut the love that God has for us. And in Ephesians 6:10, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Verse 9, Romans 8, 9. Content with a religion that has the form of godliness but lacks the power. To develop the power to grow as God wants you to in the Christian life. We should still have a positive attitude. On an ongoing basis for us to appropriate, for us to own, for us to possess the water. From God the Father. Putting off that weakness, putting off that sinfulness that we so often want to cling to, that we don't want to let go. of the body of Christ, the context of the body of Christ, of Jews and Greeks joined together to make up that one temple. Whether it is a sin that seems to have control over you that you just can't seem to overcome at all. Perhaps it manifests itself by having you're having a very irregular quiet time, irregular or non-existent quiet time. Wheels will spin to the point that steam will rise off the rubber and the car just sits there. God, who is the source of strength through the means, the Holy Spirit, and then as we possess the strength, which is Christ Himself. That's what this passage is saying. A Pat manner. But I would encourage you to grasp that God wants to give to you on the basis of the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. Through an unbreakable current, which is the Holy Spirit, and it comes to us. We reviewed what the spirit-filled life was about, what it looks like, on the basis of Ephesians 18 in the following verses. We didn't look at a new code of ethics that we as Christians are to abide by, but rather we saw a description of the lifestyle of the community that is filled with the Spirit. Is in ourselves. But God wants us to use what He has given, the power of the Holy Spirit. To put it mildly, it's a difficult situation in which he is laboring down there. By power. There's another guy that talks about the power of positive thinking. Day by day, renewed by God's power. And not our own. We possess the strength in the Spirit, through the Spirit. In this pamphlet, there was a picture drawn of an individual who had just been cre just been converted. Because it doesn't come from ourselves, and we want to have that strength from ourselves. Various ways. You see, God saw us fail. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. In Timothy, for God did not give us a spirit of timidity, but a spirit of power, of love, of self-discipline. It's not been easy because I tend if I don't depend on a guy like Alan, I depend on myself. In fact, one gentleman says, God can, or you can turn your scars into stars for God. To desire to obey. We call God as Father. Being swept out, being swept clean with all the sin and the degradation being removed, and Jesus Christ becoming Lord in each aspect of that person's life, in each room. We see that. In experiencing the strength of God through the Spirit in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Sending his son to take the penalty of our sin upon himself and to draw us as adopted children into that wonderful relationship. In verse 18, I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which He has called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance. Glorious riches. Is salvation in conquering sin and weakness. I have known people who have resolved to simply live a life content, with spiritual mediocrity, being spiritual cripples. Now I realize of course, and you realize too, that we cannot be perfect in this body. We are not to be dominated by sin. Not calling for, or simply going through the motions of obeying what God has said, and then He will give you the filling of the Spirit as a reward I mentioned uh 1 Corinthians 12 verse 13, and for variety's sake, let me just turn over to Romans the 9th chapter. It's not easy for me to get up here and preach a sermon like this describing the great power of God that is available to us. There is not to be a content with contentment with mediocrity in the Christian life. This is God saying, it's available, and I want you to take it. God changes the inner man. As I mentioned, most of us can think so easily of those words, accepting Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. But when we understand what it means to have Jesus Christ as Lord in every area of our life, this is something that is offered to us. That can be used by Satan to control us, to dominate us, to keep us from experiencing the glorious riches of Jesus Christ available to us And putting on, on the other hand, that strength. In possessing Christ Himself, we are talking about being filled, again, being filled with the Holy Spirit. To possess us, to cause us, to be brought into obedience to God, and the Spirit of God uses that word in us To fill our hearts with obedience. On him, him alone, the temple which grows up from that foundation experiences Christ dwelling in him Seem to talk so much about God being our Father. And that r that word there is related at all father fatherhood is related to God's fatherhood But there was one closet, there was one closet that this person just refused to turn over to the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you think that they just couldn't come up with any other relationship that describes the care and concern that God has for us? In comparison to to uh or on the basis of or using the analogy of our love for our children. Now you parents can attest to God's to your great love for your children, but I would suggest that that fades before the image. Not really experiencing fullness, the glorious riches that are available in Christ for us now I'm going to mention something. To depend on other people in the congregation. But it's something that that I have had to deal with. We need to have his power. You just don't seem to have a sense of God's power, a sense that His hand is on you, like you think it should be when you read a passage such as this before you this morning. Content with living with sin. We have Jesus Christ Himself given to us and offered to us, His glorious riches offered to us. The basis for God calling himself our Father is not based on the relationship of ourselves being fathers to our children and having such a wonderful relationship there. Who never sees the fullness of God's continual grace. He wants to strengthen you in your inner being. This was Paul's hope, you see, in Second Corinthians, the fourth chapter, in verse sixteen. Take my power and live that way. But ask you if you are being strengthened now by that spirit, by the powerful spirit of God. And so often, as we think of that, that one area of our weakness, one area of sin that we refuse to turn over to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a beautiful promise. But there's also some problems with this because it can tend to lead to a feeling that you're doing it yourself and you can generate from within yourself the power. God has promised that He can make dramatic changes in our lives as we grasp the strength that is available to us in this passage. Before our God and Father. Think about it. I would want to say that I can do all things without finishing the verse through him who gives me strength. You recall that I mentioned that the spirit-filled life is not a life that can be lived most readily at home in your closet. I would like you to claim this prayer for yourself. The Father who loves us so much wants to set you free from that. We can grab a hold of that. And that's what I'm encouraging you to see today. It's not hard for you to grasp the idea of God's strength from this prayer. See, God wants us to be literally to become mighty by power. You remember that a couple of weeks ago, those of you who were here, I mentioned the parallel between Colossians 3, verse 16, and Ephesians 5, verse 18. Not to have that attitude saying, just no way, there's no way I can defeat that. A couple of weeks ago I preached on the power of the Spirit, the filling of the Spirit. Now we have some beautiful words of encouragement in this text before us this morning. Much like we think of the McDonald's slogan, you deserve a break today. Just try to think of one weakness that you have that you perceive very deeply in your own life. But I would suggest to you that as we look at this passage and as we perhaps begin together If we don't receive that power by faith, the only possibility of failure is in the receiving unit. A friend of mine just came and uh is visiting with us for the weekend. You can see in the beginning of this prayer, we are instructed, or Paul prays to God the Father, in verse 14. Never mind. He wants you to experience them now, not just when you're converted, but now. I think there are two tendencies that we often run up against in the church. The church being rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ, being grounded, the temple of Jesus Christ, which is his body, being grounded. God as Father wants us to be his obedient children, and he's given us the strength to do that when we take his strength. Do you think that that weakness controls you? All these things are wrapped up in our understanding of the inner man. I'm not talking about an outward formal legalism. He wants to produce a radical change in us The Spirit uses that, along with the Word, to produce spirit-filled lives and experiences. That's what the spirit-filled life is about. But we should do it because we are looking to God as our Father. God changes us and enables us to walk in obedience to him. So often in the New Testament we hear the language of putting off the old man and putting on the new. There are people that talk about the assertiveness training, the est training, uh Or perhaps your weakness is just more of a general feeling of weakness. The possibility is held out for us. Dealing with sin God's way. Fourteen through nineteen in the third chapter God saw us fall before Him. We can understand that that relationship that we have with the Lord Jesus Christ is through the Spirit, through His strength, because of the power of God and the love of God. Remember the story about an elder in a church who uh was asked to go out witnessing with the pastor. We need to have his power, the text goes on to say, to even grasp how wide A beautiful promise to us. I've had to struggle with, depending simply on God, his power. We think of God in those terms, but he calls himself our Father who loves us so much. Or maybe your weakness is the fact that you just don't seem to be able to witness God wants to strengthen you in your inner being. He did that so that he could give us, free of charge, a continual outworking of his glorious riches. Barry didn't have that uh that opportunity, that luxury. Yet we hesitate to do it. And that I encourage you to see, again, in the context It is too rich. And I'm suggesting to you that the idea of God's fatherhood is one of perfection. We can tend to think so easily of God as a cosmic policeman waiting for us to step over the line so that he can slap our hand. On the other hand, there are those who try to overcome weakness and sin in their own strength. We possess the strength of the Lord Jesus Christ right here in our hearts. You, however, are controlled not by the sinful nature, but by the Spirit, if the Spirit of God lives in you. So often we are afraid. Now, as I looked at this text this morning in Ephesians, uh for this morning in Ephesians 3 That that spirit, that spirit which we enjoy, which we participate in Why do you suppose they came up with that idea of Father? It's called sanctification. And he has had to depend on the Spirit of God for power every step of the way. There is singing and making music to the Lord. All Christians have the Holy Spirit in them Does that sound like fantasy to you? And we might sit back and be a little bit critical of that kind of cryptic terminology. This is more than just the po the power of possibilities thinking. It's available. What we're talking about is a transfer of power from an inexhaustible power source. A number of years ago I read a pamphlet. And I would ask you to think for yourself which one of those areas perhaps. I hope he's not embarrassed by this, but he's been telling me he's uh been a minister for a year now in a church down in Tennessee. I'm talking about God changing, renewing our inner man, making us wanting to obey Him. It would exhaust us first. I want to be self-reliant And the same idea is presented to us in this passage: the importance of having the community involved. You just go blank. As we consider God wants our weaknesses to be uprooted, to be thrown away, and to be replaced. We should listen to God instead This is the inward focus of possessing the strength. But as you know, there is only one radical answer, one radical answer that goes to the root of the problem. Now the reason I'm making a point of this is because we so often can think of God's fatherhood in weakened terms. It just rolls off our tongue almost meaninglessly. We hesitate to grab a hold of that strength. And this elder would regularly at seven o'clock every Wednesday night Do you think that it has you in your grip, that you will never be free from it? Content with complacency There's to be no acceptance of failure. Now, what was the sin that you thought of, or the weakness that you thought of, at the outset of this sermon? It's right there on the surface, and we are going to look just at the idea of God's strength. God Himself But neither are we to be controlled, dominated by sin. The inner man, the Bible talks about being the heart The Spirit is doing that even now as we make this prayer together. Please avail yourself of this. I would encourage you to look to the Lord Jesus Christ because the Father wants Have you heard of the fellows in the Christian church who talk about possibility thinking? What an encouragement that is. To become mighty But God first says that He is our Father. It just doesn't seem to be able to get going. I'm not going to suggest that there is going to be a hundred and eighty-degree turn in your life in the next thirty minutes. And the only possible breakdown. We hear them so often, we can just run that through our mind and not really think a thing of it. As we exercise our gifts. So how does He express His love to us? That's an inability We are afraid to trust God, but God says So often we think of those words that Jesus came to save sinners. Remember, I said that his love is perfect. There is no way that anything can remain a problem if you turn your scars into stars. Now there are a lot of people in today's society that are talking about the strengthening. And God's power touches all of those aspects. And He has promised We often see people who are content with mediocrity, as I've mentioned before. We oftentimes think that way, but if you read carefully, verse 14 and 15 with Not calling for mechanical obedience, not at all. Experience the glorious riches of his redemption. You recall that I did not read a good bit of the first part of chapter 3. What is your weakness? But we're going to look at the idea of God's strength. I don't know if any of you have seen it, a pamphlet called My Heart, Christ Home. In possessing the strength Your tongue swells up in your mouth so big that you can't move it. What I do is I pick her up and I encourage her, I hold her. From the perspective of Colossians 3:16. Ours is just a cheap replica of God's great care for us. And the picture was of a house. Like we're just dreaming that our weaknesses can be replaced with God Himself? There is giving thanks to the Lord for all the things that He has done for us. What it's saying is that there is not to be a contentment with complacency. You seem to just be waffling around in the Christian walk. And you just have a general feeling of weakness. And that's a promise, not from me, but from God Himself. You've resolved time and time again to be obedient to God. God is our resource. A supernatural strength. And God says, take advantage of it. It's not something that is meant to be lived in private. What is your weakness in your Christian life? And ours, for our children, is just a cheap replica. Why is it that we can live with that? This pastor thought that every church leader By sending His unique Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Why do you suppose that the writers of the Bible He is the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. You have not, James says, because you ask not. Excuse me, Romans the 8th chapter. We think of that just in such God is our resource. As I listen to him. I would encourage you. And therefore