Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who lived in that hill country came down and attacked them and beat them down all the way to Hormal. And what's interesting, if you read through the whole context of this story, the grates that they bring back are so massive and so rich, it takes two men and a pole to carry them. And that blood was to be a sign, not of their righteousness, but because of God's righteous covering. There are these two reports. And the whole assembly said to them, If we only had died in Egypt or in this desert. Leading through the Red Sea, I crushed your enemies, and now I have brought you into this desert. But Joshua and Caleb avoid two things. The face is not a secondary billboard for our internal feelings. Do we try to make things better in our own eyes and try to look better before other people's eyes? The implication being, Lord forgive me, maybe it was you, you know. To show stress in the foundation, but nobody realized it. They gave Moses this account. Here is its fruit. The Amalekites live in the Negev, the Hittites, the Jebusites, the Amorites live in the hill country, and the Canaanites live near the sea along the Jordan. Who were among those who had explored the land tore their clothes and said to the entire Israelite assembly, The land we passed through and explored is exceedingly good. Their protection is gone, but the Lord is with us. By spreading a bad report about it, these men, responsible for spreading the bad report about the land, were struck down and died of a plague before the Lord. it would mean that they would still face great trial because at every point that Moses obeyed and was going to lead the people in deliverance out of Egypt, things got worse and worse and worse for them. Secondly, God's promise is not only seen in his promise of deliverance based on who he is, he ratifies it by doing what? It isn't just that he picked out Israel and said, okay, I'm going to be good to you. by his rightness and justice, and he does it through the blood by changing his view of them. would lead them to say, well, this is just sort of being gonna be like what uh the young uh Joseph uh not Joseph De Young Young, but rather Kevin DeYoung in his book Good News We Almost Forgot when he says it's not like they're saying going in the promised land is going to be being in a lazy boy with a good massage and more food than you can possibly imagine. In the midst of challenge, in the midst of great difficulty, even in the face of great temptation, recognizing their own sin, Joshua and Caleb are simultaneously able to recognize their own weakness. It is a certain sense, it is what is going on inside our mind. Of the men who went out to explore the land, only Joshua son of Nun and Caleb, son of Jephunah, survived. Many of us live in homes, and those homes we spend a lot of time in. Those houses which were built quickly with such beauty and grandeur were then about 10, 8 to 10 years old, began Verses 26 to 33, and then because this is such a long section, I'll read the summary points, and then Numbers 14, 1 to 9. About the land they had explored. If the Lord is pleased with us, he will lead us into that land, flowing with milk and honey And he will give it to us. Early the next morning, they went up toward the high hill country. You will be defeated by your enemies, for the Amalekites and the Canaanites will face you there because you have turned away from the Lord. Nevertheless, in their presumption, they went up toward the high hill country, though neither Moses nor the Ark of the Lord's covenant moved from the camp. God's promise, God's power of being freed from the Egyptians. God's promise, deep divide, proper foundation. From Egypt to the Promised Land is never at any point based on who they are as a nation. And in the Passover, just before God sets them free through under the hands of Pharaoh, what he does is he comes in judgment over the nation of Egypt. Those who belong to me must also demonstrate that they belong to me, and they must be covered by the blood. Go from being a nation of sinners to a nation of not being sinners? His justification becomes the lens through which he views them. Marked out for his own. But the telescope here, this is precisely what the Passover is pointing to. They are sent out. And of his justifying work. And Joshua don't recognize the danger or the hard work that's going to require. But they also have an honest self-assessment. But God's strength, therefore, their appropriation of God's promise is richer, it's sweeter, it's deeper, and it's far more honest. In fact, he makes an even bolder claim, one central to understanding how the mind reading works, and that is the information on our face is not just a signal of what is going on inside our mind. what others think of me. For I have a clear conscience, but is the clear conscience what justifies me? We play the religious game. To a guilt-ridden life. Listen again. Early the next morning, they went up toward the hill country. Don't do it. Doing. She couldn't find a key. Then Moses and Aaron fell face down in front of the whole Israelite assembly gathered there. And so here they've been there 18 days, 12 days into being in the Sinai Desert. Over the last couple of weeks with my friend Dr. The descendants of the descendants of Anak, who come from the Nephilim, we seemed like grasshoppers in our own eyes, and we looked the same to them. The lens through which they see reality. Numbers 13. We saw the Nephilim there, the descendants of Enoch, who come from the Nephilim. Why is the Lord bringing us to this land to only let us fall by the sword? Of what they believed about themselves, what they believed about God. And to at least ask the question: where are we in regard to God's promises? It's beyond our wildest dreams. And he kept saying over and over again, as both a prophet and a priest and a shepherd, God will deliver you, even though you are sinners In fact, that is precisely what he sells them. My friend Mike in an email exchange said, isn't that amazing? certain part of his eyes skull and things and they have this guess. What we're thinking, what we're feeling, what we believe shows on our face. We become insecure. How do I know that? And resting in the promise of God and staying put, they're trying to make up for their failures. And when I did it, I sinned against her, I sinned against the Lord, and I had to do real work there. And they said to each other, we should choose a leader and go back to Egypt. Of the men who went to explore the land, only Joshua, son of Nan, and Caleb, son of Jephanah, survived. But Moses said, Why are you disobeying the Lord's command? Father, I now pray that you would open the eyes of our hearts that we might apprehend God's promise that leads into this exploration is one first of deliverance. It's like a massive of the most massive of buffets on a cruise ship. Their reaction here is much like what their reaction was to Moses in Egypt. That they know it's not based on them. Is the deep divide. They see the same fruit, they see the same challenges, they see the same opportunities. But they saw how big the people were, and what do they immediately do? It says, We seemed that way to them. In going up to the land without God's presence, even with the warning of Moses, they believe that they know better than God. Asking a question like that will expose our weakness. And the first millisecond response was, I got nothing to do with that. To a greater Passover, to a greater promised land. This morning in the service. We repaint, fill them with furniture. We're not built properly on the right kind of foundation. We're in the book of Numbers this week. For 40 days, come back and report on everything that you see. And then Caleb silenced the people before Moses and said, We should go up and take possession of the land, for we can certainly do it. Now they are being told to go into the promised land. Because this passage stretches over a couple of three chapters, it would be hard to read through it all and still be here in enough time. I have brought you out of the land of Egypt, freeing you from your enslavement, as a people that I have called my own. I have done so by my hand and my power. Burdened with the riches of my grace. And they bring that back. God will deliver you, not because of what you have done, but because of who he is. Is our Passover Lamb. Here's what is key. They found rest in God's promised victory. They did not get here on their own, and they will not receive the promised land on their own. And when we are, we care more about how we view ourselves and how others view us more than how we believe God views us. This was important even for Paul, the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 4, verse 3. It is God's justification that matters. That it right. And in your tone, why is it in a millisecond did you run to defensiveness? Christ Jesus, whose active obedience took him to the cross, and that obedience is our righteousness, was there as a lead passage. The creaking. But the men who had gone up with him said, We can't attack those people. They become very insecure. Who draws them to himself? says this, that the face is an enormously rich source of information about emotion Ten years later, however, through many seasons of drought, particularly in Georgia, and seasons of rain. He said, I want you to take a group of people, one representing each tribe, twelve and all, to go and scout out the land. And they're told to take these explores and go and investigate and bring back this report. They were the smallest of nations. Will be the way in which they enjoy the promised land. We are like grasshoppers. Maybe it passed over it. What doctrine, what promises are you relying on? That is the salvation and deliverance that we receive through the blood of the Lamb of Passover. Shipping soil. And then they would call in specialists. But you don't know it often until it's stressed. And here, and from this we would see just what kind of strength the foundation would be. This is the Word of God. O Lord, help us then to live out of that promise, that sure foundation. For roughly three months or so, they have experienced God's provision But what we will do is we'll first look at God's promise, the deep divide that this report comes and brings, and then proper foundation. We can do this. First, the good report. No, they see that God is the one who is mighty. So, why is there a contrast then? Think of themselves. It shows in our eyes. First two questions. Who knows your face well? He is our righteousness. One of the things we rarely pay attention to is the foundation of the house. They recognized they would have to go to battle. Everything goes well until that foundation is tested. What's interesting from the very beginning that must be remembered is this that God's promise of deliverance is never at any point along their journey. Under the thumb of Egypt, and even through the leadership of Moses, though God gave his promise I'll make it better. To make up for our shame. And we believe and say we believe in the justification of Christ, the righteousness of God. That what you say and what you see is greater than what we see, what others may think. For you are our foundation. And this is precisely what happens in the Passover. And when they doubt God's promise, they become very insecure. When we try to do what only God can do, when we try to justify ourselves, to cover our nakedness, to cover our sin. It was an argument over a lost key. I had a little swagger. Yeah, what was on my face. So long as everything's holding together, it's it's great. During the housing boom all over the South, the housing boom was taking off in places like Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. Your glory, your power, and the grace of your promise For you are the one who justifies. It was to be a sign not of their righteousness, but God's justifying work. We're showing it. A guilt-ridden soul can also be a great source of pride because I believe I can do it. The next day, after I've I found my wallet within five minutes, after worrying her to death, the next day You see, this whole passage is pointing to a greater Moses. It's that oftentimes what we're thinking, what we're feeling, shows on our face. And when that happens, we become like waves on the ocean, tossed to and fro Now, how is that being guilt-ridden? Again, the ten spies didn't see different things than Joshua and Caleb. They believe that their enemies saw them as grasshoppers. Even yesterday, as we already discussed misplacing your wallet, why couldn't you just say The riches of the fruit and honey and all that is there is so incredible We will be able to have victory over this people. What story is my life telling? But it led me to ask this question. I do not care what you think of me. It's right here. God is not with you. There's the good report and there's the bad report. I saw an internet meme going around this last week. But the people who live there are powerful and the cities are fortified and very large. Maybe my poor reading messed it up. They came back to Moses and Aaron and the whole Israelite community at Kadesh in the desert of Peran. In fact, more than insecure, just underneath what's outside. Why? They said, the land we explored devours those living in it. The reports come back. It's right there in verse 33. They become insecure because of what other people think of them and even what they think of them. We look like we're doing better than we really are, but just underneath the surface is a guilt-ridden soul. I was like, hey, let me tell you something. They've now been in the Sinai Desert 18 days. They avoid overconfidence. What's interesting is this. But that was 20%. Do you see? And then it began to show in the walls. It's on God's promise. This jumped out at me in the passage. Because you're trying to make everything better. And I was sure, without even thinking about it, I had nothing to do with that. But years beyond that moment of recognizing I am not the key master We went into the land which you sent us, and it does flow with milk and honey. Do not be afraid. That is a picture of what was to be to them, God's provision and God's deliverance. They see the exact same thing as the 80%. I will go up before you. So what we see happening in this passage as they have now been in the land. Why? They were pitied by other nations. Mike Metzger, we were talking about this passage and how it does in fact jump out. And then Numbers 14, 1-9. So they become incredibly insecure. He wanted them to have a proper foundation. He became sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God. Perhaps you can imagine a rich meal because perhaps you're going to have one in a few hours. The good report comes from two out of the twelve, twenty percent, not great numbers, but twenty percent report the following. What did they see? Only do not rebel against the Lord, and do not be afraid of the people of this land, because we will swallow them up. We have sinned. They weren't thinking about the foundation. Looking at what God was going to do, send them into the promised land, but beforehand, It's not that Joshua is looking at the situation going, we're a mighty people. Indeed, I do not care even what I think of myself. That's when our foundations are tested. It is an equal partner in the emotional process. We seemed like grasshoppers to ourselves. We rarely think of it. What that's demonstrating is this. So here it is again. Now, just before, just chapters before And so they are sent out. Because God says He will deliver them into our hands. You see, they rest in the promise of God And we begin to see that these houses which were built with such beauty and grandeur. They offer a sacrifice and they take the blood of an innocent lamb and they put it over the door frames of their homes. The Lord is not in that. I didn't say that. Thanks be to God. No. This was God's promise What is the person thinking? But indeed, what happens as a result is they are defeated. They recognize they are in a weak position. I knew about the wall. And then they see these people really big and they go, no way. Have you asked them, what do you see in my face What was on my face is I was trying to justify and to cover my weakness. That is precisely what they announce. What's in your tone? He is our deliverance. We have sinned, they said. Nothing changes in their hearts. And when we remove ourselves from that foundation, And I gave you freedom through the Not only do they they avoid an overconfidence, they have an honest understanding of what they're going into. It was by Harvard Business School, and it was this picture of this guy's eyes. So far, that's good. The houses started making very weird sounds The least sexiest part of your house is sometimes the most important. They are stronger than we are. I'm going to give you these promises. And here's what's amazing about a guilt-ridden soul. First, God's promise Do you know what they're called to do? That is precisely the definition of being guilt-ridden. The nation of Israel is getting ready to go through a time of real stress. They avoid an overconfidence that in some way Try to make it up before God's eyes In Jesus' name we pray. I freed you from Pharaoh. And these reports bring deep divide among God's people. No. If we go to the basement at all, we're not really looking at the sturdiness of the walls or how they're doing. They were barely a nation. At every point that he gave the promise of God's deliverance, things seemed to get worse. Malcolm Gladwell, in his two thousand six book, called Blink What happens at the end? You are the one who has given us the promise of deliverance. You're trying to look better before others, before yourself, and before God. This is a deeply biblical theme because it would be this very theme that Paul would say that Christ. So then Moses had sent to explore so the men Moses had sent to explore the land who returned and made the whole community grumble against him. This will not succeed. We'll be looking at this next week in the justifying work of Christ as it is spelled out in the book of Galatians. When was the last time you asked someone close to you? Our wives and children will be taken as plunder. I got nothing to do with that key. And he will be the one who delivers. We laugh together, cry together, pray together, argue at each other inside those homes It's the 80% report that becomes the problem. It is what God sees of me. Joshua, son of Nun, and Caleb, son of Jephanah. And now I tell you that your deliverance is sure. God's deliverance of a group of sinners, not because of who they are, but because of who he is, and he does it through his righteousness. And then what's interesting is that not only do they appear as insecure and like grasshoppers in their own eyes. And that is Christ Jesus Emotion can also start on the face Man, she saw right through that. They immediately use their perspective and they elevate it as the perspective. Will you pray with me? The day before I had misplaced my wallet, Kate was worried, as she should be. And it is instructive for us to use His promise of deliverance is ratified, signified by the blood, that through the blood they would be. It's everything you ever wanted and more. I do not care. We're trying to put forth a strong external reality. We even saw descendants of Anak there All the people we saw there are of great size. When Moses reported this to all the Israelites, they mourned bitterly. The Red Sea has been parted, and now they're in the Sinai Desert. To celebrate the Passover. That night all the people of the community raised their voices and wept aloud. God's deliverance, His righteous deliverance. They said, we will go up to the place the Lord promised. For this is the land I'm going to give you. We will go up to the place the Lord promised. He has to demonstrate it through what they learn to celebrate in Egypt. He silenced them. Why is that? If you are a Christian They were an enslaved people. But what they did do is instead of going into overconfidence, It's because they're doubting God's promises. And it gives you a list of things to choose from. And they spread among the Israelites a bad report. When Moses reported this to all the Israelites, they mourned bitterly. He says to them, And in working together and talking this through They're still going to have to go to battle. When we doubt God's promises, we are inherently in an insecure position. He wants us to rest. That insecurity of how they view themselves and being con overly concerned about how they view themselves and how other people view them leads We seemed like grasshoppers in our own eyes, and we looked the same. What do we believe? See, God, now we'll do it. It says, we saw the Nephilim there. So what happens next? They saw the same thing Caleb and Joshua did We will not be with you, and you will fall by the sword. And in this good report, it's not as though Caleb We decorate them. Amen. I brought you out of that land. They arrived there in the second day of the second month. But what makes them strong is who God is, that God will go before them. They were reported to them and to the whole assembly and showed them the fruit of the land. God promises himself. We receive a lot of rain What happens as a result of these reports demonstrates so much. God's deliverance was always based on who He was, not who they were. They announce to God's people: we can surely do this. I didn't have it last What's in your face? Then we begin to really think about our foundations. What changes is how God views them. Do not go up, because the Lord is not with you. Again Not only They are still sinners, but he is the righteous God, the justifying God. We should go up and take possession of the land, verse 30, for we can certainly do it. This happened to me recently. And by that blood, they would be marked out. They recognize that they have sinned before God, and instead of repenting. Now, what does that justifying work mean? They see the same people Wouldn't it be better for us to go back to Egypt? They still see that. These ten spies. So let me give you a quick summary of what God's promises. What is that proper foundation? They saw the same thing. And they're like. Why? It is what God believes of me He ratifies it through this great work of justification. And we had a very good conversation. Guess who had the key? Hear now God's word, Numbers chapter 13. See, we'll go up, we'll do it, we can go. I'm going to lead you into this promised land. And we seemed that way to them. Underneath it is pride. Finally, renewal It was to be a remembrance of God's deliverance out of Egypt. They still see the hard work. He wanted them to repent and to stop. May the Lord enable us to ask these questions. And they got mad at Moses. And that's the bad report And you have to guess. We mow the lawns. You are our foundation. And he says, But those who belong to me. Does it mean that the nation of Israelites All the Israelites grumbled against Moses and Aaron. How do I know that happens? They still see the temptation. It was on vacation. We're really tempted to do that in church. Thanks be to God's grace through my wife. The whole point is. And then Moses says, Don't do it. It is the Passover. It's right here.