Thank you for the worship this morning. As always, we enjoy worshiping with you. Just a quick missions moment, if you don't mind my just sharing something about what I do. And so I am, yes, my claim to fame is I'm the father of Nathan Lee. But uh we were we moved here last November to be nearer them because of their disabled daughter, Emily. And it's been our delight to be that close to them. We lived in Alexandria for ten years, and I retired from the army out of the Pentagon in 2008. The day after I retired, I became the endorser For this denomination and six other denominations, endorser of chaplains, military and civilian. For you can't be a chaplain in America in most places unless you are endorsed, certified, you're legit. Through a recognized endorsing agent. So I'm the endorsing agent for this denomination and six others as well. And it's my privilege in that task to here's what I do. I had to figure this out so my kids would understand, my adult kids. What I do is I catch credential, care, and cover chaplains. That's what I do. I do a lot of traveling. I work full-time. Just came back from Minnesota where I saw two chaplains there. And so it's a privilege for me to serve this denomination and its chaplains. And speaking of chaplains, please remember as a family to pray for chaplains. The ministry for them is wide open. And they have incredible opportunities. If they were all standing here before today, all 300 of them, they would tell you that they have incredible opportunities out there in spite of the challenges. That have come into the military over the last four years. You need to know that. On the one hand, unbelievable positive work. And while I'm standing here There's a chaplain talking to a pilot someplace. There's a chaplain on the fantail of a ship. There's a chaplain in a hospital. There's a chaplain preaching somewhere. There's a chap advising a commander, there's a chaplain counseling somebody, maybe on Skype, maybe personally, there's a chaplain somewhere in the world representing you. That's talking about Jesus to somebody, even as I'm standing here. And for that we can really rejoice. But you need to pray that they'll continue to be bold because the challenges definitely are out there, and you can read about them, are reading about them in the paper, aren't you? The military seems to be a gateway that has been chosen by some to present values that have not been a part of the military for most of it, all of its history, really. But not only the military is affected, but businesses and others as well. So, folks, we need to be praying for our chaplains who are in that particular environment, and then praying for wisdom for all of us as we live in a watching world. And a world in which the world, the flesh, and the devil are very active these days. So please pray for your chaplains, would you Would you uh turn on the PowerPoint and let's turn to our scripture passage this morning and uh like to begin there out of the book of Proverbs 16. If you have your Bible or i Bible handy, you might want to follow along there and uh like to read this. for you, focusing on one particular verse for today. Proverbs sixteen, verses one through nine. Of course, the Proverbs are sometimes a collection of various thoughts, and so there's not particularly a theme running through this, but yet I think you'll detect a theme. So The Bible says the plans of the heart belong to man, but the answers of the tongue is from the Lord. All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the Spirit. Commit your works to the Lord, and your plans will be established. The Lord has made everything for his purpose, even the wicked for the day of trouble. Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Be assured he will not go unpunished. By steadfast love and faithfulness iniquity is atoned for, and by the fear of the Lord, one turns away from evil. And when a man's ways please the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. Better is a little righteousness, a little with righteousness than great revenues with injustice. But our thought for the day the heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his Steps. Let me read it one more time. The heart of a man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps. You believe that? If you do, would you stand please with me as we might say take a little time here to proclaim what we believe, for this denomination and mine as well has a statement of faith called the Westminster Confession of Faith And uh it's got every single chapter is an incredible chapter to help us understand God's word. But I found a modern translation of two particular chapters of the confession. So if we could get that on the PowerPoint, I'd like us to read it together. And essentially what you are doing this morning, if you believe this, I'd like you to read it boldly and think about what you are reading. So let's read it together. Western Confession, God's eternal decree. Together? From before the beginning of time, God has decided and put into place everything that happens. He makes these decisions freely by his wise and holy will. Nothing he's put into place can change. Still, he orders everything in such a way that he's not the author of sin. And he doesn't force us to do things against our will. He is the root cause of everything. But this doesn't mean secondary causes are not involved In fact, God is the reason other causes exist. And the next chapter, chapter 4, together God, our great Creator, holds up all things, directs them, tears them down. From the biggest to the smallest, He governs everything This wise and holy care is called God's providence. God governs according to his perfect knowledge of everything in the future. And in line with his free and unchanging will. His providence deserves our praise for his wisdom, power, justice, goodness, and mercy. That, my friends. is what the church believes. Amen? You may be seated. We're fairly new to this church, although we've been visiting for ten years actually. coming in from Alexandria to visit our family. And now we live in the area and uh but we still don't know a lot about you. And so if you don't mind, I kind of like taking quick surveys when I visit a church since I don't know you So let me ask you one quick question this morning. How many of you, I'll give you a moment to think about it, and I tell you what I'm going to ask you, like surprises. Okay, just raise your hand. How many of you like surprises? Okay, that's pretty good. About a quarter of you like surprises. The um, let me ask it a little different way, maybe clarify. How many of you like positive surprises? Okay. All right. Very good. All right. Makes sense? I'm I'm with you on that one. I'm with you on that one. My wife likes surprises. She likes, especially when I bring home flowers that she didn't expect and there's no particular occasion. And then I bring home some flowers from Weiss or Safeway, right? She likes she likes um that's weise for you who don't pronounce it the German way She does not like surprises when let's say it's dark at night and she gets up and I'm up and I go stand behind the door and I just jump out at her and say, Surprise! She doesn't like that kind of surprise. You can think of surprises in your life, can't you? You can think of the person sitting next to you and your family what surprises they like and what they don't like. We all like surprises at birthdays and Christmas when we don't know what we're going to get Maybe and maybe somebody will give us a gift. And sure enough, that big day comes and we get surprised by who gives us wonderful gifts. And we could go on In one sense, all of life is a surprise, isn't it? Because we don't know what's coming next. I like jokes. I like good jokes. And what is a joke? A joke is a surprise. You would laugh at a joke if it was an obvious thing it was telling you, would you? I remember I haven't asked Annabelle for permission to do this, but this is a long time ago. Annabelle, would it okay if I share a little story about you this morning? It's a nice one. It's a nice one. And when something like this, Grandpa, knock, knock, who's there? Well, there's a lot of uh lot of things you could say. But first you say, well, who's there? And she would say, I'm sorry, I'm getting jokes good I'm getting my I've done terrible jokes, Annabelle. This is not a good idea. She she the question was not a knock-knock joke, but what is red and white? Black and white and red all over. Black and white and red all over How many of you have heard that question? And so the obvious, the answer is obvious, a newspaper. But she said, no grandpa, it's not a newspaper. I said, well, black and white and red alert zebra with ketchup on it. No, that's not. That's not the answer. And then she gave me an answer that um was something I don't even remember the answer was. Now I I got a complete blank on this because of the way I messed up the joke there at the beginning. You may not remember that, Annabelle, but I remember it we all laughed because it was a surprise. That's my point. It was a surprise And life is full of surprises. We like jokes because of surprises. And God is a God of sovereign surprises. And the verse we're going to focus on today, Proverbs 16:9, is, But the heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps. Could you pray with me? Heavenly Father. This congregation says they like positive surprises. And Lord, you are full of them. Every day we see your mercy in small ways and big ways. And probably we know because of the what the word says about Jesus Christ that this Surprise of you opening up our hearts and prompting us to come to Jesus was maybe the biggest surprise of all. But Lord, I pray that we might leave here today appreciating all your sovereign surprises. In Jesus' name. Amen. This psalm This proverb rather has four parts to it as I can see. I don't think Solomon intended this to be a four-part sermon. I really don't. He was just giving some good, wise thoughts. But I think that the division of it is really important today. So the first point, I just want to remind you, if you're taking notes, is simply this: that we must, as we think about God's sovereign surprises, make sure we are guarding our heart. Guarding our heart. This is important. The Bible has a lot of things to say about the heart. And the heart can be translated as soul, will, personality, person, persona. The heart is a big word in the scriptures. But the Bible also reminds us that the heart has a good side, you might say, and a bad side. Paul addresses it briefly in Romans 7 when he says we do what we don't want to do and don't do what we ought to do. He's really talking about the problem with a remaining corruption in our hearts. If you're wanting to enjoy God's sovereign surprises, you want to first of all make sure that your heart matches God's heart. Let me give you just a few examples in Scripture about the importance of the heart. Just a few, because there are many, many others. Jesus said, speaking of some of the Pharisees and so on, their heart Is far from me. You can have a heart that's far from the Lord. He also said, thinking of the parable of the seed of the sower, the seed on the good soil stands for those with a noble and pure heart. An evil heart and a pure heart. Paul said in Ephesians 3: May God grant you to be strengthened with power so that Christ may dwell in your heart. Your heart, we speak about accepting Christ into our hearts, who we are, giving him control over and so on over our lives. That's what a Christian is, somebody who has Christ in their heart. We also read in 1 Samuel that the Lord said, the Lord has sought out a man after his own heart, Saul, whose name happens to be David. God calls David a man after his own heart. In Psalm 37, 4, the Bible says, quoting the Old Testament, of course, delight in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Psalm 141, 4 says, Let not my heart incline to what is evil. Proverbs 16:5, the same passage we just read today, says, Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the Lord. In Proverbs 15, 13, just the chapter before, it talks about a happy heart, a discerning heart, someone who is a joy to the heart. The Bible says, those who are wise in heart are called discerning, and a wise man's heart guides his mouth. Matthew 22, Jesus again said, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and mind. I say this as a bit of a preface today because if we're going to talk about God's sovereignty and and appreciate what He's done for us in His sovereign hands, we want to be someone who Is a man after God's own heart. So I begin this morning by just reminding you that your responsibility in life is to make sure that you are matching your heart with the Lord's with all that you do. Matching your heart with the Lord's in all that you do. Some of you are in high school and headed to college. And one of the main questions I think that ought to be asked by a high school student planning for the future, if you don't mind me saying so, is the question, Lord, what do I need to do to match your heart as I make my plans for the future? Lord, is my heart in tune with yours as I'm making doing these studies and applying for colleges and so on? Lord, is my heart In tune with yours. Doesn't have to be a high school student, though. You can be a college student at the end of the college and looking for a job, and you want to find a job in which you can serve with a heart that matches the Lord. But all our lives we go on, don't we? Every day we ought to be asking, how can I match my heart with yours, Lord? It's one of the main tasks of the Christian. And coming to church and being available to the means of grace. Prayer, the preaching of the word, communion, so it's all a part of strengthening your heart. And it's so critical, and it demands all another month of sermons on the heart. So we'll just leave it there. If you're a believer today, the Bible encourages you to guard your heart. Secondly, though, the Bible speaks to us in this verse about making plans. Isn't it true? That the heart of a man plans his way. Now, the we make big and little plans every day, don't we? We make plans to choose a cheeseburger over a pizza. Little tiny plans. We may plans to put on this shirt rather than that shirt. But we also make, and God I think is particularly speaking in the scriptures about the important plans we make. And if You are a man here who was among those who did a good job of proposing to your wife. I would hope that you made that decision and request out of a thoughtful heart that matched the Lord's. Maybe she asked you to marry her. I don't know how it works in your family. But big plans like that, you want to make sure they are from the Lord. Let me just give you a little example because You kind of have to search to find some thoughts in scriptures about plans, although we know, as we read today, that God has a plan. He had a plan for you in the womb and before. He has a plan for all the nations. He has a plan for everything that he has created. But the scripture does say a few interesting things about plans. We read one of them, a couple of them earlier. The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer is from the Lord. All the ways of a man, plans, are pure in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the Spirit. We also read in chapter 21. 5 of Proverbs this. 21. The plans of the diligent lead surely to abundance, but everyone who is hasty comes only to poverty. And there's one other verse that I think is kind of kind of interesting from Isaiah. We don't have time to talk about this, but Isaiah is talking to the exiles about what's going to happen in the future, and he says this, he was noble, plans noble things. And on noble things he stands. That word noble in the Old Testament means liberal in a sense of being generous. Large-hearted. Devoted to others like in his country and family and neighborhood. Large-hearted. That's what that means. When you put verses like this all together, when you read the stories of people in the scriptures, you realize that many people's plans were changed. We'll talk about that in a minute. But people did have plans. They had plans to Take care of their families. They had plans to do this and do that. And we ought to make big plans, though, in mind opinion, noble plans. And I say that to you because I've met plenty of professing Christians who, excuse me, who Have plans, but really the plans aren't too large. They're not too large. Some Christians say, look, all I want out of life is simply to be happily married. That's a good plan, by the way. But be happily married, we're my children, and then and just be comfortable. Be happy. Be at peace. And that's not a bad idea. We all would love to have peace. But What about how you are rearing your children to make an impact for the kingdom of God in the future? Are you helping them think about making big plans for their life and not just making plans that are just ordinary and small? I have to share with you a story from my wife when she was about in eighth grade, and she tells a story better than I. But here was an eighth grader who loved Jesus. And she grew up believing Jesus was her saviour, and for that course she's eternally grateful. But when she was in eighth grade, as she tells it This is not my words now, but she tells it. She had greasy hair, greasy swingy hair, freckles, a loud voice, and no boy would ever want whatever like her ever, ever, ever That's what she felt like. Maybe some of you recall feelings like that when you were younger. She also came from a home though where her mom taught her to pray specifically for things, and she had many examples of God answering specific prayers. So one day, as she tells it, Jesus said, Lord, I'm just sick of all this. All my all my girlfriends seem to have boys who might like them. Now by the way, parents, I'm this was before uh Dating contracts and before courting and all that sort of thing. That was a whole different season of life for us. And I'm not just sure I would recommend this prayer, but nonetheless, she was praying that she would That maybe someday a boy would like her. But the boy she wanted would be somebody who loved Christ. And maybe they would even go together in high school, and other people would become Christians. There were other parts to her prayer. Well that next summer between ninth and between eighth and ninth grade, a new boy did move to her school, who was a Christian, and guess what? God answered that bigger prayer of this little eighth grader, for they were involved in Christian leadership in their high school And others were impacted by God's grace, of course, but by their influence in the high school and so on. And she tells a story that God very particularly answered that prayer for her as an eighth grader. It wasn't just a prayer of a boy like me, please, but a boy that would help me serve Christ. That's an example, I think, of an eighth grader's larger prayer. We've now been married 46 years, and so that was an interesting story as we look back on all that. But I'm concerned that we as believers at the church are making plans that really impact the kingdom in big ways. Come be a Presbyterian, you have been doing this in many, many different ways. And of course I'm very grateful. And your current leadership is looking for new ways to expand the kingdom here. But we should be thinking big all the time. Match your heart with the Lord's. Make our plans and make them big. But whatever plan you're making as a Christian, point number three has to be brought into the picture here right now. And that is the phrase, remember. But the Lord. Remember, there's a but the Lord. One of my first big adult surprises was when I was in starting college and I'm a Vietnam-era person. Could probably guess that. And I had a low draft number, number fifty-five. Anyone one anyone who had a draft number under a hundred was going to go to Vietnam So I said, all right, if I'm going to go to Vietnam, I might as well go and become an officer. So I joined ROTC, University of Minnesota. Because that was my plan. In my heart, I thought I wanted to serve the Lord there in that way. I wanted to follow my dad, who was a World War II Navy veteran, and I thought it would be wonderful to be able to do that. And in my heart, I made some plans. And I joined ROTC and uh learned a few things about the military there, but between your sophomore and junior year, you have to get a physical, you have to do some other tests and things, and maybe you get accepted, maybe you get a scholarship for the next two years. Had my plans from my heart. But one day they called me in at the end of my sophomore year and they said to me, Well, Cadet Lee, yes sir, I'm sorry to tell you, you can't be in the military. What? That's right. We took an x-ray of your back. You've got a congenital back defect on your fifth lumbar vertebrae. I would I really I don't have any problems with my back. You know, I I di did sports and I've never been injured. What uh uh injury in my back that keep me keeps me from being in the military? He said, yes, I'm sorry. They didn't say pack your bags, but essentially they meant that. And suddenly I was a young man who experienced the but the Lord. I didn't quite see it at the time, but that's what he was doing. I'll tell more of the story later. But there was a experience for me that was pretty dramatic, and my heart was broken because I really felt I needed to and wanted to serve my country and follow my dad's footsteps, etc. But the Lord. Scan the scriptures in your mind for a minute. How many people can you think of who. Had a butt-the-Lord experience in their life, in the Bible stories. Be a great question for a dinner discussion sometime with your kids. How many but the Lords can you tell me about in the scripture? We can talk about a few, couldn't we, right off the bat? We could talk about Noah minding his own business. And suddenly God says, Noah, I want you to build an ark. What about Abraham? Abraham minding his own business in what is now Iraq, and he was God just suddenly said, you are my man. You are going to be the father of a multitude of nations, as great as the stars in the heaven and sands of the sea. I want you to move. But God, we don't know what Abraham said exactly, but I it might have been something like, well, but but Lord, I he said, move. And Abraham moved. What about David just delivering food to his brothers in a battle zone? All of a sudden he becomes the hero of the nation. But the Lord And then that turns into a kingship. That wasn't David's plan. He had other plans to be a shepherd, to be a good boy, and to obey his father, but God had other plans for him. You could think of some of the prophets who experienced but the Lord, or Moses. Others in the old scripture, right? But the Lord. They were going this way. They were trying to follow the Lord and they're going this way. And he says, but the Lord. One of the best examples, I think, may be the one of Mary, who was betrothed, and suddenly she gets this news that she's pregnant. Talk about a surprise. That was a huge sovereign surprise. And she responded to it joyfully, and with Mary's song, is the Bible, as we say, about her words in the scriptures. Then the apostles. Their plans were to be a fisherman, a physician, a tax collector, and whatever else, and God just comes along through Jesus and says, I want you to follow me about the Lord. A sovereign surprise is always about the Lord. And sometimes your surprises mean that you're able to accomplish what your plans are. That can be a surprise too. But there's going to be a butt the Lord in there. I remember one of the most dramatic butt-the-lords for us and for my son and daughter-in-law. Was they were enjoying life with our now oldest or their oldest daughter, and they were pregnant again, and they had a baby who had a fatal disease. Spinal muscular atrophy. And they were living with us. And we by this time had realized that she was quite ill and had heard nothing of this disease, but died in our home in Alexandria. Now let me tell you, Nancy and I did not plan to outlive any of our grandchildren. Some of you have been there. You don't plan things like that, do you? But the Lord intervened. And I suspect we'll all have some very interesting questions for God when we get to heaven. And then to top it all off, Nathan and Anna made their plans, and then Emily was born with the same disease. By God's grace, though she's now 10 years old, baptized in this church, and God has been very gracious in the midst of that, but the Lord, because there have been other surprises along the way from those experiences. Not to mention a worldwide ministry Nathan had with the websites, not to mention the care this church has given them and their reception of your love and so on. But isn't that above the Lord? You don't plan for things like that. And we even sang and read some words about God's greatest to the least decisions. And what can we can we can we expect good from God and not evil? All these are but the Lord's and his sovereign surprises. Most of his sovereign surprises are on the positive side, but then somebody could say, well, Doug. All here, you can't say anything that God has done is not positive, and that is true. That is true. But they don't feel like it when some of them come our way I imagine if we had time, and I've been recommending to some other folk uh some other places that a great church retreat would be getting together and you sharing. Some of God's sovereign surprises in your life. What if you knew some of the sovereign surprises were part of the people sitting next to you this morning? What if you knew those? And could rejoice with them about God, how God worked through that. What if we could share more of these sovereign surprises? I do believe that heaven's going to be an eternity of asking God questions about why he did what he did and When did he do it and why did he all those sorts of things and we'll get input and information on his sovereign surprises. Maybe someday there'll be a retreat like that where people can just share how they were surprised by God. And what God did with them as a result of that surprise. For you see, the last part of this verse pops up quickly, doesn't it, when we talk about the Lord's. And that is because you see, God determines our steps. Everything we read this morning and sang about has to do with this little phrase, God determines our steps. He knew us before the foundation of the world. He holds everything in his hand. Jesus, who is the word created by his spoken word and holds things all together. First hymn we sang talked about the voices of the waters and What he the writer was trying to give us an impression about God holding all that together because you see, God determines our steps. Great verse in Jeremiah 29, 11. And I know the plans I have for you, he says in Isaiah. Isaiah. Do you believe that? If you're a Christian this morning, do you believe God is really sovereign? And when the things come into your life that don't seem so positive, do you really believe that he has something to do with that and wants you to respond somehow to that or not? I believe I'm speaking to myself, of course, because I have as hard time as anybody saying, Lord, why is that stinker that I work with, why do I have to work here with that person? Some of you may have asked that question. Why why are you putting me here? What what good is there for me to keep being frustrated every day with that person over there who's just acting this way and acting that way? We have to ask the question, Lord, what am I, how am I supposed to respond to this? And people do, you get input, and you get insight and you get wisdom and you pray about it and so on. But isn't that a sovereign surprise? For sometimes you can't always choose where you're going to work. You're desperate or what job is offered. You take it, and there you are. But everything that comes into our life, it seems to me, from the scriptures and from our own confession of faith, points us to that God is a God of sovereign surprises. So what do you do with this information? Well, let me just say this. I appreciate it. I think I learned it at this church When we do the benediction at the end, many of you hold your hands like this. And I never thought about that. That's a it's a hands of receiving God and receiving what He has for us and so on. Many of you hold your hands out like this. I don't think I'd done that before I came to Columbia Presbyterian. But thinking about that in this verse has given the kind of a whole new meaning for me because when I hold my hands out now, I am saying, Lord, thank you for the word this morning. Thank you for this. Lord, help me to receive your sovereign surprises this week. Next minute, tonight, help me to receive your sovereign surprises Wouldn't it be great if we were known as people who looked at life, whether at work, the neighborhood, within the family context, as somebody who says, you know, I trust God in all this. I believe God knows what he's doing. Let's work this through. Let's enjoy this sovereign test that God has given us, a sovereign surprise. Let's do that. For there are people in the world who wake up in the morning and their attitude is more like this. Okay, Lord, I know you're there, but I've got my plans today. I prefer not to be bothered by what you have for me. I've got things I have to do, Lord. I'm not particularly interested in dealing with that personnel issue at the office. I'm not interested in calling my my sister or brother or family member. I just don't want to do those. Lord, I've got my plans today. And they approach life with a rebelliousness that's obvious. And then when something does come that they don't like, they just get more stern and upset with it and they they get angry. They don't like God's sovereign surprises, do they? Others are more casual, maybe, and they approach each day with their cans in their pocket, kind of ignoring God, you know, kind of waltzing through life. Don't have their hands out nor their are their fists clenched. They just kind of walk around but kind of ignoring God's what he's trying to do. And so even though there's a person at work that's that's thinking about or a person at school that's That they know is kind of interested in spiritual things, they just don't want to be bothered by pursuing that anywhere. Asking a serious question to them and getting it done, they just kind of ignore God's sovereign surprises I'm one of those who believes, even though it's hard for me too, that when God brings people into our life, they are sovereign appointments. They're not there by accident. I also believe you are in your neighborhood by God's sovereign plan. And the reason that house closed, because God probably has some plans for you there. Do you have big plans for being in your house or little tiny plans? Do you have plans that somehow affect the neighborhood or not? A sovereign God who determines our steps Who surprises us is a God you want to introduce to others, you would hope And I struggle as you do with boldness and with creativity and how to do all those things. But my friends, in his heart a man makes his plans, but the Lord determines. His steps. So when you leave today, why don't you try this if you haven't, as a gesture of Lord, I just help me receive your sovereign surprises today, tomorrow, and next day. Maybe at dinner time today or tomorrow or Tuesday or Wednesday or Thursday, maybe you could talk to your kids over the dinner table about what sovereign surprises hit our family today. What sovereign surprises hit our family today? Honey, what happened to you? Anything happened to you at school that you think would be a sovereign surprise? Honey, at work? Was there a sovereign surprise there? What happened? What kind of sovereign surprises are there? And then give praise to God for what He's brought into your life. And of course, I would hope you would then, thirdly, as you look into the scriptures and read it, I hope you would read it with these kind of spectacles. This is a sovereign God's word. And from this, we see more of maybe the reasons for some of the sovereign surprises in your life. And you get understanding and wisdom through this. Our God is an awesome God. Our God is a God of sovereign surprises. May you enjoy them till Jesus comes. Let's pray. Our Father in Heaven. We approach you this morning as a Sovereign God with a huge capital S. You're bigger than we can know, really. You are more awesome than we can think But your scripture over and over again tells us about who you are and the fact that you were a God that guides our steps. You have an eternal plan for the earth, for your people, for us as individuals. Lord, may we be great receivers.