For the the next few weeks. Today I want to look at verses one to twenty one, which teaches us. Fathing about how a Christian should see his trials and spiritual confusion. Yes I want us to look at verses twenty-two to thirty-one to see a picture of Christ's Thanksgiving. Did you know Christ had a Thanksgiving? Next week we'll take a look at it. Let's hear then from God's Word, Psalm 21. Psalm twenty-two reading this morning verses one to twenty-one. Psalm twenty-two, the first twenty-one verses. My God. My God. But You've forsaken me. Why are you so far from saving me? So far from the words of my groaning. Oh my God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer. By night. And am not silent. What you are enthroned is the Holy One. You are the slaves of Israel. For you, our fathers put their trust. They trusted and you delivered them. They cried to you and were saved. In you they trusted and were not disappointed. But I'm a worm, not a man. scorned by men and despised by the people. All these seeming mock me. They hurl insults, shaking their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let the Lord rescue him. Let him Never am since he delights in him. And yet you brought me out of the womb. My mother's breath. From birth I was cast upon you. From my mother's womb, you have been my God. Is far from me. The trouble is near. And there's no one to help. Many bulls surround me. Strong bulls of basin encircle me. Lions tearing their prey opened their mouths wide against me, transport out like water, all my bones are out of joint. My heart is turned to wax, melted away within me. My slang is dried up like a pottress in my tongue. Sticks to the roof of my mouth, you lay me in the dust of death. My Balls surrounded me. A band of evil manners encircled me. pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. People stare and gloat into me. They divide my garments among them and cast lots for my clothing. But you, O Lord, be not far off. Hold up strength. Come quickly to help me. Hold up strength. My life from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dogs, rescue me from the mouth of the lions, save me from the horns of the wild oxen. This is what we'll be considering this morning, up to verse twenty-one. twenty-two is so clearly a prophecy of Christ's crucifixion, so closely identified with it, that I think sometimes we can forget But it's a psalm of David. It is a psalm not simply to prophesy the events of the crucifixion of Jesus, but it's a psalm to also teach us. About the response of the suffering saints. Refuse the fact that David wrote it the fact that Jesus used it as the fulfillment, as the prophecy for the his fulfillment in crucifixion. Because really there is no incident in David's life that can compare with the suffering that we see depicted here. This is the picture of an execution. Oh yes, we can't miss the point. That this is for us as Christians. It is for us to enter into and to see as our experience, and not simply to write it off as the experience of Jesus alone. Now, don't miss what I'm saying. I am not saying that this is the picture of suffering as the result of our sins. I'm not saying saying this is the c kind of suffering that results because we have departed from God's ways and we're simply reaping what we some. The suffering that is described here is the suffering that we endure because we are Christians. The suffering that we endure which comes From the pit of hell, Satan's own attempts to discourage us and drive us down. Because Suffering we experience when we stand in our job for a principle to honor Jesus Christ We pray for God to take care of us. And then we're fired from the job. It's a kind of experience when I see a person in need. When I see to reach out to that person. And if you reach out to that person in love because you believe it's the right and loving thing to do. You help the person. person turns on you, they use you and manipulate you and maliciously criticize you. kind of suffering that these verses are talking about. We'll experience anything like that? Able to enter into the cry of those verses, God, why are you so far? That's what God wants to speak to us about this morning. Three sections that I call the I mean sections. They describe the fake software. under Roman numeral one, verses one and two, six and eight, and twelve to eighteen. And then there are three sections sections that focus on God in the situation. And three these three sections I call the but you section because In Hebrew they all begin with the phrase, but you in verses three to five, nine to eleven, and nineteen to twenty-one. sections of my personal experience, three sections of God in the situation. Now keep your Bible open particularly this morning. I always uh hope that you have your Bibles open as we go through scripture and the message. I try to point out things there so that you see it's God saying this, not just me. But it's particularly this important this morning because I want you to follow the threat of thought of David his uh writing here as he goes through these twenty one verses, as I paraphrase it and try to point it out. Because I believe that there's a progression. A very instructive progression in both the experience of the believer and his relationship with Christ that is spelled out in these sections. The deepening suffer Of the believer, and then secondly, the deepening relationship with the savior. First of all, then let's look at the deepening suffering of the believer. Through these three sections, I believe there is a progressive defense of the suffering, a progression in the depth of the experience of suffering. Starting in the first section. Forsaken by God. Verses 1 and 2. My God, my God. Why has He forsaken me? Why for So far from saving me. So far from the words of my groaning. Oh shh. God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer. By night, you am not silent. Well I would ask you to forget for just a moment that these words were used by Christ on the cross. Because If we only have that in mind, we only see it as his experience. And we see that in a way that's wholly unique. But these words are not to be taken as uniquely the experience of Christ. They are to be taken as your experience and my experience. And when you come to an experience like that, these words should come. That your experience is not outside of the scripture. The No matter how persisted you seem to be by God, no matter how mind You seem to be, and no matter how much it seems that he doesn't care about your situation, seems even to violate his own promises, you should take heart That God Himself said there will be times that you will feel like that. And that is not being carnal to feel like that. That was the experience of his servant David and ultimately fulfilled in his son. I believe But one of the most difficult things about the suffering that we go through as Christians is that almost inevitably in that suffering we have been praying constantly simply and not seeing any answers. What twice he says you're so far from me Hear me. It seems as if you don't care when I cry out to you. C. S. Lewis has written of this kind of experience in his little book, A Grease. Very because they're very side. When you're happy, so happy that you have an association meeting him. So happy that you're tempted to feel that his claims upon you as an interruption. If you remember yourself and turn to him with gratitude and praise, you will be your fellow field. Welcome With open arms. England when you need his destiny. Health is vain, and what do you find? Endure. lands in your face. And the sound of bolting and double bolting on the inside. Silence. You may as well turn away. The more emphatic the silence will become. There are no lights in the windows. It might be an emptied house. Was it ever inhabited? It seems so once. To me, what as strong as this? What can this mean? Why is so present a commander in our time of prosperity and so very absent a help? In time of trouble. Do you see those thoughts as unworthy of a Christian? Psalm twenty-two doesn't say so. Psalms That is the common lot of saints, we'll go through times like this. Then we say, God, you're so far from me. We ask in those times what I call the three the Christians three questions of despair. Is he aware? Did he care leave even there. Be aware of my suffering. Will he care what I'm suffering? Suffering. And worst of all, is he even there? Or has all my faith and trust in him been misplaced? And simply an illusion. If that's bad enough, look at the second section, verses six to eight. For there we see that he's not only forsaken by God. He's despised by man. Unless they're mocking. The mocking is aimed precisely where it's going to hit him or you in your most vocal. point. But God doesn't care. Your faith is a pipe dream. And not a man, scorned by men and despised by the people, all who see me mock me, they hurl insults, shaking their heads to trust me in the Lord. Let the Lord rescue him. Let the Lord deliver him since he delights in him. I remember just recently the person that I was seeking to help I had to bring up a matter of sin. And in response, I was shocked that Christianity is a very ineffective religion. Percent of the entire earth claim to be Christians in any biblical way that I'm talking about. In fact, even here in Colombia, God has shown himself to be an utter failure in bringing people to Christ to our congregation. And despised. It hurts. We're not meant to be stony in the light of such accusations. We're not Created by God to be stoical, Jesus wasn't, be hurt. And to be despised and mocked when you're feeling all alone hurts. And if that's not bad enough He comes to the third section. Wellright attack. Around me. Both nation, those are the enemies of Israel in circles, roaring lions, tearing their prey, opening their mouths wide against me, and I poured out my water. My tongue are out of joint, my heart's turned to wax, it's melted away within me. My strength is dried up like a potter. You can't get any drier than that. My tongue's fixed to the roof of my mouth. Remaining in the dust of death. The whole thing is air, dry. You have the picture of the many ganging up on the one who's helpless and is the victim of a whole hurdle. Behold pack of wolves tearing it down. Thoughts surrounding me. A band of evil men has been searching. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. People stare and gloat over me. They divide my garments among them and cast rocks. Am I clothing? Let's be frank, we know very little of the kind of experience that's described in these verses. In fact In our culture it's hard to enter in to the picture that is being portrayed for us here. some Muslim country. Or a Christian who lives in Albania where you can be punished by death for believing in Jesus Christ. Belief in God is against the state law. You have to live in such a situation in order to understand the kind of persecution that's being described here. And yet let me remind you that the record is clear. More Christians have been persecuted to death. For their faith in Jesus Christ in the twentieth century, they did it all the first three centuries of the Christian church under the persecutions of Rome. And the first eighty years of this century alone. What I'm saying is the kind of description do we have here of the possible experience of a believer is not outside the promises of God. God, we haven't experienced that kind of suffering. But God does not promise that we won't. It is here as the experience of this thing. still in the life of his son. There's another progression in this psalm. Thank God for that. Not You see three sections here, each one beginning with the words, but you. Verse 3. Yes Or but you, verse nine. Yes, or but you, and then verse nineteen, but you. In each of those sections, the Psalmist is turning attention from himself being absorbed in his own situation to God and what he's like. There's a definite Progression in the thought in each of these succeeding three sections. Each of them is a statement about God's faithfulness. But notice the progression. First of all, in verses 3 to 5, we have an orthodox and objective statement of God's faithfulness. You are enthroned as the Holy One for the praise of Israel. In whom our fathers put their trust They trusted you and you delivered them. They cried to you and were saved, and you they trusted and were not disappointed. You see here David turned In his own desperate situation. And what does he say? Well, you know, the Bible tells me that God's trustworthy. Our fathers trusted you, and John found you say an intellectual objective, accurate statement of God's faithfulness. But it drops five in his experience. And then he cries out again in his pain. And returns to God in verse nine. But You brought me out of the womb. You must me trust in you, even at my mother's breast. From birth I was cast upon you, and from my mother's womb you've been my God. Do not be far from me, for trouble is near, and there is no one to help. Not just our fathers trusted you and found you faithful, you see. But now I'm saying in something more personal, our trusted you. And in my past, I have to admit, Lord, you have been faithful. situation is pretty desperate. But I want to remind myself and you, Lord, that I have found you faithful to this point. Walk for personal, less objective, more intimate. Again to break forth in the all the persecution and to be swallowed up in his suffering and returns again in verse nineteen. And he returns In not a statement, but a justice, practical, and personal cry. But you, O Lord, be not far off. starts off with a statement and he came to make it. It's not a statement about God. It's simply a cry to God. He wants to be Trying to think about God, but he can't even do it. His heart is like wax in him, and he's so consumed with the suffering and the experience. But all we do is cry out, oh God, help nineteen. Deliver me, verse twenty. Rescue me, verse twenty-one. That's all I can say. You see the progression. The progression from the intellectual understanding to the person crying out to God. And what is blooded about? Suckling. And cry Suggest that it's the same in your experience and mind. If we're to move from an intellectual or statement about what God is like to a deeply personal crying out to him as one who knows him looks The only way through that is by suffering. That's what this psalm is trying to teach us. the conclusion of it in verse 21. Now I found a translation that I think really translates this in the way it's meant to be translated. What I think says let Me from the mouth of the lion, save me from the horns of the wild oxen. But let me read it to you as it literally would be if you took the word order in the Hebrew and took what the word said. Literally it says Save me from the lion's mouth and from the horns of the wild oxen. He has answered me. That's literally what the Hebrews say And why translation stick that around, I'm not sure except by the meter. But it's clear from the Hebrew that it is a separate thought. For us to suggest that it would make more sense to put a period after that word oxen. Satan from the lion's mouth and from the horn to the wild oxen. Period. A course of victory. We have a name. And just as that becomes clear as we look next week at the fact that our succeeding verses depend on that statement you have answered me in verse 21. It's not simply a cross, but it's a statement at the end God has heard you. I trust upon him, cast an extent beyond any of my beliefs from all the things that I could simply write and say, yes. If I believe about God, then it's detached from me. And it's entered into my very being in a way that I have had to call out God. You have answered me. You've answered me because I've cried out to you. And that's what God's purpose is for us. Do you want to know Jesus personally? Dearly. Within three tens tells us that to know Christ is to know the fellowship of his sufferings. There's no other way to know that you can really know Jesus. You can't know him apart Come to cross. I'm not suggesting that you want to seek suffering to know Jesus. But I'm Suggesting is that if you walk with him, he'll provide the opportunities if you and I are faithful to him. in situations that we would never choose, but situations that he graciously wants to use to bring us into a deeper relationship with himself. To show us the cross. To show us The fellowship of the sharing in his suffering that Philippians talks about. That's why I believe that Philippians 1 29 says that God has given to us not only the gift of Because By that that I come to know him, to know Christ, is to know his cross. And to know his cross. Just to know suffering. That's why you and I can rejoice in suffering. We don't simply rejoice in suffering because of what God will produce in us and change character. We certainly don't rejoice in suffering because we're called to be masochists, because we somehow loathe to suffer because it's good for us. We rejoice in suffering, I would suggest first and foremost because it produces in us a fellowship with Jesus and an attitude of Jesus that nothing else can produce. Now the deep word for humble. Literally means afflicted. So humble you and me as his people. Often there's no other way that he can do it except to affliction. Except that he brings us most before him. Because suffering saved to the cross That's what I want you to see here. You see, you look at Psalm 22 as the Psalm of the Cross. You see why it's the Psalm of the Pros. Because for you and me to understand Jesus, for God to speak to us through suffering to understand Him is to understand the cross And therefore, the good news that the Lord has for you and for me today is that when we go through suffering, God's purpose is to bring to the cross. Because Psalm 22, that experience of the suffering of David, in some sense, is only fulfilled in the cross. Therefore, Psalm 22 is the Psalm of the Cross. It's God's grand invitation to you and to me to take our suffering to the cross and to see in that what Jesus has done. for us. To see what he suffered because of his love for you and for me. And to come into a wholly new appreciation of the love of God for us. If you and I could have never had apart from that affliction and apart from that suffering. What I fear is that our whole culture causes us to avoid suffering, doesn't it? Hurry from suffering are to be avoided at all costs. Therefore, as Christians, the only for victories in good times. I'm afraid that that can have a negative effect upon us as a congregation. Because It teaches us to be self-sufficient. It teaches us to somehow avoid being humble before God in our own insufficiency, our desperate need for Him. And my own experience. What experience of a number of you in our congregation? God's work in breaking us? God's work in showing us that we're not as self-sufficient as we'd like to believe. God's What is this worth in opening up him? In opening up the broken heart, in opening up what's before him, for the We begin to show us the cross. So we begin to see it in a holy way. ourselves to him. Our understanding of him is not simply an intellectual belief, but our safety turn to Christ. Oh God, save me. Delivering. Hope. Rescue me. And when you and I cried out in those terms, He shows us Jesus. He chose us the cross. The way that we've never seen it before. Do we want that? Do we want him that much? Let's pray that we do. Hold on, I believe it's uh many of the here this morning to identify with your thoughts and words. For some of us our suffering is because of our sin. For some of us our suffering is simply because of Satan and his attacks. For most of us aren't it it's a mixture. So and it's hard for us even to unravel it. Lord. In one sense we're not required to be that now. Confess those things we know are wrong. Our utter dependence upon you. Our life. self-sufficiency brought us from comfortable statements about you to the kind of heart rending cry toward you to things that into that whole new relationship and understanding the fellowship of his sufferings. We see the cross of Christ. Say Jesus, how are we thankful and gave you? If you did not try away from that cross for us. Because we are fulfilled to the very bitterest of dregs, the experience of this home. Quite we can imagine. And because of that, has taken our sin. We've taken a few days here. We cry out to you to make that sacrifice apply to our lives. Lord. If there's any here that has not cried that out to you. If there's any here who believes that they can simply believe correct things about you. And if self-sufficient apart from you. If you would break that person, Lord, till they come and look at you. Lord, save me. Lord, deliver me. Lord Rescue from faith and to you and answer. Praise your God. That we can pray with the psalmist, whether it's by faith now, or in place as we've had in the past, Heard more. Is that said? How we thank you that your ways are so far above ours. If you don't give us what we want, or rather what being. And we thank you for that. Refer us. Exactly where we are. For Jesus' sake. Amen.