That's why they called them high places. It was to be before the stars so that the gods would be able to see. And then eventually the women would play the part of the love goddesses. They would play the consort of Baal, and they would seduce the men who were inflamed with passion by this point. and would turn into a passionate drunken sexual orgy. This would happen a number of times in the fall and the spring as purportedly an act of worship. Now what's interesting to see is that Israel is not being seduced by some intellectual argument to say, I'm not really true sure that the Bible's true. I think we need to rethink the idea of miracles and whether God really is the God who he says he is. It was just simply raw lust. They're simply saying, this is too good to miss out on. We're not going to miss out on these parties. These women are inviting us to these parties, and we simply can't resist the temptation. And so they would be involved in that, and the result of it is you read in the end of verse 3, that the Lord's anger burned against them. Balaam knew more about God than we might think. Balaam understood that God is a God to be feared, as we've talked about these last weeks. And so because of that, because of the sin, God's anger burned against Israel. The result of that, because you may be thinking, what has this got to do with installing Rick Bellaville as an elder tonight? Is what we see in verse 4 and 5. An utterly shocking couple of verses. The Lord then said to Moses, take all the leaders. Those are the elders. Take the leaders, the elders of these people, and kill them. and expose them in broad daylight before the Lord. The same way that these orgies took place, up on a high place before the open sky. Expose them in broad daylight before the Lord, so that the Lord's fierce anger may turn away from Israel. And so Moses said to Israel's judges, Each of you must put to death those of your men, your elders. who have joined in worshiping the Baal of Taor. We don't know exactly how these men were killed Professor Noortzik in the Netherlands, who has studied much about ancient Near Eastern culture, says that one common practice That was done at that time, described in this way by other nations, is that they would erect tall vertical poles and they would sharpen the points And then they would take the body of the person alive, they would take that person and they would thrust him down on the spear point so that he'd be impaled and die writhing on the pole. Could you imagine God doing this to the elders of his people? Does that square with your view of a God of love The God of tenderness, Jesus, the shepherd, and all the things that we like to think about the nature and character of God. This was done to the elders. The elders of God's people. Let that sink in. This wasn't done to heathen nations. It's bad enough for some of us when we think that maybe Canaanites. were to suffer this kind of thing. But this, the word of God says, I mean, whatever your view of God, and you say, This is hard for me to take I'll tell you, it's not easy for me to read. But when you read this, it forces you to say, who is the God that I worship? Is he a God of my imagination and I say this is what God ought to be like? This suits me That's no different from New Age thinking today. Inventing a religion that suits me Or do we come to a place where we say we have to believe that what the Bible says about God, that is good and right and true, and we submit our minds and our lives to its teaching. God says because of what these people did, he took the elders and impaled them on poles in broad daylight. How many elders? We don't know. The one clue possibly that we have is that later on you read in this chapter, we'll get to it, that 24,000 died in the plague that ensued as God's judgment upon the people for their sin. Paul refers to this incident in 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 8. He says 23,000 died. The reconciliation of those, some scholars think, is that 23,000 died in the plague that God visited upon the people and 1,000 elders. Were executed. Why is it? Why was God so severe in his punishment upon the elders? Better give you the reasons and see how this applies to us before Rick Belligo decides maybe he wants to back out of uh being installed tonight or the rest of the elders uh want to go and leave. There's some urgent lessons for us here, brothers and sisters. The two things that I think that God is saying in this is Because the elders have a responsibility, first of all, the first thing to see is the responsibility of the elders. And the responsibility of the elders were two things, basically. First of all, A, they were to teach and to warn the people. The elders were those who were to teach and to warn the people. Remember the situation. Here you have Israel east of the Jordan, and they're on the threshold of entering into the promised land. They're ready to take Jericho. They're on the brink of revival. They're on the brink of a great invasion to see the greatest example of God's power that they have seen since the Red Sea. God is about to do an unprecedented work in bringing them into the land. And at that point, when they should be humbling themselves and setting themselves aside. Practicing with utmost discretion the holiness that marks them as a distinct people of a holy God. Along comes this temptation from the local culture. A temptation to compromise with the culture. The elders should have been all along teaching holiness, should have been teaching God has made a covenant with you. And this God is a God who intends to bless you and to give you a rich land. He's called you to himself out of bondage, into a relationship with himself, to give you this vast inheritance beyond anything that you can imagine or dream of. Peace and prosperity. But he calls you to be a holy people. They should have been teaching and warning the people They should have been warning against the idolatry that God had reiterated so many times, a warning against the nations. Now we don't know what they were saying, but it must not have been very strong teaching. And my guess is that not everybody went to the first party. And probably you had some women that came over and they said, We're having a party over here. And this party is just a local custom. You can certainly worship the Lord, nothing inconsistent with that, but just come on to this party. We're going to have a good time. And a few probably of the weaker said, well, I don't see any problem with that. Rationalized in some way in their mind, the way people do today, same kind of thing. And they went to the party. And everybody else is watching. What's going to happen? Is God going to strike them dead? Are they going to come back with leprosy or they'll never return? Or what's going to happen? Nothing happens. They go and they say we had the time of our lives over there. And they come back and then they watch. What do the elders do? What's gonna happen in this body? You know, just well that's that's too bad. You guys ought not to do that, and but you know, God's a loving, forgiving God, and just tell him and try not to do it again. Whatever the elders did, there was no deterrent. There was no discipline practiced. The people weren't in submission to say that we need to respect what these men say from the Word of God. Maybe some of them said that uh this was something ought not to be done, so they moved to the elder down the road, and they decided that maybe they liked his teaching better. Whatever it was. More and more began to go. The elders were not teaching, the elders were not warning. They were in fact tolerating the sin. We see the same thing today. You may have seen in the New Horizons a couple of months back in the whole issue of homosexuality. A church with solid biblical roots, Christian Reformed Church put out a paper on this saying that this was uh not really a sinful matter so much as it was kind of an inherited condition. And so we see a pressure upon us more and more in the matter of sexual immorality Where many people say they don't even hear in their churches a teaching about fornication and adultery As something that is wrong absolutely, but more conditionally in certain circumstances. And what's even worse is that you see But the second thing that the elders should have been doing is setting an example of holiness. And they weren't doing that How could they teach? How could they warn with integrity when you read in verse five that Moses said to Israel's judges, Each of you must put to death those of your men who have joined in the worshipping? of the Baal of Peor. The elders began to go to the festivals too. They began to say, well, you know Maybe it's really not inconsistent. Maybe maybe we're just holding too high a standard. Maybe we're, you know, we're we gotta have we gotta lighten up a little bit. You know, I mean we gotta break this stereotype about what elders are like. We've got to have a little fun. And so to be with their people and to understand the culture, they went over to the festivals. And pretty soon they were participating, just like everybody else. So we see today allegations of priests Who are seducing boys, leading them into homosexual lifestyles. Christianity today did a survey of pastors A survey was recently done, this one not by Christianity today, that said that of men surveyed under the age of 40, 70% of the men surveyed expected to have an extramarital affair sometime in their lifetime. Seventy percent of the men under 40 in this country expect to have an affair So Christianity today did a survey of pastors. And they asked, how many of you have you been involved in an adulterous relationship since you have been in the pastorate? Twelve percent of pastors answering that said, yes they have. And then they said, how many of you have no has not been sexual that has not been intercourse, how many have had inappropriate sexual contact with another person since you've been in the pastorate? That was 18%. Then they asked 1,000 readers of Christianity Today. Now these are people that have enough seriousness about the Christian life that they subscribe to Christianity today to keep up on it and you know you think that's not the general population. They said, how many of you, since you've been married, been a Christian, have had an extramarital affair? It's 23%. How many of you have had inappropriate sexual contact with someone else? Forty-eight percent And he said, and that's the people that are subscribing to Christianity today. What's the percentage of the general Christian population? The elders are to set the standard. The elders are to say, this is what the culture is tempting us to. Point it out for us to see. And then to say, we will seek by God's grace not simply to be an example of the way that we walk, for we're fallen and we're very inconsistent. But to be also an example of repentance and an attempting to follow Jesus Christ. And she can look and you can say, I see boundaries. There's a security in knowing that this is what God's Word says. I can rely on that. The elders will be faithful to that. And I can look to their lives to see that these are men who are seeking to do that. That's the responsibility. And these elders, in utterly failing that responsibility, Brought God's judgment upon themselves. Now, if they were believers, they were not lost. This was a temporal judgment. It doesn't say anything about whether they're in heaven or not. But there is certainly a question about a person who could so violate their office as to deny the Lord in this way. It's a serious warning to us, brothers who are elders. For James III It says that we should be held to a stricter standard, you tank you claim to teach, and I realize that every time I stand before you, I have to recognize that I am held to a stricter standard. Because of the position that God has called me into. That's a very serious thing for me to consider. And there's times I might be tempted to sin When for no other reason but that I can't deny my Lord and shame him before you, I recognize that that's a deterrent. But there was not only this responsibility, not only the negative, but there was also a positive. Because elders have a unique opportunity. There is the opportunity that you see of the leaders here Now let's move on in what's happening. Here's these elders. They've been impaled and executed And the people see this? A plague has broken out, people are dying left and right, and the people all of a sudden realize we've sinned against the holy God. And now they're in terror. Perhaps they're mixed in repentance and terror and fear and remorse and all the rest of that. And they begin to weep and cry out to God. And so you read that in verse 6 that while these people now, they're all at the entrance, the end of verse 6, they're at the entrance weeping at the tent of meeting. Then an Israelite man during this time brought to his family a Midianite woman right before the eyes of Moses and the whole assembly of Israel while they're weeping at the entrance to the tent of meeting, weeping for what God has done. And when Phineas, the son of Eliezer, the son of Aaron, actually the grandson of Aaron, Phineas, interestingly enough, means dark skinned. He was probably a black man or a mixed. There was mixture of black and white marriage in Moses' household. So Phineas was either a mixed black and white or had at least African blood in him. When Phineas the son of Eliezer, the son of Aaron, the priest, saw this, he left the assembly. He took a spear in his hand, and he followed the Israelite into the tent. And he drove the spear through both of them, through the Israelite and into the woman's body, right through the man on through into her. And then the plague against Israelites was stopped. But those who died in the plague numbered 24,000. And the Lord said to Moses, Phineas, The son of Eliezer, the son, or the grandson of Aaron, the priest, has turned my anger away from the Israelites. For he was as zealous as I am for my honor among them, so that in my zeal I did not put an end to them. Therefore, tell him that I am making my covenant of peace with him. He and his descendants will have a covenant of a lasting priesthood because he was zealous for the honor of his God and made atonement for the Israelites. The name of the Israelite who was killed with the Midianite woman was Zimri, the son of Salud, the leader of a Simeonite family. That's the tribe of Simeon. And the name of the Midianite woman who was put to death was Kozbi, the daughter of Azur, a tribal chief of the Midianite family. The Lord said to Moses, treat the Midianites as enemies. And kill them because they treated you as enemies when they deceived you in the affair of Peor and their sister Cosby. The daughter of a Midianite leader, the woman who was killed when the plague came as a result of Peor. What an act, huh? Can you picture it? Here's these people. They're all standing before this tent of meeting. And they're crying out to God, God, what can we do? God, here's this plague coming upon us, and there's this warning of God, and they're in fear and trembling. And then there's this fellow, he comes so brazenly, he brings this Midianite woman right through while this meeting's going on. It's like us having a prayer meeting downstairs saying, What is God doing? What's he doing in our culture, in our church? What's happening we don't know the favor of God and what is God saying to us and somebody brings uh a woman right on through to go sleep with her in one of the back rooms That such arrogance, so low were the standards at that time And this fellow Phineas, everybody's going, oh, can you imagine that? Oh, look at him, that's terrible. Oh, gee, boy, I'll tell you what things are coming to now, and they're all clucking and all the rest of this and going on. And Phineas says, No, enough's enough. And because of a zeal for God's glory, a zeal for his holiness and his name, he says, I cannot allow this to continue. And he's so incensed for this, he's so furious at the sin that's broken out against God. That he takes a spear and he runs into that tent, and with such force he drives the spear through the man that it goes all the way through both bodies. Now that's power And God stops the plague. He says, There's a man who has zeal for my honor. Brothers and sisters, what's it going to take for you and for me to begin to exercise bold action against the sins of our culture? Because of a zeal for the Lord. What's it going to take to raise up a person like a James Dobson that says, enough for the family? Enough. I've got to do something. And so he gives his life against pornography and the task forces and the different things at tremendous cost and criticism. Or Charles Coulson to say enough. I've seen the inside of corruption. I've seen our prison system. And I can't just sit by and go on with my life. And it totally reorients his life. For those of us who are less gifted. But the matter is not giftedness. We don't know how gifted Phineas was. All we know is that because of a zeal for the Lord, he could not sit still. And when the opportunity presented itself, he was willing to take bold, corrective action. To simply put himself at risk to do what it took. I mean, it wasn't planned, it wasn't thought through, and sometimes we may do things and we look back and we say, I can't believe I did that. I remember hearing a story about a fellow who was preaching and was preaching A liberal kind of doctrine, a new age kind of thing to a crowd of people. And there was an old woman sitting in the back and she heard this. She'd get more and more upset And finally, she couldn't take it any longer. It was hundreds of people that were there. And she walked down that aisle and she took her Bible and she thrust it in the face of that guy and said, How dare you deny the Lord Jesus Christ in his word? And then she went and sat down. She said, I couldn't believe I did that. But it moved the whole crowd So elders have a particular opportunity to follow the Lord Jesus, but it's not restricted simply to us as elders. This is for all of you. But we realize that Phineas, in doing this, as a priest, was a picture of that great priest Jesus. And when Jesus saw his people in sin, Jesus, for the zeal that consumed them, not only drove out the money changers, but Jesus put himself in the position of saying that I will not pierce the sinners, but I'll pierce myself. And Jesus was pierced. For you and for me. You see what Phineas did? It says there in verse 13 that he made atonement for Israel. He made atonement by putting to death the guilty. But our Jesus did something infinitely greater. He made atonement for you and for me by putting to death the innocent. Himself, so that you and I could go free. And if Phineas was given a long lineage of continuity of his priesthood because of the great act that he did. Our Jesus has been given an eternal priesthood because of what he did. And you and I enter and share in that because of his great bold action at the cross. And in conquering death attitude. So let me ask you, brothers and sisters, as you apply this to yourself, what about in your own life? How's your own sexual purity? Have you been lowering the standards in your own life? Saying, hey, compared to what I see around me, I'm not doing anything. In what you watch, the things that you allow in your home, or perhaps the way that you're flirting with sin in some relationship. Somebody at work, somebody at school. You look at the standards of the culture and you say, but I'm not there. But the standards are being lowered and lowered. And so we who are possibly on the brink of unprecedented revival, keep the Spirit of God from having freedom in our midst. Because of a compromise with a culture, a compromise with sin. And for us as elders, it means that we need to be taking more seriously our leadership. It means that we as elders particularly have to watch our own lives to teach and to warn and to be an example To practice biblical discipline, certainly the least desirable of the things we do as elders, until or unless at times we see the confession and the repentance. And see the glory of God when a person turns around. But we need to be watching ourselves, our own lives, and we ask you to pray for us. Please pray for us. I still remember Gary Arange when he was new as an elder saying that that one night he sensed the presence of evil in his bedroom. A very real and personal presence coming against him and his family. A kind of picture for many of us of what we feel, the hot breath of hell. against us and our ministries and our families, and you look the things that have happened in elders' lives and their families and the attacks upon them even in our own congregation We're a war, brothers and sisters. And when Rick comes to join with us tonight, he becomes even more a target of the angel one. So pray for him. Pray for us. Pray for us this Tuesday as we look and say, God, what are you doing in the West Wing ninety seven campaign? What are you doing and where we should be going and whether we should build? And if not, what are the alternatives? and how to lead us as a congregation on, not simply to get lots of people on Sunday, but to make disciples, to equip and prepare you as God's people to live in victory. Against the sin and the compromise of this generation. Just last night, as I was preparing this, somebody called me up A couple thousand miles away, been part of our congregation. And while they were here, they had begun to indulge in sexual activity, and we practiced biblical discipline. This person called me up to say I'm a very lonely, broken person, cynical about relationships, tired of being used And recognizing I need Jesus Christ in my life. Are we willing To follow what Scripture says. And know the blessing of our God in what Jesus has done in order to release us. From the bondage of sin. And to pray for us as leaders. Let's join together. Oh Lord, it's it's hard to get forth, it's hard to get out. What I believe that you are saying to us through this passage. We live at a crucial time, a time when we see an escalation of the of the spiritual battle. We see the Prayer movement, we see evidence, Lord, that you want to break forth an unprecedented power to bring about a renewal and revival in our culture. We believe, Lord, that in many ways it is the compromise of the church, of our playing with sin, of our not placing ourselves in accountable relationships. So that we are warned and taught, so that we can't get away privatizing and rationalizing our sin for you to work in new power So Lord, we pray that you will work in the hearts of any of us here now who are feeling convicted and spoken to by you. If we would confess and forsake that sin, we would know the freedom that you, Lord Jesus, have provided, who pierced yourself for our sin that we might not be judged. But forgiven and received as children, blessed by you. Oh Lord our God. Show us the joy and the salvation of Jesus that we might walk in victory Hear us, Lord. We commit ourselves to you for that. Pray for the elders. That you would protect us. That you would work through us to serve these people as we should. In Jesus' name. Amen.