Uh our brother Dan Iverson is here. Many of you know him, uh many longer than I have, but uh he comes to us. Uh on furlough, a short furlough, but uh from Japan, where he has been ministering with his wife and their children for 17 years And uh so we are uh excited this morning at the opportunity to hear what God is doing and what uh and the word that he has for us uh from from Dan. For those of you who don't know, Dan was um the second intern. Not bad I uh I can pay attention. The second intern uh that uh CPC had and uh came here and then went from here uh to the mission field and has since been serving God. And uh so I think it's um that's all you need to know other than he is bringing the word of the Lord this morning and I call you uh to listen and uh to hear what God has to say for you. Ohio Ogazina. I guess you want sermon in English, right? Preached. Preached three weeks ago in Japan. We left Japan uh Tuesday, two and a half weeks ago. We uh Saturday we had session meeting, baptism interviews. Sunday we had baptisms, three worships uh groundbreaking for the land you help us for the building and land you helped us to buy that afternoon in the hot, hot sun. And Monday we had Presbytery and one of our first team, Japanese, uh young man in training for ministry was Passed his final exam and was ordained to the gospel ministry, Tokuhido-san. Some of you prayed for him and had a church discipline case. And our presbytery, uh we had new plans for church planning throughout the East Tokyo area. We rushed home and helped my wife finish packing through the night and as usual we barely made it to the airplane. And it just seems that's always the way it is, coming home, I guess 'cause Maybe now Japan uh is more home than here in many ways, but no, we are home. It's great to be back, two and a half weeks. Um it is an incredible joy To be your missionary in Japan. You sent us 17 years ago to Japan. My wife and I were reluctant missionaries. Our heels were dug in. It took God several years to working in our hearts before we responded and said, we'll go. uh God uh had to break really uh break us down and we so we went very reluctantly. It was very tempting this this morning, uh uh the first the introduction this morning by someone else said that God gave us a vision for the world and for missions and for Japan while we were here at CPC. That's not true. It almost got stopped while we were here. We came here to sti spend two years and then go to Japan. Uh God had given us a vision for the world at seminary. And uh and it was actually here that one night after a session meeting and one of your elders he said uh he was in the car on the way home, he said You know, Dan, you really fit in here. You know, this you oughta stay. And uh and he was he went on about why we should stay here, be a part of sending people to the world, which is true and right as well. But uh I understand that he whispered to his wife this morning that I'm that guy. I hope he doesn't say my name. He he told me that also after the after the first service. Can you guess who that is? He said, I'm glad you didn't say my name, so I'll say it in the second service. No, I won't. But uh but God had a perfect plan. He sent us to Japan as reluctant missionaries. And uh we made a twelve year commitment uh with our team uh there and and you know I'd come back and and tell you from the bottom of my heart We are so thankful you sent us to Japan. My wife and I both feel very much like Paul in Ephesians 3 verse 8 when he says Me, I'm the least of all the saints, but this grace has been given to me to preach the unsearchable riches of Christ to the Gentiles. And the word there, this grace has been given to me, isn't salvation grace. It's the same Greek word that he's talking about that that he uses there. But he's talking about the grace, the privilege, the the megumi in Japanese from God to be able to take the gospel to people that have not heard. And seventeen years down the road now, uh Carol and I both say we can't imagine doing anything else anywhere else in the world with anybody else. We think we finally know what we're gonna do when we grow up, you know? We're we're there, we we know the language. Uh it's actually harder to speak in English now. To preach in I preach all the time in Japanese and and it's it's a different style of communication. I have to realize my first time uh preaching publicly being back in America and uh after the sermon you'll probably say, Yeah, it seemed like it, you know. Uh it uh it's different and you'll have to bear with me as I get used to preaching in English again. So thanks for sending us. Thanks for supporting us and our team for sending the Colburns. It was while we were here. Why don't we come back to CPC to steal people to bring them to Japan? Uh you know the we stole the Colburns And we stole Linda Carner and there are others sitting toward the front here that we're hoping to steal yet. And some of these young children that are listening here. And are getting through a missionary sermon. Uh you know, this guy doesn't have a pith helmet and a pack, and it's not quite like the stories you've read. But I pray some of the kids today will hear this message And we'll think, you know, maybe God's leading me to do that. I say I pray that some parents, as they're raising their children, will that one of the applications of this message today will be to to to break from that self-centered American evangelicalism that is so focused on us and me and my needs to begin thinking about the nation. So so often w we have nine kids. We're committed to family. Family can be idolatry. It can miss that we're raising them to go contend with our enemies in the gate and the enemy in the gate throughout the people groups of the world. I pray that God would do that. You know, some of I pray that people going through uh great struggles In your own personal life, whether it be relationships or finances or health, that this message about missions and the absolute certainty of the promises. coming true for missions that you can that you'll believe other promises of heaven and of uh for your children and for your life and everything else that you'll be able to cling to the promises more tenaciously in other areas that are not the main point today. Let's read together. I'll read. I'm reading from the New American Standard. Zechariah chapter 8. It's at the end of the, uh toward the end of the Old Testament. Zechariah chapter 8. I'm reading from the New American Standard. Standard Bible Zechariah VII. A famous passage made famous by Jonathan Edwards. Uh we wrote a long, long treatise uh with this as the basis at the time of the Great Awakening called A Humble Attempt. to promote explicit agreement and visible union of God's people in extraordinary prayer. And this promise was the basis uh the the main uh passage he used for that. Zechariah eight. Don't you like those long Titles they used to use. It has a long title in it. Hear God's word. Zechariah 8, beginning at verse 20. Thus says the Lord of hosts. It will yet be that peoples will come, even the inhabitants of many cities, and the inhabitants of one will go to another, saying, Let us go at once to entreat the favor of the Lord. And to seek the Lord of hosts, I will also go. So many peoples and mighty nations will come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of the Lord. And the main uh text for today, verse 23, thus says the Lord of hosts, in those days ten men from the nations of every language will grasp the garment of the Jews, saying Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. Let's pray. Lord, would you help us help me? I'll help my brothers and sisters here as we hear your word. Lord, it's uh so easy to think about other things. So easy to be self-centered, caught up in our own struggles. I have them. We all have them. Lord, uh, we're deep sinners. I am, we are, we need the intercession of our Lord Jesus Christ as we continue worshiping. Thank you that we have a great high priest who forgives us of our sins, who intercedes. For our sin. Thank you that we have the Holy Spirit to help us, to lead us into all truth. And we pray you would do that now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Summary of this passage, uh, I'm gonna use a picture. I couldn't show it at the first service, they didn't have the overhead projector. Uh I I drew this I preached from this passage in Japan. I've always wanted to preach from this passage. I did in Japanese uh several weeks ago at our church's missions conference in Japan. Do you see why this is an outline? I know Al Harris is very organized, always has all these Detailed outlines. We can just show this is this is this passage, verse twenty three. Do you see it? Kids, do you see it? You see the ten nations it talks about in verse 23. Det What are they doing? They're grabbing the robe. Of one of God's people. And they're saying, I want to go to your God. I've heard about your God. I want to go and see your God. That's what this passage is about. The fact, the truth that this will happen. You can you can turn it off. Jonathan Edwards uh made this passage uh famous in the English-speaking world at least with the treatise I mentioned earlier. I want to think about this today and missions. And I I pray God will help you and me to think afresh about our part in this greatest endeavor of human history. This taking place around the world in Iraq and Japan In Afghanistan, among the Pashtun, the nation of the Pashtun, and the Tajiks and the Japanese, and in Papua New Guinea, and all around the world. My son Jonathan uh went. He's a missionary in North Africa, our second son. And he uh not too long ago uh he r he told us by email that he was gonna be going into the country next to his country, which is even more dangerous than the country he's in. His country, there was an al Qaeda bomb went off two hundred yards from where he lives and killed a bunch of people. You read about it in the paper uh within the last year and a half. And he but he wanted to go to this other country. They heard about this town where there were no Bibles, no Christian witness at all, more dangerous country. And they had to ride the longest train in the world for eighteen hours through the Sahara Desert on top of the train to get there. Uh he said he thought the Sahara Desert was hot. And He it turned out it was freezing cold and he hung on for dear life thinking he would fall asleep and fall off in the middle of the night as they rode this train for eighteen hours. Now he had made me swear not to tell my wife he was going, his mother that he was going. So uh we prayed for him, but I didn't tell her until after he came back safe, you know. But uh he got to the end, it's quite a story, but he got to the end of this train line. And they got to this town they had heard about. He and a and a German uh missionary friend of his, they went to this town and they had some Bibles they had rolled up in their sleeping bags and the and the people in the town made a big deal of them because they're you know, he's big blonde American and they uh took him to the principal of the school, the elementary school. And they uh and the principal made oh he treated them like ro royalty because they were guests and and he took them he said I want to show you our library his prized possession And he went in this library, you know, Jonathan uh didn't quite know what to expect. It was this library with just a few books, couldn't have been a hundred books, he said, in this library, in this dirty, filthy little town primitive town in North Africa. And he and he was just so proud of this library. And Jonathan thought this was a an opportunity. He said, well, we would like to give you the best selling book in the world. uh the Bible and he pulled one out. They had a few they had uh taken in uh carefully into this country and he was wondering how he would receive it, these Muslims and And he held the Bible out and uh and he said the other teachers who had gathered around they all kind of you know, stepped back like that and weren't quite sure what to do and and they took the Bible from Jonathan and thanked him and he put it on the shelf like he was really gonna take care of it and and they uh they they spent time talking with them and no Christians in this town that anyone knows of. Uh they went, they got back on the train This time they've got in the one car for people crowded just just for 18 hours in this car. They thought the dust was bad on the roof, that the dust was worse in the car, you know, going back for 18 hours, and the people were began to ask them questions. And were some of them were hostile. They asked him where he was from. He said, America. That's dangerous in the Islamic world nowadays. And his friend was from Germany. They said, We like Germans. And they said, Do you like Germans? Because we like Hitler. Do you like Hitler? Why do you like Hitler? Because Hitler killed Jews. And we like Hitler. Do you like Saddam Hussein? Do And they and it became a very difficult conversation. I don't have time to go into. And and they uh were uh tried, they were scared but to give some witness of Christ. They laughed at him when he told them. They believed, they asked you you believe in Allah, he said we believe in uh the Son of God. And they laughed that God would have a son. Now this passage that we just read in verse 23 is a promise that all the language groups of the world, all the people groups of the world, that the elect from every nation are going to come. They and are going to come to Christ, that his elect in every nation, that they're there, and they will come. Can you believe that's going to happen there? In that town, in that people group that I didn't tell you their name, in Japan, among the Tajiks, among the Pashtuns, we have all these names of different nations of the world. uh people groups of the world that are in the newspaper and on the news and and in this passage it talks about from many cities. We have the cities of Fallujah in the news uh as we see this city in Iraq where there's so much fighting and and Najaf, is that how you say it in the news? I've only been reading it in Japan. I haven't heard these names in English until the last couple weeks here, being back, as I listen to the news. And what as Christians do we think? Do you believe that this that those places will bow to Christ? This promise here is that it's going to happen. That all the people groups of the world will worship. One of the way one approach the passage is just pick up some words. in it. One of the themes is the nations. The nations, the people, the different peoples of the world are going to come and grab the garment of the Jew. Of God. Remember, we're the new Israel, right? We're the Jews. And and say, take me to your God, like I uh we drew up there. Verse twenty, the word peoples, I always say, I was a missing S Christian We had family worship. We were raising our kids to know Christ. I loved my wife. Wanted to I witness to people. I love people. We had people in our home all the time, took in homeless people. I thought I was a theologically correct reformed Christian who wanted Christ to be central, but I had missed this S. I was a missing S Christian. I had missed the S at the end of Peoples. At the end of nation. I love people, but I didn't have a passion for the peoples of the world, for the nations of the world, for all the language groups, as verse 23 talks about. Every language. Notice it says in verse 23. And I I'd miss this. I went to seminary to come back to Maryland. Uh I was uh came under to became a candidate for the ministry at Your Mother Church, at the Burtonsville Church, uh that started CPC And uh was going to come back to Maryland, work with Al Harris for a little while, then hopefully go start a daughter church somewhere. That was kind of our plan. And my wife and I at seminary, as we began to see at missions conferences and in reading the Bible, uh from Genesis to Revelation, every time. Every tribe. All peoples will worship. All nations will worship. One day we looked at each other after a message like that and said, what are we going to do with this? If we do go back to Maryland to start a church, it can't be. We can't keep living life the way we've lived it It's gonna affect our pocketbooks. It's gonna affect the kind of church we start. It's gonna it's gonna be a church that is looking to the world, to all those ten, the other nations, the other people groups, where there's not that town where Jonathan went, where there's not even one worshiper. As far as we know of the true and living God, uh, let alone a church. How many places where the Bible's not even translated? Not even one page of the Bible is translated Uh all the ministries that we seek to do here, you know, Christian counseling and and and and uh fighting for the life lives of of the unborn and and justice ministries and all the other things that we as the church should be a part of and often gets polarized against missions. Missions is is taking the gospel to places where there's nothing at all in doing all those things. Lee seeing the church planted and then that church that emerges there does all those same things. You know, there's no Christian counseling in Japan. There's not even an inkling of of a f fight for life, uh uh for the unborn. You know, all the the issues that often uh people can uh are used to polarize for mission. All those things need to take place uh in all the people groups of the world. Uh The nations, every tongue, every tribe. Verse 23, the nations of every language. Yeah, God worked in our heart and showed us that We need to be, we can't be missing S Christians. And and now today this message, uh this isn't nothing new for many of you, what we're gonna be talking about today. But what I pray, those of you that know all this and have heard this many times But I find in my life I need renewal in every area of my life. My relationship with my wife, my passion for my walk with her, my passion for my walk with God as a father and in missions. My brother told me recently he wrote he wrote me he said I want to go on a mission trip but I don't think I really need to uh because I already have a heart for missions. And I don't think I need I wrote him back. I said, well I'm glad you have a heart for missions. I'm a missionary and I don't have very much of a heart for missions. I am so ashamed of how my heart and passion for God and his kingdom and his glory to be extended to the nations and to Fallujah, uh Iraq. I finally started praying for Fallujah, the city of of mosques, uh it says in the newspaper and in the news, uh praying for that city, uh you know, that that I would have a passion, that w that we today would have more of a passion for God's uh his e his kingdom to be extended among the nations. And verse 20, uh it says, many cities in these nations. People from many cities are going to come. Think of the cities you hear in the news all the time. How about Fallujah? What if we started praying for Fallujah? Everybody know that name? Is that how you say it? I haven't heard it much in English. Falugia? You know, Fallujah. What if we have you prayed for Fallujah? That this would take place there, God? Would you may someday Fallujah be the city of churches instead of the city of mosques. We don't even know if there's one I don't know if there's one Christian even in that city. I pray if they are that God would protect them. That somehow in all this the the mess of the world That Christ, the reign of Christ, would be extended to Faluj, to not not jee, for however you say these names we hear in the news all the time. We see in verse twenty two that uh that mighty nations will come. I think of the Soviet Union. You sent us to Japan. Japan, when the Soviet Union was still such a powerful country and the Cold War War was going on. And two years later we were in Japan when the wall fell That things that were unthinkable happened and the the doors were opened and missionaries from America and many Korea from many countries in the world went into the Soviet Union, they're begging. for Bibles and and the church is being extended. Some of my close friends are missionaries in the Soviet Union. Um they they tell stories of like this, like that o overhead of people grabbing the garment of the one who knows Christ and saying, Take me to your God. I want to know. We couldn't have imagined that 17 years ago. My country of Japan, it's not quite like that yet. I'll tell you some more stories about Japan here but but you know remember fifty five sixty years ago the country where you've sent me and my family were crashing their airplanes into our ships See, it's actually said kamikaze for your information, not kamikaze. But anyway, little Japanese lesson there as we go. They were crashing their planes, you know, we who we couldn't have imagined That my father and grandfather could not imagine that fifty-five years from now, their son and grandson, his best friends in the world, would be Japanese people that they cry together with and laugh together with and extend the kingdom together with in the country of Japan. You know, they wouldn't have b it would have been just too hard to believe But that's what this promises, the nations, every tongue, every tribe. Another word want to pick up, a second word here. Verse 23. They heard, it says, look at verse 23 again. Now the end of it. They will grasp the garment of the Jews saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. God has ordained the means as well as the end. And part of the means of this happening Is that people have to hear. You can't help but think of Romans 10. How will they hear without a preacher, right? God has ordained the means of us hearing. It implies that there's a telling, someone going to Fallujah. Not just, you know, radio broadcasts. Proximity is also implied here. Now I know it's an image, but uh, you know, they're grabbing the garment of this Jew that they've they've heard about God. the true and living God, and they're close enough to grab the garment and say, I want to go with you. And I'm all for radio missions and literature missions. But we see it in Japan, we see it all around the world. We see it with Paul and his His ministry, 1 Thessalonians 1, verse 5. How did the gospel come with power? Not just by word, but as we lived among you for your sake. Chapter 2 verse 8, we gave you not only the gospel, but our very lives as well. This hearing in proximity, where that one from the various people groups of the world can grab the garment of a member of New Israel. Israel and say, you know, I watch you and your wife and the way you all interact and and you Christians, the way even though you disagree and you you have uh you're very different in personality and and and have arguments as well, the way you forgive one another, the way you love one another, your community, and this message you're telling me we've heard take me to your God it implies hearing it implies telling uh uh the message to these people groups and there's so many people groups you know we're encouraged in one sense As we see the Bible translated into more and more languages of the world, we see the extension of Christ's kingdom. The enemy's gates are falling all around the world. And yet, there are so many places where there's no one there yet telling the news. Maybe some of you young people, would you go? Maybe today you'll say, you know, I could go. To Fallujah? And mom says, Oh no. Like my wife said, Jonathan, oh no. Not to that city, not to that place. But Lord We give them to you. You know, that's the way we that's what we have to do with our children. Lord, as you gave your son for us, we give our sons and our daughters for this greatest of all causes that those who haven't yet heard at all would hear and see and believe that they might grab the garment of one who knows who to to take them to their God Another theme we see here is passion of those going. They're saying, take me to your God. They're grasping The garment. In verse uh 21, Mike translation says, let us go at once. I left my NIV. I think most people here use the NIV. I don't know. I left mine in Japan. What does it say? NASV is let us go at once. What is NIV? Sorry? Same thing. Let us go at once. Uh all of you know the the verse in the Old Testament uh that God will keep us in perfect peace, his mu whose mind is stayed on you. You know that verse? You've heard that right? Perfect peace. You know what the Hebrew is there? You do. All of you know the Hebrew. For perfect peace. It's shalom. You've heard that word before, right? The Hebrew word? Shalom. Peace. And guess how you say perfect peace in Hebrew? Shalom, shalom. The Hebrew you intensify the word by doubling it. And guess what the word is here? Where they say, you know, let us go with you. The word is go, go. It's intensified. It's saying there's passion. You know, they're grabbing the garment and saying, let us go, go, go with you to your God. We want to know your God. We went to Japan and we didn't see any of that our first four years. We didn't see one person come to Christ. We lived in great discouragement. Many problems, problem we have lots of problems now, but but boy those early years were so hard learning the language, working so hard, seeing nothing. It appeared nothing happening, sowing lots of seeds, loving people. And seeing no Japanese people come to Christ was very dis hard to believe promises like this, like it is for my son in uh North Africa Where he was the first year he's all encouraged and now the second year he's saying, Boy, you know, it really is hard here. And then he tells me about his team leader. Sixteen years in his country and has not seen one person come to Christ in sixteen years. We were fourteen we were four years in Japan before the first person come to Christ. But you know, God, by his spirit, helped me to believe promises like this. Now it's up to him the timing. We don't dictate to God when and where and that this is gonna happen in the world, but we have great hope to believe this, and we must believe this and you know the the la the Saturday before we left Japan. Had the baptism interview with the Hayashi family. The husband, the wife. And we talked about Baptizing their children and Sunday we baptized the whole family and two other uh two others as well that Sunday. But I remember In a sense, Mr. and Mrs. Hayashi were people that grabbed my shirt and said, take me to your God. Now Japanese people don't do that. They don't even touch when you shake hands. They bow and very polite and very nice. But you know that's I remember one day Mrs. Hayashi after a a uh a meeting we had for Christians basically on Christian counseling, she came to it about a year ago and she said to me after the meeting, Dan, you said it takes most Japanese people two, three, four years to come to Christ You know, my husband and I we really believe. Well some days we believe, some day we don't. You know, we think we believe. We want to be baptized soon. And you you you're telling me we can't be it takes three years? You know, we've only been coming six months. Uh ca and you know, in a sense her question was We want to go to your God. Over these years, we've seen more and more of that. People saying, I believe. I want to be baptized. Got a call yesterday morning from uh one of our church members telling me about a person who about two months ago after worship, Mrs. Yonagi Zawa, she c after worship, she was crying at the bottom of the stairs. And she said, uh, uh, you know, I I look like good crying, you know, you know, good crying and bad crying. And uh and she she said, I believe I really believe. Now the seeds were sown when her husband was studying in Texas at a university there. The Christians loved them, shared with them the gospel. She came back to Japan believing there probably was a true and living God. She had some seeds sown, started coming to Bible study, but her husband has opposed her. He she can go play with Christianity a little bit. Christians are nice. We like them. He likes me. He likes the the the men in our church, but she better not become a Christian. She better not be baptized, you know. And uh and she said, I believe. I I I I want to profess my faith publicly. But my husband is so against it. The call yesterday morning was that she is gonna be baptized and that God has, I don't know what I didn't hear the whole story of the husband, but that kind of thing, more and more, a young man named named uh Takuhiro. Young man. He he we've he's been in our circles for uh probably four or five years. Young one of our young short-term workers went surfing with him, loved him Share the gospel with him for a whole year that he was there. We kinda lost track of him. Six months ago he showed up. Started coming. He grabbed the garment of Dedachi San, our assistant pastor, in a sense. Sh He didn't really, you know what I mean. And he said, I understand Don San is leaving, going back to America. I I want to be baptized. I really believe now. Please take me to your God. I want to go, go, go. To your God. You know, that's happening. Not in Japan as much as some other places in the world where we see people falling into the church. But it's beginning to happen. We can you believe those promises? We see the passion of those coming to him. One more example from Japan. This is like kind of doubling as a sermon in a report. that wanting to go. Uh Mrs. Yonemoto uh came to Christ several years ago in our church. She was the first one in her family. Then we took her daughter on a mission trip to the Philippines That's really for Christians, but God really used we we took her, she was coming to worship and teenage daughter Mizuho came to Christ. And she came back and the father, Mr. Yonemoto, a business businessman, works for Japanese equivalent of uh NPR, uh the public broadcasting system for Japan. Uh he saw how much his daughter changed in her rebellious spirit toward him, and he came to Christ and was baptized about a year and a half ago. Then the the next year, this uh uh his oldest daughter, who is very rebellious uh college student went with us on the same mission trip again to the Philippines and during that time God just broke her heart as she saw Christians of other stripes and the Philippines and the team and she came back within six months she had come to Christ and was baptized. Well Mrs. Yonemoto after worship just a couple months ago, she uh she just thrilled that God has brought her whole family to Christ and one of her children is going to uh Bible college now. And she uh uh she she was uh a little teary after worship and she said, uh she told me about her her hu her father who was in the hospital in a city far away, uh two hour airplane ride in southwestern Japan, Kumamoto, uh, and her father was dying uh in the hospital And she said, We went last week to see him, the whole family went down. I shared the gospel with him and she and he he b you know, he believed. He professed his faith and I asked her what you know, he he was He was not it was a simple profession of faith, but he professed his faith in the true and living God that he was a sinner and that he needed Christ. And the man's dying. And she said, uh you know, he he he believed. He I would like to baptize him. Could we try to find the the nearest church to Kumamoto that a pastor, someone could go and do it uh uh uh uh bet uh bedside baptism and I I said, Can I go? And she started crying, I said, Would you go? I said, Of course I'll go. You know, just seeing the way God's worked in her family and now to go to to to share with her father and her mother who hasn't believed yet. And so they bought a plane ticket for me for about three hundred dollars and Got on that plane and flew to Kumamoto and her husband ha also left work and went, met me there, and and we went together to the hospital and we're in the hospital and This was new for me, you know. I I'm a foreigner. This is a t smaller town, not a not many foreigners around at all. We're in the hospital, he's got the tube down his throat and and as you know nurses coming in and out, lots of other people in the room and and uh and I you know try it's really awkward. He's meeting me for the first time. He is dying. Um And you know, she has been praying and here's the I'm gonna you know as a as a and a as a uh as a minister of the gospel, I'm gonna hear his profession of faith in Christ and baptizes me. And it's the first time I've done anything like this, you know, in the hospital. You ma imagine it, you know? And so I kind of after building a relationship with him a little bit, he couldn't talk. He could only grunt and answer. He could hear and understand and talked about the true and living God who made the world and that we're all sinners and you know your daughter she tells me how she was rebellious when she was a teenager and you've seen how she's changed and how God has changed their family And we in forgiveness of sins, Christ who died on the cross, rose again on the thr you know, we went through a simple confirmation. He he kept acknowledging, I believe, uh I believe in Christ and and I you know, I it was difficult for me to do this. And after I finished, and I kind of looked at her, I was very awkward the whole time. I I was not sure how to go about it. Mrs. Yonemoto, she came down in front of me, got in her father's face, crying, holding on to him. was saying, Papa, we want you to go to heaven with us. She went back through. She must have thought the pastor didn't do it very well, you know. You know And and I was so hesitant and reserved and you know unfamiliar and I'm not trying to make excuses, but she was much better than I was, you know. And and this new Christian saying, Not only do I want to go to our God Not only my family and my father, or my husband and my kids, but the daddy, I want you to go too The passion that comes as those hear and as the Holy Spirit works and as they see the community of faith, loving one another, and forgiveness of sins. is recognizing the joy of I want to go to to see your God. I want to go and know him. You know, we didn't see that kind of stuff the first four years in Japan. Thank you for praying for Japan and praying for us. Thank you, Columbia Presbyterian Church, for not stopping after three and a half years and supporting us in Japan because it was slow. And please don't stop when other hard places in the world where it's slow and difficult. It takes time in lots of places in the world. Thank you for not stopping. The fruit began to come in the fifth year, in the sixth year, in the seventh year. Someone told me today, they asked me, how is she? Been praying for she for for seven or eight years, one of the young men who who almost left the ministry. Now he's back in the ministry, gonna be ordained soon is doing great. I was able to tell them he's doing great. He and his wife, they love each other, they're raising their kids to know Christ. He's a he's a wonderful leader. You're going to be a great pastor. What a joy. Thank you for praying and participating with us in the nations coming. Another theme we see in this passage, we've seen you know the passion of those coming, that they're from every tongue and tribe. We also see the certainty of this happening. Now I want you to think with me for a minute. But you know, the words all through the Bible are the same kind of words that are here. This is going to happen. These peoples will come. Verse 22. So many peoples and mighty nations will come. Verse 23, the ten will grab the garment of the one. And say, take me to your God. You read all through the promises from beginning of Genesis to the to the end of Revelation. You know, from the beginning that we we see the promise that the nations, the seed of Abraham. Through the seed of Abraham, all the people groups of the earth will be blessed. Genesis 12. Repeat it in Genesis 15. Repeated in Genesis 22. All through the Psalms we see over and over again The nations will worship. The all peoples will come. The prophets we see it over and over and over again. In Zechariah, we see it. The certainty of this happening, yeah. I want you to think with me for a minute. Stay with me. How hard was it for Zechariah, the Jewish prophet Zechariah? To believe that this was true, that this promise was true. Now, it probably was like this. Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he wrote, ten Gentiles, those dirty, filthy Gentiles are gonna grab the garment of a Jew, the holy children of God, a garment, and are gonna say, take me to your God, take me to Yahweh Take me to Jehovah. And Zechariah Zechariah, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he writes that and he probably said, wait, did I write that? And Isaiah, it was so hard for them to believe. Now you have hard time you think they really believed it? They wrote it under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. They saw darkly what would happen, but think of the disciples of Jesus How hard it was for them to accept this. This is for all peoples, all nations. And so, you know, the disciples, Jesus talks about my house will be a house of prayer for who? All the nations. We see them in the book of Acts. We see Jews and proselytes in Acts 2. We see them gathered in Jerusalem in the day of Pentecost from lots of nations. But but they weren't as bad as the real Gentiles. And we see in Acts 10 and Acts 11, uh, you know the story, how hard it was in the book of Acts To to get it. This message is for all nations. Are we surprised? No, because it's hard for me to get it, and it's hard for you to get it. And one of our great tendencies is Sinful human beings is to be caught up in ourselves, our own people groups, our our own comfort, our own life, the s the struggles of life, even in this utopia almost called America, where we're trying, as John Piper says, to make Disneyland on Earth. You know, we're trying to make this at this he calls America, uh this Disneyland called America. And you you know, you go to a few other countries and you see how true that is And as much as we have, and the safety and the the comforts and you know, the older I get, the more comfortable I want to be, I just feel it. Was camping with some kids from the inner city the other day. My son brought him my son Danny brought him down from Newark. And you know, I bought a a uh a pad from Walmart on the way. You know. Now when I was a hard charger marine, when I was young I would just sleep on the ground. I loved to just I could sleep anywhere. And you know, as I get older I find I like the comforts more. And I and here in in America we're comfortable. And yet we see this call for us to be a part of this greatest endeavor of history and the certainty of it happening is taking the gospel to every nation. The ten will grab the garment uh of God's people and say, take me to your God Now, think for a minute about Jonathan Edwards. I mentioned that Jonathan Edwards made this passage famous. He wrote a treatise that I mentioned earlier called The Humble Attempt, and he talked about Reading it again recently, about a month ago, in preparation to preach from this passage in Japan at our church mission conference, I was just struck By what a prophet Jonathan Edwards was. But then as I read, I said, no, he wasn't a prophet. He was just believing this promise. He showed how this promise could not have been fulfilled yet Because it's talking about the ten grabbing the robe of the one. And every language, notice it says every language group. You know, Jonathan Edwards says this has barely begun to happen. And he wrote this almost three hundred years ago. And he goes into several pages writing how What this has to mean, as we read the whole Bible, and he quotes from the Old Testament, the prophets, the the the poets, and uh as well as the New Testament, this has to mean That in the future, someday in the future, in the world, that there's going to be a great enfolding into the church from all the people groups of the world. He didn't know about Japan, he didn't know about China. I don't think. Maybe he did. Uh he didn't know about for sure Papua New Guinea. He didn't know about the Tajiks and the Pashtuns and he didn't know he had never seen an Urbana with people coming and joining from all over the world. He had never seen Jonathan Edwards had never seen What I've seen in Asia of Koreans and Japanese and Filipinos and Indonesians gathering to pray and think about the extension of the kingdom throughout Asia. Jonathan Edwards almost 300 years ago without ever seeing any of the things we've seen, never heard of the world evangelical fellowship, never knew about Wycliffe. Spreading out into the world to translate the Bible into all of these languages that every day almost there's a new translation of the Bible, or at least a new uh book of the Bible. being given to people in their own language group, all of this happening all around the world without ever seeing that. Jonathan Edwards in great detail Told in this treatise what we're seeing today in the world. As it says in this passage, in those days that's gonna happen Do you believe it? Can you pray with me together for Fallujah? For Iraq? Lord, I don't know what's going to happen, but Lord, we know this is going to happen. His kingdom cannot fail, we sang earlier. He rules over earth and heaven. From Genesis 3, the promise that from the seed of the woman This Messiah will be born and what's he gonna do? He is gonna crush He's gonna crush the head of the serpent. He's gonna crush Satan and his kingdom will be built. The gates of hell cannot prevail against it. I will build my church. Jesus said, it is certain to happen, whether we see it or not. Right now, we see much more than Jonathan Edwards or Zechariah. We have much more reason to say, yeah, this is true. We can see it with our uh we need faith, but but it's easier for us to see it. One of my favorite uh heroes of history is John Payton. Any of you know of John Payton? He was a famous missionary that went to the islands, New Hebrides, I think you say it. And he uh and you read his biography about the cannibals, the missionaries arguing should they carry guns or not to protect themselves. Some of the missionaries were killed. He lost uh several of his children. I believe he lost his wife. Incredible suffering and yet his testimony is I never made a sacrifice. And you read that you know that this a famous biography about John Payton. He's the one that told a a friend uh in England before he went to to this very difficult, desolate place, the friend said, John