Turning your Bibles to the Book of Jonah, the Book of Jonah. Jonah is after Daniel, after Hosea, after Joel, Amos, Abadiah, and before Micah and Nahum And as you're turning there, I want to ask you a question. What one word or phrase comes to your mind when you think about the book of Jonah? A whale. Fish? Great. What great response. So you think of a big fish, of a whale. Perhaps you might think of Nineveh, about Jonah the prophet, Jonah the missionary. There's some other things that we can talk about when we consider the book of Jonah. We can talk about the wickedness of the Ninevites. People. We can talk about the love and the mercy and the patience of God. We can talk about the holiness and the justice of God. We can talk about his sovereignty. But there's something else that we can talk about, and that is God's calling of Jonah. How God called Jonah to service And this is what I want us to consider this morning, because as we look at Jonah's call, particularly verses one through three of chapter one, I believe that we will see how God would call us, how God would call you and me. To serve him. You, if you are a believer in Christ Jesus, if you belong to him, you have been called by God to serve him. And hear this that sometimes the call of God on your life may not be what you expect or what you Let me just say briefly that a little bit about Jonah, that if you were to turn to 2 Kings chapter 14, we learn that Jonah, son of Amitai, was born in the city of Gath Hepher. In the tribe of Zebulun, which was located about twenty miles west of the Sea of Galilee. And he lived during the reign of King Jeroboam II in the 8th century BC. B. C. Perhaps about seven fifty BC. So the time of Jonah and his ministry was before the Israel and before Judah was exiled. So just keep Keep that in mind as we consider God's word. Hear God's word from Jonah. I will read the first thirteen verses The word of the Lord came to Jonah son of Amakai. Go to the great city of Nineveh and preach against it, because its wickedness has come up before me. But Jonah ran away from the Lord and headed for Tarshish. He went down to Joppa, where he found a ship bound for that port. After paying the fare he went aboard and sailed for Tarshush to flee from the Lord. Then the Lord sent a great wind on the sea, and such a violent storm arose that the ship threatened to break up. All the sailors were afraid, and each cried out to his own God. And they threw the cargo into the sea to lighten the ship. But Jonah had gone below deck, where he lay down and fell into a deep sleep The captain went to him and said, How can you sleep? Get up and call on your God. Maybe he will take notice notice of us and we will not perish. Then the sailors said to each other, Come, let us cast lots to find out who's responsible for this calamity. They cast lots, and the lot fell. On Jonah. So they asked him, Tell us, who's responsible for making all this trouble for us? What do you do? Where do you come from? What is your country? From what people are you? He answered, I am a Hebrew and I worship the Lord, the God of heaven who made the sea and the land. This terrified them, and they asked, What have you done? They knew he was running away from the Lord. Lord, because he had already told him so. The sea was getting rougher and rougher, so they asked him, What should we do to you to make the sea calm down for us? Pick me up and throw me into the sea, he replied. And it will become calm. I know that it's my fault that this great storm has come upon you. Instead, the men did their best to row back to land, but they could not, for the sea grew even wilder. than before. The first thing that I want us to consider is the reason God called Jonah to go to Nineveh and to preach against it. Because I believe that as we grasp this we will understand more clearly why God calls you and me to our particular And verse two, you see what God says The Joni says, go to the great city of Nineveh and preach against it. Why? Because the wickedness of Nineveh had risen up before the holy throne of God Let's understand that Nineveh was a capital of Assyria. I mean if you can see on your map, on your outline there, that is situated in perhaps present day Iraq and Iran. Kind of interesting parallel for us. It was a great city, but it was a city that was that was fired by a passion for power and driven by the lust for conquest. It was a city, it's reported that had walls surrounding it, perhaps a hundred feet high, and walls so wide that three chariots could run abreast on them. Within its walls were castles and ramparts, rivers and canals, large fields and gardens, fields for cattle, a city filled with temples and images. The Ninevites were pagan to the core. They were idolaters. They were God haters. They were steeped in one abomination after another The very center of their life revolved around Ishtar, the goddess of fertility and war, a religion associated with sex and war. This was Nineveh. And it was this wickedness that had risen up to God, and God had enough of that. In a sense, he was saying, Enough! My patience is just about come to an end. Jonah, go preach against Nineveh. For unless they repent, I will destroy them from the face of the earth. There was a people that had just about exhausted God's patience. And as a result, they were on the verge of hell. They were teetering on the precipice of hell itself. And at one breath of God they would fall into the scorching flames of hell. They were a people on death row. At any day they could be called into that gas chamber. Oh, to that electric chair. So Jonah is called to go and proclaim a warning. Call to go and proclaim truth to them. For our God will not tolerate sin forever. Our God will not leave the guilty unpunished. We too are called to proclaim a warning, to proclaim justice, to proclaim mercy to those people about us that do not know Know the Lord. For if you do not know the Lord, the person who does not does not know the Lord, who is still in bondage to sin, is in essence a Ninevite. And we have Ninevehites all around us, perhaps in your family, in your workplace, in your neighborhood, in Columbia, Maryland. In the United States, in Iraq, in Japan, in Spain, any place you would desire to go Ours is a calling to proclaim to these Nineveh that we encounter day after day, to proclaim a warning to them. We can't proclaim a warning to them because the act of final judgment has not yet fallen. God is still showing mercy to people day after day. That's why people who do not know the Lord are still alive, because of God's mercy and because of common grace. Jonah, every believer has been called. You have been called through a particular Nineveh to display his holiness His mercy, so that people might not die in their sins, but that they might live, that they might have eternal life. That's the calling for you and for me. Where is your Nineveh? Who are the Ninevites that God is calling you to? Whether we hear God's call from the book of Jonah or if we can consider it from the Great Commission in Matthew 28, God is calling. you. None is exempt. But you know, even as I talk about God calling us, I'm assuming one very important thing That as you as a child of God are listening, that you hear his voice Are you listening? God has been calling some of you and you have heard so clearly. Are you listening? Have you ever been in a situation where you're home, had a hard day at work, and you're reclining in your favorite chair and the telephone rings You're tired and you just don't want to answer that phone. It rings, it rings. Perhaps because you're tired, perhaps because you're lazy, you just don't want to take that call. that let that phone just keep on ringing. But perhaps there are other times when you know you think you know who's calling you and you think you know what they want to say to you, what they want to discuss and you I d I just don't want to discuss that. I don't want to talk about it and so you don't pick up the phone. Now this is real easy today, especially if you have an answering machine. Because you don't have to pick up the phone. You just let the person leave a message on the machine And if you want to talk to the person, you either interrupt their message or you call them back later on. But the advantage of an answering machine is that you can filter out certain calls. You answer the ones you want, and those you don't want you never respond to. Real simple Let me suggest to you that a similar thing here is happening to the prophet, to this missionary, Jonah. God was calling him to go and preach to the city in Nineveh, and Jonah sat there for a while and he said Uh-uh God. Not that one. Not that call. He ignored that call. He heard his voice ever so clearly But that was one call Jonah wasn't about to take, and so he runs away. Think about it. Have you ever found yourself in that situation? Are you running away? Remember this again, that call of God in your life may not always be what you like. But it's always right. It's always good. Verse three of chapter one Tells us how Jonah responded to God's call, to God's assignment for him. But Jonah ran away from the Lord and headed for Tarshush. At this it says that Jonah responded, God, I don't particularly care for this new assignment you're giving to me If you don't mind, God, I'll just quit my job as your prophet. I've been working at this for a long time. I'm gonna pack my bags. Thank you very much. I'm heading west, God If you look on your map, you see where Nineveh is, I there's a modern map there in of present day situation, but I've also put Nineveh in Jerusalem there, so you might see that And you see that Nineveh was about five hundred miles northeast of Israel, just about where Boston is from Columbia here But instead of going northeast, and then if a junnah goes in the opposite direction, he goes west. First he goes to Jappa, the port city on the west coast of Israel, and then he gets a one way ticket to Tarshish. A one-way ticket on a ship bound for Tarshius, which was further west, on the other side of the Mediterranean Sea, probably on the other side of the coast of Spain. Jonah wanted to put as much distance between himself and Nineveh. And I don't think that Jonah felt that he could really escape God's notice. I'm sure he had read Psalm 139 I'm sure he knew that God was all knowing and all seeing and ever present. He wasn't gonna escape the eye of God. So what was he doing? I believe that he was trying to get out of God's sight, but in the sense of leaving the temple where God manifested his glorious presence with a hope that the commission that calls to Nineveh would just go away. Maybe somebody else would get that call. In a sense, Jonah was withdrawing from the service of God. It's just it's just as if as if he was saying, God, you're wanting me to go to Nineveh is something I just can't do. Lord, I'm taking early retirement. I'm resigning. I'll collect my social security later. I've worked hard for many years, Lord. This is a good time. Good time as Many. So Jonah boards the ship, he steps down into the hall, and he goes to sleep Now I want you to examine with me why Jonah didn't take the call that God gave him. Because in doing so, I believe that we can see why we don't always take the call that God gives to us. Why we don't always respond obediently to God's call on our lives. Let me suggest to you three possible reasons. The first reason I want us to consider the fear involved. So if you're following along in your outline, you can fill in the blank fear Perhaps Jonah was afraid of the people in Nineveh. You know, they were fierce warriors They were known throughout the region of that time for their cruel and ruthless war tactics. For sheer pleasure. Just for pleasure, they would torture their prisoners to death. This is the kind of people that Jonah was going to preach to. The prophet Naam in chapter 3, verses 1 through 4, talks about the Nineveh. He says, Woe to the city of blood. Here he's talking about the Ninevites, full of lines, full full of plunder, never without victims, the crack of whips, the clatter of wheels, galloping horses and jolting chariots. charging cavalry, flashing swords, and glittering spears. Many casualties, piles of dead, bodies without number, people stumbling over the corpses. All because of the wanton lust of a harlot, alluring the mistress of sorceries, who enslaved nations by a prostitution and peoples by a witchcraft. This is Nineveh. And Jonah was asked to go and preach destruction against his city? Lord, you've got to be kidding. Why not a message on self-esteem? This would be a good time, God. Uh what kind of reception was Jonah gonna receive? Would he even last two minutes there? Maybe Jonah felt like a black South African preaching against racism and a affluent Afrikaner community, how long would he last? It would be as if God called us to go to Baghdad today And God said to you and to me, go and preach to Saddam Hussein and tell him that unless he repents and changes, that God's going to punish him. I'm not sure how many of us would go. Because perhaps not many of us would make it alive, make it out alive Well maybe Jonah felt like a soft, furry, white mouse going into a city of hungry, angry cats. You know, this was no job for profit to be somebody's lunch. No I think Jonah perhaps perhaps he was afraid. But you know, so are we. Perhaps God calls us to people or places and we say, Lord, I can't go Don't you know who those people are? They're gonna ridicule me? They're gonna reject me? Lord, I might even be harmed. You don't want me to go into Baltimore City, Lord, to Washington DC or some other city around the world. Don't you know the problems that exist? You know, I might be rejected, I might be hurt, it's too risky for me, it's too risky for my family. Do you feel like that at time? I certainly do. The famous preacher G. Campbell Morgan. He was going into the Wesleyan Miss Ministry in uh eighteen eighty eight. And he was one of 150 men who sought entrance into the ministry and he had passed his written exam, but he faced the trial of a sermon before this panel. I don't know if Steve is here, you'd appreciate this. But Morgan preached and after he preached his sermon he found out that his name was on this list of a hundred and five people, hundred and five men out of a hundred and fifty that were rejected. Rejected After that he left and he went home and he wrote in his diary, very dark everything seemed Still. And he telegraphed his father with one word and it said, Rejected. Several days later he got a telegraph back from his dad. And it said, rejected on earth, accepted in heaven, dead We feel afraid. We fear. We are afraid of people. And some times afraid of people more than we are afraid of God. But God says to you and to me that we are accepted in the beloved. That He is for us and not against us But sometimes we fear something else. We fear God. We forget about his character. When I talk about the fear of God I don't mean in the sense that we use But in the sense that we are afraid that somehow God is calling us to a task or a place and that God is making a mistake. It's as if it says, Lord, you've got to be kidding. You want me to do what? Don't you know that? And go on and on. It's almost as if God had forgotten something, as if he had a momentary case of amnesia But somehow we act as if God is not God, as if as if there's something that he doesn't know, as if something slipped by him when he blinked. God, can't you see that where you're calling me to go is a dangerous place? And God says, Yeah, I know You're not telling him anything new. He knew that before you did. He knows that before I do. He knows your fear. He knows it all And underneath this or underlying this is a sense that God will somehow call us to something And then send us out and then when he sends us out, he's gonna leave. That he's gonna abandon us, that he's not gonna be there with us. But God says to you and to me that He will never leave us, He will never forsake us. He is with us. He says, be strong and be courageous. Go in my power. Go in my strength. God is with you. There is no need to fear. Second possible reason why we may not take the call of God in our lives is because The task is new. The novelty of the task. The novelty of the call. We say, Lord, it's never been done before. You're asking me to do this something nobody's ever done it nobody in CPC has ever done that how am I gonna do that? There's no book to read. There's no manual to follow You know, it was customary for God's prophets to be sent to God's people and not to a heathen nation. Remember Peter in Acts ten? God was sending him to the Gentile Cornelius. Peter wasn't eager to go. He said, I'm not going, God. So he though Peter had been instructed of As to the Gentiles, the call of the Gentiles, yet he doubted until that vision of blanket of unclean animals came to him. And that drove him to Cornelius How much more reason for hesitation on Jonah's part. He had to go to an entire city of unclean people, to an entire city of Gentiles No, this just wasn't the usual job for a prophet. Usually they were to go to God's own people, to the Israelites, and proclaim to them the message You feel like that? You feel like God is calling you to do something new that's never been done before? And then you say, God, that's not my job That's not my job. But let me remind you that it It is God who speaks. He's the one who calls you. And who are we to tell God what is or what is not our job? He's the Lord, he's the creator, he's the one that fashioned you and me for himself. We do not belong to ourselves any longer. We belong to him. So we don't tell him, God, this is or isn't my job. I think of uh an experience about three and a half years ago before I went to seminary I was called by Dick Ellis of New Hope Church in Frederick. Alan had given him my name. And Dick called me and says Tito, will you come and preach on so and so and so Sunday. I remember I said I laughed. I said you what? You want me to preach? Dick, you have to understand this. I'm a social worker. I've never preached in my life. You know, and essentially I said no to Dick. And I because I said, Dick, I've never done that. It's not my job, I'm a social worker, so I can't do it. Period. I think of that And I think of Jonah. Is that my job? Well, if God says so, it is. You know, as a church, we're praying that many of you will be on unleashed into ministries that will be needed in your sphere of influence. And some of those ministries will never have been done before. Don't say no. Say, Lord, I'm willing. But you need to teach me. You need to show me. You need to guide me. Say yes. There's a third possible reason for us not taking God's call. And that's related to the selfishness that God Blessings. Perhaps we're afraid of people. Perhaps we're disobedient because the task is new, it's never been done before. But at other times I think we're disobedient because we're self centers. We're more concerned for ourselves than we are for others. We are blessed God has given much to us. We we bathe and soak in those blessings, the richness of those blessings. We enjoy them, but the problem is that the focus is on us. We are the world. I have been blessed. I am saved. I think at root and the real reason why Jonah doesn't take this call is because Azigo is just too big He's too self-centered. I say Jonah, but the same is true for Israel as a nation. God had called Israel to be his own people, to be To be his treasured possession, to be the apple of his eye. He blessed Israel above all the other nations, but yet the blessing to Israel was not exclusive to them. He blessed them so that they might be a blessing to others. For God's grace transcends all ethnic boundaries, all peoples and all nations, so implied In Jonah's mission was a warning against Israel, a warning against self-righteousness, a warning against their stiff-necked selfish behavior. God is saying to them, stop gazing at your navel. Stop looking at yourself. Look at the world around you. Can't you see the people who are dying? Can't you see those nations who are lost? Look at them. From Isaiah forty-two and forty-nine we see that Israel is to be a light to the Gentiles. As God blessed them, they were to bless other nations. Other nations were to come to them, to come to Israel to worship Yahweh. Israel was to be a warehouse full of blessings and just as we see trucks pull up to a warehouse, to a dock of a warehouse, and load up on all the materials and goods, so Israel was to open wide its gates. And let the other nations come in and be blessed by God. But instead of opening wide their gates, they closed them shut and sealed. Israel was afraid that if God blessed the Gentiles Then Israel would no longer be blessed. Israel would no longer be God's treasured possession, that Israel would no longer be the apple of God's eye. And so they held on selfishly to the blessings that God had given to them. There's a story about a boy, six year old boy named Johnny Johnny's mom and dad loved him very much. They cared for him, they nurtured him, they provided for him, they disciplined him. And after a couple of years, mom and dad had wanted to have another child, but after years years of trying they could not. And so they began this adoption process. And as they began the process they told Johnny that they were going to adopt a brother for him And that even at this point they were already loving this other little boy, and that Johnny ought to love him as well. But as the process of adoption continued on They noticed a change in their little son, that he would kick and he would cry much more frequently, that he would whine, that he would have these tempered tantrums. And after several weeks and months of doing this, Johnny sees Dad come through the door one evening after work and he grabs onto Dad's leg and he cries out to his daddy, Daddy, you can't adopt. I don't want another brother. Because I'm afraid if you adopt, if I have another brother, Daddy, that you'll stop loving me. Daddy, will you stop loving me? Will our God stop loving his people because he sets his love on another people This is something of Israel's attitude, and I believe at times our attitude toward others. Selfishly wanting God to love only us and to bless us. We may not say this with our lips, but I think our actions display this so clearly at times. God called Jonah. And he calls us. And for whatever reason, whether it's fear, whether it's the novelty of the task, whether it's being selfish to the blessings that God has given to us us we don't take the call. The phone rings and it rings and it rings. And we never get up to answer In essence, we run away. We go in the opposite direction. We board our ship for Tarshish. Brothers and sisters, if you are in Christ, God is calling you. Are you listening? Are you listening to hear him call you? Have you heard his voice? Do you know the voice of the shepherd? Many of you have heard him call, many of you have responded obediently, have not refused the call of God in your life, and I praise God for that. Well done. But some of us are struggling. Some of us have yet to respond to the call that God has given to us. Some of you have actually boarded that ship in your mind, and you're long gone. And you're already in Tarshish. And some of you don't know that you're on the way to Tarshish. Because the way you refuse God's call is then much more subtle. Instead of refusing in an obvious way, what happens is that you or I we get more busy. We get busier in our job, we get busier in church. We do a lot more things so that when God calls We couldn't hear his voice. We wanted to because we're so busy, we're not still to hear him speak to us I know that's been the case for me and perhaps for you at times. And God would say to us to repent, to turn around and to obey Him, to take that call And to follow, and to go where he sends us. For if you do not repent, consider who the Lord is Consider Jesus in Matthew 8, this Jesus who calms this raging storm on the Sea of Galilee, where he says, peace be still. And the storm subsides. It is this same Lord, this same God, who calms the storms of our lives, but it's the same God who stirs them up, who stirs the water so that it is great frenzy. So that he can get your attention, so that he can get my attention. Not to destroy us, but because he wants to do a work in you and in me. He is working in us. He does that because he loves you, because he loves me. He did this for Jonah. He will do that for us. There's also a word of hope and encouragement in all this. For our God is gracious and he is merciful. If you have indeed refused God's call, remember that God's grace is sufficient in Christ Jesus. Every sin of disobedience that we've ever committed in the past, present, or future, has been paid for, has been covered at the cross. So don't take the call out of fear, but take it because God has loved you and has paid for your sins and because he has accepted you. And because he accepted you in Christ, he gives you and to me another opportunity to take that call. Just as he's done for Jonah, we see in chapter three. Well once again call God calls Jonah, and this time Jonah goes. And know that as God calls you and me, as God calls the church to minister to a world that's in need. He does it. He gives us a call not based on our strength, not based on our wisdom, but on the power of the Holy Spirit, based on his strength, on his wisdom, on his might. But we carry his word. We don't carry our ourselves. He calls you and me, and sometimes that's difficult And sometimes that will stretch us. And it's not because God wants us wants to see us agonized. Because he knows what's best for you. He knows what's best for me. He knows what our world needs. He knows what our community needs. He knows what those Ninevites around us need He does not want any to perish. I'll remember Jesus Christ. Christ. Remember Jesus who took God's call to die at the cross. He didn't say no, he said yes to die in our place. We will not die on the cross. He did that for us. But what we proclaim is we are called are the benefits of the cross. That we are freed, that people are freed from sin. There's new life because of the cross. God is calling you. Are you listening? Are you listening? Let's pray. And as we pray, consider afresh to whom or to where God is calling you and accept it. Accept his call because of his love for you, because of the grace that he has given you in Christ. Our Father and our God We hear your voice so clearly at times. Give us the grace. Give us your strength and your power. Say yes. Help us to see people as you see them, to see Ninevites all around us, who are teetering on the precipice of hell. And will fall unless they repent. Send us out, O God. In Jesus' name. Amen.