Complete this sentence in your mind. To me, God is. Well complete this sentence. When I sin. I believe God's attitude to me is how did you end that? We've just read the Ten Commandments. We've just seen how short we have following of God's family. As those who have committed our lives to follow Jesus Christ, what is his attitude to us when we sin? I believe that there would be a very good correlation if we were to be able to go around and take the time to ask each of you a very good correlation between how you answered those questions And what your view of your human father is like. If you sell your relationship to your human father uh as seeing him as a man who was harsh or distant or stern or demanding in a way that you felt like you never could please him. And that probably has a tremendous impact on how you would view God, how you view Jesus Christ responding to you when you sin, and how you would have answered that question. If on the other hand your relationship to your father was a very warm and close relationship, Egypt, and you saw him as a very encouraging person, that too would affect how you answered that question. You add to that certain cultural understandings of God, uh the liberal theology of of the last fifty, sixty years and the impact that it's had in fundamentalism upon our country, the church's reaction to some of those cultural understandings of what God is like And you uh add to that your understanding of your own human father. And you have some sort of a probably a picture in your mind that uh is full of internal contradictions, but it's just sort of a uh a of an understanding of what God's like toward you. And for every one of us, that's very imbalanced. Very imbalanced. That's how we need God's revelation to correct our imbalanced thinking. And so we have the Old Testament. We have the law that speaks of God's character, and we have the history that shows how he worked that out in his relationships with people. And we have the prophets that speak of his character, and we have the poetry that's written. It gives us further understanding. And then in the New Testament, we have all the letters that speak about what God is like. But in particular, the chief revelation is in Jesus Christ. Jesus could have said, What am I at the Father's life? Look at me, study me, observe me. And you'll see what God is like. It's also said that you can tell more about what a person's like by their reactions than by their actions And so if you want to really know what Jesus is like, and you want to really know how tender and how compassionate he is, let's see him in the way he reacts to people, not just in the way he takes initiative. And if you really want to test that tenderness and that compassion, then let's see how he reacts when he's under stress. Let's see how he reacts when he's under pressure. Let's see how he reacts when his very life is threatened. And then if you work even practice one bit further, let's see how he reacts When those that are closest to him let him down, and act the most thoughtless and childish and stubborn and foolish and selfish the most selfish ways you can imagine. And now let's see how he reacts to this. And then let's see what we can learn about Jesus. So that's what I want to do these next couple weeks. I'd like this week and next week to take a look at ten incidents in the trial and the death of Jesus Christ. And it says ten incidents, five this week and five next week I want you to observe how Jesus reacted under intense stress to his disciples. And I love force as you go through this, I'd like for you to try and notice as we get to each incident, for you to try to guess How would I think Jesus would react to that? You know, you just try to wipe away what you remember of the incident, but just try to point out how I imagine he would react in terms of my image of it. And how would I react in that situation? And how did he react differently from not only the way I would react, but also the way I would expect according to if I did that how he'd react to me? And then Baylor, having done that, notice how he did react and correct. your image of him. So how is this difference? And what do I need to adjust now my understanding of what Jesus is like? Got the picture? Let's take the first five then for this morning. The first one has to do with noticing his earnest desire for their fellowship in Luke chapter 22. Now last week we looked at Luke chapter 22, the first six verses, and we saw there the leaders of the Jews And Judas, in their attempt to try and get rid of Jesus in a way that would not involve the rip of the crowd. Which necessitated his being betrayed by those crowds, by his own disciples, and even by his Father We saw that last week. Now we want to pick up the story of verse 7. And we want to move on Notice in Luke chapter 22, verse 7. Because I'm going to cover a lot of scripture this morning, I'm going to just read it into bits and the pieces as we come to each section So we're just going to take a look at the first section now. Luke chapter twenty-two, beginning in verse seven. Then came the day of unleavened bread on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. Jesus sent Peter and John saying, Go and make preparations for it. To eat the Passover. And so he gives them instructions, he tells them what to do to make the preparation. And then in verse 14 we read: When the hour came, Jesus and his apostles reclined at the table. And he said to them, them, I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I tell you I will not eat it again until it finds fulfillment in the kingdom of God. Eagerly Desire. You see that? The NIV, verse 14. I have eagerly desired to meet this Passover with you. I remember vividly. And those words hit me right now. between the eyes walking along a trail in McKelvin State Park a couple of springs ago, in the early spring, meditating on this passage. And I remember how those words hit me because I realized that they were telling me something about Jesus that I had hadn't fully realized. Jesus, you see, I have this picture that Jesus was dying for his disciples, but emotionally still I have this idea that he's removed from them. You know, it's what you know, I'm willing to die for you guys. And you don't have a clue what us this is all about. I mean I realize you're not following the drift of this very closely, you know. But I'm going to die for you because I love you and I want to take you to be with me where I am. But I can't really depend on you fellas very much. They said Jesus was a nation very removed from them. He was distant from them. He was above them and beyond them. But that's not what this says. It says that before Jesus went into his final trial and death, He turns to his disciples and he said, You know, I've really been looking forward to this time. Now I told you last week about how I try out these messages on my pig phone. Well the last night when I was talking about this, I was talking to me, my buddy. religion, you know, about what this means that Jesus is eagerly designed. I'm trying to go into children's church, you know, I can talk about him, he's not here. You'll never know what I report on his response to here. But he he says I said, mean you see that Jesus is going there? Can you picture that he's eagerly desiring the fellowship of his disciples? And he said, No. He said, but Jesus never changes. And he thought, yeah, that's exactly the Bible isn't it? That's what we have. We have this view of God as being sort of stoic. He's never eager for something because that that sort of pictures God getting excited, you know, and that's beneath it. And that's what's following in Athens' words. He says, I'm eagerly designed. To have this fellowship with you. Can you picture Jesus eagerly desiring to do anything with you? It's kind of hard, isn't it, of course. And yet. This is exactly what the scripture says, not only for his disciples, but for us. Jesus eagerly desires my fellowship. His affections are wrapped up in his disciples here. He says, I'm very looking forward to this. I eagerly desire it. But I say I say I I find that hard to relate to. Because you know when I look for my friends, I look for people that can offer me something. People that can stimulate me, or people that will be unusual Exchange and I can gain something from the relationship. What can I, as a creature, have to offer to the relationship with Jesus Christ? He doesn't need me. There's absolutely nothing that I can add. to him. I can't give him anything. But he says, I eagerly desire your fellowship. It's unique. I have made you, Alan Harris, and the rest of you. As individuals, you are unique and precious in my sight. And I desire your fellowship. And when I add to the fact that not only can't I give him anything, but in my simple self-centeredness, I am a barrent to his holiness. But I realize I'm not just a creature. I'm a sinful creature. How could he eagerly desire my fellowship there? The scripture says I put away your sins. Jesus says that sin has been covered, it's been dealt with, and it's done. And I eagerly desire. Your fellowship. You be consistent to the disciples here and not to us. Revelation 3 tells us that it's exactly the same way as you and me. You remember in Revelation 3, Jesus words to the church? 3, verse 19 and 20. He said, Those whom I love, I rebuke and discipline. And so be earnest and repent. Here I am. I stand at the door and I I knock. And anyone who hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and watch. And I will eat with him. And he with me. Jesus saying he's holy? It's ridiculous. He doesn't need me for food. He's picturing fellowship in that culture. That's how you had fellowship with them. Was to sit down and have a meal with them. And so Jesus is saying to you and to me, I stand at the door and I knock, and I eagerly desire your fellowship. I eagerly desire to be with you as I was with my disciples. As my immediate were invested in them and my affections were wrapped up in them that night that I was betrayed and went to my death. In John 17, 24, Jesus in his high priestly prayer, praise to the Father, Father, I long for them. That they will be with me, speaking of human nature, that they will be with me where I am to behold my glory. You know, back in Proverbs chapter 8, you have an interesting picture of wisdom, who is Jesus Christ. In Proverbs 8:30, he says. God was there speaking out of wisdom of Jesus, I was the craftsman at his side in creation. And I was filled with delight day after day, rejoicing always in his presence. That's the Son rejoicing for The Father's presence. But then notice what he says in verse 31: Rejoicing in his whole world that he was making, and delighting in mankind. Christ as delighting in you. And yet that's what Proverbs eight thirty one tells us. That's what this picture is. I love that verse. I find my mind going back to it so often. Luke 22, 15, I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover, this fellowship meal with you, before I suffer. It tells me something of Jesus' love and his affection for me, his tenderness to me. me. And then I'm tempted though. Maybe you're tempted at this point to say, yeah, but I'm not like the disciples, you know. And in that guy if they're really committed. And if you know a lot of them finally gave their lives and they followed Jesus. They left everything. I feel like I'm so compromising. I feel like I'm so sinful and I don't feel like I would all like the disciples. That's the one comfort in noticing how they responded. Notice that Jesus says, I evil the desire your fellowship before I suffer. And what happens? He goes through the Passover. And at the end of the Passover he takes the bread and he says, This is my body, which is given for you. Then he takes the cup, the third cup of blessing in Thanksgiving, and he says This cup is the new covenant in my blood which is shed for you. And he speaks of one who's going to betray him right at the table. And they begin to argue which one of them is going to be, who's going to betray them, to betray him. And that argument of who is this going to be the one to betray him turns to an argument in verse 24 about which of them is the greatest in the kingdom. And so they start arguing right after Jesus says that he's going to be betrayed for their sake, they start arguing. Now, it's bad enough for us to have that kind of simple pride in any situation. It's even worse when you consider that they had done the same thing just months before, and Jesus had corrected him on that occasion, saying, Look, it's not the one who's the big shot and the leader who's great in the kingdom. It's the one who serves. And on two occasions he had gone through that lesson prison already. It's even worse and more inexcusable because Jesus had been such a perfect example to them as their leader of being a servant to them. But it's more reprehensible when you consider the Circumstances of this. Jesus is saying, I'm going to be betrayed. I long for your fellowship. Here's my body, my blood, which is going to be given to you. I'm going to suffer and I'm going to die for you. And they start arguing about which one of us is the big shot around here. Can you imagine that? But how did Jesus respond to that kind of thoughtless childishness? Notice secondly then, his patient response to them. In verse 25, So they start arguing for a while and let it go for a little bit. Finally he breaks in and he says, Look, the kings of the Gentiles learned over them. Those who exercise authority over them call themselves benefactors. But you are not to be like that. There's not a hint there of his losing his temper. It's gentle. Not only that, but secondly, notice the patience in it because he's going over the same lesson. You look back at Matthew 18. Matthew 20, verse 25 to 27. You'll see it's the same lesson. In fact, the words are almost identical to Matthew 20, verse 25 to 27. And so he patiently is reiterating the same lesson. What a teacher. You know, you say to yourself, it seems like I have to hear things so many times in order to understand them. But as human teachers, each time we hear it again, it gets a little more irritated, doesn't it? And so you can sort of picture Jesus. Come on, you guys. Hang your head. I just told you that a few months ago. But he doesn't. He goes back patiently again. You know, like think of a situation where I might be suffering. Think of yourself deeply Deeply hurt and feeling at the lowest point of your life, abandoned by your friends, you've been fired by your job, your goals have just gone down, the tubes and everything that you've dreamed and worked for for years has just been shattered. And the person that you love the most that you say, I want to spend some time with you now. They start arguing about how big chuck they're going to be. They start complaining about whether they're getting a fair shape, you know. And what's your response? The tendency with me is to abandon Take all the self-pity that I've been trying to put aside, and it all rises to the surface, and I lash out at that person. And I bet upon them my frustration and my fury and saying, You know, what a help you are. sensitive can a person possibly be. That would be my natural response. But Jesus teaches them again. And then finally, I can't believe this. I have to read it every time to make sure that it's very still there. He encourages You believe that? Believe that. Verse 28. After he gives them the last of them, patiently, gently. Then, verse 48 he says, You are those who have stood by me in my trial. Not a hint of self-pity. So look, I stood by you guys and I'll tell you, a bunch of clutches like you nobody ever had for disciples. I mean, if I give you guys simple parables and you can't even understand them. I talk about leaven and you think I I'm complaining about you didn't bring the bread. And you guys are really out for lunch. But no, he says, You have been faithful with me. You stood by me with my trials. Encourages them. And then in verse 29. He gives them a promise. He says to them, I confer on you a kingdom. Argue, you see, send the ministers this argument. I'm conferring on you as a group this kingdom. as their father conferred one on me, so that you you all may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit at my thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. What about the judges? What is that saying to settle an argument among themselves and you say, Wait a minute, have you judged the twelve tribes of Israel? What confidence he has in his work in their lives? What tenderness, what encouragement. Isn't that amazing? Let me ask you, is that any different? Is that any different from your picture of how he responds to you when you realize that you've been thoughtless and insensitive toward him? Think about that. This is the true Jesus. This is what he really likes. Not our imaginations, but the scripture says. And then notice how he goes on without any interruption. The third incident, particularly to encourage Peter. The gentle warning that he gives to Peter's overconfidence. Who is the display to hurt Jesus that night more than any other disciple? It's going to be Peter, right? It's Peter who had a good thing. That had the close fellowship among the inner three with him. It's Peter who will deny that he even knew Jesus and refused to be associated with him, with his greatest trial. It's Peter who is going to be. the one most to let Jesus down. But Jesus realizes that it's precisely because of that that Peter will need the most encouragement. And so Jesus says to him, verse 31, Simon, Simon. Satan has asked to sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail in innocence. And then you have turned back, strengthen your. brothers. What must that have meant to Peter after we read that on the third time that he had denied Peter and the cock crew the second time, that he went out and he wept bitterly Jesus remembers that Peter said, When you turn back. Jesus himself has promised that I'm going to turn back and still be of use to him. And Jesus anticipates that. And in His thoughtfulness. So Peter's overconfidence, his blagabascio, he's all Lord, it's not going to be me. That's what he says here. Never me. Anyone else but not me. Jesus says, Peter, where the cock closed. You're going to demand him three times. Not with malice, but just to reduce Peter's overconfidence and encouraging him as he sins. Then we come to the thickness. They go out to Gethsemane. And here they um excuse me, this is the uh fourth incident. As they go out to Gethsemane, you see his general order to the disciples Verse thirty nine. Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples followed him. And then he warns them. On reaching the place he said to them, Pray, that you will not fall into temptation. And he goes a little further and he agonizes in prayer. He sweated his great drops of blood, and what do they do? They fall asleep. Events are exhausted, you know, they're an end of the too much for us. And they can't sleep. They can't even fail it. They can't watch with him. They can't encourage him. But he comes back in verse 45, and what does he say? Are you sleeping? He says to him, Get up and pray. Why? Because I need it. Pray, so that you will not fall into temptation. Mark tells us that three times he came back to them after they fell asleep three times, and never in any of those instances that he loses. temple with them and humiliate them as he so easily could have done. His concern is for them that you will not fall into temptation. His concern is for the disciples. And his concern even extends to the betrayer. And that's the final example for this morning. In verse 37 and 48, while he was still speaking, a crowd came up. And the man was called Judas, one of the twelve, who was leading them. He's found his opportunity then. And he approached Jesus to kiss him. But Jesus asked him, Judas, are you Beturn of the Son of Man with a kiss. Imagine the tone that Jesus spoke at. He imagine the look in his eye as he gazed at Judas and asked that penetrating question. question. I don't believe that there was a hint of sarcasm in that tone. I believe that at that point what Jesus was trying to do was in looking to Judas, he was trying to bring him to his senses. Because in asking that question He reveals to Judas that he knows exactly what Judas is doing, that this is a kiss of the utmost hypocrisy, a kiss of betrayal. And if Judas can look at Jesus and say to himself, here's Jesus. He knows what I'm doing. He knows I'm betraying him. And he doesn't strike me. He doesn't seek to avoid me. He doesn't curse me. But he asks me, is that how you are betraying the Son of God? man with a kiss. What better could have brought Judas to his senses? What better could have brought Judas to see what a fool I am to think that I can betray this man who doesn't resist My face betrayal of a Judas. So he was affected by it. He was affected by it to the utmost remorse. He even went out and took his life. committed suicide. But he had rather do that than to bow to the love of Jesus Christ. He would rather lose his life than to acknowledge That he needed Jesus Christ and his sacrifice for him. What about you? Jesus Christ looks at you. And if in this past week or week, You sin as his disciple, you see his tenderness. But if you are not his disciple, Jesus is trying, through this revelation of his tenderness, to bring To your senses before it's too late. He's trying to reach to you and say, I have died for you. My sacrifice is sufficient for all of your sin. Are you going to continue? To walk your own way independent of me, thinking that you can face a holy and just God that last day from your own merits. And Jesus is trying to bring you to your senses. He's trying to woo you, as Romans 2 speaks of the long suffering of God to lead us to repentance. And you see in these examples what Jesus is like. I hope that if you are a disciple of Jesus Christ this morning, that the effect of this will be to help you to feel very secure in his unfailing love and his inexhaustible patience for you. Be honest. Is this how you would picture Jesus would respond to these situations if you didn't know the incidents? I mean you've known the incidents, perhaps for some of you for years. But does it still scroll? Prayer with your understanding of what Jesus is like toward sinners, towards stupid, silly, stubborn disciples who blow it again and again. And then you read what you know and blow Read the tone. The tone of his correction. Don't just read that he shows you you're wrong. But read the tones of Jesus as you see his longing to draw you back. to himself. Listen, none of us is wrong in our understanding of what Jesus is like. Even we correct Luke and say, hey Luke, you didn't get it right. That's not really what Jesus is like. Or we have to correct our own impressions. And we have to say, I've got to reform my thinking to come into conformity with the revelation of what Jesus is really like. And I need to see once again that He eagerly desires my fellowship day by day. When you think about the planet you've got to spend him in his word, do you see that eager desire for your fellowship? Or do you see a God that somehow stands above you and says, you've got to put in that time and I'm going to zap you today. You know, you're going to bang up the car, you're going to float the test, you're going to do this or that. But you didn't put in your time with me. But rather to see the eager desire for your fellowship. Do you see that as you again and again forget the lessons that he's taught, that he's so patient in repeating the same lesson to you, do you see that it's gently warning you against your overconfidence and assuring you that he's there when you finally stumble to draw you back to himself. Do you see that he even understands your laziness? He even understands when you fall asleep spiritually, and you don't hang in there with him, and you give up, and he comes back again to draw you patiently to himself. And there's some here that he's trying to draw to your senses before you destroy yourself in seeking to resist the overwhelming life of Jesus Christ. Whatever your situation. This morning, I bid you. I invite you. Come to Jesus and come to him as he really is for your needs. For he loves you. And he wants to. show you themselves in a fuller way than you've ever seen before, so that in Jesus you might find your rest. Let's pray. Father Jesus, forgive us. Forgive us, Lord, for the way we have distorted your character. Forgive us for Seeing you as stern, seeing you as judging and casting us off, seeing you as unbending, seeing you as one who who is unapproachable. And therefore you have given to us this revelation of yourself in the most extreme of circumstances to show us how utterly tender and compassionate you are. How inexhaustible is your love toward your people. How endless is your patience toward those who belong to you. That none here, who have never bowed to you and given their lives to you, would seek to presume upon that tenderness and that compassion, but they would see that you yourself had to let Let Judas go and destroy himself. And that any outside of you will finally come to utter destruction. But O Lord, help us to see that refuge. that we have in you. Help us to see, Lord, how open you are to us at any point coming back to you. How you long for us to overcome the sins that beset us. Now you're on our side. You're not our adversary. You're the one who is seeking to encourage and teach and strengthen and help us. Oh Lord, help us to overcome the deceit of Satan. But when we would sing, we would want to stay away from you. Because in our alienation we feel like we have to run from you. But O Lord, we pray for any here this morning. They have felt alienated from you. You. That you would draw them back to yourself, that they would see you as you really are, standing at the door and knocking, and that it might open to you, that you would come in, that you would Sit and you would fellowship with us. And you would tell us of yourself that we would find in you our rest. Give us that rest, Lord Jesus. In yourself. We pray. Amen.