Something that came up this morning that uh delayed me in the office uh well beyond what uh normally we would be doing up there. And it uh kept me so long in fact that I was delayed outside, didn't make the beginning of the service. So I got to see how the other half lives around here. Out there in the lobby. For a few minutes. Met my family out there, you know. For one time in a while, you know. And uh you know, I don't know, uh that age you, I don't know, some probably are out there more than others, but I found it really really detracted from my being able to get into the spirit of the worship as I came in to be able to settle down. It was a real loss that I felt in that. And uh I don't know about you, but I think one or two of those kinds of times have really sure that I'm down there before. The other thing that it did was that I know, Tom, you introduced Tom Myers, I imagine, and Jerry, but I didn't know if anybody that listed Glenn Brooks was here. And so uh I just at least would like to make sure that I welcome my good friend Brent Brooks, who's pastor at Race Community Church that meets near where we used to meet, over there in the barn in Oakland Mills. Brent, just lift your hand so they see who you are there. That's Brent. delighted to have you with us, fellowshipping with us this morning. Return in the phaser of our fellowshiping with you. And um Brand is part of our ministerial prayer group and fellowship. We'll be meeting this Thursday. And uh just really cherish his fellowship as a brother. Glad that you can be with us. Now we want to turn our attention to God's Word back into our study of the tenderness and the compassion of Jesus. Chapters 22 and 23. That's amazing, I find, that we can read the Gospels for years and get our image of how Jesus responds to us in our Weakness and our sin and then our stubbornness still becomes more determined by how our human fathers responded to us than by how we see Jesus in the Gospels. By how we see the real Jesus responding. To real people. And so what we're trying to do is to correct our view of Jesus and how he responds to stubborn, foolish disciples. The other thing I've noticed is that we can still read The Gospels for years and see how Jesus responds to the disciples, and yet not make the connection between the fact that even though we see his tenderness and his patience toward them at that time, we still don't make the connection that he's the same today. That he still responds to me in my foolishness and stubbornness and sin, the way he responded back then. Jesus is the same yesterday, today. And forever. And we need to remember that when we see what he's like in the Gospels. And so we're looking at ten incidents. Ten incidents of Jesus when he was under the greatest possible stress. When when he was literally battling hell itself. And how under that kind of stress Jesus responded to his disciples, to those about him who were following him in such foolishness and thoughtlessness. And lastly, if we looked at the first five incidents, we saw that four of those five related to how he responded to his disciples. First of all, we saw his eager desire for their fellowship before he suffered. Long to be with them. Secondly, we saw his patient answer to their thoughtless childishness when after the Lord's Supper they start arguing about who's the big shot in the kingdom. We saw thirdly at that time his gentle rebuke and warning. To Peter in his overconfidence. We saw fourthly his gentle warning to the disciples' laziness in the garden when they fell asleep rather than continue to pray. We saw his gentle answer, his gentle question, excuse me, to the traitor's betrayal, to Judas himself, when he came to betray Jesus. Four of the five of those responses would you? his disciples one to Jews. This morning, in the last five incidents, the focus is just the opposite. In the last part of Luke's account now, the focus is on sinners who are not his disciples. And it's just the reverse. Of the last five, four of those five are towards sinners not his disciples. Only one response now is to the disciple, to Peter again. In fact, in two or three of those cases, they're not only not his followers, they're his enemies. And so now we want to see how Jesus responds to sinners, even to his enemies. That's very important to me because as I was thinking about that this last week. I was reminded again that there are still some of you who are not his disciples. There are still some of you who I believe though you have come here perhaps for weeks or for months. Maybe even for years, who still could not really honestly count yourself as a disciple, a follower like Janet and Martin and Mark say Jesus is every thing to me. You can't really be sure in your own heart that you're following Jesus Christ as your own Lord and your Savior. And so my concern this morning among other things in particular That you will see how Jesus still in this day of grace responds to even his enemies, even to those who are not following him. What offer did he give you still, still, while there's yet time. Let's look then at these last five incidents. And again, because the scripture is so long, I'm just going to pick out the verses as we go along rather than to read it as So let's follow incident by incident as we trace these last five now. First of all, or number six in these incidents, we see Jesus healing his enemy's ear. That there in verse 51, follow along with your bullets and allies. In verse 49, just after Jesus has betrayed, Judas has betrayed Jesus, we read that when Jesus' followers saw what was going to happen, They said, Lord, should we slight with our swords? And one of them struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his right ear. But Jesus answered, No more of this. And he touched the man's ear. And heal me. John chapter 18, verse 10 tells us it was impetuous Peter that cut off his right ear. Interesting, isn't it? But of all the things that were to happen in those next terrible hours. hours of that evening and the next morning and the next afternoon. This was probably the only action that was raised in Jesus' defense and on his behalf. And Jesus himself stops it. He doesn't allow it to continue. Peter, in an impetuous act of bravery and loyalty to Jesus, cuts off the servant's ear. Probably named for his ears, probably named for his head. The other guy was a little too quick and he got his ears. They're standing there in shock. And Jesus heals the ears. There had an enemy, someone who was against you, you knew that they were competing and wanted to go you, to hurt you, to malign you. And uh there are people who are arrayed with them. And then something terrible happens to them. You didn't do it. In fact, you might have even had grace enough to try and stop it if you knew it was going to happen. Once it's happened, how do you find your response? Kind of a secret joy, isn't it, you know? I mean I wouldn't have done it to him, but he you know I it it's kinda hard to be too sad about uh the fact that this guy got his, you know, because Of uh all his meanness and everything. There's kind of a secret gladness in the fact that the one who wanted to do you harm was himself harmed or heard or stopped. But Jesus has such peace. There is such tenderness in him that there is no sense of retaliation, even to the point where the servant of his bitterest enemy, one who has plotted to destroy him, And Jesus sees the man hurting. He doesn't say, Well, you know, Peter I wouldn't have done that, but you know, now that it's done, well just gotta move on, fellas, you know? But he says, No, stop. And he goes out of his way to heal. His enemy's ears. What love. What tenderness? How can you resist such kindness extended in such a situation? The seventh incident. Concerns Peter. This is the only one now to come and get the disciples involved. Now this is interesting. This is the same Peter who just locked off an ear, risking his life for Jesus before the temple book. And now he's standing before a servant girl, and he denies that he ever even knew Jesus. Our session is a fellowship. That's very thing. I think one of the hardest things for me would be if I ever had to work with a session in which there was the kind of tension, in which guys just sort of tolerated each other to get the business done, in which there would differ agenda. There were different priorities, people were going in different directions, and we said, Well, you know, here we are together, and so we've got to make the best of it. And we just go through the business. That's not the way it is with our session. And I think you as a people sense that you've Blessed by that, as you see the fact that we as elders enjoy one another. We're precious to one another. We said on a number of occasions that we want to have the kind of a fellowship where we'd be willing to die for one another, that our relationships are more important. And getting the business time. Of the four elders that I now serve with here, the one that I served with longest is Al Byrkis. I was the only one serving right now who is with me from the beginning on session. And Al and I meet frequently, we share things, uh, we spend holidays together, our families are together. Al was very, very precious to me. And I thought about it, suppose Al and I were gone eight years now in this church together, suppose I was arrested and I was put in to jail but you know the real reason was that I was being persecuted for my faith. And in this situation Al Erkes has called on me. And he's called us to what a real Give me in a situation, or whether he's going to try and disaffiliate himself from it. And now, my dear friend, goes to the point of cursing and doing everything possible. To disassociate himself from even being my friend. And he says, I want nothing to do with that guy. Yeah, I knew him once, but I want nothing to do with him. That would crush me. Absolutely trying to impress me with any of the elders. Did you have situations like that too? What must it have felt like for Jesus to know that after three years living constantly with Peter, pouring everything that he had? Add into him. The times healing his family, living in his home. And see Peter curse and swear and say, I don't even know the man. How does Jesus respond to that? Luke alone tells us this one little detail of how Jesus responded in that situation. In verse 60, beginning in the third denial, Peter replied, I don't know. Even know what you're talking about. And just as he is speaking, the rooster frozen. And this is what Luke uniquely asks. The Lord turned and looked slowly. Straight at Peter. It might have been a distance of 40 or 50 yards. He was in the court. Peter was just outside. But at that point, Jesus turned and he met Peter's eye. There was no hint of malice, no hint of rejection, just a sadness and alone. And that gave Did more to Peter to wake him to his senses than all the oughts and shoulds piled as high as Mount Sinai's law could ever do. And if you and I We've close to Jesus. And his fellowship to us is precious. One book from Jesus when we're in sin, when we're denying him, when we won't, when we're ashamed of him in Don't want to be identified with him. One sense from his word, of his look, of kindness, of tenderness, and of sadness, will be more to bring us to our senses than all the self- Of what we ought to have done and should have done, and all the gift that we may try to lay on ourselves from the law. It's Jesus that brings us to our senses. It's you. Looks straight at us, it awakens our sin and brings us to repentance. From that situation, Jesus is then mocked. He's beaten with fists by the Soldiers. They play a play a crude and callous game of blind man's bluff, blindfolding him and hitting him and saying You're the prophet, tell us who hit you. And they mock his lofty claims, those true lofty claims and twist them to scorn. They put it before Herod, before Pilate, and Pilate finds out that he's a Galilean and therefore under Herod's jurisdiction and sends them off to Herod. And Herod wants to see a magician do some magic at him. And so he's glad for Jesus to be there. But again, you see, Jesus calmness. He doesn't scorn Herod. He doesn't curse him. He doesn't mock him. He doesn't use sarcasm. The scripture says, with his dignified silence, he doesn't answer him a word. He just stands before him. And Herod mocks and scorns Jesus. And then he sends him back. In the gorgeous robe, back to Pilate, who wants to be rid of the whole situation. Pilate can't be rid of it. Pilate wants to be neutral, but he can't be neutral. Perhaps this morning you want to be neutral about Jesus. You say, yeah, you tell me about this stuff and his kindness and fine, that's good. It's just areas of my life I don't want him touching. Things that I want him to keep his hands off of. You can't do it. Like Pilate. You can't be neutral. You either respond to that love and that call, or you reject it. And so Pilate's trapped. And he finally has to turn Jesus over to the crowd to be crucified. And as he goes out from Jerusalem to the place called the skull, we come upon the eighth incident. The eighth incident is his word to the women martyrs. You see in verse 27, a large number of people followed him, including women who mourned and wailed for him. And Jesus turned. Now get the picture before you see the response. Get the picture physically. He's been up all night. He's grown weary. He's been beaten by Roman soldiers about the face with their fists, callous beatings. A crowd of thorns has been jammed down upon his head, then it got into dreaded thirty-nine lashes, a whip with bowl and metal tied into the leather, ripping open the muscles of his back until his whole back is a bloody mass laid open. Tremendous loss of blood, the stinging of the bone, the metal, and the glass in his back. And as he's in that excruciating pain, he now walks out to the cross. Think of this psychological. effects. There's been the emotional exhaustion of the past night, of the mockings and the scorn and the tension, of the constant questioning and the harassment. And then there's the realization that he's walking to the cross. All of hell is unleashing its fullest fury against him. And Jesus is not unacquainted with crucifixion. As a very long view, he made out had seen dozens, perhaps hundreds, of Jews, of mangolens hanging upon crosses. History tells us that at one point, not long before that, eight. hundred Jews were hung on crosses at one time in a mass execution. Every Jew had seen crucifixions. Jesus knows what it's like to watch a man hang for maybe two or three days upon a cross. Dying by inches of dehydration, loss of blood, and inch by inch suffocation. Get some idea of what crucifixion is like. He has at this point no fellowship with his father. He's utterly abandoned, as we saw a couple of weeks ago, by everyone precious to him in the entire universe. And as he's walking out to the cross, There is one word of pity, one word, and it comes from a good woman, smart in Jerusalem, who see this good view who seems to be maligned and And they see what perhaps they see as injustice. We don't really know. They could have been doing it simply out of a custom of watching some Jew go into execution. And it's simply their custom to wail and to mourn for the circumstances. But what Jesus sees of these women who are mourning and wailing for him is entirely different from what I would see. I mean, if I could even begin to picture myself in anything like those circumstances, I would be so grateful for. Any shred of pity, wouldn't you? Somebody should saw mercy in the situation. But in that situation, Jesus doesn't recede and say, well, I sure can use some pity now. But his concern is for death. With his mind reeling with pain, he takes this opportunity for one last voice. To Jerusalem. This is the seventh moral recorded in Luke to Jerusalem. And it's his last statement. And his concern is entirely for them. And so we read that Jesus turned. To them and he says, Taughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me. Can you imagine that? In that situation he said, Don't weep for me. I'm concerned for you. Weep for yourselves and for your children. For the time will come when you will say, Blessed are the barren women, and the wounds that never bore, and the breasts have never nursed. And then they will say to the mountains, Fall on us. Who do they know covers? For if men do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it's dry? He's speaking undoubtedly of that time. Shortly coming of 70 AD, when Jerusalem would be utterly devastated by the Romans. Time of some of the greatest suffering and human atrocities that the history of the world has ever known. And Jesus the same. that time's going to be so terrible that rather than watch your children be slaughtered or possibly eaten, you'd say, Blessed are those that never had children, that they would be delivered from such suffering. Jesus says, That's going to come. Because all you see walking here is a carpenter. And you don't see me as your Lord. You don't see that I have come to save you and to deliver you from sin. And because all you see as a carpenter, a Galilean Jew walking along this road, God's wrath is going to be utterly poured out. So he says, the people seem to ponder over it. If they do this when a tree is green, what will happen when it is dry? Commentators debate and puffle over that. It seems fairly simple to me, but what Jesus is simply saying is, if in fact this is how men can treat men, In a position of prosperity, when they're not under pressure, when they're through crisis, that this is how cruel and indeed people can be to one as innocent as Jesus. What are people going to be like? When they're starving to death, when they're under siege of the Roman army. What kinds of atrocities are people capable of when the tree is dry and crisis and desperation? haunts them. So Jesus is going to with one last cry of his heart. His concern is for them. His concern is for you until that last moment. Before it's too late with your rejection of Jesus Christ and his offer. And until that moment he will plead with you. Don't weep for me. Don't feel sorry for my sufferings. Well, weep for yourself in repentance. Weep for yourself if you refuse the offer of eternal life through Jesus Christ. Then we come to the ninth and say. Mary's place upon the cross. The Romans, who don't even know about the situation, are still callous, cruel, and uncaring, and they're driving with spikes through his hands and his You know it's very easy when you're suffering to be able to focus the suffering, to piggyback to be able to focus your bitterness and your anger upon the instruments. of your suffering, isn't it? My wife, you know, rarely ever gets mad at me, of course. But there was one time, not too long ago, when she was mad at me and she's in Kingdom's Church now, so I I can tell this. But not too long ago she was really frustrated. You know, there were just all kinds of things that were uh going wrong and and uh I came on the scene at the wrong time, you know, and so she uh sort of uh turned little bit of anger on to me, you know, and I it just seemed to me that I wasn't really involved in this whole thing and so I said, Well, why are you mad at me about this? But the response was, Well who else should I get mad at? And I thought, Yeah, that that's the way we are you know. Don't tell her I said that, but I think I had you to tell her she's gonna listen to the tape anyway, she's in children's truth. But that's the way we are, isn't it? There may be something that's frustrating us with a starter suffering and we're anger, but then there's One thing that we can focus that anger upon. It feels so good to just focus that anger on the instrument of our suffering, even though it may have really very little to do with. And so even in that situation of the greatest temptation for Jesus to focus his hatred on those who are actually turning the nails through his hands and his feet. In fact, he so purges that from his mind, that you read there in verse thirty four, that upon the cross he prays. Father, forgive them. But they don't know what they're doing. Jesus said, pray for your enemies. Pray for those that despitefully use you. And that wasn't a hollow teaching. Upon the cross he turned every possible shadow of bitterness into blessing for those to crucify him. But he prayed to say. Heavenly Father, these Romans don't know what they're doing. Don't lay this sin to their charge. And Jesus prayed for his tormentors. John tells us a little later. later on the cross, and he remembered his mother and her needs. And he commissions John to take care of his mother for the rest of her days. Amazing to me that at a time like that He could even think of such a thing. His mind exploding with the pain and the dehydration and the suffocation. Then he comes to the tenth and last incident. is comfort for the thief. Two ths for crucified women. The two things begin by hurling the same insults that the crowd builds. They're an example, I believe, of exactly what I just talked about. Here's Jesus, their minds are filled with frustration and pain and anger and bitterness. And so they turn it to just attach it to Jesus, even though he has nothing to do with it. They turn their anger on him and they say, Yes, if you're who you say you are, why don't you save yourself and us too? But then one of the thieves changes. Something happens, the work of God in his life. And the one thief stops. He comes to his senses and he repents. What's interesting, when that happens, there's no retort from Jesus to repeat it continues to my lion. And one of that Renati, who's just also cursed and yelled at him, well that Antheet turns, and he now says, as you see there in verse 42, he then turns and he says, Jesus, well, back up for a moment so you notice that he does repent. After the cursing that you see there in verse thirty-nine, the other criminal, the other gospels tell us that both had accused him But then verse 40 tells us that the other criminal rebuked him, that is the whole cursing Jesus, and he says, Don't you fear God? Since you're under the same sentence, we're punished justly, for we're getting what our sins deserve. But this man has done nothing wrong. And then he says, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. How easy it would have been for Jesus to say, Oh yeah? Uh, a couple minutes ago, you know, you just cursed me. I mean you talk about death dead crying out, you know. I mean now you think maybe I'm your last hope. Well, too late, buddy. I mean I know what you're doing. You're gonna cover your bases. But at that point, Jesus Jesus can see into his heart, and he understands that his heart is really changed, and there's not a word of rebuke. The only thing that he does, and remember, when every breath is excruciating. The only way Jesus can breathe now is to lift himself up by tearing his muscles against the excruciating driven nails. And the only way he can get a breath now, because the diaphragm works, to lift up to expel the The only way that he can let that air out is to lift himself up on those nails. And you need air to talk. And so these words crush Jesus a great deal. And he Himself up on the nails. And he says to him, I tell you the truth, today you will be with me in paradise. from hell there's the promise of heaven. You will be with me in paradise. And there we come to the very heart of it. The reason a thief can have the hope of being in paradise is because Jesus is right next to him on the cross. And Jesus is on the cross where he doesn't belong. The other man's on the cross Where he does belong, by his own admission. And the only reason that Jesus is hanging there, abandoned by his father, his disciples, the crowds, everyone, is because he's saying, I want you to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to in paradise with me. I want you, and I want you, and I want every one of you to be in paradise with me. I've died for thieves. I've died for adulterers. I've died for liars. I've died for the unfaithful. I've died for those who are bitter and angry and whose lives are twisted by the distortion of trying to get ahead or get even at all of the things. That have turned your life to become everything that you have never wanted it to be when you were a child. And Jesus says, I'm dying on the cross so that you can be with me in paradise. You see, your sin and my sin has deadly effects. But those deadly effects don't just come upon ourselves. Those deadly effects last through eternity. And God has I worded the deadly effects of your sin and my sin onto Jesus. And so those deadly effects have gone from me to him by his choice. Can you spur such a love as that? Jesus died for his enemies, not for his friends, for his enemies. When we finish your mad journal, a fellow by the name of Bob Burton tells about a Japanese mother who was caught in a snowstorm by her home. She had gone outside with a little seven-year-old daughter. And a huge pile of snow had fallen off the roof onto her and buried her, absolutely buried her so she couldn't get out. She wasn't found until a day later, and when they finally dropped them out, there was the bottom. of this mother to Kima wrapped curled around her seven-year-old daughter. The mother was frozen to death. The daughter lived because the mother had given her life to give her warmth. When Bob Bergman told this story, he reflected on the an incident when he was back in a World War Two Union. There were a group of people, veterans, who had gathered together a long time after The war. They're going around sharing their stories. Burton says, came to my tournament, and he says, I told about a grave back in June 17, 1935. When out in the Pacific, I was shot from the neck and left for dead. He said blood was running on the outside of my neck, and it was also running down on the inside, down my windpipe. I had just become a Christian, and so I didn't fear death. He says I wanted to die. He said I felt like I was drowning. The pain was so excruciating, I just prayed that I would die. And so he said, I laid my head back and I tried to die. But I wouldn't die. I couldn't pass out. And then he said a friend of mine came along. And he rescued me and my buddy, and he put us on the back of an old battered tank, and drove us through No Man's Valley. Slaper fire was all about us. We're being shot at from every direction. And this fellow He said, laid his body over my body to protect me. He wasn't shot. He was well. He could have gotten out of there. But he said, This fellow laid his body over mine to protect me from being further wounded. Miraculously. See, he said we got through that valley until the battered up medical unit and my life was saved. When he told the story about twenty years later, in that reunion, the fellow who had laid his body over him was sitting in that room. And he said he turned to that fellow. His name was Bud, and he said, Bud, I want to thank you again for saving my life. But Bud, would you have saved my life if I was your enemy? And he said tears were streaming down Bud's face at that point. And all he could do was shake his head no. And then Bob said, But Jesus gave his life for me, when I was his enemy. Four out of five incidents that you see here, Jesus' response is to his enemies. It's to those who had no use for him. He didn't guard for us because we asked him to do it. We could care less for his sacrifice until he came by his spirit to apply it to us. Paradise. With me, he said. I mean, who would you rather spend eternity with than someone like that? Who's ever loved you like Jesus has loved you? Who's ever demonstrated his love for you? Like Jesus has demonstrated. All see in him, the one to whom you can flee, at any point, whatever you see. See in Jesus, the one that you can go to to correct your view. how he deals with you and responds to you in your sin. And seeing Jesus, your example for how to respond to others in the most aggravating of situations. You get the point? Let's pray. Oh Lord, help us to see in a better light than we've ever seen before what your sacrifice for us foods. Free us from ourselves. Break the hearts of those who continue to resist against you. And Lord, help us to understand what you really like. That we might respond to you. In security and in confidence, in gratitude, in worship. For Jesus' sake. Amen.