The promise may that all you come in faith. So you're the Messiah, are you? He has washed us, He has washed us with His blood. Washed us with this blood, you washed us with this blood, you washed us with this blood, Has secured our way to God. And they carved their names into the doorposts and lintels, we believe, because the Bible says they copied the patterns and the customs of the Egyptians. The thread of life and the thread bread life and the God. We have heard him say, I will destroy this temple made with human hands, and in three days I will build another made without human hands. The high priest tore his clothing, showed his horror, and said, Why do we need other witnesses than this? And Herod happened to be in Jerusalem at the time. With the shining one God high in the glorious golden pity rainy. as well as any of you who may be visiting or even here for the first time who share our faith and our love for the Lord Jesus So we're moving into that portion a little earlier than we had planned. Of the wonder of his love. He replied, As you enter the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. I mean, wouldn't it make more sense to splash the blood on the door so that you can't enter, Angel of Death? in Egypt, many places where there's simply the ruins of houses, but the names are still on the doorposts and on the lintels. So they built mud houses, and on those houses they had stone door posts and lintels. the doorposts and the lintels, they would of course gradually imbibe the superstition that as long as my name is on the doorpost and on the lintel, I will live forever that we live. He had sacrificed a bowl, he took the blood, sprinkled it on the people, and said, This is the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. To receive his body and to receive his blood, given for you, shed for you. That you do not come as the Egyptians superstitiously, thinking, if my name is carved on a doorpost, if I come to this service, if I do this or I do that, then God will bless me. Anything else that you're trusting in other than Jesus Christ and His shed blood for you, but for all of you who come. When he had given thanks, he took bread and he broke it, and he said, This is my body given for you. Promise me that on command says find forgive this cross knowing. After they had that meal, the scripture says that they sang a hymn and then they went out to the Mount of Olives. The first and the fourth verse, you'll hear see them on the screen. And one of them struck at the high priest's slave, slashing off his right ear. Jesus replied, Everyone knows what I teach. Then one of the temple guards standing nearby slapped Jesus across the face. Many false witnesses spoke against him, but they contradicted each other. Aren't you going to answer these charges? They blindfolded him. And then some of them began to spit at him, and they blindfolded him, and they beat him with their fists. And they became insistent. He had long heard about him and had hoped for a time to see him perform a miracle. Then Herod and his soldiers began to mock and ridicule Jesus. Release Quaratus to us. It was nine o'clock in the morning when they crucified him. One of them ran, filled a sponge with sour wine, and holding it up to him on a reed stick, and offered it to him to drink. Drops of blood upon who is this? The word tenebrae means darkness and refers to the fact that after we partake of the Lord's Supper, elements, during the hymn after that, The house lights would normally be gradually extinguished until we're simply lit by the candles. And we will be gradually seeing the lights of the candles extinguished as we go through the story of Jesus' betrayal, his trial, and his crucifixion. because of the nature of the service, but you can of course give designated to the deacon's offering at this Sunday service or any Sunday service. And give us anew a sense of the meaning of his cross. That we might realize anew and afresh the truth of your infinite sacrifice for us. That we will look away from ourselves to be able to see Him, to see what you, Lord Jesus, did for us. We need us when it aren't me, called us by his great and for us, gave us ears and gave us life, he has lost us with his blood. Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples? For I tell you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. Before they left Egypt. We read in Exodus in chapter 12, verse 7. And then verse 13. No destructive plague will touch you when I come and strike Egypt. had to have a number of things preserved. They also believed that their name needed to be preserved. Their names were carved there in order to preserve the name so that the person would be preserved for eternity. And if you wanted to finally do them in, you would obliterate their name. The reason for that was you would carve the name of all the residents onto the doorpost and onto the lintel. That was the superstition of the Egyptians. Because they would live forever, but doesn't bother to ever tell us the name of Pharaoh. So what he says is, it is not that your name is carved on the doorpost or the lintels. And the covenant is described to us in Exodus chapter 24, where God reveals his covenant, reveals his law, and we read in Exodus chapter 24 in verse 8 that God says, Moses then took the blood. So now God says, This blood is blood which is sprinkled on you, and the people say, We will obey the Lord, we will do it. And what he has done for you and for me. Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 2, writing to the saints, you who are sprinkled with his blood. With that hope, with that faith, I warmly encourage you come and receive these signs and seals of the blood of the Passover Lamb. It is the blood of the Lamb over your name that gives you eternal life. Yearning and longing to see something that will catch our attention. That your shed blood is all, all that we need. For the forgiveness of your sins. Having our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed by your blood So Father, we thank you for all this. On the way, Jesus told them, All of you will desert me. The leading priests and Pharisees had given Judas a contingent of Roman soldiers and temple guards to accompany him. Now with blazing torches, lanterns, and weapons, they arrived at the olive grove. Judas walked over to Jesus to greet him with a kiss. Am I some dangerous revolutionary that you come with swords and clubs to arrest me? I was there every day, but this is your moment. First they took him to Annas, the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest at that time. Jesus replied, If I said anything wrong, you must prove it. Then Annas bound Jesus and sent him to Caiaphas, the high priest. Inside the leading priest and the entire high council were trying to find evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. But even then, they didn't get that story straight. And you will see the Son of Man seated in the place of power at God's right hand and coming on the clouds of heaven And Jesus replied, You have said it. But Jesus refused to answer Herod. You brought this man to me, accusing him of leading a revolt. On the point that you accused him of in your presence, and I find him innocent. Herod came to the same conclusion and sent him back to us. Ordered Jesus to be flogged with a lead-tipped whip. Daughters of Jerusalem, don't weep for me. They offered him wine, drugged with myrrh, but he refused it. Two other men, both criminals, were crucified with him, one on his right and one on his left. Who are the ready is for us a plate preparing when away He worshipped God and said, Surely this man was innocent And so, because it was the day of preparation for the Jewish Passover, and since the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus there. You said you were going to destroy the temple, didn't you? The leading priest and the teachers of religious law also mocked Jesus. Let this Messiah, this king of Israel, come down from the cross so we can see it ourselves and believe him. Then at 3 o'clock, Jesus called out in a loud voice, Eyeloi! Which means, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The others said, Let's see whether Elijah comes and takes him down. Who gifts and graces on his chest is pouring down And score numbered with the malice factors. Good evening. And serve the Lord Jesus, we come filled by your Spirit. It's also why you find among a number of monuments and pillars names that have been gouged out, chiseled out, scrubbed out, because those are the people you didn't like. Back in Egypt. It's better that one man should die for the people. And when all the crowd that came to see the crucifixion saw what had happened, they went home in deep sorrow. Despite rejected, mocked in soul to be found. At the point where we come to Jesus' death, the last candle will be extinguished, and we will be plunged into total darkness in order to help us to feel Remember again that the purpose of the readings, of the music, of the sights, the sounds is not for entertainment. I wish I had been able to think about this more. And so, Lord, even with the possible distraction of the lack of light right now, help us to focus on you. Jesus sent Peter and John saying, Go and make preparations for us to eat the Passover. They left and found things just as Jesus had told them. Gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, This is my body given for you. In the same way, after the supper, he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. Do not look to anything you did. Any of us as children can understand that. And so we come now. For your sins. And he gave him the kiss. And he touched the man's ear and healed him. And they grabbed Jesus and arrested him. Why do you ask me this question? Meanwhile, Peter followed at a distance, and he went right into the high priest's courtyard, and there he sat with the guards, warming himself by the fire. When they said that he was Galilean, Pilate sent him to Herod Antipas, because Galilee was under Herod's jurisdiction. Now Herod and Pilate, who had been enemies before, became friends that very day But Jesus' friends, including the women who had followed him from Galilee, stood at a distance watching. He bowed his head and gave up his spirit Born with mail and brown with morn. The powers of darkness that seemed to have victory at that point. Take advantage of that opportunity. And meet with us, we pray, in Jesus' name. We remember other times, Lord, where our minds were riveted on you because you captured our hearts. Be a thought of night to God. That way, when the house either burned down, collapsed, whatever happened, the house might be destroyed, but your name would endure forever. I come tonight to treasure Jesus, to rejoice that I am under his blood in that literal way that God taught his people. The Passover Lamb comes for you and for me to renew that covenant. The holy place by the blood of Jesus shed for us, by the body of Jesus broken for us. And we know light that will last forever. He makes me lie down in green pastures. Surely, goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. But after I am raised from the dead, I will go ahead of you to Galilee and meet you there. Then you can take him away under guard. Would you betray the Son of Man with a kiss? A large crowd trailed behind them, including many grief-stricken women. And the soldiers gambled for his clothes by throwing dice The place of crucifixion was near a garden. Even the men who were crucified with Jesus ridiculed him. Even when you've been sentenced to die, we deserve to die for our crimes. Who shall die in the holy dungeon The central candle will be relit as a symbol of the promise of the hope of Easter Dawn. Remember again, and also that the chairs can remain here, so we don't have to take those down for Sunday. But it is in order for you and for me to feel more deeply the reality of Jesus giving his life Shedding his blood for you and for me. So we pray, Lord. He has washed us with his blood. And justice, join and point to mercy store. I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you, here before I suffer, for I tell you that I will not eat it again until it finds fulfillment in the kingdom of God. After taking the cup, he gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among you. Every Jew knew that that lamb was there for them to relive the Passover, to relive the original Passover lamb that Moses had commanded to be sacrificed. The answer to that is very important, and I hope will provide for you some grist for meditation as we come to take the cup and hold the bread. Except for the doorposts and the lintels, whether you were poor or whether you were rich. And that's why Jesus comes on that night of the Passover, and he says, I am bringing to you the blood of a new covenant. Jesus is showing them that he is the Passover Lamb. And you look to have peace with God. And the gospel comes to you and it says, do not look to march in how you lived or how you didn't live. Is my name under the blood of the Lamb? There is not at this particular service testimonies or sharing or anything else, but simply looking to Jesus. Are at rest and at peace with him. The only blessing is in the blood of the Lamb. Shed for you. And rivet our attention upon Jesus. With the elder serving, please come forward. This meal, and for all that it means to us. We pray that you would help us to feel more deeply the reality of what Jesus experienced on the cross for us. He cried out in anguish, and we worship you in singing. I call you following the step of life, and honor Haven. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Peter said to him, Even if everyone else deserts you, I never will. This very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny three times that you even know me. No! And the high priest asked him, Are you the Messiah, the Son of the Blessed One? Guilty, they all cried. So, I will have him flogged, and then I will release him. In order to pacify the crowd, Pilate ordered Barabbas to be released. Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. I tell you the truth. All his clothes beneath his roam And the guards slapped him as they took him away. And remember that when you leave, don't talk right outside the doors because you will be heard. And continue if you're going to talk, talk somewhere away. I want for us to think, did you ever wonder why the blood had to be painted on the doorpost and the little the crossbar of their homes? Has done nothing wrong. Into your hands I commit my spirit. And when you do leave, please let me remind you to leave quietly for those that are still worshiping here. We come from a busy day, a busy week, and some of us are thinking, oh yeah, that's right, this is Good Friday. Judas, the betrayer, knew the grove of olive trees because Jesus had often gone there with his disciples. It is finished. Then there will be one final scripture, and you can then continue to worship. Now, the people of Egypt made their houses all the same material. So when the Hebrews came to live in Egypt, they copied the houses after the pattern of the Egyptians. This is why, for instance, you notice that when Moses writes the account of the Exodus, he carefully preserves the names of the midwives. This new covenant, Luke 22, says in verse 20: This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. That you use the superstitious custom of the Egyptians to 1300 years or so before Jesus came and shed his blood to teach your people. And since you are our great high priest, we draw near with sincere hearts and full assurance of faith. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. The traitor, Judas, had given them a pre-arranged signal. And they brought Jesus to a place called Golgotha, which means place of the skull. So when they took the blood of the Passover lamb, it was not on the door. If you care to meditate on the scriptures that I shared while you're holding the cup, it was Exodus chapter 12, verse 7, verse 13, and Exodus 24, 8. And so likewise after the bread he took the cup and he said, This cup. Now, Elder Rick Belavo will lead us in giving thanks to God for his unspeakable gift. And here we enjoyed this drink in this meal And our tears, which are so so small by comparison, are made dry. Over sin and take and pray. Jesus celebrated the Passover with his disciples, which meant that there was a roasted lamb that had just been sacrificed lying on the table. By this new and living way which you inaugurated and we celebrate tonight, that is your flesh broken for us, and your blood shed for us. But most of all, he was crushed by his loving Heavenly Father that we might be called sons of the living God. Father in heaven, thank you so much for what you have done for us at the cross. We drained us up that all may and the knife. Before we um put out all the house lights, we're gonna stand and sing. Egypt had a very strong belief in eternal life. Before the Lamb who bears in the way playing for us And we remember the Who is this? He was cast off that we might draw near. Lord, we are people who have short memories, and we are people who get so easily distracted. Rocky sadly life hard way unless we signing with But he is causing riots by his teaching, wherever he goes, all over Judea, from Galilee to Jerusalem. So we come to the cross and see again. Even if I have to die with you, I will never deny you. Remember me when you come into your kingdom. Then came the day of unleavened bread on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. The people passing by shouted abuse, shaking their heads in mockery. And we ask you, Lord Jesus, come, meet with us, show us again. We hold the land are in the way painful And we remember the We have all experienced services where we may not even remember what happened the last 15 minutes. Prophesy to us, who hit you that time? Do not look to any superstitious thing that says, this helps me to know the presence of God. Can I am the Prove it then. When God brings his people out from Egypt, he makes a covenant with him. We thank you for Christ. Welcome to our Good Friday Tenebrae service. Jesus crossed the Kidron Valley with his disciples and entered a grove of olive trees. Let us know everything and wonder. Father, we are so unworthy of this, and we are so thankful to you for it. And so with camefulness and take we write to the small and to remember. The blood of the Lamb, you remember, had to be painted on the doorposts and the lintels of each of their homes. You want to be reassured that you will have his presence, his comfort for you in this month of April. What do you have to say for yourself? Let's stand together. Let's pray. The mob shouted louder and louder, demanding that Jesus be crucified, and their voices prevailed. Amen. All of you, drink of it. We have so little opportunity to just be quiet and to realize that we're in the Lord's presence. The blood will be a sign for you on the houses where you are, and when I see the blood, I will pass over you He deserves to die. And rebuild it in three days? Any of us here tonight, however distracted, however much our minds are Save yourself. At noon, darkness fell across the whole land until three o'clock. The blood that commands every day of shed for you. Ask those who heard me. Who is there can hang the night while the mood world's cough? A sign was fastened to the cross, announcing the charge against him. And it's in his name that we pray. And two of the most prominent are that their body needed to be preserved. Behold the Lamb. He leads me beside still waters. But we come now, those of us, Lord, who hear love God, when he comes to redeem his people, wants to begin to teach them the gospel. Please be seated So they prepared the Passover. A crowd approached, led by Judas, one of the twelve disciples I have preached regularly in the synagogues and in the temple. Meanwhile, the leading priests and the teachers of the law stood there shouting their accusations. And a single temptation ready not to bear us down for the Lord of Trump. Today you will be with me in paradise. Take, eat, this is my body, which is given for you Save us too while you're at it. But what lights there are will be extinguished. And as we now observe this dramatic presentation of the gospel of the cross. Lord, you give it to us. Is that the way to answer the high priest? And then he said to Jesus, Jesus He has washed us with his blood. I forgot this at the cross. So the soldiers, the commanding officer, the temple guards arrested Jesus and tied him up Amen. We are under the blood. Around the table of the king. This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. Father in heaven, Lord Jesus Christ, thank you for So I invite you. Ha ha ha! Weep for yourselves and for your children. For we pray it in his name. Finally, some men stood up and gave this false testimony Herod was delighted at the opportunity to see Jesus. Finally, they put a royal robe on Jesus and sent him back to Pilate. I have examined him thoroughly Behold him shedding They would no longer exist in Egyptian belief. When the other disciples saw what was about to happen, they exclaimed, Lord, should we fight? It was on their carved names, on the doorposts and the lintels, to teach them, it is only by the blood of the Lamb. Nothing that this man has done calls for the death penalty. Let me read from God's Word, Luke chapter twenty-two, verses seven to twenty-two. He will show you a large upper room, all furnished. Then they are to take some of the blood and put it on the sides and tops of the door frames of the houses, where they eat the lamb. And so our Lord Jesus Christ, on the night in which he was betrayed, And that's why archaeologists find to this day many monuments and pillars with names carved in them. And you receive that as one who trusts him. The high priest stood up before the others, and he asked Jesus, Pilate turned to the leading priest, to the crowd even, and said, I find nothing wrong with this man. The guards in charge of Jesus began to mock and beat him. Guilty There was a new tomb there, never used before. This is the new covenant in my blood. Caiaphas was the one who had told the other Jewish leaders. Inside, the high priest began to ask Jesus about his followers and what he had been teaching them. So Pilate then asked Jesus, Are you the king of the Jews? Let's pray For the scriptures say, God will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. But Jesus said, No more of this. They know what I have said. Eloy, Lamasabhaksanai! You anoint my head with oil. But Jesus said, Judas. But Jesus was silent and made no reply And they hurled all sorts of terrible insults. You will know which one to arrest when I greet him with a kiss. Well, then save yourself and come down from the cross. And then Jesus called out with a loud voice, Father Let through grace and Christ are trusted. When the Roman officer, overseeing the execution, saw what had happened. He saved others, but he can't save himself. Follow him to the house that he re enters, and say to the owner of the house, the teacher asked, If the blood of the Lamb is upon my name, and it is written in the Lamb's book of life, Then Jesus spoke to the leading priest, to the captain of the temple guard, to the elders who had come for him. And then he turned him over to the Roman soldiers to be crucified. And you would speak peace to our souls. Judas walked up to Jesus. There will not be a deacon's offering taken up or boxes in the rear They took Jesus to the high priest's home, where the leading priests, the elders, and the teachers of religious law had gathered. He wept tears that we will never weep Amen. And we trust in your Spirit to take our hearts. We're going to sing the tune that the ladies have uh given to us tonight. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. And that's why at Tenebrae But I warn you May the Lord meet us They believed that the person, in order to live in the afterlife forever Let us praise our Savior's name. I invite you to come The time when the power of darkness reigns. Pilate called together the leading priest and the other religious leaders along with the people. Welcome to those of you, brothers and sisters of our Lord Jesus Christ, Columbia Presbyterian. So when the Israelites lived in these houses and carved their names on Some of the bystanders misunderstood, thought he was calling for the prophet Elijah. And he took bread. He was desperately thirsty. He has washed us with His blood. What a vivid picture This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. Then the soldiers nailed him to the cross And with that But if I am speaking the truth, then why do you beat me? He asked Jesus question after question. But Jesus turned and he said to them, One of the criminals hanging beside him scoffed at him. Where do you want us to prepare it? It was mud bricks and stone doorposts and lintel. This picture of the blood of the Passover Lamb He restores my soul. Why didn't you arrest me in the temple? You have all heard his blasphemy. In the God who lived forever So you come here, 2010, beginning of April. He knew darkness that we will never ever experience. But the other criminal protested, Don't you even fear God? So either go downstairs or go outside. Because of what you have done, we have confidence to enter Ha! After a song And Jesus replied, I tell you the truth, Peter. Then Pilate When the hour came, Jesus and his apostles reclined at the table, and he said to them, But a mighty roar rose from the crowd. And we pray for the latter tonight in this service that you will show us Christ. Give our God our glorious Savior. Due to a technical problem, there are almost no house lights. It is the blood of the Lamb on your name that gives you eternal life. We love you and rejoice in that truth. And all the others vowed the same. My cup overflows. And Jesus said, I am Our minds drifted. That's why all the focus on mummification For you are with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me. Together and sing Do this in remembrance of me Oh, Lord Jesus, how amazing is your word. Look at you now! He presents our soul to God. Jesus said, Why on the doorposts? Do not come if there's any superstitious hope. And Jesus replied The people gather. Prophesy to us. Oh he is Galilean? Make preparations there. So as we come tonight It read, The King of the Jews. Rabbi! They're all made out of mud bricks. But they could not find any. But this man They asked There is only one question, brothers and sisters, that you ask. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. From Hebrews 10. It's a pleasant evening. And they find Amen. I have not spoken in secret. Just as miles and ask no more. But of course we know they didn't. What is then the verdict? Why on the lintel? Wait He has used the Lord Matana. We brought swords With one voice they shouted, Kill him! I don't love the Lord who brought up. He has washed us with His blood. He announced his verdict. Tis our God Pilate asked. They failed miserably. Uh So we dead. Drink and remember