Perhaps you've heard the story about the twelve-year-old boy who couldn't speak. He had never uttered a single word. And then when he was served oatmeal for seven days straight, he finally blurted out, Yuck! I hate oatmeal His mother was overwhelmed. She reached, grabbed him, held him. Son, son, you can speak. We thought you couldn't talk. Why didn't you ever say anything to us? And he said, up till now everything's been okay. So much easier to criticize than to express thanks, isn't it? I think of the sailor who plunged into the cold waters of Plymouth Harbor to rescue a little boy from drowning. He pulled him out and a few days later he was going down the street and came upon the mother with a little son and she was tugging at him. I think that's him And the mother came up to him and said, Are you the one that pulled my son out of the waters? And he grinned, saluted, said, Yes, ma'am, wondering how he would respond to her gratitude. All she said was, So where's his cap? So it's Thanksgiving week We have a custom here of taking a break from the usual exposition to have some particular special sermons on the holidays. And this week, I mean this year in our messianic series, messianic prophecies, we are going to be looking at the books of Hosea and Joel. And so I would like to urge you to this week. Look through, read the book of Hosea. It will really help you in understanding the message next week It'll only take you about a half hour. Fit it in to your schedule somewhere. It'll be worth it. Then next week we resume the sermon discussion. So if you want to come an hour early for that or any other classes, I invite you to do that too. So Thanksgiving. When you think of Columbia Presbyterian Church and the people who are part of our congregation, what's your honest first reaction? Is it thanksgiving and joy, or is it to feel critical Is it to be more aware immediately what comes to mind are our deficiencies, the things that need improvement The people that you don't like, some specific irritations that you may have suffered or hurt You feel critical. And perhaps you express that criticism to people who want to listen. It has an effect. I still remember many years ago being at a conference and I was rooming with a speaker whose name most of you would recognize. And as we were talking, we were talking about our families, and he got very sad and sobered, teared up as he told me about a couple of his kids who were not going on with the Lord And said that he traced it back to critical attitudes that he and his wife had against the church they were part of, that turned their kids against the church. And through that against spiritual things in the Lord. So when I read Paul's Words to the Philippians in Philippians chapter 1. I have found myself very convicted because I too can often find my initial reactions in thinking either about our church or particular people, to be more aware of the flaws, of the things that need improvement, than to be thankful. And so when I read Philippians 1. 3, I thank my God every time I remember you I'm convicted. And I offer to you this morning some thoughts out of that conviction and repentance and coming before the Lord. And some lessons from Paul's example in his words here in Philippians 1, verses 3 to 8. He says, I thank my God every time I remember you. Now, that's not because the church at Philippi was a perfect church. You notice that as Tim read those scriptures from his letter to the Romans, to the Colossians, to the Thessalonians, that Paul Most often began with thanksgiving concerning the congregations that he was ministering to It's not because those churches were without their flaws. In fact, one of the things that's kind of interesting to me is it's not a perfunctory thing because when he starts the letter to Galatians, he doesn't start with Thanksgiving. He starts right in with the issues. But the Philippian church was not a perfect church. In fact, in just a few verses, he's going to talk about those people who, in jealousy and in mean-spiritedness, or seeking to add to his burdens while he's writing in chains in prison. Later on he talks about two women who can't agree and are out to prove that the other one is wrong. Not a perfect church. But he says, I thank my God every time I remember you. I would like for us to notice three things from these verses, verses 3 to 8, as we come upon Thanksgiving week. First of all, notice the fact of his thanksgiving for them and its connection to prayer. Excuse me. You notice he says, I thank my God, every time I remember you, whenever I remember you. It's not just his mood. When I'm feeling up on top of my game, then I can be thankful for you. There's other times when I'd rather not think about you. He says, whenever I think about you. I thank my God. And notice that that feeling of thankfulness leads to prayer, prayer with joy. In all my prayers for you, for all of you. I always pray with joy. There's a connection, you see. If you if you feel critical about Columbia Presbyterian, you're not very likely to pray for Columbia Presbyterian. If you feel critical about certain people in our congregation, you're not very likely to pray about them Now the Bible tells us that we should pray for our enemies, so you shouldn't be controlled by your feelings in that, but the fact is we're dominated in our thoughts of critical feelings about person, people, group, church, congregation, leadership, whatever, you're not very likely to enter into prayer with joy for them. But you don't just kind of say, yep, I ought to feel thankful, I ought to feel joyful, I'll just kind of make it happen. How does that happen? So the next two verses, Paul gives two reasons why he feels thanksgiving for them. Second point, his reasons for thanksgiving in verses 5 and 6. First reason is their fellowship in the gospel. You see in verse 5, because of your partnership. Same word koin and e of fellowship in the gospel from the first day till now. That is, he's saying they're joined together. by something that is far more important than any of the petty annoyances, in any of the deficiencies that there may be in their relationship or in the people that he sees. We fellowship in the gospel. And that fellowship, that partnership he's talking about in the larger context of the Philippians is not simply talking about we fellowship in the good news of the gospel and how it has changed us, the preciousness of that gospel, but also in the dissemination of that gospel. in the seeking to make that gospel be known. We are caught up not only in the good news of the gospel, but in the great commission of disseminating that gospel to Philippi or Howard County or wherever it is. It is something that binds us together. And he says that sense that you and I are together in that causes me to be very thankful for you. I'm so thankful that you and I are partners in that. But secondly, in verse 6, he gives another reason that I think is a critical reason for us to take to heart in our own lives. The second reason is his confidence that God is working in their lives. Being confident of this That he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. God has begun a good work in you through the gospel. God is going to continue that work, and I am confident that when the last chapter is written, you will be triumphant. You will be in fact complete in Christ and you will look like Jesus Christ. Do you have that confidence about your husband or your wife or your kids? I'm confident that God is at work in my wife, my husband, my kids, my friends, people in my small group. I know that he has begun a work in them. Sure, there's deficiency, sure there's things that irritate me, but the fact is I am seeing something that he is doing. And that is what controls my thinking more than the problems. Could you say to the person sitting on your right or on your left, whoever it is right now? I'm confident that God who has begun a good work in you is going to bring it to completion in the day of Jesus Christ. Now I was thinking of having you do that. Person on your right, person on your left. But I know what would happen. Somebody would say to me, I didn't even know if the person on my right was a Christian. How could I tell them I was confident God's going to bring a good Yeah, yeah, I know, I know. But let's let's just assume for a moment, because I'm not going to have you do it, so relax, okay? But assume for a moment that you know that the person to your right is a Christian or the person to your left, could you say that? Is that something that controls your thinking? I know that God, who began a good work in you, is going to bring that work to completion in the day of Jesus Christ. And I'm thankful to God for you. I'm thankful as I see that work making its progress in your life. Or are we so often not thankful? Because we simply focus on their flaws. Now the interesting thing is, you see That when I think about your work or you think about this other person on your right or on your left, you say, Yeah, but if only you wouldn't be so defensive But if only you wouldn't be so controlling, if only you wouldn't be so mouthy See, I tend to see myself as a work in progress. And I tend to look at you like a snapshot of what you are is what you will always be. That's so unfair. I can look back and I can see that God has been at work in me and I'm struggling with the same sins, but praise God, many of them are at a deeper level. Now, I've mentioned to you that I teach at a couple of seminaries, and most of the students that I have have been pastors for a number of years. And I need to tell you that of all the years I've I've been teaching since 1990, of all the years that I have been teaching I have never found a church where there are three teaching elders who have been teaching together for 10 and 20 years in the same church. But that's the situation we have here at Columbia Presbyterian. Ten years with Tim, 20 years with Steve. And I can honestly say to you that I am thankful for those brothers because even though if you pushed us, don't do it, but if you pushed us, we could tell you Some of our deepest sins. I know those guys. They know me. And we could say, yeah, I know what he's like under pressure, or I know what he how he reacts. But the fact is, I can honestly say to you, they are not the same as they were five, ten, twenty years ago. I'm not the same, I hope. I hope they'd say that, but I can tell you They're not the same. I have seen God's work of grace in progress in their lives And I am profoundly thankful to God for them and the work he's doing in them. You feel that way about the people that are close to you in your Christian walk? Do you see God's work in them and track it? And are joyful in it and are thankful for it? And then thirdly, do you express it to them? The third thing is his passion for them. His passion for them in verses 7 and 8, again, there's two points. Here he addresses them directly. And the first thing you notice that he says is that you are in my heart. It is right for me to feel this way about all of you, since I have you in my heart. For whether I am in chains or defending and confirming the gospel, all of you share in God's grace with me. You see, Paul is not like the Greek Stoics. He's passionate in his expression of love for the Philippians. Sometimes we are so reserved, aren't we? I don't know quite why it is that people look at the reformed segment of the Church of Christ and see people who seem to be more reserved in the expression of their love and passion for one another. That's not biblical. People look at Paul as if he was an aloof theologian who was more interested in precision than relationships. But that's not what you read in these verses. Paul says, I have you in my heart. Paul's saying basically, whether I'm out there contending for the gospel or whether I'm here rotting in chains in this prison. Our relationship helps me to carry on and continue in faithfulness because he says you are sharing God's grace with me. Our relationship matters to me. I have you guys in my heart. And the second thing, that he says is he expresses the very affection of Christ for them. I long for you, he says With the affection of Christ. God can testify how I long for all of you with the affection of Jesus Christ. Remember the last time you told some Christian, even somebody in your family, you know, I long for you. As I think of the affection of Jesus for me, I want to reflect that affection to you. Because you're precious to me. You really matter to me. When I think about the tough times that we have and how difficult it is to walk as a Christian. And I'm criticized at work or we go through difficult times together. your encouragement, your support really matters to me. And I find that the people that I feel closest to are often people I've gone through tough times with. This morning I was talking to the Discoverers class about 1983 and 84 when we were kicked out of the meeting house. And some of us that had gone through the for the fellowship of that difficult time, that's precious in our connection together as Christians. And we hear about what's going on now and somebody saying we're running an illegal school and we're going to be appealing in the Court of Appeals on December the first forth. And for those of you that are there as we go through that and we see God work through this, it strengthens the bond of our connection in the gospel, doesn't it? Some of you guys I've known 15, 20, 25, 30 years. And I'm profoundly thankful for you. I have you in my heart. I can't imagine going on in my life beyond CPC to the next ministry, whatever God has for us. This is not an announcement about retirement, but Sometime moving on, very difficult for me to imagine not being part of this congregation. I have you in my heart. Times that we've been through together. And those times profoundly outweigh the times of disagreement and irritation and annoyance, don't they? You see, Paul goes into the problems that he had there. He verse 15. He says, It's true that some preach Christ out of envy and rivalry, others out of goodwill. Verse 17 The former preach Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely supposing they can stir up trouble for me while I'm in chains. He's realistic about that But he still says about them, every time I think of you, I am thankful to God for you. I pray for all of you. With joy. My thanksgiving prompts me to pray for you. He says in chapter 4, in verse 2, I plead with you, Odiah, and I plead with Sankati. To agree with each other in the Lord. Yes, and I ask you, loyal yoke fella, help these women who have contended at my side in the cause of the gospel, along with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are written. in the book of life. Sure, they're stirring up trouble, sure they're causing disagreement, sure they're a a pain at this point, but you know what They have labored faithfully with me. Their names are in the book of life. God has begun a good work in them. I am confident he's going to bring that work to completion. Haven't seen the last chapter, help them on their way. Help them in this time of difficulty right now. Get the bigger picture. The bigger picture of your brothers and your sisters at Columbia Presbyterian. To be able to say, by God's grace, I'm thankful to God whenever I think about you God has knit our hearts together. So learn three things from this. Number one, Notice that Paul's thanksgiving is to God for them. It's not to them. It is to God for them because every reason and expression has its source in God. I am not saying that it's wrong to thank one another. There are many times when we are grateful to one another. I appreciate what you did. Thank you very much for that. I thank you guys for supporting me and our family through 30 years, paying my salary. Thank you very much. Much more profound, you see, is I'm thankful to God for you. Why is that important? Because if I'm simply thankful to you, then it depends on what you do. And if you've been nice and done something nice for me recently, then I'll be thankful to you. But the bigger picture is that I am thankful to God for you because Jesus Christ died for you as he died for me. That meant that your sins are forgiven because of Jesus Christ if you have received him. God has therefore begun a work in you, and that work transcends what you're doing right now. You may be right now Walking closely with the Lord, or you're resisting and fighting, and you're not very close to him. But I'm thankful to God for you because his work will triumph in your life. So he's thankful to God for them because the foundation of his thanks is the gospel. It's the work of God in them and through them. Secondly Learn from this that his thanks are joined with prayer. Verse 3 is connected to verse 4. I thank God whenever I think of you, and so I pray for you with joy. And as I said before, you're not very likely to pray for a person that you're not very thankful for. In verses 9 to 11, he elaborates on what that prayer is. We read it uh earlier. Let me just sum it up because it's one of those Pauline sentences you can sort of lose track. If you just read it. But basically what he is saying is, I am praying that your love will grow in discernment of what the basic values of life are. That your love will grow in discernment so that you will know the things to choose in how to walk and how to live, and that righteousness will flourish in your life so that you become more like Jesus. That's what I'm praying. And you know what? Paul's saying, I know that's ultimately going to happen. So because I'm thankful for you, that releases in my spirit The desire to pray with confidence for God's work in you. If you are critical of CPC, its leadership, its people, Then my guess is you are probably not praying very often, very confidently, for us. So you and I need to look at these verses and say, Lord Maybe the reason I'm not so drawn to pray for my brothers and sisters is because I'm not thankful for them. And you need to change my heart. To make me thankful to you for them in my life. To focus on what you are doing in them rather than what they are messing up in that process. Finally, the third thing. He tells them how he feels. And you and I need to emulate that. Though his thanks are primarily directed to God for them, he also communicates his gratitude to them, as I said in verses 7 and 8, and how precious they are to him. I would suggest you consider memorizing verses 3 to 8 and go through in repentance and faith, verse by verse, Lord, what is this saying? What are you telling me? You see the threefold progression there. Thanks prompts prayer, prompts telling. That I start with the gospel. Looking at the work of Christ and see what I'm to be thankful for, how that prompts me to pray for the progress of that work And that prompts me to tell the person how precious they are to me. And one of the best ways to do that is through notes. We can do it verbally. We should do it more verbally. I should do it more verbally. You should do it more verbally. Some of you do it more than others. But the power of notes continues to amaze me. How the receiving of a note, whenever I've sent a note, it's always amazing. In fact, over the years I've learned I used to think when I sent a note that the Holy Spirit had divinely timed that note to come to that person's life on just the right day when they needed it. And maybe that still continues to be true, but so many people have said, I needed that note on just that time. that I've sort of begun to think, I think we probably simply need it more than we realize This last week, I was listening to the news, and I listened for a half hour, and I noticed that in the half hour of news that I listened to, 99% of it, all but two sentences, was about finances. And 100% of what was about finances was negative. It was all bad news. And it reminded me of a clipping that I've kept for several years. That came from an incident in the Great Depression. This has meant so much to me, I'm going to give it to you in his own words. Dr. William Stigger relates that one evening during the Great Depression of the 1930s, he was discussing the general situation with some friends. The outlook was gloomy. Banks were closed. Thousands were out of work. Men by the scores faced with the collapse of their paper fortunes were taking their own lives. There isn't much to be thankful for, one of the company remarked. Dr. Stinger said, Well, I for one am grateful for Mrs. Went. He explained that Mrs. Wendt was a schoolteacher who 30 years before had gone out of her way to encourage him. Did you ever thank her? Someone queried. Dr. Stinger admitted that he never had. But that evening he sat down and he wrote her a note. In a few weeks, a reply to his letter arrived written in the shaky hand of an aged person. Here's what the letter said. My dear Willie. I want you to know what your note meant for me. I am an old lady in my 80s, living alone in a small room, cooking my own meals, lonely. and seemingly like the last leaf on the tree. You will be interested to know, Willie, that I taught school for fifty years And in all that time, yours is the first letter of appreciation I have ever received. It came on a blue cold morning, and it cheered my lonely old heart, as nothing has cheered me in many years. Not long ago, I read about a plane that went down in the Pacific. On that plane was a Japanese man. who realized that he was about to die, and pulled out some paper and wrote a note of appreciation to his family. They found it on him when they pulled the plane up. And the thought was, why did it take going down in a plane to prompt a note of thanks? This week is Thanksgiving. By God's grace, you and I have more time. Time to reflect on the gospel. That gives us cause to be thankful for one another in our lives. To pray out of that thanksgiving for one another. And to think of one or two people this week that perhaps could use a note of encouragement of your thankfulness for their lives. And the expression of that directly to them. Let's pray Lord, we are in the core of our hearts by our own Being very ungrateful people. Romans 1 tells us that is one of the basic core sins of our hearts. We are ungrateful We're not only ungrateful to you, we are ungrateful to you for other people so often. We see them apart from your work in them. We see even our brothers and sisters in Christ apart from the gospel. And we grumble and we complain and we criticize. Lord help us to see from Paul, who never said things just for the effect that his heart was grateful to you. For sinners, some who even hurt him directly, to see their partnership with him in the gospel Lord, open our eyes to see the partnership that we share together as Columbia Presbyterian, as part of the church here in Howard County. The partnership that we have in the grace of Jesus Christ begun and continuing to work in us together. And in that hope of its completion, in that last day. Prompt us, Lord, to be grateful for one another as we see that work. To pray more for one another out of hope in the completion of that work. And to be willing, Lord, yes, even to tell. Some people. People that you speak to us now that we have neglected expressing our appreciation for. That we might communicate this week. I'm thankful to you, for you. I have you in my heart. You're precious to me. For that's gospel. And that is simply by the grace of Christ to work in people like us That you would make Columbia Presbyterian a more grateful congregation. In Jesus' name. Amen