A time when the Lord is going to send a shoot from the stump of Jessica, from his roof, a branch, is going to appear out of something that seems dead There's going to be an abundant supply of salvation. I will pour water swings on the dry ground, and I will pour out my spirit on your offsprings, my blessings on your defenses. So that the psalmist says, give thanks to the Lord, because he's brought us out of Egypt and He's established us in the land of Canaan. You and I call on his name. You this morning sing the songs of salvation. I think of an article in Houston just a few months back called Behold the Preacher. And the story goes on to tell about the preachers giving thanks. When have I promised you unbroken bonds with family or friends? Remember my sons, Jesus. It confirmed my soul's God's love and my interest in him. So that we're one of the most powerful nations on earth. What David talking about? Sing for joy, you people of Zion, for great is the holy one of Israel alone. Psalm 105 is a theological interpretation of Israel's history from Abraham to the settling in the land of Canaan. And I want you to be able to follow along with understanding as we read this beautiful hymn of thanksgiving to God. We give praise to God for all his wondrous works. The word that he commanded for a thousand generations, the covenant he made with Abraham, the oath that he swore to Isaac, confirmed it to Jacob as a decree, to Israel as an everlasting covenant, to you. It's the Christian of the fulfillment of that promise. Which went up into the bedrooms of their ruins, spoke, and there came swarms of flocks that nest throughout the country, turned their rain into hail Because the bread of Israel had fallen on you. Indeed, this one verse, we see the relationship, the connection between Thanksgiving, prayer, and evangelism. out of that land. You know me to bring out my city. And you will be our comfort in our salvation. Verse eleven. in a sun support flame. You'll come out aside. Certified faith, you and I might sing the song of salvation then. In order that in that the blessing given to Abram in Psalm 105, I promise to use a kingdom Because of our sin. We do not enjoy the comfort of this woman. Remember the wonders that he has done, his miracles, the judgments that he found. He is the Lord our God, and his judgments are in all the earth. The promise that he made to the land and his people. U and D, lazy men, they wander from nation to nation, from one danger to another. And verses 16 to 22 tell about how Joseph went down into Egypt. How God judged Jesus with a place to deliver. on three significant occasions of Thanksgiving. Give our minds to some meditation on a verse of thanksgiving. And that we want to give thanks to the Lord because He's done something impossible. And the land has now been settled. God on that season. 400 years after that. Call on his name, made known among the nations what he has done. Same words. Capit 12 verse 1 in that day you will say. God is going to bring life, he's going to send them a high. see there in chapter eleven of Isaiah. comfort is peace between me and my God. Isaiah says, In that day his peace will be yours personally. Notice in chapter 44, verse 3, Isaiah says, that I will pour water on a thirsty man. Without money, without cost. You're not just going to come to those waters of salvation. Spirit Spirit who is the warnings of salvation and Isaiah. Because Jesus took upon him, you and I should have He bore the curse that you and I should have had Because the Holy Spirit can be as the limit and the warmth of our journey. Jesus who is our satisfaction. The whole body. And give thanks for and be sure. It was recorded as his Frazier resolved that he would search out and record the loving kindness of God. I will give the land of points. He allowed no one to oppress them. The Lord made his people very fruitful. He satisfied them. His chosen ones with shouts of joy. The psalm that was written by someone who we know not, anonymous, but it was written sometime after the settling of Israel in the land of Canaan. themselves said, Well, I clasp offered to no such. So that God's name would be established there on all the earth. Exactly these things. God has established himself as our God. He's going to be one who will judge with infinite wisdom. I will trust and not be afraid. Righteousness is going to be the very essence of his rule. And proclaim that his name is exhaust. Chapter 55 verse 1. You who have no money, come and buy and eat. Let him come to me and drink. We've said his name here in Jerusalem. Well, they walked out. You have exalted what I have not promised. When have I told you that in this world humankind would know justice and peace? Oh Lord then, what will you give us? The strings of satisfaction in Jesus Christ, whatever your circumstance and my circumstances are. Says it's the four years. at transition points what uh the next two verses are speaking about so that you can follow along. The king sent and released him. Ruler over all that he possessed. 37 to 42, fellow. Let me fulfill the right to the left. And that he became, he revealed us from the curse of the law because he became a curse for us He cries out to the Lord, Lord, what happened? They bruised his feet with saddles, his necks with put in ice. The pen is the second duty. He's going to bring in unknown people. Just be water. Waters never chill. A couple chapters later on. The birds sitting there on the table and we say, let's have a time of thanksgiving. But cannot clean, and cannot ever focus on as the essence of our thanksgiving. They performed his miraculous part, the moment, his wonders in the land of hands. with lightning throughout their land, struck down their vines and fig trees, and scattered the trees of their country Give thanks to the Lord. Make known among the nations what he has done. Now what is that day Buddha's talking about? God is my salvation. In your own refreshment, the lack of it, going on day by day, in the drudgery of routine tasks Without any spring in your steps or song in your heart, feeling like a forced land. David says, yes. I promise to make you a people to dwell in security in a land. He says, quote, the calling to mind and seriously meditating on the Lord dealings with me as the soul and body, his manifold mercies have done me very much good, cleared my case. Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice. Bile verse 43 35. First of all then, give thanks to him. Make known among the nations what he has done. God says I had to take the mightiest nation on earth, Egypt, the most powerful, richest nation at that time. But the day of the Messiah, the day when we have accomplished that rule, when he's begun to reign in the way that I have just talked about in chapter 11 Jesus says, Well, then if we knew who it was talking to Jesus, you would ask, and I would just see The feast of harvest, the Thanksgiving feast. And those who believed in him were later to the Jesus. Finally, satisfaction. Now, you see what I'm trying to find at. Behold, the preacher mounted his pulpit, and to him one hundred faces looked up, and they were as the sons of the earth, four billion faces captured in one century. Turn their waters into blood, causing their fists to die. Eat up the curtain of their soil. Give thanks to the Lord for this one. With these words in you. Call on his hand, made known among the nations. And he asks for a drink. Give thanks to the Lord. Some of the story tells there's nobody left. He said, My friends, I believe, we may have these things to give thanks for, but the one thing that we can join together Sing to him. Words written, cursed is everyone who is power to see. That they might see freezing. A land that's fertile and rich and fruitful. The smooth of living water must flow from within us. For that time when you will roar with joy from the waters of salvation, when Jesus Himself will be your satisfaction. That's prayer, and make known among the nations what he has thought proclamation or evangel And then God says he multiplied his people like rabbits. This was recorded in Isaiah, chapter 12. Those who were average or below average. 25 plus we have gone. Thank you for all the things that you've given to me. Oh yeah, Lord, thank you to Jesus Christ. Well, just say, in that day, you will pray. But you see the focus of biblical blessings. For all the teeth of second. Because you've never come to place your trust in him as your own Lord and Savior. A godly man who is imprisoned on vast rocks because of his faith in Jesus Christ. They have rejoicing, because the Holy One will be in our very midst. And he says in John chapter seven everyone, if a man is thirsty The Lord will guide you always and he'll satisfy your needs in a unscorched land. And Abraham had a family. But if you and I was all with your can be limited all salvage That's good. And David is, as it were, saying, You thought that was something. And I brought him full wilderness. Need it says we've been unfaithful, but God has established us. For their sake he rebuked him. In fact, David uses the first fifteen verses of this psalm, combined with Psalm 96, as a hymn of praise. Why? And he gave thanks for the earthly benefits, the conferences of law. This week we celebrate Thanksgiving. They couldn't ever live. Well, to understand that you have to go back to chapter 11. The Lord, the Lord is my strength and my strong, and He's become my salvation. In verse three, you will draw water from the wells of salvation. He uses that scheme of salvation described as well and springs of water again and again Sing praise to him. God has brought us through ups and downs of our rebellion against him. And we notably need to remember and add on in there at some point the fact that the Lord gave it feel And it'll strengthen your flames. The spirit of wisdom and understanding of counsel and power of knowledge and the fear of the Lord And if David comes into Jerusalem to bring the ark of God up there and to put it into the tent that he has placed it. You will be like a well-watered garden, like a spring But see, thanks for the Lord, he's established us as a king, as a kingdom, in the center of all the earth, and he's established us as his own nation. Because he brought his people out of Egypt. And so we can sing the song of salvation. Airtan has done me more good. The ruler of people set him free. For the Lord, I want you to notice the progression of thought as we read through this scripture this morning Come all you who are surf. And the woman says to him, How come you and you are asking me if Samara is a woman for a drink? Discipline his princes as he sees. You and I sing to him. He made them too numerous for their foes, whose hearts he turned to hate his people, conspired against his peace. But Jesus comes on the sea. What's wrong? What if I promised an easy life to the sons of men? He spread out a cloud, the trouble, and a fire to give light at night. And God has now made us a great people, and He has set his name right here at Jerusalem. And what is that? Now we can see the raising capital three, though. A fortune. Jesus comes in John 7. That's thanksgiving. How are people in the land? And your soul will not be like a sun scorch lane. God is love. God said I delivered over that thing to my people. So true is this that Isaiah goes on in verse 3 to say that with joy you're going to draw water from the well of salvation That's the first piece. The Messiah is going to be one who is filled with the Spirit of the Lord. Then put down all the first films. David is bringing the art up into Jerusalem Seek well that you can draw from with joy. So you and I respect to the world He begins by telling about the patriarchs, fewer number, protected by the Lord. I brought him to a land of fortified cities, of giants, so that the people He's done an impossible thing. What's the word did he use on that great celebration in 1 Chronicles 16? The waters of salvation are free. And the voice replied, myself. He gave them the land of the nations, and they saw heirs to what others had wanted So David uses these words. Chapter 12 verse 4 in that day you will say. And a bird is wall. He's going to be one who will break the earth with the rod of his mouth and with the breath of his lips. And finally the preacher looks out and he behold, there's nobody there. He brought out his friends, laden with silver and gold, and from among their tribes, no one faltered. He opened the rock and water gushed out. Thank you for our prosperity. The other way around. And then he went on and gave thanks for our home and heart and for the families in which with which we dwell, and the homeless, and those without family. Up to that time the Spirit had not been given to the Jesus, who was not yet gloried. I'm going to give that land to you. And God said, out of you small group of people, I'm going to give this mighty land a fortified city. But give thanks to the Lord because of what he has done for you. And Israel entered Easter. Psalm 105, verse 1. So Isaiah begins chapter twelve. Whoever believes in me is the scripture is said, and I bless What have I promised you continued possession of beauty, intelligence, and virtue? Well that phrase appears three times in just a few verses. What do you have? Thank you for all the spiritual. So that uh after just four hundred years there's a couple million of them. In Isaiah chapter 12, Isaiah begins, in that day you will say He gave thanks to the whole of our bodies. Tell him all his wonderful acts. Sing to the Lord, for he's done glorious things. And let's thank the Lord for what He's done to us. Do not touch my anointed ones. Isaiah fifty-eight, eleven says that you will be Jesus comes in that last day of the great Thanksgiving feast Jesus redeemed The first occasion, of course, is right here, Psalm 105. He remembers his covenant forever It tells us that that water of salvation is the Holy Spirit We sing praise and tell of his wonderful acts. When have I promised you wholeness of body, health, or earthly comfort? Look to the Lord in his faith. God said, we see in verse 11, to you I will give the land of Canaan as a portion if you're going to have house. So often at Thanksgiving time, we gather around the table He's established us as his people in his kingdom. And the salvation, the will of salvation. It's interesting that this verse appears in these exact Hebrew words three times in the Old Testament. Take a look. 37. And maybe nothing. You and I might receive the promise of you. You and I tonight will come together as a congregation and we'll sing the songs of salvation. And he said, let's give thanks to our beauty. This is the story of Praser of Greek. And by this, of course, Jesus meant the spirit Give thanks to the Lord. We came for the heat to be their world for salvation. All but still small voice spoke in heaven and said Their land filled with through Give thanks to the Lord. Now notice this. That this blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Jesus Christ Then verses 8 to 11, Jesus. So what he had foretold came to pass. That day you will say, I will praise you, O Lord, although you are angry with me, the with enmity will praise me. He made him master over his household. And power over all evil. He called down famine on the land and destroyed all their supplies of food. He held his weakness. You notice there are three things that are connected to you We've extended our borders. That's just a dim picture of what's going on. Now let's consider before we begin He's no longer my just. Beginning of chapter 11 in verse 1 you see about Psalm 105, verse 12. The reality of the spiritual blessing is what's prominence and the focus. That's the focus of biblical things. When God brought all the people out, the music, and brought them through a wilderness and took the land of Canaan and established that as our home. Turn to Isaiah, chapter 12, for a minute. Jesus comes to a woman in Samaria. We read in the last day, the great day of the feast. Remember my servant, Joseph. Perhaps it's been a while since we said Psalm 105 He will have put away all anger from our God Come to the waters. The rest of the psalm. Call on his name. Thank you for our health and thank you for our family. Psalm 155. Thanks to the Lord O descendants of Abraham, his servants, O sons of Jacob, his chosen ones. Jacob lived as an alien in the hand land of Hannah. And so it's appropriate that in preparation for that we And the rest of the psalm tells how he did this. That's recorded in Psalm 106. Give thanks to the Lord. He's given us impossible promises. Come buy wine and milk. Let's give thanks for our virtues, and on and on he goes for justice, for peace. Even the Christian sons of men? So that I fulfilled my promises That's enough. He sent darkness and made the land dark. Isaiah said that's going to be a very And we start out and we say, Thank you, Lord, for my What out of people with rejoice? Exactly That's a process of Then he says in chapter fifty-eight Spirit who has given us And another three speech, third hundred, walked out. For if all those things were being removed from us, what then did you have to be clear? Do my prophets no harm. Give thanks to the Lord. The Lord says, to satisfy your needs. Like a river it flows in the dust. That is the first. You're not just going to draw water from the wells of salvation. But you will be like a well-watered gorgeous It's about a preacher who's leading his people in Thanksgiving. Feel like sometimes you live in your soul in a uncorched land. We glory in his name. And I'm afraid that there's so many of us this week, it's the material things. They've all gone. Call on his name. The one thing we are sure of All was well performed. But if this be known to all the world, he can proclaim his name. Remember what Isaiah said? So the word of the Lord proved them true. He did so with a very happy effect upon his spirit Let's hear God's word then, Psalm 105, the first seven verses. Glory and peaceholder. Seek His faith always. See in chapter 11 and verse 10. The first fruits of all their men. He's my father. Then verses 23 to 36 tell how all Israel went down into eastern. And a group of people walked out who couldn't get thanks. And the open just walked in. 1 Chronicles 16, verse 8. Verses 12 to 15. He's talking to himself And uh these people were then oppressed by Egypt. And thank you for the people that could be here. God said I judged that nation, I defeated that nation, I humbled that nation. He is the site. He's given to us the wells of salvation. And so I will note So the preacher went out and he found the hundred gathered and brought them back in again. This one is going to establish peace so that the wolf will dwell with the lamb. And he brought them clam. What was the feast he's talking about? You and I remember the wondrous He is God. And in miserable, dismal circumstances. He's going to slay the wicked Give thanks to the Lord. And the preacher cried out Th But what you will succeed. Make known among the nations what he has done. God talks about how he had brought down children. Promises so great that only he could fulfill them. Because he says in verse 2, surely God is my salvation. Receive the third great occasion of thanksgiving. Call on his name. They had not rebelled, had they not rebelled against his words. In that day the Buddha's guessing will stand the banish the people. He sent Moses to serve and the amount to be a safe. But he remembered his fallen silence and given his first. And the psalmist here is telling us Not just water, but even wine and milk. How do we get this water? He sent a man before them, Joseph. Let's give thanks to our wonderful mind. He didn't say that to you. Call on his name. And thank you for our help and safety. My eyes have been opened to see. When they were but few in number. The Feast of Tabernacles Give thanks to the Lord. Egypt was glad when they left. One name It will be so much more real thing. He's given to us Now your anger is turned away. They were put into slavery. You sometimes feel scorched. So Shout aloud.