And after the last couple of weeks, I have felt a great need to do that. I'm getting it. And the third part of that is the peace of relational harmony. But the even more profound reason why you really wouldn't want to do that is because whether or not you want to believe it, you'd be attracted to the same exact kind of person again. I want you to know if I if I come to your house and you have a plasma tee on the phone, well then you know, grab a curtain and cover it. Since as members of one body, you were called to peace, both peace with him and peace with one another. Prepare holiday messages the year before. There were a group of European internees that were standing in rows. Father Darby, it turned out, was a key link between sympathetic Chinese villagers outside and the starving inmates inside. Father Darby, they knew, had served as a Trappist monk, thriving in the silence and solitude of the same monastery for nearly twenty-five years. People believe that there is no ultimate purpose or meaning in life, only power to make life, this world, the kind that you would like to live in a bit of a vacation or buy something I'd enjoy, clothes or some techie toy or something, if I can do something that gives me hope here. I mean, after all, what is Thanksgiving supposed to be reminding us about? They were persecuted like the church at Smyrna or the churches that Peter was talking to us about last week. Because of these, the wrath of God is coming. Paul says, put to death these things. You may shut me up in the attic of your heart, out of sight, if only you will let me now and then have the wild embraces of your thoughts and the affections in secret that we put away because putting on the new nature, our desires are altered and changed. Let me give you an example. That's the expulsive power of a new affection, you see. And that thankfulness he then unfolds in the next couple of verses. Thanksgiving. the last couple of weeks in my schedule. identify with that, you know, and so on and on it goes and you think, you know, why am I complaining? Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, since as members of one body you were called to peace. And so, as the Japanese soldiers shook their heads, the father marched off to his tiny dark cell, humming a hymn. The only difference between hellish isolation and heavenly peace was his attitude, the way he had come to regard such an experience. That counteract the three thieves of our peace and our thanksgiving. The world we are all trying to make according to our own power. It says the same kind of thing back in chapter one, verses twelve to fourteen, and uh we'll actually be looking at that next Thanksgiving, uh heads up on what's coming. But you only now can perceive a glimmer of what that is. of the hope of heaven to come. Something else but to help me a few minutes a day to think forward, to think in anticipation So much so that they finally decided it was better to leave their homes in England and to go abroad than to live there, and so they went to Amsterdam in the Netherlands. After a little time there, things were tough and they decided they'd move on to Leiden in the Netherlands. The first is what I call addictions. And then I decided I would take them and hide them. And uh I was a Christian at that time, and so soon the Spirit convicted me that I had to get rid of these, and I was surprised how hard it was to get rid of them A little quote from William Grinnell, who wrote the classic The Christian in Complete Armor. They are like the great Roman, who as he rode triumphantly through the city, never took his eyes off a prostitute walking along the street, a man who conquered empires, captured by the glance of a single woman. And I say that because the Greek word that is used there for evil desires is epithetymia, and it really is not so much evil desires. A desire which isn't simply uh eliminated, but the gospel provides what I talked about when we went through that passage, the expulsive power of a new affection. uh this Christmas. That when you look forward and see the hope of heaven, you say, yeah, that's nice, but still, I can't be happy without this. Paul, I believe, is uh bringing a flow of thought here that finally climaxes in verse 15 filthy language from your lips and goes on, but let's pick it up again, verse 12. stating here, basic principle of life, and is simply this. You say, I wish I could simply eliminate this person. Yeah, eternal sunshine of the spotless mind. And learn to love them as they are and not the idealized image of perfection. With compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and then forgiveness. with this ability to bear with, forgive, compassion. I cannot live with them any longer. It's a supernatural thing. uh being paid to study God's Word and at a time like this to to be able to think about thanksgiving and God's goodness and then to proclaim it to you. But still I don't have peace and it's hard to be thankful. that I had come across some time ago about a Japanese prison camp. The criminal standing beside the Japanese official was a small bespeckled clergyman named Father Darby. The chief began his speech in a loud voice, declaring that he was determined to stamp out the black market and would have to make an example of Father Darby, even though it pained him to punish a man of the cloth. There was a moment's pause, and then the internees erupted in a jubilant roar that shocked the solemn Japanese official. Life doesn't come to us directly. Three directions to look in order to gain peace in Thanksgiving this week. Since then you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things, for you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Uh but this is critical thinking in a day in which uh most people look at uh considering life beyond this life as escapist fantasy. Your life is now hidden with Christ in God. This is in such contrast to the secular thinking today. has asked why none of the current self-help books ever deal with the big questions of life. The world has produced me and the rattlesnake. So guilt is psychologized and hope is trivialized, and there's not much left to give you any real hope. So that what Paul suggests is that you and I, to begin with peace and thanksgiving, look forward to see what is the promise of the gospel. What you need to do is to fix your mind, wrap your mind around, as it were, what your life is to come. He bore your sin, your guilt, your shame, and when he rose to new life, you rise with him. So all you and I can do now is to look forward and anticipate. of what I have that is reserved, that can never be taken away from me in Jesus Christ. But it was because they realized they would not find that ideal place of rest and peace here, but they looked for a city whose builder and maker was God that would be in heaven. The peace of a contented heart, secondly, look inward. Now, there are two kinds of desires, I believe, that he's speaking of here, that rob us of contentment, peace, and thanksgiving. There's a principle that I think he is articulating in this, and the principle is simply this. But I can still remember after all these years when I finally threw them in the trash. It was like taking a bath. Or he will bribe the soul with a vow of secrecy. And if that will not be granted, then Satan asks for a stay of execution, well knowing that most such reprieved lusts at last obtain their full pardon. The longer we procrastinate, the harder it becomes to break through the clever coaxing of this silver-tongued defender of sin and death and actually carry out the execution. Here history's bravest men have shown themselves putty in the enemy's hands. Maybe there's something that you're hiding, harboring, that you need to get rid of, that the Spirit of God would free you. to peace and thanksgiving. There's nothing essentially evil about the desire. ordinary desires for wrong things as it is wrong desires or wrong kind of desire for even good things The expulsive power of a new affection means that you can't just put to death a desire and that's the end of it. All right, I gotta have that thing. And in the long-range view of my life, I think I would rather invest in something of a kingdom nature, maybe you know, not all of that, but I would rather use my money in a different way. I can live without you because Christ is my Savior and my life. I'm free from having to have you. But over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity. Then maybe I could have some peace. Because that would also erase all the happy, positive memories, along with the negative, painful ones. The happy memories with the painful memories inextricably together. What Paul says, what the gospel says, is you do something that is not innate to you. The forgiveness full, complete, and free that He has given, offered to you by the purchase of His own blood That spirit of Christ that can forgive when you say, I can't do it, one more time. But as I go to Christ, Jesus Christ, can by showing me the cross, grant to me that tender heart that's able to forgive. Determined this week to spend a few minutes each day meditating on heaven and what that will be like and look forward. So that you might identify it, lay it before Jesus Christ, put to death that which is wrong, put on that which is of his nature And I'm very thankful for that. And it was just like this cool tall drink of water, filtered ice water Today, mental health professionals hammer home this point. Rule in your hearts, since as members of one body you were called to peace and be thankful, is the conclusion of an argument of thoughts that he begins back in verse one. who once wrote, quote, there is no reason for attributing to a man a significance different in kind from that which belongs to a baboon or a grain of sand. Verse 5, put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature, sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires, greed, which is idolatry in your life that is, I can't be happy without this. To see the hope of the gospel that you perhaps have dimmed in perceiving and has become alien and very faint to you, perhaps to memorize some scripture and And to see something in your heart, either an evil desire, a corrupt desire, or even a hyper desire for a good thing that controls you, that drives out contentment and thanksgiving. And um you know then I feel guilty for whining because I think of how rich my life really is. The wary listeners shuddered. Solitary confinement would have been a terrible ordeal for most of the people languishing in Shangtung's compound, but Father Darby took it as a spiritual opportunity Some time ago, William James wrote, The greatest discovery of my generation is that a human being can alter his life by altering his attitude. We are so constricted in our thinking that we always look for hope in this life, if I can get relief from this trouble, relief from my schedule. Then that means you have died with Christ on the cross. It was because they were moving around so much that they acquired the name what? But Paul goes on. These are what I call, next blank, there, hyper-desires. It's that desire that is seductive. That work? You know, this you gotta hide it from that's an illustration. Something that controls you, that you need to speak to. Bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. is there's no way how to do it. But notice what Paul says in verse twelve. To the hope of the gospel. And I recognize that and that neither of them are dependent on circumstances, interestingly enough. And so that prompts me to observe that Paul's comment in verse fifteen, let the peace of Christ I remember many years ago in my life coming across a stash of dirty magazines and newspapers, and I was kind of uh curious and fascinated and looked Thanksgiving and lust are totally incompatible. That you need to get rid of in order to free the spirit of peace and thanksgiving in your life It's that controlling, gotta have it, inordinate, hyper-desire that Paul's talking about here. He goes on to say in verse 8, but now you must rid yourself of all such things as these, and it's referring to what comes after that: anger, rage, malice, slander. One is going to displace and drive out the other. So the movie comes to the conclusion by saying, when you look at that person, you and I tend to have an idealized perfection of what life should be with that person. Bring that pain to the cross. And uh that's been important with me. Look forward. Um the answers are not very peace-producing. Uh do you perhaps need to make it a point this week to say, you know what, maybe you ought to memori maybe memorize these four verses or Think about the hope of heaven and let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. An impure mind is not a thankful mind. I wasn't thankful when that was corroding my thinking. The longer you procrastinate, the harder it is to do. that replaces, supplants the obsession with a thing that I have to add now. You won't be thankful. And so you notice in the green up here, uh, let's go back. Bearwith, forgive as, put on love. And the movie is saying about Jim Carrey and Keith Winslett, they need to simply accept the flaws of each other along with those lovable characteristics So I ask you finally, is there somebody in your life, somebody very close to you perhaps, that you need to forgive? And I was so thankful for that. And what he does in the first 14 verses is basically to suggest three ways that you and I can look at life. And so it's a reminder to you and to me. How much do you meditate on heaven? It can be very hard. After the first little uh trilogy, Sexual Immorality and Purity Lust, he talks about evil desires and greed, which is idolatry. Somebody after the first service said there's even a better one now, D. Sometimes you may look at somebody in your life and and wish that you could simply erase them from your life and your memory. See the four thoughts that are highlighted. My wife went to bed, so I saw it and here's my interpretation. And in doing that, you can release that person from the prison of your bitterness And uh he talks about this kind of idea. And we are right on the threshold of the holidays again. In utter contrast to this, do you see that the Christian finds hope in the big questions, not by escaping them? No. And um that you know, delayed gratification um is just enough. It's not natural, you know? I remember I shared, I think, with you guys back when we were studying Ephesians 6 on spiritual warfare. It's more fun to do it that way. In fact, uh the word can be used of very good desires. I mean you can't just stop wanting it. The only motivation the movie can give you is to say you'll be more miserable if you try to escape that He doesn't stop there. I cannot bear with this. How much do you wrap your mind around the promises of your life which is hidden with Christ in God? But then you decide, well, you know, I really can't justify five, six thousand or whatever, you know, and they go beyond that to whatever you want, what size, or you say, mm, okay, well I've just you know I'm just gonna stop wanting it. You'll feel deprived. And I felt clean. Perhaps, Lord, there's somebody here who says, I don't even have that hope. One of the things that um are the greatest blessings in my job is That's in the beginning of verse 5, the yellow. You cannot be bitter against someone and thankful at the same time. So I offer it to you and may it minister to you as it's ministered to me. You say I've delayed long enough and I finally I must have that wall-mounted plasma TV. I have lacked peace and so I lack thankfulness. That's the first link. You used to walk in these ways in the life you once lived. Rid yourselves of all such things as these. Well you know there's a movie that was made about that. Think forward. It was kind of like a death, you know, to separate and determine I would throw them out I have been complaining, grumbling, uh feeling some self-pity and stress. You also will appear with him in glory. Set your heart on things above. The second kind of desire that he's talking about here is what I call controlling desires for good things. It's mediated through our point of view, our mindset, our assumptions. So let me ask you, how much do you think about heaven? And I put it away and then I get it out. It's not in us to do that. Would this gentle father be tortured or only shot? But I will kill it if I get the chance, and the only reason is because it is incongruous to the world that I want It's interesting that that's the first point, but then he tells you to look another direction. You can keep me in your good reputation too. Verse 15, be thankful. Now you see see how different that is. Measure the pain that you've experienced from them, for the pain that Jesus Christ suffered in dying for your sin. So when I looked at this message, which I had prepared last year, you know, as you know, those of you who've been around, I Therefore, as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. It's taking a hyper desire that's centered on here and now, replacing it with a larger picture desire You cannot be bitter against someone and also thankful to God at the same time. You know, I wish I could have brain surgery that would eliminate every memory of this person from my life. A very interesting movie, particularly for Hollywood, because the premise is basically, you know what, you really wouldn't want to do that? He gives an example of a twentieth century thinker, classic thinker, Oliver Wendell Holmes And from time to time I would get them out and I would look at them. You'll feel like, if only. Think forward in your stress, in your discouragement. I L A or something. In the words that I suggest there in the outline that you have, to say, you're not my life. Alright. Therefore, as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves I'm at the end of my rope. You know, it's this little congregation in Scrooby, England. He says, when the Spirit convicts you of sin, Satan will try to convince you it is such a little one. Sometimes for things it's just good to say, am I willing to not have this? It is not what happens to us that determines the quality of our lives, it's how we interpret what happens to us that counts. The Japanese wanted to make an example of someone in order to put fear into all present. It is not in you to do that. Look forward. That's the positive side of it. Pilgrims. But even more I noticed a spirit of thankfulness returned to me. Your real life is hidden with Christ in God. So that means that uh for the first of the holiday messages I offer to you a meditation about Thanksgiving. Look at people in the other parts of the world and It was in China many years ago. What you have to do is say, I, you know, I really like that, but you know there's something I would want even more Hyper-desires, greed, and idolatry. And a thankful mind is a buttress against impurity. Verse 16, sing with gratitude in your hearts. You eliminate the one, you eliminate the other. I don't even remember now what I did with with them, I didn't want somebody else to find them. Look around. What will that be like? And I can be thankful without you. Clothe yourselves. They return from the field with victorious banners flying, and then live and die slaves to a base lust at home. And be thankful. This is bridged volume two. Um, yeah, back to verse eight Look forward, Paul's saying, to what's coming. There's always a problem with these kind of illustrations, you know. I don't know if anybody knows. It's the word that's used in Ephesians 4. He doesn't say the little grievances, he says whatever grievances. He says, Yeah, you're absolutely right. And it kind of preaches to me. And after a few years there, they decided this was not very spiritually profitable for them, and so they decided that they would go to America. Thankfulness and peace are close cousins. Set your mind on things above. But when I could get rid of it, thanksgiving returned. It's the word that Paul uses in Philippians 1. In fact, it is not so much He's saying I believe you wouldn't want to do that for two reasons. Pastor Tim Keller, pastor in Manhattan. Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature, sexual immorality, impurity, lust. I will not be seen in your company to shame you among your neighbors. I uh feel like I've been on the ragged edge of sanity Impurity corrodes your mind so that you are unable to give thanks. If if that's a hyper desire in your life that You put something on. But he said you can't mount 'em on the walls. That's the negative. Uh Jim Carrey, King Wismoth are saying, you know, you gotta you gotta kinda dig down in yourself and find that capacity to accept that person as they are. Pretty difficult time, very stressful circumstances. But they were called pilgrims not ultimately simply because they were moving from place to place to settle. So I would like to offer to you three ways to look at your life and circumstances. When he died, you died with him You know, it's kind of ironic that we have to remind ourselves to do this at this time because Um but is there something Which would prompt them to see their sin and their pride and to see Jesus crucified for them. First of all, there is the peace of the hope of heaven. He had been caught slipping eggs under his cassock as he prayed by the compound wall. And so uh we live in a culture where And he offers that the reason is because they don't have very hopeful answers. Put on that which is alien to you, the mind of Christ. You find that it's hard for you to be thankful this week And so uh what Paul's talking about here is Then the conclusion: let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts As I read that, I recalled a story See, but now you have a new life. Now I The only problem with it The chief announced, I sentence you to one and a half months of solitary confinement. Memorize a scripture. So let me ask you, frankly, honestly, personally, is there something that you are hiding in your life? I'm getting it I don't care how much it costs Look around you. Paul says in chapter three, beginning in verse one It has to be replaced with another desire that's superior to it You go to Christ and when you say, this person's hurt me so much, Paul says And so is there something in your life? You see, those are the things you put off. Whatever they have done I don't know what I was preaching. One person knew it in the first uh first service. 22 when Paul talks about the deceptive desires. There's again a principle, I think, that Paul's Did you ever get to that? And the fact is that life blends 23 when he talks about the desire to go to be with Christ You know, I mean, we you know, we're we know this stuff, right? Could I be content? If you are a if you are trusting Jesus and you're a follower of Jesus this morning, Verse 17, whatever you do, do it with thankfulness. You notice that in that verse, Paul connects peace with thankfulness. Somebody's gonna say Clothe yourselves. The peace of relational harmony. And be thankful Whereas Paul says, that's not going to ultimately do it. I open it up and I read this verse That's the first step in peace and thanksgiving. Now let's go down to 12 to 14 Anybody else? You do not determine my happiness or my well-being. Or secondly, to look inward The second thing he does is tell you to look inward. Meditate on some of the pictures and the glimpses that scripture give to you. That when I got rid of those And then maybe you would then have it or modify it or whatever else. Number one Sin Let me read you from the account They were harassed and they were badgered. Do you ever have somebody like that? Forgive as the Lord forgave you. Uh they cannot be separated. In fact, if you could have the chance, the same person. I mean, come on, we look at the ads, we see, going through Best Buy and all the rest of it. There's a movie about that? Spare it If a person has caused you such pain. Now here's my interpretation of the movie. Anybody know? That was their hope. Do you remember that phrase, some of you? But