Well, hope you notice three. This is also Thanksgiving for us. Chapter 3, this is God's word. Jesus is established between us and God, reconciling us who were under his judgment and curse, because Jesus took that curse for us. And you give thanks for the fact that you belong to him. as he did for me. Clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. Let the peace of Christ rule in your heart, since as members of one body were called to peace, and be thankful. Then do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. God is reconciled to Himself through Christ all things, whether things on earth or things in heaven, by making peace through his blood shed on the cross. to the word of God that we have. And if you're trusting Jesus Christ this morning, then your name is Christian. Once you were enemies in your minds because of your evil behavior, you and I, if we're honest, understand what that means. And as you sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, with gratitude in your hearts to God. You see that uh spelled out in chapter 1 in verse 20, where Paul says that through him Who you are, who God is, your purpose for existence, any hope for the future, the scriptures are a wonderful gift. You are Christ's one. to the completeness of our being. Those three kinds of divisions. is to a different aspect of our personality. But now he has reconciled you by Christ's physical body through death to present you holy in his sight, without blemish, and free from accusation. That's the peace of Christ. Why? And whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God, the Father, through him. Forgive as the Lord forgave you. gift of Christ that we are given. And be thankful. Now the plot thickens. The peace of Christ is to my emotions. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, since as members of one body you were called to peace. Now again, I want to focus with you on verses 15 to 17. Because God, as he says in chapter 1, after he said at verse 20 that I just read, goes on in verse 21 and 22 to say, once you were alienated from God. The third gift that he mentions is the name of Christ in verse 17. First, let me read the passage, Colossians chapter 3. Let's hear it carefully. Do you ever think of what a wonderful gift that is? In verse 16, there's the gift of the word of Christ. Oftentimes, human personality is described in terms of mind, emotions, and will. You are his disciple. And I noticed a fascinating insight about Thanksgiving a while back in Colossians chapter 3. And while those aren't precise, uh those are helpful for us to understand, the breakdown of our personality. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom Because once we've realized this, we see that each of these gifts is to a different aspect of our personalities. You notice there are three references, one for each verse in verses fifteen, sixteen, and seventeen. The peace of Christ is, of course, to my emotions. And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity. In verse 15, the gift is the peace of Christ His presence is with you, because he has called you to himself. I feel that I am free from any accusation from God Himself. And everything that you do, word or deed, should be controlled by his name upon you. Therefore, as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved. Without the Bible, you wouldn't know anything about where you came from. And as you heard me read those from God's Word, how many references to Thanksgiving were there? You have Jesus' name on you. The word of Christ dwells in you richly, and you sing with gratitude. I'm going to focus on verses 15 to 17, but let's pick up Paul's train of thought at verse 12. What's even more interesting is that each thanksgiving is in response to a particular You see there the reference, of course, to the scriptures. That means he's put his name on us to control our behavior. Bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. You see that on the chart. That is your primary identity. And since Thursday is Thanksgiving, I thought that I would share it with you today and pray that God will bless you with it. You begin to fill it in. And so you see in this text that each of these gifts So that we understand that what God has given to us is Colossians chapter So that's the peace that Jesus reconciled. We belong to him.