Um when we are going through the book of Revelation, I mentioned to you that it's important that we use our imaginations to understand that book and to appreciate it, or we cannot really understand it. You see, it takes place in a particular spot. and where we worship him. And those of you who are in the front, you know, you kind of move back a bit and you see this this these flames that are devouring forth the first couple of rows There's these uh brilliant lights and fire issuing forth, and then God speaks. He's going to address those of you who are here for whatever other reasons. But God says, if I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you, hey, would you could you get me something to eat? So what happens? It was in the pits. There's a realization, God, I can't get through this day without your grace. You fulfill your vows. Was what happened when your back was to the wall and you said, God, I'm out of ideas, I don't know what to do, and I am absolutely helpless. These things you've done, and I kept silent. I would suggest that one of the difficulties in your not understanding what it was about was that the first six verses painted a very vivid picture God shines forth. And that's about it. And then you notice that there's a a whirlwind begins to develop, a tempest comes up here, and there's this wind and the sound of rushing wind and And then it says, this one speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to the place where it sets, from east to west, from sunset to sunrise to sunset. Now specifically from Zion, from the place where God has revealed Himself in the ark, perfect in beauty, God shines forth, brilliant light. Who made a covenant with me by sacrifice, those who have made profession of their faith, who say they belong to me. Every morning, every evening, it was a morning sacrifice, was an evening sacrifice. And all that's in it. Now I don't know about you, but to me, first reading of that, verse 14 and 15 seem like a non sequitur. Do we have that time that God will bless her? We've done everything. In case for those of you who'd like to get all those blanks filled in correctly. So there you go, you got a whole cow, you've got a whole goat, you've got a whole sheep. Tell us how God delivered. and 108 and uh 175 and Thunder Hill Road in the right lane, all of a sudden I look up in the rear view mirror, my rear view mirror, my rear window is full of a Honda CRX going forty miles an hour and he looks like he's three feet behind me. I mean, I may be here this morning, but I'll tell you, when we get out of here, I live for myself. I may look like I belong here, but I know where my heart is, and it's far from Jesus Christ. So he says, I got news for you. Um, you know, I understand you just kind of heard it, probably hadn't read it recently, and so you say, Oh well, yeah, there's a lot of verses, how do I know? And I call forth Howard County to come and witness, I am now going to judge Columbia Presbyterian Church. Well it's hey I'd get your attention wouldn't it? Look at the first six verses. the mighty one, Elohim, Yahweh, you know you're in for something that's going to be pretty dramatic, all right? You see, verse 14 and 15 talks about sacrifice thank offerings to God. The first one, first Roman numerals, the thanksgiving offering, acknowledged who depends on whom. Or maybe you're here because of somebody else. Now what's interesting is that in both of these warnings that he gives in these two addresses, in each case he ends it with a reference to the thank offering. And I'd like to offer that for your consideration as we anticipate the feast that's coming on Thursday. And I will speak, O Israel, and I will testify against you. So look what he says. Well, come again, I missed something. So he said, okay, so we we we need to set up here some purposeful discipling of our kids. And he taught his kids biblical theology at dinner time with layouts, memorization, the whole deal, you know. Anything he'd read, any of the principles, the things he would be studying, apply, Lord, work through our kids. His son is expelled from Taylor University. Great God, you bless me and then you give me indigestion. How you were in trouble and how God delivered you and how He's faithful. A lot of lamb chops here to finish off in the next day. just in time to see the Honda doing Wheelies 360s where my car had just been fraction of a second before going off onto the shoulder, missed me and everything else. But your heart's far from 'em. And nobody's going to rescue you that day. The thank offering was one of three kinds of offerings that were mandated in the Old Testament. It was for my offering myself to the Lord on the sacrifice was a demonstration of that. The thank offering meant you took that goat or lamb or calf, you took it to the priest, and you watched while he slit its throat. So you see, verse 23 says, He who sacrifices thank offerings honors me and prepares the way, so that I may show him the salvation of God. And if you didn't use your imagination to understand that picture, you probably wouldn't understand what the psalm was about God doesn't say anything to us. fire begins to shoot forth. Our God comes and will not be silent. A fire devours before him. He summons the heavens above and the earth that they that he may judge his people. Now that's the scene. Your confession of faith with Jesus Christ, who walk with him, who love him, who serve him, and he's going to address you. Now, why does he do that? That's the first thing. So the the temple was always conducting sacrifices. I have no need of a bowl from your stall. For every animal of the forest is mine. I know every bird in the mountains, and the creatures of the field are mine. And then he says this, verse 14: sacrifice thank offerings to God, fulfill your vows to the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble. What are you really depending on at that point? Let me give you an example of that. Uh but Larry Crab, being an intense person, um decided that, you know, I have a responsibility. Now how did I recrab respond to that? I once told him that. You notice he says, sacrifice thank offerings to God, fulfill your vows to the Most High. And so, God, you got my attention. uh was the conscious expression of that. The priest gets some of it, you get the rest of it. Because you see, if you're like me or like most of us, what you think is, maybe this Thursday, you know, before you dive into the turkey, you know, somebody says, okay, what are we thankful for? What's our thought? In character that pleases you rather than things I'd be ashamed for anybody else to know. Day after Thanksgiving, I'm driving to the office. Yeah, you know, we say, God, keep us safe, and I want to get, you know, the I'll tell you there was a whole new sense of my dependence on the Lord To you personally. Here you are singing the hymns, reading the scripture. In each case, you see, it you see somebody doing something wrong, and there's nothing in you to resist it. There is coming a day of judgment, he says. I must have missed something there. Forgiveness of sin that had been committed, either intentionally or unintentionally, as an offering for sin. The idea was I'm having a meal with the Lord, which is why it's one of the streams that feed into our understanding of the Lord's Supper. But the fellowship offering was, like the other offerings, a blood offering. And while the blood gushed out, and you heard the last bleat, the last sound from that animal as it died right there on the spot. To come into fellowship with a holy God was not a matter of my simply saying, okay, God, I admit I need you, I depend on you, help me out this day. so that God could have fellowship with the likes of you and of me The ultimate need is that there's going to be an ultimate day of trouble. In fact, using our imaginations is important in understanding most of Scripture. What was the point of Psalm fifty? So if you were a Jew at that time, when you heard Zion, you would be thinking, oh yeah, that's the place where I go to offer my sacrifices to meet with God. What you're saying is, Lord, if you answer this prayer, if you answer and you deliver me in this situation, it could be a life and death situation, could be a relationship, whatever. And that's where the second part comes in. Pulled a car just I kind of wrote without thinking over into the left lane, heard a squeal of brakes over there, as a guy just missed me on that side and pulled over. God, how could you do that? Then I will do two things. So next Sunday at our Lord's Supper service, before we come to the elements, we're going to offer opportunity for anybody who wants to give testimony. You know, Kathy and I have been praying something for some weeks, for a couple of months, something we absolutely could not do. And our our hearts have been just so stretched out toward the Lord in this area, out of any resources of our own You who forget God, consider this, or I will tear you to pieces with none to rescue. Fellowship offerings were the one kind of offering where part of it would go to the Lord and to the priest, and the rest would go to me to invite my friends in. Then I'm going to reduce you to extremities, the day of trouble, he calls it. If you are in fact living in conscious dependence, not only because of physical needs, but because of spiritual bankruptcy. So God says, when you understand that you're really dependent on me rather than the other way around, then you sacrifice thank offerings. You throw in your lot with adulterers, where somebody's looking at something that you'll not be looking at. Cut people down, gossip, harness your tongue to deceit. Forget God, you see, living independently, as if he doesn't matter, as if he's not a factor. So the thank offering was not simply having roast lamb already served there, you see, before you nice and neat. But now let's suppose one morning here at Columbia Presbyterian when you come to worship and you say, yep, as usual, every week we come, we'll sing some and we'll hear Al Harris You saw a brilliant dazzling light appear up front. We seek to maintain our independence to such a degree that even in our worship we can begin to think that God depends on us in subtle ways rather than that we depend on Him. Who do you turn to? Ask God that he'd work in their hearts and bring them to himself, and he and his wife would raise them to love and serve the Lord Jesus all their days. When he told this story, among many other things, if you've read his stuff or ever seen or heard him in a conference, one of the things I most appreciated about him is his absolute forthright honesty. Absolute frustration, disorientation. In order to reveal to our hearts that our trust really isn't in Him. It's in the best efforts that we made asking God simply to baptize them with his blessing, which can so easily become a superstitious prayer, added on to our own efforts. The thank offering involved two things. I need your grace. If that's the way we live, then somebody says, What are you thankful for? You see, I mean there was it was one theoretical of God, you know, thanks that you're with me. Thankfulness is a celebration of our dependence. You hate my instruction. Death was needed to establish fellowship with God. You see, my sense of dependence on God is not just that He gives us food, that He gives us jobs, that He gives us meals, warm homes, on and on. But at this point, when this psalm was written, Herod's simple temple of beautiful grandeur was situated there. So, what we're going to do to practice this, you see, I think the thank offering is one of those streams of biblical revelation that comes together in the Lord's Supper. You see, and that very way we think belies that we are guilty of what God's speaking of in Psalm 50. You see, I mean, there was no sense there of, oh yeah, uh what what ought we to be thankful for? I mean, we want to be independent, desperately. Jesus Christ became that substitute, uniquely eligible to take your place and your sin. You see, you and I, again, go to great lengths to maintain in our minds our sense of independence and control, don't we? We're gonna sit in a certain we're just gonna go around. But God has taken a substitute in my behalf. And what's Zion? Again, I don't know if you're like me, you read that and say, uh-uh, come again. In the centuries after this Psalm was written, Sion would become again and again a battlefield where the temple would be destroyed, the things would be burned by the Babylonians, by the Romans, again and again. That's the best we get. You see, the thank offering was saying, In your trouble, you call on me. We just, you know, it was a day of trouble for us. You see there that it's related to that. I tried this, I tried that, nothing was worth. Now he says, you belong to me, but there's a danger in your worship. See, God sometimes brings you and me to a day of trouble when we're absolutely out of our resources. You call upon me in the day of trouble. The son goes off to Taylor University. I said, I just thank you for being an example to me of a godly, honest man. The thanksgiving offering acknowledged who depends or depended on whom. See, then he turns to those that say, I not only struggle with this, hey, I don't even struggle, I am gonna live independent. Verse 16. If you showed me something else when I'd do it, what haven't I done? You're gonna shame me, you're gonna work, and this kid's just not following you. So you thought I was altogether like you. Zion, you recall, is that hill on which the temple was built in Jerusalem. I will first of all go to the temple and I will offer a thank offering. It's kind of like, oh, what ought I to be thankful for? You speak continually against your brother, slander your own mother's son. There it is again. I'm going to rebuke you. In fact it it consumes the overhead projector and the table, and Mark does a couple of backflips to the rows behind him in order to keep from getting toasted He says, I do not rebuke you for your sacrifices, for your burnt offerings. Tell us what God did in your life. Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of the goats? Now, notice in verse 23. And then what God does is he addresses two groups of people. So, what God says is there's going to be times when you think I'm dependent on you in order to teach you that you're really dependent on me. But it's kind of like here at CPC, we go and we worship him, but it's always silent. We just we worship and we take by faith that He hears and He's there and that He is meeting with us. There it is, the flames shooting out. Somehow again it seems like a non-sequitur. If you look down in verse 2, you see there it says, from Zion, perfect in beauty. I know what you're saying. What does 14 and 15 have to do with what he said before? The vow also involved the giving of a testimony to the congregation in which he stated See verse three? He didn't just have family devotions. We're going to have these things. Anyone? And a cattle on a thousand hills. They couldn't stand him. And when I deliver you, you honor me. Um but suppose one Sunday morning that uh after the scripture was read, all of a sudden And you're not here to really worship God out of your own heart. You're the only one I can turn to. Well, of course, he fasted and prayed, Lord, work in my son's heart. But to the wicked. First of all, when you read the first line, the mighty one, God the Lord, and you got three names for God He says in verse 15, Call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver you, and you will honor me. Dad, look at all we've done. See on the back there. You thought, oh hey, well, I'm not coming to that word suffering. Hey, nice day. Great, chose a Christian school, good deal. Sometimes all else fails. And so then on be in your deliverance, you will honor me Well that's not the idea. He does it because he is seeking to make a point to us that has to do with Thanksgiving that I think we often miss. What are you going to do with it? I'm going to accuse you to your face. And in that day of judgment I will be honored. You cast my words behind you. God comes and he will not be silent. I turned to the Lord and I said, Lord, you alone are my hope. Larry Crabbe has written a number of books on marriage and family and relationships. But you see, that's exactly what this Psalm's about. You get the whole thing to eat. If we were reading the Ten Commandments this morning, you'd read along with it. And let me tell you why we're having this meal. God, if I'm going to live without gossip, if I am going to live in integrity, if I am going to live alone when nobody sees me but you You think I need this somehow? Today we're going to hear him. Don't worry, I won't ask you to call out. There were the individual sacrifices made for sin, for fellowship, for all the various reasons. He says, I'm not blaming you for that. He went out and bought an overhead projector for his family devotions. Brought absolute disgrace upon the family. Turn to the Lord. Identify with that? Had a good day. And around him a tempest rages. Sometimes that is revealed to us by what happens in our hearts if we don't get what we want. You simply say, Let me tell you what God did. So it sounds like he is against us, but then he says, I am God, your God. What God's saying is, you got this thing, now you've got to eat it in twenty-four hours, so what are you gonna do? He who sacrifices thank offerings honors me. That's where we get that chorus. Just because I didn't shout down from heaven What are the vows? Lord, we've done everything we thought you told us to do One stipulation, it's yours. Come and witness this now. So the idea is you come and you say, come on guys, let's polish off this lamb But when we try to live independently, we can't manufacture thankfulness. I'm going to tear you to pieces. I pray, sure. The bow, verse 15. Yesterday we got a phone call. He says, you know, normally we don't hear him. What's the connection? You think when the fat is burned and the incense rises up that somehow I need this? Now, Lord, if you answer this prayer, I vow that I will offer a thank offering in the temple. First of all, that's saying He alone is our hope Maybe you call yourself a Christian Maybe you're here because your mom and dad brought you and you don't have any choice in the matter, and you'd rather not be here Ever done something? Now it gets really personal. Damn. Come into the office, sitting at a stoplight, 175 The three basic kinds of Old Testament offerings. And that ultimate day of trouble is the day of judgment. In fact, if I were hungry, not that he is Is that why you offer them? This is talking about in the congregation, remember. You say, Well, I wouldn't look at that on my own. Consider this, you who forget God And on that day, here's what you're going to do. You know, as my hands were trembling on the wheel. When you see a thief, now notice this, you don't initiate these things The thank offering was one of the particular kinds of fellowship offerings. Then in verse 23, he who sacrifices thank offerings. And the danger is that you and I are so rabidly independent I wouldn't tell you, for the world is mine. He just floored it. Except for this portion for the priest and the portion that was burned to the Lord. And so we see that the New Testament says Jesus Christ was the fulfillment of the thank offering. God will continue working in him after a year or two And the heavens proclaim his righteousness, for God Himself is judge. It's in the means, it's in our schemes. Family discord. God himself is going to speak to us. You're here because of some other reason. I told you to do that. And that's what you do I know that you know, well why Well, I'll tell you, let me tell you, God delivered me here. And he says, I call for heaven He owns a cattle on a thousand hills. We do not like to think that we're dependent. If I'm going to live like that, as a man, a woman, a boy, or a girl, if I'm going to live like that, I need you Those are consecration offerings, which are ever before me. He must have been a little more than that. I don't live under the constraints of the Bible I believe you. That's what he's saying. And those who dishonor me, I will tear you to pieces. Because somehow I need to consume them The vow What right have you to do that or take my covenant on your lips? You know, what what was its main point? So it starts off with three names of God. No, he didn't That's the first thing. Here's where my life was God, if your spirit is going to work in me to love that person who in my flesh I would love to destroy. That's the picture. This is this is everything I knew to do. God answered our prayers. Eric Krab says, what happened after his son got expelled was he screamed at God. The third kind of offerings were the fellowship offerings. Excuse me, this should be verse 14. And so as you saw that, you realized this was a very solemn thing I mean, I'm asking God to work in my kids to save 'em, but I gotta do something. He was acting out so bad, contrary to any kind of Christian character, they finally threw him out of the school You kids see somebody that takes something, they shoplift, you join in with them So, he who sacrificed the thank offerings honors me. Then in verses 16 to 23 First of all, notice the two points are two warnings. Well I think what it has to do is if you understand what the thank offering was about, it makes perfect sense. But you've got to eat the thing in 24 hours. But if you're going to do it, you join in with them, you see. And from that brilliant dazzling light In verses 7 to 15, he addresses you who have made You notice it says that Zion is perfect in beauty So we're gonna have family devotions, we're gonna have it every night. See when your back's to the wall and God comes through, you're thankful. Lord, what else can I do? Because you see, as I say that, suppose I said, and we're going to go around Secondly, there were the burnt offerings. Again, notice what he says there in that paragraph that Tom read. To you. The thanksgiving. For instance, take for example Psalm 50 that you just heard Tom read. Gather to me my consecrated ones The connection is simply, again, you need to understand what the thank offering was. First of all, there's the sin offering. I know he cares for me. But let me ask you personally, a little deeper. And we're all built up in our faith. This is verse 14 And God delivered me. But I'll tell you I thought that's it. You see any connection? He says to you. Right? You may be sitting right here and he's addressing you. And he prepares the way so that I may show him the salvation of God. But here's the problem. I mean, this guy was intense on discipling his kids And I'm next to hopeless. Just say, tell us something where you know you couldn't pull something off and you know, whatever the trouble was. It was kind of God, I really do depend on you. What was it about? Well, if you were able to listen What ought to be the things that I'm grateful for? You read the Bible, you hear me. The thank offering. We'd consume it together. That's where the Ark of the Covenant resides in the Holy of Holies, where God speaks to us. So he's talking to those who own him as God, with whom he identifies himself. All the things that we would do. He's going to address you too. Each and every one of you, your time has come. I will deliver you and you will honor me. I've given you everything You know, I mean I told you last year, you remember When your sins, your thoughts, everything about you are going to be laid open before God. You think I'm making something up, don't you? Well you invite the congregation. Because Jesus is the final thank offering. So what happens when you're in trouble? The burnt offerings were for consecration. This is the thanksgiving offering of the Old Testament. Because thanksgiving is a celebration of our absolute dependence. Eat up. Obvious, that was for the I don't depend on you, you depend on me. And so when Larry Crabbe and had kids, he of course I am about to be clobbered from here to Kingdom Come Vows can be for anything. Bull or goat that's offered up to God. And it's all crumbled like dust between my fingers. He says, To the wicked, God says, What right have you to recite my laws? He says in verse 9 We're not gonna miss. That's what he's saying. We're celebrating his faithfulness. We're gonna we're gonna make sure You say we're gonna have a feast Get to that in a couple minutes. He said, but God doesn't. When the day of trouble comes into your life? Take a look at what it says in Psalm 50. In verse 7, he says, Here are my people. Where's your hope? I don't just wait around passively. Use your mouth for evil. And that's where this takes place. Or goats from your pens. So now offer thank offerings. That's just the way you are. Is that the way we think? He's not noticing. You say you ought to be thankful. Your back's to the wall. We all know that, right? He doesn't see me.