Often you hear it said at Columbia Presbyterian that the way to live the Christian life is to focus on Jesus Believe that one of our greatest problems is that we so often think about ourselves, about my feelings and my failures So much about me, and so little about Jesus. What he's like, who he is, what he did to save me How perfect is his love, how faithful, how sufficient his power, his glory, his gentleness. And so uh it's become the custom at Columbia Presbyterian, been since our beginning, that um wherever we are, whatever we're studying, when we come to Christmas, we come to Easter, we take off a few weeks and we just focus on Jesus. Just to look at him, to think about him again, to make concrete what we say to you, like Steve said last week, to think about Jesus. What can we think about him? I'd like to offer some things. I 'm going to take two weeks to think about his death, and then one week to think about his resurrection. Now I want to begin this by asking you a very, very simple question. How did Jesus die? That's very simple. We all believe we know the answer to that. But I would like to prove to you from Scripture this morning Then if you said Jesus died by crucifixion, that that's not right. I want to prove to you from Scripture that Jesus in fact did not die. By crucifixion. You kids listen up so that afterwards you can tell mom and dad how Jesus really died. Okay? You've got to tune in and see if you can tell them And the key is to read the verse in each of the Gospels that speaks precisely about the moment of his death. And if you understand those carefully, you will understand what I'm talking about. The most explicit is John chapter 19, verse 30. So that's the one that is the text for this morning. Once again, as Tom read it, but look at it again. When he had received the drink, Jesus said, It is finished And with that he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. To understand the significance of that, you need to turn back to John 10. So hopefully you have your Bibles and can turn back to John chapter 10. to see what it is that uh Jesus is what John is referring to when he uses those words in John 19 verse 30 Do you remember in John chapter 10, Jesus is talking about himself as the Good Shepherd? And in the midst of that discourse He says something three times that I want to refer you to. In verse 11, he says, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep Then you see there in verse 15, he says, Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and lay down my life for the sheep. Then in verse 17, the reason my father loves me is that I lay down my life only to take it up again. No one takes it from me But I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. This command I received from my father. Now, can you imagine some well-known leader who's very controversial, who has many friends, but also many enemies? who in a particular public speech says, and I just want you to know that nobody can take my life. I alone have authority to decide when I will die, and in fact, I have the authority to take my life back up again. Nobody is going to be able to take my life. I mean, you know, how much credibility? I mean Alexander the Great said, I am invincible. No one can defeat me, and he conquered the whole world. And then he died of a cold virus shortly after. I remember when we lived in Syracuse going over to Niagara Falls. And there was an exhibit there at Niagara Falls that talked about a fellow who last century Had defied death, designed a barrel. You know, a number of people try to go over the falls and they died in the attempt. And this fellow designed a barrel to go over Niagara Falls. And he went over the falls in a barrel and he lived Survived. Do you imagine experience going over the falls and down there and you know and this guy and he got out of the barrel and there he was and he was the first one, he did it, and he lived And then some years later, walking down the street, he slipped on a banana peel and it killed him. Died of complications of the fall. We all die of the fall, right? He died of that one. Well , imagine somebody saying, Nobody can take my life. When you look at the life of Jesus, isn't it amazing to think how it seemed like nobody could take his life? I mean, think of when he was born, right from infancy. As an infant, Herod wants to kill him I mean, what's he done? But Herod wants to kill him and so sends these soldiers and you know how God warned Joseph and they escaped to Egypt Remember the beginning of his ministry, Luke chapter 4, he says back to the hometown of Capernaum, I am the Messiah, I'm the one that has come to set the captives free. People all got upset and they were offended at this and they wanted to throw him over a cliff, Luke says. But it says that Jesus walked through their midst and they weren't able to do it. In John chapter 9 He's having another argument with the Pharisees. You remember, and they're baiting him, and they're trying to, you know, who are you? What are you saying, and all this? And he says, Well, let me tell you, before Abraham was, I am Uses there the holy name for God in his absolute independent existence And the Bible says there that the Jews picked up stones to stone him to death for his blasphemy, but that Jesus again escaped. Well you remember how it goes on to talk about the Jews became more and more determined that they were going to kill him. And so they conspired with Judas, the betrayer, to Um be able to arrest him and to kill him sometime during the feast. During the Last Supper Supper, Jesus makes it absolutely clear that he knows who his betrayer is. All he had to do at that moment. was to say to the eleven, instead of one of you will betray me, all he had to say was, It's Judas that's going to do it. And they would have torn him limb from limb. But he doesn't. He says, Go do what you're going to do quickly. Even at his arrest, do you remember how the Bible says that when the guards came to take him and they arrested him That when he spoke, they fell back to the ground before his authority. They weren't able to stand before him. And even then, when they get up, Peter slices off the high priest's servant's ear. And Jesus rebuked Peter and said, Peter, come on. Don't you know that I could call to my father and I could have twelve legions of angels here to defend me? No one can take Jesus' life. You know, when Jesus decided to give his life for you and for me , It was not like the Tale of Two Cities or someone else who decides that they will sacrifice their life for someone else And once they have made that decision, they put themselves in circumstances which at some point they're at the point of no return. And events will simply take their course and they're gone. Jesus could at any point have decided enough, they're not worth it. I'm stopping this. Even on the cross. Jesus could have stopped it. They said, Come down and save yourself if you be the Messiah. And little did they know, he could have done exactly that. But why is it that I say that he didn't die of crucifixion? Well, in order to understand that, you need to understand how you die of crucifixion. How is it that somebody actually dies of crucifixion? When a person is crucified, of course, the body goes into shock, and there is utter exhaustion. But once that has taken place, there's one of three causes of death in crucifixion. The first possibility is by exposure , dehydration. And the body dies from the heat and the dehydration. That's one possibility. Sometimes people hung on crosses for two and even three days out in the heat in the sun A second possibility of cause of death would have been loss of blood, particularly when the crucifixion had been preceded by scourging. Many men died of the scourging even before they were able to be hung on the cross. The third possibility of death was death by suffocation. That was the most common cause, particularly when the crucifixion didn't last very long. The body would be hung on the cross, and as you know, in order to breathe, you have to expel the air by your diaphragm. to get the air out in order to draw in fresh air. And when someone is hung on across, they're hanging with the nails through their hands and their feet, and at first they're able to expel that air, lifting themselves up. But then as the pain becomes more and more excruciating, the body becomes weaker, it's more and more difficult to expel the error. So you have to push yourself up on your feet, which have the spikes through them. An excruciating experience, I'm sure, in order to just get a little bit more air. And finally the person succumbs and they suffocate. An excruciating death. But we know that Jesus did not die of exposure and dehydration. He wasn't there long enough. We know that he didn't die from loss of blood, even though he had been scourged, and we know that he didn't suffocate. How do we know that? Because if you read the verse that talks about his death in each of the Gospels, it's absolutely clear that he could not have died by that means. In Matthew chapter 27, in verse 50, Matthew puts it this way: When Jesus had cried out again in a loud voice, he gave up his spirit. Mark 15, verse 37 puts it this way. With a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last. Or Luke chapter 23, verse 46. Jesus called out with a loud voice, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit When he had said this, he breathed his last. Did you notice? A loud voice? A loud cry? A loud voice If you are dying by loss of blood, you are too weak. If you are suffocating, you have no air. You can't shout when you're suffocating. It takes air. So the Bible is absolutely clear that Jesus had both strength and air in his last moment. Therefore, he did not die by the means of of crucifixion in either the dehydration or the loss of blood or the suffocation. And so John puts it the most explicitly When he says, when he'd received the drink, Jesus said, It is finished, and with that he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. This is something absolutely unique in all of history. Jesus did not die by any natural cause. In fulfillment of his promise in John chapter 10 Jesus said at a certain point the work is done, it is finished, and he voluntarily at that point decided to relinquish his life. Now remember, Jesus was not born with Adam's nature. There was no reason why Jesus had to die. He was not cursed, he was not disobedient, and he did not have a nature subject to death. So Jesus at that moment decided In order to pay for your sin and for my sin, having accomplished all that was necessary to relinquish voluntarily his life. In order to pay the debt. Now that is absolutely staggering. So my first point is that Jesus' death was voluntary, not inevitable. It is not simply that he was led a charmed life. We see in Jesus sovereignty with skin on We see in him someone absolutely unique. His death was not voluntary, his death was voluntary, not inevitable. And the second point is that his death was victorious, not defeat. What is it that he shouts at that last moment of his life? To testify one word in the Aramaic or the Greek, it means simply it is a finished, it is accomplished. It is done. I remember a Easter sermon that I came upon one time, which the preacher said this We cannot forget his death as we celebrate his resurrection. His words too failed him. They could not stem the tide of hatred that engulfed him. They could not convey his vision of an upside-down world where love is the strongest force and service the mark of authority. He died defeated and alone, hanging in awful silence atop a lonely hill. Brothers and sisters, I stand before you this morning to tell you that is not true. Jesus did not die in defeat. Alone, yes Utterly abandoned by all of his friends, those that he knew and loved and trusted. He died utterly abandoned by the Father. Who turned his back on him as he bore the guilt of your sin and mine? But defeat? No. At that moment, Satan was whispering in his ear, Ha! You've lost. You're about to die of failure. And in faith, Jesus cries out at that last moment, it is finished. No, Satan, you've lost. I've accomplished everything that the Father sent me to do. In John chapter 17 and verse 4, he had said just the night before in his final prayer to the Father Father, I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work that you gave me to do. Who of you? Expects to be able to say in that last moment of your life, it is finished. I have completed 100% of my mission on earth. I can't even complete house projects. One of the things most frustrates my wife is when I start a project around the house I'll get about 95 % of it done. I can't bring myself for that final percent, you know, final five percent. Because as long as it's not finished, then I don't have to worry about the fact it's not perfect You guys know how that goes, right? You know, someday I'll make it just right. But it's not finished yet, so don't worry. Because it's never finished One of the big stresses of life, isn't it? Never finished. There's always one more phone call to make, one more house project to get to, one more thing to do in the yard. We're never finished raising our kids. We're never finished whatever task. There's always more. I could do it better. I failed in this. I wish I could have done that. If I could only do it over again, I might be able to do it better. Never, never finished. And Jesus alone, at that moment of his death, cried out, what no one ever else has been able to say, it is finished. I've done it perfectly. Everything I set out to do, I have done it. Look at the context of it. The verses just before verse 30 Verse 28, later knowing that all now was completed, and so that the scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, I am thirsty. Quoting there, of course, from the Old Testament prophecy of his thirst , a jar then of wine vinegar. was there, so they soaked the sponge in it, they put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant, and they lifted it to Jesus' lips. And when he had received the drink, Jesus said, It is finished. And with that he bowed his head and he voluntarily gave up his spirit. Why did he ask for a drink at the very end? To fulfill prophecy, yes, but there's a particular reason You see, when a person's crucified, one of the most excruciating experiences of that is the thirst. I understand that through the shock in the body and the exposure in the sun and all that the body goes through, That the mouth swells and it becomes dry as parchment, the lips crack, so that you cannot speak. And your mouth is just full and you think of the worst thirst that you ever had, think of the worst sore throat that you ever had. You know, when you wake up in the morning and you know how you have that feeling and just can't wait to run to the bathroom and get a drink and or it's some summer day and you know and and you're just so thirsty and there's no water in sight and all if you could only have a drink, oh surely you'll perish if you don't get a drink in the next few minutes and all you can think about. Is water. Water. Probably getting thirsty now. Nothing that we've ever experienced has any comparison to the thirst that Jesus experienced on the cross. Now it's not because he wanted to assuage his thirst that he asked for that drink. It was simply because, in order for him to speak He needed to have liquid. And so Jesus gets the drink from the sour wine So that he can finish his ministry by the statement, the declaration Of the completion of his work, so that you and I could rest in the knowledge that when Jesus died Everything was perfectly accomplished. His work was finished. And you and I can rest in that. And what was it that was finished? I believe he's referring to the what theologians call the two sides of his obedience necessary for our redemption. First of all, there is the active obedience. He's referring to that. That was finished. His active obedience made him eligible to be a substitute for your sin and for mine. The verses that you see there in your bulletin outline all refer to the fact that Jesus came to perfectly obey the Father. For instance, in John chapter 6. In verse 38, Jesus said, For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but to do the will of him who sent me. All of us should be able to say, I was born not to do my own will, but the will of him who made me. And none of us can say that. You can't say that. I can't say that. Not the things that you've done. Not the things that you've thought about. Not your gossip, your deceit, your complaining that life isn't fair, your grumbling against God's providence in your life Not the things that you have intended for others, your bitterness, gossip. None of us can say, I have done the will Of the Father for his glory, except Jesus. Jesus was perfectly obedient in everything that he did. And so as he hangs on the cross there, Jesus is saying, it is finished. Thirty-three years The Father has declared upon my life, this is my Son in whom I am well pleased. His life is perfect. And so because of that, he was eligible to be a substitute, and that relates to his other side, back to the passive obedience. Where he was executed as a substitute to die in your place The three verses there, Luke 12, 18, and 22, all use the same words that you find in Luke in John 19, verse 30. that speaks of the necessity of his suffering. They all use that word that from which this word finished comes, to telespy, from tele 'o means to accomplish, to complete something. And all three of these verses speak of the fact that it was necessary for Jesus' suffering to be completed in order for him to rescue you and me. From the penalty we deserved. And so Jesus is hanging on the cross, and he's saying, It is finished. The suffering is completed. Gethsemane is passed. The betrayal is over. The mock trial has been endured. The crown of thorns, the beating. The scourging, the carrying of the cross to Golgotha, the experience of the nails in my hands and my feet And now, in this one last moment, I recognize and I acknowledge in the absence of my father's fellowship, enduring the very curse Of my Father, that I have suffered equivalent to more than an eternity of hell For all the sins of all of my people. It is finished. The debt has been paid in full For your sin and for mine. Now the Greeks Greek orators had a goal, as they put it, of containing a sea of meaning in a drop of language. Where is that ever more accurately displayed than in this one word? It is finished. Can you see Jesus there? Dying for you, having accomplished all that was necessary You see, this is the wonder of what you see there, the DI double imputation. The wonder of double imputation. The word impute, remember, means to treat someone as if. something is true. You impute bad motives to someone, you are treating them as if their motives were evil or bad. And so what God does is that He, rather than treating you in reality according to your sin , He in fact instead imputes your sins to Jesus, so he treats Jesus as if he had sinned all your sins. And he suffers not simply the penalty, but the guilt of those sins But you see, it's not simply the imputation of your sin to Jesus. But double imputation says that there is another imputation. It is the fact that God imputes that perfect record of living That Jesus lived to your life, so he treats you as if you had lived a life as good as Jesus. As if you had lived in perfect obedience. And when Jesus here is saying, it is finished. He is saying, you and I are not simply forgiven, placed back the way Adam was in innocence, but under probation. But he is saying, you are not only forgiven, you are not under probation. That's that next blind. You are also not on probation. You see, the record, the judgment has already occurred over your life. You have already experienced Judgment Day. We'll be talking about Judgment Day in a few weeks. You have already experienced that. And God has already rendered the verdict over your life perfect because Jesus said it is finished All that you needed to do to satisfy the Father has been accomplished in his life and by his death. And Jesus says in that moment of his death, it is finished. You can go free. Amen. Oh, brothers and sisters, look to Jesus, not to yourself. Do you see that? Do you see the freedom that He's purchased for you? You know, Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2 says something relevant to this. It says that Jesus, in that moment of his suffering Experienced a joy, a thrill that even he had never experienced as God from all eternity. Because at that moment, for the joy that was set before him, he realized he had accomplished everything necessary to secure your rescue from hell and your presence with him for all eternity. Can we grasp that? Can you fathom what is contained in this simple statement? It is finished. And can you rest in it? Can you rest? Can you dare to rest in that finished work of Jesus? Do you live a religion of do? Or a religion of done. That's the difference, you know, between biblical Christianity and every other copy. Everything else is a religion of do. Do, do, keep on doing, duty, and always the insecurity of have I done enough? But the gospel is about done. It's all been accomplished Everything necessary in Jesus. And that's what he says here in this verse. It is finished. There is nothing to add. You cannot add to his perfect record. You cannot mess up his record if you are resting in and trusting in and relying upon the finished work of Jesus Christ this morning. You are absolutely safe. There is nothing to add to that. Have you realized the extent of the love that we give himself To die for you, to lay down his life voluntarily, so that all would be accomplished necessary for eternal life. Have you rested in that? Or are you still struggling to add? Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, open our eyes that we might see perfect work that you have accomplished. Oh Lord, show us. Show us what Jesus meant when he said there, it is finished. Lord, we are we we find your grace so embarrassing that we always are trying to add, we're trying to supplement. We look to ourselves and we get so embroiled in all of our duties and all the things we mess up. Oh Lord, free us. Free your people here this morning. To rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Lord, for anybody that's here who has not rested in that work, who still lives a religion of do rather than done. We pray, Lord, that you would make clear to them that they cannot supplement the work of Christ. It is either to receive it or to reject it. And that you would make that clear and draw them to Jesus this morning. Lord, help us to see what you have done for us and to turn from our own dead works. To rest in you. In Jesus' name. Amen