Is Jesus your life? The Lord God invites you to Himself this morning He invites you to know him and to know his promise. We're in this sermon series in the book of Acts. And in this shorter series, within a series in Acts chapter 7, as we are unpacking this speech, this sermon of Stephen. To the leaders of Israel, the religious leaders of Israel. The sermon will end mightily, as we will see, but it will also end not with the preservation of Stephen's life, it will end with his stoning. He will serve as the church's first martyr. But it is this speech, this sermon that he gives that is so powerful for us and so helpful, I believe, to meet us in our time of need. We see the grand theme indeed of this sermon. It is the promise, the promise of God. Last week we looked at how the promise of God is his gracious self-revelation to Abraham. And his statement to Abraham, while he had no children, he said, I will be your God and you will be my people, because that promise Was the fact that he would make the descendants of Abraham more numerous than the stars in the sky. And yet Abraham did not even have one son And that call on Abraham's life happened while Abraham was still living in a far-off land, not in the promised land. And yet God's promise is not confined by time and space or zip code, and certainly not our holiness. And it certainly was not because of any holiness that Abraham had in himself. It was because God called him and he gave him what he needed. And ultimately, that would end in giving him his son, Isaac. And through Isaac, we pick up the story and the sermon of Stephen this week. And it is to be to us a continuance of looking at the promise of God, from the self-revelation, the gracious self-revelation of God, now to seeing the promise of God as the kind of God He is, the sovereign. Suffering Father. And it is to be to us a word of hope to each of us, regardless of where you are. It is to be a promise to you to receive. Acts chapter 7, verses 9 to 19. And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt, and God was with him And rescued him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who made him ruler over Egypt and over his household. Now there came a famine throughout all Egypt and Canaan and great affliction, and our fathers could find no food. But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers on their first visit. And on the second visit, Joseph made himself known to his brothers. And Joseph's family became known to Pharaoh. And Joseph sent and summoned Jacob, his father, and all his kindred, seventy-five persons and all. And Jacob went down into Egypt and he died, and he and our fathers and they were carried back to Shechem and laid him in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a sum of silver from the sons of the Jehovah. Of Hamor and Shechem. But as the time of the promise drew near, which God had granted to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt. Until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph. He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants. So they would not be kept alive. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me Father, we need your promise because your promise is based on the changeless, powerful God and Father that you are It is based on your character, your work, and not on ours. We forget your promises. We take our eyes and divert them from you and we place them on ourselves. We live under our own strength. Which is why every Sunday morning, Lord, we need for you to remind us of your promise that comes to us. Because it is worthy of our trust. Because you are sovereign. Sovereign, and you have suffered in our place. And you, O Lord, give the promise to us this morning to be renewed for our trust To be renewed. Maybe for some to receive that trust for the first time this morning. May you do that, O Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. My apologies at the outset, but perhaps you know the name Louis Zamperini. Maybe you've read the book Unbroken. If you haven't, I'm going to give some things away. For sermonic purposes, because I can. So there you go. It's still very worth your read, I assure you. But Louis Zamparini perhaps is not a household name. It will become a movie soon. But Louis Zamperini was an inveterate thief when he was a young teenager. A difficult upbringing, given to all kinds of crime. But it wasn't until he was a high schooler that he found something to drive his passions more than stealing. It was running. And oh how he could run. Very close even as a high schooler breaking a world record for the mile. So much so that he earned a birth to the Olympic trials and on to the Olympic Games, but he would never see the Olympic Games. Because, like many in his generation, he would go to war instead. He would become a bombardier in the Air Arm Army Air Corps, and things went from bad to worse. You see, he was not just a bombardier, he was a bombardier in a plane that was known for its mechanical failures. Though he had escaped many coincidential almost crashes, he would find himself on a mission, a search and rescue mission over the Pacific Ocean. And like many of the planes before him, his plane would go down. And there would only be three survivors, and then there would only be two. Those two were Louis Zamparini and his friend Phil. They would spend what would become one of the longest times on a raft that is in recorded history. And that would be 47 days. They were picked up by Jap the Japanese later on and were carried to the Marshall Islands They had escaped sharks and starvation and thirst and sunburn and the close brush with a Japanese machine gun. But they were eventually picked up. And then they were taken to concentration camps and they were shipped from one concentration camp to another until one day Luis Amparini met what he believed would be his match and This was a particularly difficult, brutal, torturer nickname the bird. And the bird would find one reason for getting up every morning. And that would be to deliver punishment on one particular man, and that was Luis Amparini. We don't always know why you'll have to read the book, but it is a story of very difficult physical beatings and torture. He thought he had received relief when the bird was transferred to another concentration camp. He thought, if I survived that and I was not broken by him, I can survive anything. And so he too was transferred. He was transferred to a new concentration camp, and he came to realize after just a couple of days there that he would face the bird again. But not only as a personal torturer, but the bird would also be the head over all those who would deliver brutality at that concentration camp. But as you might know, we won the war. But not many of the men who we remember this weekend made it. Many did not. Their ultimate sacrifice was to our blessing, which as Pastor Flores said has enabled us to sit here this morning and to worship. May we not think our freedom in a But Luis Damperini would survive along with seven hundred others in this concentration camp, and they enjoyed food and finally freedom. He and Phil both made it home. But Zamporini had been said and stated and announced that he was dead, but he came home very much alive and he received a hero's welcome. He would begin training again, begin running, hoping to make it to the 1948 Olympics, until one day, while preparing, still in Japan, he He twisted his ankle, reinjured an old injury. His hope for Olympic birth was over. And he was finally broken He would give himself too much alcohol. He became an an addict addict to alcohol, and that alcohol would begin to unpack his life because the alcoholism was really The just a symptom of a greater disease. That disease was one of great anger, hatred But he was able to mask it. He would be married, would have his first child. But That anger began to grip him so internally that he wanted to live for one purpose. He wanted to have a plan to go back to Japan to find the bird and to kill him. The tortures, the beatings began to affect his daily life. He would wake up in the middle of the night, he hardly would go through a day that he was not struggling with the very overwhelming power of what we know as PTSD. S. D. And so he found a source of comfort in the bottle. The problem is it would not lead him to peace. In fact, not only would not lead him to peace, it led to no one around him with peace. Including his new wife and his young child, and they were on the verge of leaving him entirely because of his abuse. But in one last-ditched effort, this is now the early 1950s in Los Angeles, a young pastor was visiting. For an open-air rally. That young preacher was Billy Graham. His wife, who was a Christian, believed if she could just get him to go He hated Billy Graham, he hated Christianity, even though God had shown up and protected him and through a long series of coincidences and near misses and accidents. But God was in it. But he could not see it at that time. He went that night But somehow she convinced him to go a second night. And on that second night, while sitting on the back row, he would hear the invitation that Billy Graham would become famous for. And he got up from that chair and he was angry. And what began to flood his mind over and over again was the torture, the beatings, the anger, the hatred that he had. for this man and for everybody who he represented, he couldn't stand it anymore, and he began to sweat profusely. Until while in this fit of rage, while in the middle of this rally, he would remember one thing, and it was no coincidence I believe it was God wrought, Holy Spirit sent, as the hound of heaven would not let him go. He remembered one thing that he had uttered while on that raft. It was these words. God, if you'll get me through this, I'll serve heaven the rest of my life. But like many foxhole or raft induced prayers. He had forgotten it until that moment. And he heard the promise. And he converted his life to Christ and committed himself to him that night. He went home and he poured down every ounce of booze that he had down the drain. He went cold turkey and he hasn't had a drink since. He's still alive He's become a missionary. He would go back to Japan to share Christ and to even seek to forgive those Who had violence against him because he remembered something. While in camp, a young Japanese soldier came to him. And others within that consecration camp, and they said to him, they asked him this question, you Christian? And he answered with what everybody would likely say in that moment. Yeah? He said yes, though he did not know Christ. That Japanese soldier said, I'm Christian. And he began to, under the cover, slide them food and drink. What he realized was, indeed, while he felt God was not present in his suffering, where could the Lord be? Where are you, God? That surely he was nowhere to be found. God was missing in action. But indeed, God was there. God was there with him on that raft. God was there with him through the hands and feet of that Japanese soldier, offering him food in the name of Christ. God was there in the midst of his alcohol-induced anger. And hatred. And God was there on the night that he committed his life to Christ. God is there. God 's promise. Is that he is sovereign. He is there when we cannot see him, because he is faithful and he is good. And he is here this morning. And he invites you to know this promise. And he wants you to see that indeed, regardless of where you are, whether you are in the midst of crushing. Depression, suffering, of whatever stripe, the Lord wants you to know He is here that your suffering is not a parentheses in your life that is somehow bracketed outside of his sovereign care And he wants you to know that he meets you there. He wants you to see it through what Stephen says about Joseph. And he says three things about the presence of God's sovereignty and the presence of God's suffering care. Through the fact that first he was present, secondly, he preserves, thirdly, he provides. First, he's present. You see it in the opening verse. And the patriarchs Jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt, but God was with him. How was God with him? How? Where was God? You see, those who heard Stephen's speech understood the history. Joseph's father Jacob had a father named Isaac. Isaac. who was the promised son to Abraham, gave birth to two sons, Esau and Jacob. God chose Jacob as his precious possession, and through Jacob he would have twelve sons called here the patriarchs. But Jacob had one, if not a few, fundamental flaw. He had the problem of favoritism, and it ripped his family apart because he loved Joseph. And that favoritism wreaked havoc in the family, so much so that Joseph's eleven other brothers hated him. Because of it. Because Joseph also understood in his youthful egotism and strength, began to, if you will, not know how to live out what it meant to follow God, and he sort of ruled it over his brothers of his superiority. And they hated him for it. And that day, when he asked his father if he could go out to be with his brothers, he went out and they saw him coming. And there they were in Dothan. They see him coming, and their hatred and anger rose up, and it rose up with a plan. We will sell our brother. And so they did. Now imagine Joseph being put on the cistern and then sold for a few pieces of silver into slavery into Egypt. Let me ask you the question How then can the scripture say, if this is what God is doing is the God of Abraham whose promise was, I will make your people a mighty nation? More than the stars in the sky. I will bless them. I will be faithful to my promise. Where is God? How is he present if Joseph is now in a cistern sold into slavery? Can you imagine the prayers? Can you imagine? I can't. Because I've not had to be in slavery and in prison for not just one day, but for years. Where are you, Lord? How are you present? Can you imagine the things that he asked of the Lord, Lord? Send me freedom, let me get out of here. We know that was his desire, because we know that later on in the history, while he was there, he he was there because why? He thought he was blessed, because he made it up into Potiphar's house. But that led right back to Prison. If not worse yet, and then he was right back there again. And then, lo and behold, one day a servant of Pharaoh ends up and he's like, Here's the ticket. I will help you if you help me. I want to get out of here. And when you go back to Pharaoh, tell him about me and set me free. And what happened? The cupbearer forgot. Can you imagine as the nights began to stack up on one after another? When the realization probably fell over Joseph, he forgot Me. No one is coming. But then the day came, and Pharaoh needed interpretation of the dream. And we pick up the passage here where he says, but God was with him and rescued him. So how was the Lord with him? Because of his promise. His promise, which is connected to his character, was there with Joseph in the midst of his prison and slavery. Because let me say to you, what if Joseph What if Joseph had gotten the answer to his prayers and he was let out of prison earlier than the Lord sovereignly foreordained that he would get out? What would happen? I'll tell you what would happen. If Joseph had gotten out of prison by any other way than by this, Israel would not have found grain. They would have died, and there would be no Israel. With no Israel, there would be no Moses. With no Moses, there would be no Joshua. With no Joshua, there would be no David. With no Dav There would be no Jesus. Here is the reality. Many of us live precisely where Joseph lives. We're praying, we're asking for the Lord to meet us in the midst of our suffering, but we look around and we don't see anything. All we have are the promises of God. But what do we do? We are called to recklessly, yes, recklessly pray to the Lord with all of our hearts, but at the same time trust, knowing this, that as flamboyant and as radical my prayers can be, I'm placing those prayers in the loving hands of a sovereign Father who knows. exactly what I need and when I need it. Many of us do not get to look back like Joseph did. Many of us are more like Job. We don't get to see always the reason behind things. But what we do get to receive is the promise. Because Joseph is the greater forerunner of Jesus. Jesus is the greater Joseph. Without Joseph's suffering, without Joseph's being sold into slavery, without Joseph being led out to interpret a dream of Pharaoh, we would have no Jesus. Let me say, think about it for a moment. We've recently celebrated Easter. Imagine how the apostles and those who had fallen under Jesus' teaching had been changed by his preaching on the Saturday after Good Friday. Before Sunday comes. All they know is the one who preached and performed miracles, who had preached grace, who had transformed their lives, who said he was the Son of the living God. He is now dead and buried in a grave, and it's Saturday, and the enemies have won. They know a Sunday is coming. They just don't know the resurrection is coming. We know that because of their surprise. They were surprised that Jesus was raised from dead to life. What does that tell us? That can tell us that can you imagine the avalanche of prayers that took place on that Saturday? Can you imagine the suffering, the darkness, the difficulty, the trial that laid heavy on the people who had heard Jesus and seen him? Many of us precisely live there oftentimes. We live on Saturday But we don't know Sunday is coming. We've heard that Christ has died and Christ has risen. Christ will come again. But this seems like one really long Saturday. And we're in the midst of suffering, we're in the midst of our lives, and we don't know where is the Lord. I cannot point you to anything else other than The Lord's word who says, I am with you, because he said to Abraham, and he's now able to say to Joseph, I am your God, and you will be my Person, you will be my people. And we can pray and we can cry and we should trust the Lord, knowing that as we pray and as we cry, and as As we ask for relief, knowing that ultimately, if we knew what God knew, we would pray no differently than the Lord works his way. Will out. He knows we don't. But we know that he isn't just sovereign. He loves. He loves because he preserves. You see, if all God is, is a bundle of will and a bundle of sovereign power. We miss the other side of the thing that is connected to his sovereignty. The thing that drives his will and his desire is to glorify his name. And to make a people of his own and to love them. And he preserves Joseph, does he not? The passage tells us. When he says he rises to power, he becomes the second in command in Egypt, he interprets Pharaoh's dream, he's able to store up all the grain, and then suddenly his family, his brothers come to him. And he sees his brother, though they don't recognize him. He sees them and he sees them in tatters. They are hungry. And he sees, as you go back and read the passage, what do you begin to see? You see how perhaps their decision to sell Joseph into slavery has wreaked havoc on the family, the grief of the father. The pain and the relationship of the brothers, the guilt that they likely carried. And then they come again and he sets it up. And if you go back and you read the passage He , sets it up just enough for them to be able to reach the precipice. They see just how much they need. And then he discloses his identity. And in disclosing the identity, he says those great words, what you meant for evil. Do not wear that guilt. I forgive you. You meant for evil, God meant for good. Though his brothers were guilty of their sinful decisions, God's will, God's sovereign, preserving, loving, care used even their evil decisions to reach the end that he meant it to, and that is to preserve food and a life for his people and his family. And through that preservation, they would grow to a mighty nation. God isn't just one who gives us his promise and says to us, I've got it in control. You got it? I've got it in control. He doesn't just say that. He says, I have it all in my hands, but I will be your God and you will be my people. I love you. I will preserve you. You see, Christ is the greater Joseph because in many ways, what happens Joseph, though sold into slavery, the Lord would preserve to bring out and make Joseph the instrument through which he would feed his people. and save the nation of Israel. Jesus Christ was sold on the night he was betrayed. By one who betrayed him. The one who meant it, the one who was guilty of his individual actions, he was nonetheless what he meant for evil, God meant for good, for Jesus Christ was Sold into captivity to a cross by his design that he might feed his people and liberate them from the greatest captivity of all sin. Do you see? The Lord isn't just a bundle of sovereign will. He is a Father who lovingly preserves And were we to oftentimes get the answers to our prayers or our desires? We would miss out on the fact that we trust somebody who knows best because he loves us the most. Perhaps you've seen the Christmas film Elf, the pantheon of funny films, maybe not award-winning films. But there is a man who is behind that film. His name is Todd Komarniki He graduated from Wheaton College in 1987. But last year, in his testimony before Wheaton College, he said these words. He said, in the spring of 1984, before a baseball trip, I wrote a suicide note. It ran like a triangle down into the corner of the page. My roommate on that trip, Steve Nagel, who graduated with me, asked me what I was writing so feverishly, and so I read it to him. I was eighteen. We were kids. He asked me what was I going to do? I said I didn't know, but I was going to do it that night. I was going to go out into the Florida night to my end. And Steve said, You're going to have to go by me first. I stayed up all night waiting for him to fall asleep. He never left his watch. I dozed in the morning, and when I awoke, he was sleeping, sitting up, blocking the door. Steve Nagel saved my life. Jesus, with a crew cut blocking me from death's door, literally. But even that didn't cure my depression because I was still spiritually dead having rejected God. Countless nights during my sophomore year, I'd take to the roof of Traber Dorm and stand on the ledge The boy on the ledge. I was hoping the wind would have the courage I lacked. A year later, when I finally dared to take the tiniest steps Toward Christ, I knew I was never alone on that roof. Jesus had my back And before this college community, he said these words, quoting from Romans 8: All things lead together for the good to those that love God. 1 John 4. 18, there is no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear. Romans 8:31, if God is for us, who can be against us? He said then, we are free. How can I live? How can we live in any other way but fearlessly? How can we not take each shovel to the head that life greets us with anything besides a vitamin? We are bulletproof with love. Why do we spend doing anything else? There are countless stories that we could quote where the story ends differently. But this we know. That the Lord is not thwarted in his promise or his preservation. By anything other than what he desires to bring about. And the father of sovereignty is a father of preserving love. Who sent forth his son to suffer in our place, that we might know life and know it abundantly And if we who are united to Christ, if Christ is for us, who can be against us? What can separate us from the love of God in Christ? It is his promise that preserves. But finally, it's his promise that provides. After Jacob passes away, after Abraham's purchase of a tiny plot in Shechem where he was buried, Egypt would be the birthplace where Israel would grow more and more and more and more, but Pharaoh too would pass away. Joseph would pass away. In verse 17 it says this, but as the time of the promise drew near, notice. As the time of the promise drew near, meaning the time of the promise where the people of God would go into the promised land, which God had granted to Abraham. The people increased and multiplied in Egypt until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph. He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants so that they would not be kept alive. How does the Lord provide in that? It seems, okay, I get God preserves and He preserves Israel, and now they're in slavery and they grown too many number, but now they're there and they're being being persecuted, their children are being murdered as a result of a despot. How is the Lord going to provide? Well, the passage tells us, but it's one verse that Pastor Flora gets to preach next week. And I told him earlier I'm not going to preach this verse, I'm just going to read it. It's because of this. There was one child Who the Lord preserved, more than that, but one for sure. And the verse twenty says this at that time, meaning the time in which this death sentence was placed. At that time Moses was born, and he was no ordinary child. See, not only is Jesus the greater Joseph, Jesus is the greater Moses. Because, my friends, isn't it interesting That the death threat would come in Egypt, but one child was preserved through whom the promise of God made to Abraham would continue to unfold and multiply and bless the people of God. Isn't it interesting that Jesus Christ, born of the Virgin Mary, Joseph together Was born under the threat of death. For they had received the threat so much so that they were given the warning that they were to escape this death threat by going through what country? Anyone know? I'm going to ask you. Egypt. Now let me tell you, is that coincidence? I think not. Isn't it interesting? At this point, the death threat comes in Egypt, but God preserves Moses through whom would lead us to Christ. Isn't it interesting that Christ, who was the one most Unordinary, the one child in whom the Father would say, This is my son in whom I'm well pleased, that he would preserve the promise to its fulfillment in Christ alone. Would be born to a father and mother by the work of the Holy Spirit, and they would say, But you must escape to be preserved, and I'll provide a son, and they would escape through Egypt. My friends, that is the Bible screaming to us while we cannot see the next moment. We cannot see the next day. Is as Todd Karmanecki would say, what makes life both exciting and very difficult But the Bible says to us, we cannot see the next day, we cannot see the next moment, but we have received the promise of a sovereign, suffering God who has sent us his Son, and if He is for us, who or what? Can be against us. And we can live with a freedom and a deep and profound joy that is beyond measure. But maybe you're not there yet. Maybe you're wondering where can the Lord meet me? How is the Lord's promise going to preserve me now? All I can say is look to the promise and we can't We can't know how the Lord is going to do it, but this we know that He promises to deliver on what He says. If Christ is for us, who can be against us? And the promise is yours to receive And he will deliver you, but I cannot tell you what that deliverance will look like. But this I know by the promise of God in Christ, that in him we will receive salvation. And deliverance and freedom. But in a moment, we're going to stand and sing. We're going to sing a song, whatever my God ordains is right. Let me read to you just the first and last verse. Whatever my God ordains is right, within his love abiding, I will be still whatever he does, and follow where he's guided. He is my God, though dark my road, he holds me that I shall not fall. Wherefore to him I leave it all. The final verse, whatever my God ordains is right, though now this cup in drinking may bitter seem to my faint heart, I take it all unshrinking. My God is true each morn anew, sweet comfort yet shall fill my heart, and pain and sorrow shall depart. How in the world do we sing that song? The only way that we can sing that song Is through Christ because He first sings over us In Zephaniah chapter three, verse seventeen, The Lord your God is with you. The mighty warrior who saves, he will take great delight in you. In his love, he will no longer rebuke you, but will rejoice over you You with singing. The sovereign, suffering Father loves you. He delights over you. And he wants you to receive the promise that will never fail, will never be shaken, never stolen. Because it is united to Christ and Him alone. The question is, do you trust Him? He calls you to receive the promise because he's worthy of our trust. Let's pray Come, Lord God, we are a people Who look first often to our own promise, our own strength, and not to you. Will you come, O Lord, by your Spirit this morning? And make your name great. Make Christ more believable and more beautiful than we could ever imagine Because in Christ we receive the promise of the sovereign suffering Father, who has given us life and salvation in Christ alone And there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. If God is for us, who can be against us? And you will work all things for the good of those who love you. Oh Lord, we can't love you. We cannot unless we first know Know down to the bottom that you first have loved us. For you sing over us. Lord, help us to sing, help us to join you. Will you come and work that in us for your glory? In Jesus' name. Amen.