Now we resume our series on worship. We said so far in this series of worship First of all, prosperation. Secondly, that worship is in spirit and truth. Thirdly, that worship is celebration. And now fourthly this morning, I want to consider the principle that worship is dialogue. Worship is dialogue. What is dialogue? Dialogue is a conversation between two people, and it changes back and forth between two people communicating to each other. Of course, we don't mean by this that God worships us as we worship him, but rather that worship involves God speaking to us And that as we hear God speak to us, our response to Him is worship. And so worship involves both the hearing of God speaking to us as well as then our response to Him. A problem is some of us don't listen very well, do we? You ever had that kind of experience trying to talk with a friend who doesn't listen very well I remember a friend of mine who I had who didn't really know I think what dialogue was. Particularly when it came to the telephone. I remember one day you called up And he talks, him talks. And if he talks in conversation with simply him talking, punctuated by mm-hmm, uh-huh, mm-hmm, with me on this side. And finally, I was just a little kid And my mother had to use the phone and I said, Um, Bob I've gotta go. She said, Mm-hmm, just one more thing, and went on. I said, Bob, I really gotta go. But only one again. And so I finally did what I had never done before at that point. I said, Bob, I really gotta go and I just hung up And I uh went outside a little bit later. My mother was out hanging up clothes. And I said, uh, the phone's free now, you can go call And she went inside from hanging up her clothes and picked up the phone and said, That's great. Um I went over to the phone and sure enough, there was Bob still talking. And I said, mm-hmm. And you never knew I had hung up. Well, for some of the horseships can be like that, you know? Um Either we have this idea that God is just always speaking, and the fellow who's leading up here does all the talking And that's simply punctuated by an occasional mm-hmm from us. We call those hm hymn. So we go hm by singing a hymn and that's all we really see in our involvement singing uh every once in a while while this fella up at the beginning up at the uh podium there is doing the whole show by himself. That's our worship On the other hand, some of us during the week try to worship God and all we're doing is speaking to Him. Lord, I need this. Lord help me to do that. Lord this and Lord that And then we wonder why it is that there is no real worship. Because there's no dialogue. And so this morning we want to take a look at this principle of dialogue in worship. I want to look at that as you look and follow along as you pull up the outline to see first of all the example in Jacob. I want to see it secondly fulfilled in Jesus. And then I want to see it expressed in us. So now let's turn to the scripture this morning. We see this example in Jacob in Genesis chapter 28. Let's follow along and hear from God his own word to us as he speaks. In Genesis chapter 28, beginning with verse 1. Remember the situation of course is that Jacob has cheated his brother out of his birthright. He has deceived and lied to Isaac, his father. And now he's in big trouble. And so he's gotta get out of town. And we pick up the story as Jacob is about to leave. And so Isaac called for Jacob and he blessed him and commanded him Do not marry a Canaanite woman, go at once to Padan Aram to the house of your mother's father in Bethul. Take away for yourself there, from among the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother. Let's believe what it didn't think about a poem. May God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and increase your numbers until you become a community of people. May he give you and your descendants the blessing of Abraham so that you may take possession of the land where you now live as an alien, the land God gave you to Abraham. Then Isaac sent Jacob away, sent Jacob on his way, and he went to Kadan, Aram, to Laban, son of Bashuel, to Aramean, brother of Rebekah, who was the mother of Jacob and Esau. Sit down to verse 10. Jacob left Yersheba and sent out for Haran. When he reached the certain place he stopped for the night because the sun had set Taking one of the stones there, he put it under his head and lay down to sleep. He had a dream in which he saw a stairway resting on the earth, with its top reaching to heaven And the angels of God were ascending and descending on us. And there above it stood the Lord, and he said, I am the Lord, the God of your father Abraham, the God of Isaac. I will give to you and your descendants the land on which you rely. Your descendants will be like the dust of the earth. And you will spread out to the west and to the east, to the north, and to the south. All peoples on earth will be blessed through you and your pleas. I am with you, and will watch over you wherever you go, and I will bring you back to this land. I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you. When Jacob awoke from his sleep he thought, surely I've already been this place, and I was not aware of it He was afraid and said, How awesome is this place? This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. Early the next morning Jacob took the stone that he placed under his head and stuff it up with a pillar and poured oil on top of it. He called that place Seth El , as the city used to be called Lun Then Jacob made a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep watch over me on this journey I am taking and will give him food to eat and clothes to wear so that I return safely to my father's house. Then the Lord will be my God. This stone that I have set up as a pillar will be God's house, and of all that you give me, I will give you a pen. So far we've heard God's word. If we consider it, let us look for him for a moment we can 't Lord our God, we pray that you would help us to hear you , learn from you. To understand what this portion of your word has to say to us about worship. In the Lord that he wants to use us to worship It will draw us in one of the things. We could have each other. Wonderful eyes. The given thing that's involved in our relationship with you more confusion, more personal. Inquired the right information that we want to speak for. Have you kids ever done something that's um so bad that you wish with all your heart you could undo it? We only have that last day over again. Have you ever done anything to your brothers and sisters so bad that they vowed they were going to be leaving? You ever told a lie? Did you wish with all your heart you could untell? Somehow you wish you could take those words back Something that you've done against your brother and sister so bad they wanted to kill you for it. And they didn't just say that because they were hopping mad and said, I could kill you, but they really meant they were gonna kill you Let's take the situation that Jacob found himself in. He had cheated his brother and lied to his father, and had treated his brother so foully that his brother said One day when dad dies, I'm gonna kill. And Jacob died. And so he had no recourse but to run away from home. Yeah, maybe sometimes you think about running away from home, but uh not too serious. That's what Jacob had to do. So as a young fella, he has to leave, and there he is In this valley of rocks, about sixty miles from home, where we pick up the story, sixty miles by foot or by camel, a long way No soft bed to see him now. All he's got to lay down on are the rocks. And he puts together some of these rocks in this valley. It's a valley that's known to this day as a valley that has flat rocks. And he took all of these rocks that were rather flat and put them all together and made one and laid it down to be a pillow and lay down there to sleep because he was just too tired to go any further. As he sleeps, God gave him a dream. And God spoke to him in that dream. And in that dream, we learn from the picture that God gives something about worship. Now you notice that we see in this whole incident worship described in two ways. First of all, the dream itself, and then secondly, the incident surrounding that dream. That's the significance of those two circles. You see there 's within the whole incident a dream that pictures worship and the incident itself pictures the dialogue of worship Notice first of all the dream itself that God stands in in verses twelve to fifteen of Genesis twenty-eight Jacob loose. See? And as he gleans, he sees perhaps some of these rocks begin to come together. And they're formed from this valley that he's lying in, a staircase. Now, you know, we've always thought of it as Jacob's ladder. That's really not the most helpful, even though we like to sing the song so much Because it really wasn't a ladder. It wasn't a bunch of rungs like a spears ladder that you lay up against your house to wash the windows or paint it. It was a staircase. A broad staircase And that staircase began to rise up higher and higher and higher, and as Jacob looked in his dream, he saw up and down that staircase that angels were walking. The angels in silence, they're not saying anything. They're simply going down the staircase and up the staircase and down and up on this broad staircase and the staircase is higher and higher. Up into this desert sky, all of a sudden it seems as if all of the stars cleave apart so that the staircase goes right up into heaven And if he's looking at that, he sees at the very top of that circumstances, God himself. The majesty of heaven himself is revealed standing there at the top of that staircase. And in this dream, God says to Jacob, I am the Lord your God. The God of your father and the God of Isaac. And we see in this a picture of worship. God, you see, begins by speaking to Jacob. And as God reveals Himself to Jacob, we see the angels going up and down, communicating in that God speaking to Jacob, and Jacob responding to God. God telling Jacob who he is and what he's going to do. And Jacob responding and giving himself to God and presenting his deeds to God. Notice that for a minute. First of all, God says who he is. He tells Abraham, he tells us, Jacob, I am the God of your father Abraham, the God of Isaac. Here is the eternal God at the very peak of this staircase at the gateway of heaven. Can you imagine what it'd been like to see God Standing there atop of that staircase, some majestic form that he revealed himself in for the interest. The eternal God The God who says, I'm the God of Abraham and of Isaac, and I'm the God of Alan Harris, and I'm the God of you and your name, whoever you are, if you've trusted Jesus Christ, God says, I am your God. And that same God Who stood there so many years ago with the same God who can see everything that we're doing now? He could see it at that very moment that he was standing there revealing himself to Jesus. Kozer once said he's the god who sees both the present course of history and the flutter of a seraph's wings a thousand ages hence without moving his eye That God stands at the top of the system and say to be God. First thing we've got to hear if we're going to worship is who God is. Gotta understand that he is the God of Majesty. That he's the eternal God. And so the first thing that God tells David is who he is before he says anything else But then having said who he is, he goes on to tell Jacob what he's going to do. You see that in verse 13 to 15 God says to Jacob, I will give you and your descendants the land on which you're lying. First promise. Gives him seven promises here. Secondly, he says your descendants will be like the dust of the earth. Thirdly, that you will spread out to the west and to the east, to the north and to the south. Fourthly, that all the peoples on the earth are going to be blessed through you and your offspring. Fifth promise, I am with you, and I will watch over you wherever you go. Sixth promise, and I will bring you back to this land. And seventh, I will not leave you until I've done what I promised you. And of course that means forever because part of that promise extends down through the me in the coming of the Messiah. So he says, I've never done it So these this is who God is and this is what he's done. Just picture for a minute what it must have been like. Jacob has cheated his brother, he's lied to his father He's an outcast from his family. He's running away from home because of how rotten he's been, and God meets him And does God rebuke him? Does God say, Jacob? You're getting what you deserve, aren't you, Jacob? Jacob, you can't go back home now, can you, because of your sin Now Jacob, you're out here because of what a scoundrel you are. Jacob, see, let's so you eat, Jacob. What does God think of? You notice there's not a single word of rebuke to Jacob from that Jacob. And that approach you. That the holy God of heaven and earth would come to a scoundrel like Jacob and all he has to say to Jacob are blessings and promises. All he has to say to Jacob is to give him words of comfort, to give him promises of his own being with Jacob, even though Jacob doesn't exist. What about Jesus morning? Feel alienated from the Lord. Feel like you can't worship him because of the things that you've done, the sin that's in your life, the patterns This disobedience, blatant disobedience in your life this week, you say, Lord, how can I blame you to you? Lord, I can't even get on that first step of that staircase, let alone be carried up to you God comes to you this morning not before he said. Comes you this morning and says that he said to Ghost, I'm with you. And I'm going to watch over you wherever you go. I've promised that I'm going to be your God. And I'll never leave you until I have fulfilled all the promises I've given to you in my son. How that should draw you and me. How about that? For the worship of our God. But we won't be drawn up Until you hear these words of kindness and tenderness and broken down. You can't climb up on your own. You can't just decide that it's time to go walk up that staircase and worship God. You've got first to see and hear his gracious words to you before you'll be drawn to him. And so you see that picture of the angels ascending and descending, bringing down to Jacob. The revelation of who God is and what He's done and going to. And you see the angels going up the staircase, bringing up Jacob's life and his worship to God. Bringing up Jacob's trouble to God. Again, who Jacob is and what Jacob means. And so in our worship, we come to God. Just as we are. We come to him with our needs, we come to him with our troubles, we come to him just like Jacob. Lord, here I am. Lord, I'm in trouble. Lord, I've gotten myself into a mess. Lord, here I go again, and I've disobeyed you again in the very thing that I prayed about this week. But Lord, here I am again, and I can only be carried up by you yourself. into your arms in order to worship you. And that's all in the picture of this unit. The ascending and the descending, the communication from earth to heaven. But beside that, there's the incident that surrounds the dream, that reinforces this understanding of worship, this two-way communication that must go on. And so you see that after Jacob wakes up in verse 16, you have his response. After God has spoken to Jacob, now behold me you see that God's speaking. And so in this response to God speaking in the dream, which is totally now God's initiative, and Jacob is asleep, he can't be any more passive. God has spoken. Now in verse sixteen, Jacob wakes up and he says Surely the Lord is in this place. And I wasn't aware of it. And he was afraid and he said, How awesome is this place? It was none other than the house of God and the residue. Notice that the first thing that Jacob does is not to respond to God's promises. The very first thing that Jacob does is to recognize who God is. So often today, presentations and gospel and our talk of Christianity, all we hear about is what God's going to do to us. We hear so much about the blessings that God wants to give us and all that God does for Christians. But you know that doesn't produce an awful lot of world It produces in its potential a great deal of self-centered. If you and I are to worship God, the first thing that we've got to be captivated by is who He is in Himself. that he is the eternal living creature, the one of majesty before whom we rightfully fall and hide our faces before holy, holy holy The first thing that Jacob said was, God is here, and I didn't realize that. His presence was here, and I didn't know How many of us come week after week? And we say like Jesus, you mean God's here? I didn't know that. God really is here, yes. Didn't seem like it to me. It seemed like a bunch of people getting together, sitting down in their chairs and singing a little bit and hearing some words. I don't have a sense that God is here Do you, brother and sister in Christ, have the realization that God is in this place? Do you realize that God is leading with us here this morning? That the risen Jesus Christ who has ascended into heaven that sits at the right hand of God and said, I am meeting with my people here in Columbia, Presbyterian. This morning, he has an appointment with us, and Jesus Christ is here. What up this morning? Or I think it would be saying, Who is I was in a club? And I didn't know it. So often that comes because we don't realize that worship is a dialogue. We spent our whole week without any dialogue with God. Why do we think that all of a sudden we're going to be aware of his presence on Sunday morning? Now Jacob had grown up with Isaac and Rebekah telling them about Jehovah, the God of Abraham, the covenant God who their fathers who had brought them into the land, and I'm sure he'd heard all these stories of what God had done The grandfather Abraham. And how God had met with Isaac. I wasn't anything with Jacob's first story Theory, something abstract, because Jacob has never met the living God. And it's not on this until this night in Jacob's life when first God himself meets with Jacob. David says, uh-uh. Now I've met with God myself. And now I realize that God is an awesome God. Now all of a sudden I've taken all the theory and it's become an encounter, a reality to me. And what about in your life? Is the understanding of God's reality something that's just seriously, something you've heard about? Or have you ever met face-to-face with a living God? Have you ever spent time in his presence in which you were so overwhelmed by the reality that he was there with you? You can say, No matter what I heard, that you before now Now my soul is convinced of your reality and of the presence of your character and massity. You don't get that by five-minute quiet time So often our our whole time of worship is a matter of five or ten minutes of quick reading of scriptures. We take a look at it and we say, Now, Lord help me to worship you. Uh Lord, um um uh Uh what what can I worship you for? Um well thank you for saving me, Lord. Uh um I uh it's getting late, I gotta move on. Lord, uh there's a lot of needs today. Lord, would you please help me to get through this and Help me to cope with that and Lord uh help me on this matter and pray for this person and there's no dialogue. God hasn't really spoken to us We simply pinned over the surface with a few words of the scripture. And then we laid before him our grocery list of meaning. There's no interaction with God. And we wonder why God's not real here. John Platt once wrote that when God speaks in his word And we listen to him. And the only proper thing to do once we have heard him speak is to not change the topic of conversation, but to speak back to him what he's been speaking to us about So let me encourage you this week, as you study the scripture, as you read in your quiet time, as you study, that first of all you take seriously what God's saying. You don't just spend five minutes skimming over this paper. Look at what God says. Study it. Think of it. Meditate on it. And then before you speak to him about your leave, speak back to God the thing that he's just been speaking to you about Don't change the topic of conversation. Tell the Lord what he has shown you in his words. Tell him what you're dealing with about that. Worship him for what you've seen about him in his words. Do you imagine Jacob next to his doom laying there in that valley of rocks? Here it is, the angels ascending and descending on this staircase, and God himself has spoken to him from the very gate of heaven speaking down and as Jacob hears all of this kind of thing he wakes up and then he says Now Lord help me to worship Jacob, as soon as he heard that we read, Jacob woke and said, Oh, surely the Lord's an influence and I wasn't aware of it And now I'm aware of it. And he was afraid and he said, How awesome is this place. This is none other than the house of God and the gate of heaven and Jacob worshiped See my point when I'm trying to get across? You and I don't worship because we ask God to help us to worship. You and I worship because we see the living God, and that compels our worship. If you're having trouble worshiping, Don't just ask God to help you more. Look at his word. See who he is. And then speak that back to him. That's worship. Understand that it is God speaking to you as you meet with Him morning by morning or in the evening or whatever it is. Then if you come here on Sunday morning, you'll come out of that background of your week spent with God and you'll have the sense God is in this place. And I'm aware of it because He said, God I've been meeting with him Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Saturday and Saturday. So we can come here together on Sunday morning. Let's ask God to open our eyes to see what's really going on here. But God is in this place and we're meeting with Him After Jacob does this and see that he makes a vow. And he gives himself to God. He gives a tenth of all that he has, and he says, God will be my God. Now he says there in verse 20, if God will be with me and why But that could also be translated since what Jacob's really doing is affirming what God is saying. Since this is the kind of God he is, and he's going to do all these things for me, then God is my God. And Jacob goes out, having given himself. God. That's worthless. That's prostration. That's placing myself at this closest. But it's in response to hearing Him speak to me 1800 years later, on a particular day, Jesus of Mazarus was walking along And we read in John chapter 1, that Jesus saw a man at Nassam approaching him. And Jesus said to the disciples who were gathered around Here 's a true Israelite in whom there is nothing false. Not like Jacob, the deceiver, the liar, the cheater. Here's Nassania Nathaniel's in contrast to that. He's a guy who's honest and upright. Nathaniel 's kind of surprised and he says, how do you know me? I don't think Nathaniel's saying you're honest. You recognize a good thing when you say it, don't you, Lord? But Nathaniel knows that Jesus is seen. He knows his name. And he says, How do you know me? Jesus answered, I saw you while you were still sitting under the figures before Philip called you. A physical impossibility. Well, Nathaniel's really taken back and say, Wow , Gabbite , hey you're the son of God and the King of Israel And Jesus said to him, Nathanael, do you believe because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree? Does that really strike you as pretty powerful, Nathaniel? Nathaniel, you're gonna feel I'm gonna Nathaniel, once was a day when your father didn't saw a spirit going up to heaven And in that staircase he saw the angels ascending and descending, and he saw God himself at the top of that staircase descending. Jesus says, Nathaniel, I tell you the truth, you are going to see heaven open and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. What's Jesus telling us? Jesus is saying that I'm thinking ladder. I'm that stairpiece. I'm the means of communication from heaven to earth. You don't want to wanna you want to know what God is like? Look at Jesus. That's what God's like. You want to worship God and you want to understand his character so you can draw near to him? Jesus says, Come to me. I'm the one who has come, the word in the flesh. Full of grace and truth to reveal God to you. John says in verse 18 of that chapter one that I have come to explain God to you Jesus is the one who speaks to us in the fullness of what God's likes so we can worship him. And Jesus is that staircase to bring us up to God He's the means by which we approach God and worship God. He's the one who sacrificed, opened the veil of the temple, so that we could go into the holy place and worship God personally Jesus is the truth of life. Jesus is that means by which God reveals Himself to us and we worship God through the Father. So we see that fulfilled in Jesus and expressed in us. We see that whole pattern as a general principle of New Testament worship. But God speaks who he is and what he's done for. And in response, he worships him. You see this in the Psalms. Again, that rhythm of worship, back and forth, God speaking and his people responding. You see it for instance in Ephesians chapter 5 in verse 19, where Paul says to us, speak to one another, these psalms, hymns, these spiritual psalms. Sing and make melody in your heart to the Lord. See the rhythm of worship there? Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual psalms, reminding yourself of what God says. That's God's word. And so we speak to ourselves in worship. We remind ourselves of scripture. We remind ourselves of who God is and what he's done for us. And the response to that is that we then sing And make music in our hearts to who? To the Lord. Our responses not to each other, it's to the Lord, giving to him our worship. Colossians 3. 16 have the same idea Let the Word of Christ dwell in you ripply as you speak and admonish one another with all wisdom. Again, God speaking to you, the Word of Christ speaking to you. As you sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs with gratitude in your heart to God. Our response To send back to worship, to respond back to the Lord. So in worship there's that constant rhythm of of God's speaking and our responding. Him reminding himself of who he is and what he's done for us. His grace and his tenderness is revealed to Jesus as fulfilled in Jesus, the one who demonstrates the fulfillment of that grace in his laying down of his own life for us on the cross, so that we could approach God in worship. But we do the sun in our hearts by singing and making melodies to God, to his place, to worship him, for his honor and glory. You have this whole thing in the book of Revelation again and again. And one example is in chapter eleven. We had the seventh angel sound of his trumpets. There were loud voices in the heaven which said, Now here's the voice from heaven, the top of the staircase again, coming down. The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. We will reign forever and ever. And the 24 elders who were seated on their thrones before God fell on their faces and they worshiped God in response to God's word, you say Saying we give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is and who wants. Because you've taken your great power and it's begun to reign The nations were angry, and your wrath has come. For the time has come for judging the dead and for rewarding your servants, the prophets, and your saints, and those who reverence your name, both small and grave, and for destroying those who destroy you. That's really well. You see what what words it is? It's it's not our generating ourselves into some sort of an emotional state It's telling God what he has said to us. God has said, I've begun to rain. Voices have said, Praise the Lord, Jules, you have begun to rain. And as we speak back to God what He has told us about Himself, our hearts get caught up in it, and our lives get caught up in it, and we present ourselves to Him. And that works it. The son of the covenant people in God and carrying himself to, with all his tendons and compassions, and governance, so that our hearts be drawn by God. So I can't retain myself. But I say God is in this place. I wasn't aware of it, but God has made himself known to me. And all I can do is to work Well, let me try and draw this together with a few practical suggestions from one. First of all, rules are three. Who is speaking to whom in the various parts of our work? Let's be conscious of that when we worship our God. As Robert Rayburn has said in his book, Oh, come let us worship A service is not a miscellaneous selection of items arranged anyhow as dictated by the whims of a particular individual. It works it as a two-way conversation between God and man, with a given structure. And appropriate speaking. God is speaking to us. And notice in the order of worship, who 's speaking it with point? Now this has been done this morning very explicitly to help you to see this as a pattern. But you notice that we start out with God's speaking calling us to worship. Then we respond to God in that Then we respond through the leader as we pray in the beginning. Then God speaks to us again. Then we respond to him And notice through the various patterns, through the various parts of the worship, ask yourself morning by morning, who's speaking to whom then? Am I to listen and to receive from God what he's saying to me? Or is this the place for me to, with all of my heart, respond to him, to answer to him, to worship? Because unless we're aware of who's speaking to him, we're gonna just kinda fuzz him. After a while, you know, we're we're really not following along what's going on. Maybe it's God's speaking to us, we think we're supposed to speak to him and we're speaking to him and we're just sort of listening passively And it helps for us to understand what's going on through the surface. So be aware of that. The second thing you need to realize there's been too great a stress, I believe, on the downward direction of the surface. We come too often expectators not involved in a heartfelt response. The reformed emphasis on the word since the time of the Reformation has minimized the response of the people of God. And so we tended to simply come in silence to the seed only. We come to have God speak to us and occasionally maybe murmur a response or to back things. And I believe that we as a church who were working on this need to provide more of an opportunity for us to respond actively to what the Lord has said to us. We see these churches not helping us in our generations to be responsive and active people. We expect to be carried along almost as an entertainment towards itself in our world. Let's realize that worship is a dialogue in which God is speaking to us and then there is the opportunity for us individually and corporately to respond back to God. actively so that with the body I am giving to him a heartfelt response. Whether you're leading us in prayer, whether you're hearing something with us That this is us responding back to God. Even as I speak to you and open God's word, let us be the active receiving of it. I am active in my own response to the Lord as I am murmuring to Him now and speaking to Him in silence as you receive what God's given to me. That you're not just sitting sitting there passively just sort of uh daring me to capture your attention, but rather that you're actively seeking to work on receiving what the Lord is giving to you so that you can respond to me. Certainly a couple brief suggestions about how to do this more accurately, more meaningfully. First of all, I suggested before that we might Well practice, give them a unison Amen at the end of a prayer. And we may not all be leaving in prayer. We're all following, I hope, as the person leads using Half Berkis is going to be leading us in prayer in a few minutes, that we'll all be praying, joining with him in that prayer to God. It's our response to the Lord. And that we can vocalize that at the end by joining together with a hearty Amen. At the end of that square. Make you it out. I'll try to help in killing you, but at any time where there's a square At the beginning, at the invitation, at any time. Let's join in more studies with an Amen. There might even be an Amen current for thought during a message. Now appear it. Now I uh used to teach a whole class of black people in Wilmington, Delaware Now that was a class, it wasn't even a firm. And I walked in the first few times, I was totally unprepared. I started getting out my notes, I was speaking on the Old Testament, new people started, Amen, praise the Lord, hallelujah, all the way back. I found something happening to me. I think we sort of carry it along and I think, yeah, you know, I feel that's quite a pleasure, isn't it? Yeah. You know, I well, I hadn't realized that. I just sort of put it down and you really are a great God, you know And there was a there was an interaction going on. I was getting carried along and I pretty soon I I really began to look forward to those classes and well highlighted a week Uh let it never be conveyed to you that I would object to people responding. Obviously, even on Anna Yes, a paint and order. Yes, yeah, whatever it is to you. Let us realize that we are actively receiving people. Sometimes I think we're like that old Vermonter He once after being married for 45 years, sat back in his rocking chair and looked at his wife and said, You know, Mabel, sometimes when I think how much I love you, it's about all I can do to keep from telling you. And now sometimes I get that impression about us here with the Lord. God is our God. He's come and He's met with us and He's satisfied Jesus to die for us. Because I come to be your God and I will never leave you and I will never perfect you. So you sit there and say, Yeah, you have to possibly not that sometimes. Let's let ourselves be freed up a little bit so that we can speak to God and respond in the grace and kindness we've given to us Even in our hymns, let 's carry our hymns. Now I found that before I started looking with hymns, they didn't mean a whole lot I think for a lot of us the problem with him is is the fun to notice it. Also we say, okay, some turns are number twenty-two, and we sing number twenty-three, you maybe never saw number twenty-free before It's pretty hard to really think number twenty-two usually if you never saw number twenty-two before. My suggestion to you therefore is that you obtain a hymnal If you get, if you are rich enough, both himmels. And if you take these hymnals home, and if you use them in your own quiet home. Some of the richest sources of poetry and worship are the poems that are set down in the hymnals that we have And we serve them two hymnals because we believe that the Trinity Hymnal and the IV Hymnal are a couple that are especially rich in their poetry, very meaningful in expressing worship. And well, I think it's just meaningful and expressive. I'm just simply saying that you can use these as you get to know them so that when you come Even though you don't know that particular hymn, at least you have a greater regard for other hims. And God has used hims in your life. And so you ready to look at that and what did he offer? Who was a Christian just like me? At some point walking with the Lord, real life person, you know, just wasn't him more than cranked out of a computer This hymn was written by a person that loved Jesus. What did they try to express in it? And how can I enter into that and respond to the Lord's Jesus? Well let's use them. Sometimes pause to look over to him before we sing, so that we can sing it more news. The fourth thing Come ready to share if there's an opportunity during the offer. Share something that God has done in your life during the week. Be ready to come and offer some response to the Lord to share. For his praise, not request one another much. But the claims pass. Give him the glory. Firstly, final, we as leaders need to try to help Provide more opportunities for free and structured response. Free response in which there's an ultimate like to do at the Lord's Supper. Or a structured response in which there's something for us to read or to play together, but to join together actively in our response to the Lord. And if we do this, let's consider the grace that the God is revealed in us. The God of Jesus. The God of Jesus Christ is coming to God for us. So that we would be able to come up that stage , come up to the very deed of us, to worship our God, to respond to Him. then there's nothing but silence when you end. You can't respond to a God if you haven't given your life to him. Because you've never given yourself to Jesus Christ, I invite you to do that right now. I invite you to go In the name of Jesus Christ, that you respond to him who has promised that he will never cast out the one who comes to him, seeking for forgiveness and life. And he has come to Jesus Christ. Let's respond to him. Let's take this week to hear him, to dwell on what he says, and to respond to him meaningfully and to realize that God is in this place of where we're at him Father our God, we come to you to worship you because you revealed his documents to you. Lord, you haven't stood afar off. You haven't kept yourself apart from us here. But even we who have have been so self-centered, who have been so willful and so disobedient this week Come to you to hear not to read you, but to come to thank you that you are never wondering what you think This will be our God, this will be sufficient. This will receive us to yourself, please. And if you love us Oh my god, these parts you're quite full of things matters. We respond to you the eternal God, who knows the end from the beginning, whose very presence transcends time. As you're standing at the top of that staircase that is not in the past me, you are at that point and at this point even with us now, at one and the same instant in your mind. And so father can if we come to do what we do about sustainable beasts. We approve other time. We include that.