The message is the beauty of the Lord's face. Before we actually look at that, I would like to ask you three questions. The first question is: how did you feel when you heard and sang that song that we just sang. Did you perhaps feel lifted up by the music? Did you perhaps feel put off by that style of music? Perhaps you felt nearer to Christ when you sang those words. Or perhaps you felt regret for not always feeling as close to the Lord as the author of those words must have felt. If you can't articulate your feelings, it might be good. Just to jot down a couple of words on the bulletin outline that describe those feelings. We'll be coming back to that at the end. Second question I'd like to have you think about is why did you feel the way you did when you heard that? Did you feel the way you did because music always moves you in an unusual way? Did you perhaps feel the way you did because the words as you heard them reminded you of some other time in the past when you were not? Music brought you particularly close to God? Or perhaps the words expressed for you this morning in an unusually accurate way, your worship of Christ? Third question I would like us to thank. think about is where do our feelings come from? Some people say that feelings come from Satan and should be totally distrusted. Others say that feelings come from God and are always true. Others say, always trust your feelings. Other people say, never trust your feelings. What about feelings? This morning I don't want to develop a theology or psychology of feelings, but I want to suggest something this morning and that is that feelings are as much a part of our human body's functions as the other five senses. Feelings tell us something about ourselves. We need to Take them seriously. For example, when we feel good about sin, that tells us that something isn't right in our hearts. On the other hand, when we feel good about our quiet times, when we feel pleased and happy and privileged to be in worship like this on a Sunday morning. That tells us something about how God is working in our hearts to give us the desires He would have us to have. The Bible does speak about feelings. Sometimes directly, sometimes Sometimes indirectly. Getting back now, after reflecting on those questions, getting back to the title of the message, the beauty of the Lord's face, I would like us to note three things. First, beauty Is associated with feelings. Think for a moment about the time you may have seen some incredibly beautiful and awesome natural feature. I have never walked up to the rim of the Grand Canyon. I have flown over it at 30,000 feet in an airplane and looked down, but I've never walked up to the edge. The people who have done that have said it's an awesome thing, and they're struck by the beauty of it. They feel the beauty of that. may have listened to a piece of music and been unusually moved by it and afterwards said, that's beautiful. You felt it. Beauty is a feeling. For some of you, I can't relate to you ladies as you thought about your boyfriend and husband, but I I can relate as a man to how I felt about my wife and still do, but on special occasions feel unusually so, and that is to see her, for example, dressed up for some special occasions and just struck by my luckiness. by God's providence in me and giving me such a beautiful woman to be my wife. It's a feeling. Or some of you I'm sure have watched the Olympics this week and you watch all those gymnasts doing their thing out there and you've just watched and been amazed and that's beautiful. The point I'm trying to make is beauty is a feeling. Beauty is something that we emotionally feel. Secondly, beauty is subjective. What's beautiful to me may not be to you. A couple of striking examples. Examples, music and art. What's beautiful music to one person may be noise to another. What may be a very moving piece of art in a National Art Gallery might look to someone like me uh I I'm not a real art connoisseur, especially a modern art, and I say, Why why do you think that? It looks like kids in kindergarten could have done it. Okay? It's not beautiful to me. So beauty really is in the eye of the beholder. Third point. In view of beauty being a feeling, in view of beauty being subjective, why can we say what we say about the beauty of the Lord? Is the beauty of the Lord's face all that subjective? And all that relative, or is there something more to it? I suggest that there is. And let's, as we begin then, look at Psalm 27 and see what one man, David, in our scriptures, has said about the beauty of the world. of the Lord's face and how he expressed his feelings about that. So turn with me, if you will, then, to Psalm twenty-seven, and we'll read it in its entirety. David writing now The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is my stronghold. The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When evil men advance against me to devour my flesh, when my enemies and my foes attack me, they will stumble and fall. Though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear. Though war break out against me, even though even then will I be confident. One thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord, and to seek him in his temple. For in the day of trouble he will keep me safe in his dwelling, he will hide me in the shelter of his tabernacle, and set me Me high upon a rock. Then my head will be exalted above the enemies who surround me. At his tabernacle will I sacrifice with shouts of joy. I will sing and make music to the Lord. Hear my voice when I call, O Lord, be merciful to me. My heart says of you, Seek his face. Your face, Lord, I will seek. Do not hide your face from me. Do not turn your servant away in anger. You have been my helper. Do not reject me or forsake me. O God, my Savior, though my father and mother forsake me, the Lord will receive me. Teach me your way, O Lord. Lead me in a straight path because of my oppressors. Do not turn me over to the desire of my foes, for false witnesses will be. Rise up against me, breathing out violence. I am still confident of this. I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord. Be strong and take heart. And wait for the Lord. Let's pray. Our Lord, as we reflect on this passage of Scripture this morning, help us to see it through your eyes. Help us to, by your Spirit's power, incorporate some of what you have here for us into our hearts. Hearts today. Be near us and guide us and open our eyes to hear your truth. Amen. I want to look at principally three points this morning. you see them in the bulletin outline. The first is the significance of the Lord's face. The second is the beauty of the Lord's face. And then third, our realization of that, or how we can comprehend and express that beauty. The picture of the Lord's face is something that is a figure of speech. God is a spirit, scriptures say. He doesn't have a face as you and I have a face. Jesus. The second person of the Trinity indeed has a face. He took on our form. But when we speak of God and his face, we're speaking figuratively. We use the words the same way today. For example, uh if you're a husband out there like me, You sometimes might say about your wife, I can't face her when you forget her birthday. Or if the relationship between you and someone else is strained a bit, you avoid their face. You turn your face away. You avoid eye contact. Same way, if relationships are real good with someone, you welcome seeing their face. So we speak of someone's face in the same way. The scripture speaks of God's face here. In fact, speaking of God's face being turned towards someone or away from the face. from someone is a way of picturing God's relationship with us. If that relationship is one of acceptance, he turns his face toward us. If the relationship is one of rejection, He turns his face away from us. And so you read that picture over and over again in Scripture. I want to limit our discussion this morning to three main truths about God's relationship to his people that are expressed in this way in Scripture. three truths are listed in the in the bulletin outline. The first is God's acceptance of his people. The second is God's deliverance of his people. And the third is God's grace showered on his people. First of all, here then in Psalm 27. Look at verses 9 and 10. David writes, Do not hide your face from me. Do not turn your servant away in anger. You have been my helper. Do not reject me or forsake me. Oh God my Savior. See, for God to turn his faith away from David was for God to reject David. For God to turn his face toward David was for God to accept David. And so the picture here is very clear that God's face Turning toward you is a picture of God accepting you. Looking over at Psalm 31, a couple pages beyond this in your Bibles, at verses 14 through 16, we read, but I Trusting you, O Lord, I say, You are my God. My times are in your hands. Deliver me from my enemies and from those who pursue me. Let your face shine on your servant. Save me in your unfailing love. That particular script. points directly at the relationship between God's deliverance of David and of his people and his face shining on them or turned toward them. And so we see that the picture of God's face turned to someone pictures deliverance. For David, deliverance from his enemies. For us, deliverance from sin, and it's condemnation. The third main truth that I want to emphasize is found in Numbers chapter 6. Turn there with me. For just a minute, Numbers chapter 6, verses 24 through 26. Words which you have heard from this pulpit and others many, many times. The high priestly benediction. The Lord bless you and keep you. Make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord turn his face toward you and give you peace. Words which for centuries have had incredible meaning to God's people. Every time I hear that benediction, every time I give that benediction, Benediction. I'm amazed that God can turn his face to us and give us grace. Just as in the song that we sang together, the passage from 2 Corinthians occurred when God's eyes on his child, his Grace abounds to us. In the same way, for centuries, God's people have realized that when God's face shines on us, His people, His grace abounds to us, His peace comes to us. And so the picture we have then, of the Lord's face turning towards his people, is one of fellowship with God. It's one of acceptance with God, of deliverance from sin and his condemnation on us as humans. We see a picture of His grace abounding to us when He can turn His face and look at us. It's only because we're righteous in Christ's righteousness that He can do that. You know, in Scripture it requires. Refers many times to the fact that God cannot look at sin. He's a holy God who cannot stand to look at sin. And so when God's face can shine on us, that means we stand before Him without sin. We're righteous and His sight because of what Christ did. Have you experienced that? Have you experienced that knowledge, that feeling, that however you want to describe it, of being able to stand before God God and the holy God of the universe can look at you and accept you because of what Christ did. That's incredible. That is really incredible. That God's face indeed can shine on us when you think of what that implies. It's an awesome thing to have a holy God be able to look at you and me and smile, have his face to shine on us. If someone delivered you from certain death, Wouldn't you adore that person? We read of time of medieval times. Saw recently in a film on TV of an illustration of someone whose life had been saved by another, uh, and the person whose life had been saved. Serve that other one the rest of his days. Out of gratitude, out of adoration, for that life-saving measure that had been taken. And so it is with Christ. So it is with God, who has saved us from certain deaths. His face is indeed beautiful to us. Something we treasure. The beauty of the Lord's face. is based on two things. It's based on the objective truths about God's character, and it's based also on our, I shouldn't say base as such, that we perceive To our experience. Looking at this Psalm in the context in which we find the verses that I'm directly referring to, we see David refer to four things about God, four objective things. About God's character. In verse 1, he refers to God as his light and his salvation. God is truth. God to him was truth and light. God to him was his salvation. God had delivered him. many times from his enemies. We also see in verse one that David refers to God as a stronghold, the faithful one, the one who is always there and to whom David could go and would find refuge. We also see in verse thirteen, David refers to the goodness of God. That basic character of God, that character trait that people have worshipped and put faith in over the years, God's goodness. So we see that David, in the context of This Psalm, Psalm 27, speaks of those character traits of God. But he doesn't just speak of them in the abstract. It's not like us memorizing our catechism question about what is God like. It's not just that. David speaks from experience. David speaks from having lived a life in which he saw God working. Take a look at verse 9 for example. In verse 9 David says, You have been my helper. David has seen God act in his life in the past. The other portions of this chapter refer to the future. David is expecting God to help him in the future. Look for just a moment at verses 2 and 3. David says, When evil men advance against me to devour me, When my enemies and my foes attack me, they will stumble and fall. Though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear. Though war break out against me, even then will I be confident? He trusts God. God is his stronghold. God is his salvation. Going down to verses five and six. Again, David refers to the way in which he has experienced God. He says, When the day of trouble, he will keep me safe in his dwelling. Going on to verse 13 and 14, David says, I am still confident of this. I will be able to do that. See the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord. Be strong and take heart and wait for the Lord. David in his life experienced God. More important, I think, than saying it. It that way is to say that David acknowledged his experience of God and his life. Not only did David know these things about God, he knew God's attributes, he knew God's character, but David experienced God's work. in his life. And he acknowledged it. Remember when David came up to Goliath and was going to fight him? And people said, well, how can you do this? You're just a little kid. And he said, back when I was tending my father's sheep, God gave me this strength to overcome a bear and a lion when they came. Even back then, David was acknowledging God in the things that happened in his life. The beauty of the Lord's face is then based on the objective Nature of God's character. That beauty is not relative. That beauty is based in the objective nature of God's character and in his acts of grace and deliverance in history. We perceive that. That beauty, we perceive God's character in the way He works out circumstances in our lives. We perceive the beauty as we acknowledge God's character and his actions in our lives. How then can we realize the beauty of the Lord's face. As we read Psalm 27 and recognize the depth of feeling that David expressed about his God, how can we also come to realize that? in our lives. There are three key factors in that, and they're listed in the outline. Knowledge, experience, and our emotions. David knew God's character. And we too should know God's character. That's the foundation of realizing God's beauty. Second, though, is experience. We need to, as God's people, experience his Now, that's happening all the time. Every breath we take, every step we take, everything we say is because God is holding us up. What we need to do is acknowledge that. David did. The second key point, then, in realizing the Lord's beauty, is to acknowledge his working in our lives. Thirdly, emotions. David didn't stand there and mechanically recite God's attributes, nor did he mechanically recite the instances where God had worked in his life. He didn't say God is light, God is salvation. God is my stronghold. God is um good. And oh yeah, he helped me with a bear one time. And He helped me with a line one time and there was this big guy once that he helped me kill and he rescued me from the Philistines and that's it. No. David didn't describe God that way. David let his emotions flow. David in this Psalm particularly uses words just loaded with emotion and feeling. Verses 1, 2, and 3, the word fear. Fear is a basic feeling we have. In verses 3 and 13 he uses the word confidence, again, expressing a feeling. Verse 4, beauty. Verse 4, again, the word seek, expressing a need, is Seek something. Verse 5, safety. He wanted to feel God's safety. Verse 6, exalted. Again, verse 6, joy. Verse 8 speaks of my heart. That thing about him that felt. Verse 9, anger. Another strong feeling. Verse 14, says, take heart. This psalm is full of words that convey emotion, that convey feeling. In the midst of all of this expression of feeling, of the depth of his heart, there are two places where I want to call our particular attention to, where David expresses two feelings that I want to do. To focus our thoughts on this morning. First in verse 4. Look at verse 4 with me again. One thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. An eloquent expression of a man who wants only one thing. We might call him a crackpot. How many of you, if someone come up to you, there's only one thing I want in the whole world? It's to get away. on the beauty of the Lord. Wait, wait, sure there's not two or three or four maybe that are sort of importance that you want to list. But David said there's one thing, just this one thing that overwhelmed him. He wanted to gaze on the beauty of the Lord. He was emotionally involved in this. Based on his knowledge of God, his experience with God, he wanted to be near God and gaze on his beauty. The second instance of a feeling here is in verses eight and nine. Let me read that to you again as well. My heart says of you, seek his face. Your face, Lord, I will see. Do not hide your face from me. Do not turn your servant away in anger. You have been my helper. Do not reject me or forsake me. God my Saviour. Again, a man expressing a deep need. He needs God. He says, I seek your face. He says, Your face, Lord, I will seek. Don't hide from me. Don't turn away from me. Turn your face toward me. It's like a child crying out to his parents. David doesn't hesitate to express his feelings. So often don't we hesitate to do that? If we need someone, something, no one knows it but us. Sometimes our wives know it, sometimes our kids might see something that tells us that. Sometimes when we're really, really in the pits, we will cry out to someone else to help us. find it hard, I think, to cry out to God for help. We as a people in this country are so independent. We are so unemotional. And when it comes to expressing emotions, the things we're encouraged to express emotions about on television for example, are things like, you know, delight in a new car, or delight in a a sexy looking uh woman, or delight in fancy clothes, the kinds of feelings that they would have us express Are selfish kinds of feelings. They're not the kind of feelings David's talking about here. David simply expressed right out of his heart his admiration, his appreciation of the beauty of the Lord's face. And he also expressed out of the depths of his heart his need for the Lord. He sought the Lord's face because he knew that was where his salvation was. He knew that's where his deliverance was. He knew that to be accepted by God was all that mattered, really. In conclusion, then, how can we apply this to our lives? Let's go back to those questions that I asked at the very beginning. How do you feel? About the words of that song as you heard them sung and as you sang them at the end with Robin. Why did you feel the way you did? And where do your feelings come from? Let me suggest that. our feelings flow from our knowledge and our experience. This is true of art, of music, of creation, as we see it portrayed in the world around us, but particularly it's true Of the way we feel about God's face. It's based on our knowledge of God and our experience of His work in our lives. The more full and accurate our knowledge about God, the more beautiful the Lord's. face will seem to us. The more we experience and acknowledge God's work in our lives, the more beautiful His face will seem to us. The more we know and the The more we experience God, the more we'll need Him, the more we'll seek Him, the more we'll want to be near to Him, and the more we'll want His face to turn toward us. We should want to feel like David felt. David's example here is a good one. We should pray. We should expect that God will move us like He moved David. Our lives Life will be richer for having deep emotional feelings about the beauty of God based on our knowledge of Him and our acknowledgement of our experience with Him as He works in our Our lives. This is not sentimentalism. We all have experienced sentimental Christians who seem to base their experience with God on pretty shallow kinds of things. What I'm talking about here, and I I feel the same way about sentimentalism as as probably most of you do, that it's it's not something to be really sought after. What I'm talking about here is something that's based objectively in God's character, something that we perceive through our experience with God's God. The beauty of the Lord's face is not a relative thing. It's not a subjective thing in the sense that looking at a piece of art is that way. When we see God In his character, in his holiness, in his working in our lives, we see something objective, and we can be properly moved, a deep emotional expression based on that. I find that In this society, in America, in 1984, it's not cool for a man to cry. It's not looked on with great admiration. when a man expresses deep personal feelings about his wife, sometimes about the children, sometimes about their job maybe, but it's just so infrequent that we see The expression of deep feelings by men in our society. We sort of say that's something for women to do. Maybe with the women's live movement, maybe that'll disappear there as well. But it's really hard. And it's something that I know. I have to work to overcome. To to tell myself, wait a minute, it's not being weak to show emotion, to show feeling. It's not weak and it's not bad to say, I love you, Lord. It's not weak, it's not bad to admire God's beauty. It's not weak when you hear a song like we heard this morning for a tear to come in the corner of your eye. David would have. The closest example I know of expressing these feelings next to the one of David and his Lord in this passage is the feelings that my little three-year-old sometimes expresses to me. Once in a while, he will say, I need you, Dad. Sometimes it's a matter of fact. Sometimes he's near to tears. He says, I need you, Dad. If you hours, days later, sometimes out of the blue, he'll come up and say, You're neat, Dad. He's not inhibited. I think they David would have said something like that if he had lived now. I really would desire that for each of us we could with sort of a childlike admiration of our Father in heaven that we'd be able to say, I need you, Lord. I seek your face. Or your need, Lord. Your face is beautiful to me. Let's pray. Our Lord, we we know what we want. We want to be able to feel, like David does. In our society where we're so matter of fact about so many things. We really desire to be able to feel that need of you. Lord, I pray for myself and for each one here that as we learn more about you, as we Look for your working in our lives from day to day as we acknowledge your work and the experiences we have. We pray, Lord, that you would free up our emotions to express that love. that you would free us from a matter of fact description of your work in our lives, to one in which we like David cry out, not only in times of trouble, but always I seek your face, Lord. I want the feel. You're looking at it. Be with us, Lord. Might your face shine on us. Might your blessing come to us? Might your peace abide with us? Amen.