And somewhere along the way not a very reflective. Does this mean we will never reduce one another? The person who has done wrong And in the only he is previous to give all the time. Here is the point of composing truth. That's a very important concept I suppose we're dealing with a way of concept biblical things. Namely, the review and forgiveness are not contradictory. In fact, the good two pieces that they go together , thus you call them for carrying and forgiveness are linked together into our things, into truth. Good truth and not human things, but we use unforgiveness. and them together in Luke 17 three. In fact, for the next three weeks, we're going to deal with this one passage Luke 17 verses 3 to 10, verse 2 passes on forgiveness in the Bible. It's so important this matter of rebuke and forgiveness because yesterday I finally gave up and decided that I was going out to take two weeks to be able to just give one half of the birth to begin with of Luke 173 and particularly as examplified in Matthew chapter and two. So we'll be sending two and beginning of verse three of Luke 17 With its time and 1918 15 decides , then we'll spend one week and the rest of those weeks in those ten of seven feet. And then we're going to read some submitted as I go away with my time of the trees and increasing. And it continues to give us quantum logging The first of them is Luke chapter 17, the first ten verses of Luke beginning with this one. Said to his disciples, things that cause people to sin and are bound to cast. But woe to that person from whom they cast, it would be better for him to be thrown into the tree than The most thing power the one is left. And for him because one of these little ones exist. So what we got? We did let him review him And if he intends forgiven, if he sins against seven times and again, and seven times contrasting in place and again, forgiveness. The pastor said the word in peace are space. You can cover this model and can be uprooted and pounded in the tree and even a Suppose one of you had a favorite file looking at the seat. You say that the favourite letter convinced him if you would come along now and sit down in Isn't that right if I prepare my cup of the car ready and wait on me while I'm even drinking? After that, you may eat in drink. you're supposed to do. Then you also then you have done everything you are supposed to do to say, well I'm already serving with only dying. That 's all And I focus on the beginning of those three words. If your brother sins, you do sin. If the brother sins, you do things The thing I think feel for a parts and at least it 's not fascinating. in your family, in your underceptor group, in the whole case. The Pioneer case has a very problem Either of four functions in families who never confront someone's directive components and effects You would never do that directly because the person is smooth three. Think of these vertical slips. and told the week of the lab. The two age lobby works in their home with the and it's pretty small i think that you have fallen from something Before you learn one three hours and did what you probably write, you can tell it 's right Without him. He didn't answer him. He simply left. We never saw again. One more And their court has begun to see the people 's natural sexual habits according to biblical principle and has begun to speak to people more directly That things that he's concerned about him or not. He 's lost over the success and deliver. When we're never able to forgive it, when we're never able to conceal it 's directly, we're never able to forget this to that. never be worked out in human view. And the course, whether it's in Taiwan or anywhere in Guilia, or anywhere else But we've been to practice this principle is going to ever be revised. It is a principle that there is human local relationship in the post for the whole spirit of other One of the green parts of the Korean revival in the early 1900s was when people began to really see the power of And down on the Korean coast, we began to speak to each other about sin. So it consists that we would be brief in the distance. I think we might uh come to a place where we can believe that that is possible. But I couldn't see there are people to romanticize the bath. It might be that the possible The God works through our relationship, and whether our broken relationship We have recent search room meetings for about ten months. We've probably discovered by now if you haven't already at 27 that this is not a perfect case. And one that uh revelation down you the difference of faith complaints and faith what's gonna be the reaction will it be different? You gonna be complained about Moby Lee and uh five and everything. Some people But this isn't C D. It's a community. It's God's people. And you'll never mature in many ways. And often learn to prevent the minor inner things and to reduce the significant ones for us. God doesn't sell out to us in the week 173, but the pursuit is doing that in. But the nose are excited to sell that out very excitedly Matthew Capulator C that I want to look at those messages so that we can do an adequate attention We're given here the precision for practical indeed. The responsibility is relative to popularity from beginning with both systems. If your brother turns against me, go and stand in his father. That's between the two of you. If you look at two, he has won. But if you will not open, take one or two others along, so that every matter may be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses If he refuses to listen to them, tell us to the truth. If he refuses to listen even to the truth , even as we were a problem I tell you the truth, whatever you bind on earth will be banned or will have been banned in heaven, and whatever you leak on earth will be ready. Then I pray you that excuse me and earth agree about anything you ask for, it will be done to me by my Father in heaven. Will I see or three come together in my mood? Where am I, reason? This morning we are going to cover the first two points in that outline Why go and why go? How many broken relationships could be seen in the place between this chair? And definitely spirit of And when you inquire into it, the person 's response by saying, Well, I quite everything, but it's just every word. We tried Mark B. We have a very classic of the feet. Have you started the stuff in Mark B. And if you haven't, you haven't tried, haven't you said? Matter of fact, you haven't tried the most important one, five years. And what is that one? How many times have you seen Matthew 18, procedure in just like this. How many times have you ever found that procedure in your own life? Well, let me push it back one step further. How many times have you ever seen or even heard of this disease in silence? Between systems of the lane? How many sorry even are So well uh the thing is just a minor matter or maybe it's something that's ambiguous. You know, just this kind of idea get along with the person and not feel right. But it's really certainly nothing worth driving the whole person to. And so we need to keep us on a lower level. uh somehow it's near the box. We didn't have study of Martin 1815, as an eye application of least seventeen three, with the function of Why we must go. So then I'll be asked to how we can go. And next week we'll deal with how fast we can. First of all then why go? He said in Luke 173, if you have any sins, you'd miss them. He says we're master eighteen fifteen if you've letters wins against you, go and tell them to stop. Tell them to live if you like, that's fine. Now notice that many manuscripts have uh reading. In fact, if you have a new American summer, which we have not Modern three would be against you that very thin if you put it in the margin against you. The NIV took it in the main deck would be very thin against you. Many men have the identity in there. Others you might have. What's the way you're talking about? It really doesn't matter to see because loop seventeen two might have the identity there. That's true. And so it's true that God is saying you even if you're going to see you and it's not against you, you still must go. And perhaps we could make it seem This is the thing that feels even more important because of the relationship in the case. The command of things is very thin , not there. If your brother has seen something, if you see he's built some particularly constructive thing, maybe it's a one-time thing, and maybe it's a pattern in your life, then you're Obviously it is not the best that's a bad thing. Well it's just a minor thing. It's really not that big a deal. I mean it's not a Ten answers to all these five answers to that. Number one You could really minus them for this. You see what the five class is about two things. You see the closing Can you forget it? If you can forget it, then it's not it. Forget it. If you can't forget it, don't talk out by saying you can 't If we can't forget it, it's not many. The first reason might be because you are overly scripted. And therefore, you need to go to that person so that they can help you with your attitude. The second reason you might not have needed to forget it is because the fear of God is constantly to not forget that. So if you will go through the breather, then He partied you to help him take good out of you. But in either case, that of you need help. You can hide by saying it's a nine. If it's disruptive , you must The third one is that uh the second answer to an exception between manner and business is that all the nations to repeat questions is never among an eye to God. So why does it commit to these are two women who only Could you get along in the face of work? Half sat down and wake our glorious letter , turned it around without reflections. Whatever the reason between people is level the moment. The third answer to that objection I would give is the If the issue is not one key night and yet if the person has a bad attitude, maybe you can doubt it. Okay, if you know, it won't be a big deal. Two minutes discussion, maybe a minute prayer together, that's the end of it. But maybe what you're perception is the matter is matter, but the attitude behind it different And that's what God may want to put in favor. You see, this this minor matter is simply an instance of purpose away attitude, a deep seated attitude of rebellion under youth, then the brother will refuse to hear me, explained about the one who is needed to do this. No longer is it simply the instrument with what what passes the mindset. Now it's a question of obedience. It's a question of And that may be a matter that we are doing who we brought into. And so even though these influences , God Out of people are security bowing the God wants to put finger on screen without burning his pieces. The forces and rearites would need to be doctors. Pointless are And also we find that it's so busy and really even not sure what the problem is. So then it 's the question, if it is in fact ambiguous, then you need to post the system and clarify the effects. So now what other that this person is doing this right? What if I can't find anything in the scriptures that this person is doing this right? And if it is something it was, I need maybe help from other systems, perhaps in a single system, and then we can And to come to some evolution, whereby I either to bear it or I say I have a wrong attitude, it's not wrong, it's my hand up, I'll be it with it Come before that word might be very It's something wrong between an idea that it is. But I think we're doing something wrong that uh I'd like you to tell me what it is. You may have to go not knowing what's point wrong, but what's wrong is because it's quite fewer than the elimination. It's powerful. Finally, the difference would be the key man This is a matter of the three three one and two, and then beyond that sentence will be L Before it's the lowest level is comfortable in dealing with the past and it's lowest people coming to the eldest. Are you ready Well we always find you. That is better to deal with these things. You must be expected to We're going along because he has no second thing there. A second evening that they are women together. For example, let's suppose after the service this morning. You see Mary walking towards you and you say, uh, hi Mary, how are you doing? And they walked right on past me and no. Walk right on you thought hi again just right on down. We begin to screen and talk about it. Hi and I think the island I sat one time, I said hard. He was so told me, he never looked at me, he just went right on past, terrible if he seemed to be happy. So that's the case how does our reality and finally dealing with all this because I'm gonna go to it and I'm not gonna feel about this. If you could start there, we could run things the belt seems going to come itself. You gotta marry the next uh common here. Uh really guy got high to you. Why do you join me too? I was the movie. You tell the I the moon? You do it too. What's the problems out there? I won't keep thinking about all these things all at home and I've got the So I stand in the middle of his car and to that and the five that I heard that's a murder that I knew of the new fear of the boy flying a seatbelt in the I'd have this allergies and the allergies were giving me a headache, so I pulled my nose up because it kept raining out off of the surface. And I didn't even have a clean next, so I was just trying to get out the door and I didn't even think you see this last time. This problem there is a nobody standing. But so many times we need to go over the place and get to the understanding and then he is for us to misunderstand and to judge low. That's the key to kind of He's saying go first to the person's motives and say, You know what it is. Go to it, tell them their thoughts, and let them clear up the voice that you can give That third reason we must go is to perform our corruption. Well, there is within the community that humans each other to corrupt them. How many times have I feeling supplies? A light sound But they talk about these things in the things. And I finally go to that place and ask So I go and I say, I've observed this in your life. And I begin to think about it People will say to me , nobody ever told me that. Thank you for getting the estimate. Nobody has ever told you the vascular cone question in the bascular medicine. And it's a very cover. The body of thought. People go on for moments and years. In a tens of days , nobody's present focus. It's a violent And seventeen and after eight seasons. We're all responsible for that. Because leave it to your undersepher. Well, you know, this isn't really a kill in the beach, but I'll leave it to the leaders talking. I'll leave it to the one of the elders to talk to them. I'll leave it to our heart to talk to him. And Jesus did not give him time to To always. It is left to despicless. And if you call yourself as despiteful as Jesus Christ, this can always be you. It's a biblical principle that run through the entire New Testament. Matthew eighteen, Luke seventeen, Romans 15. not just bear ourselves but also bear the bear little those weeks also to trees our death that to deal with any of those problems. And 186 calls us bear for the person 1 Thessalonians 5 has got reviewing and monitoring things who are out of order. Second Thessalonians One thing has the command is that That's the system of pathways, it's the princess, it's the girl , what did it do? And I put it in it off. But I suggested it is one of the deepest things that you can express in So do this thing with this how to control. Finally, the fourth reason we need to go is because illumination is not an option in case. I touched on it before, but I just want to tell you we must remember wherever there is elementary no matter who called it is It's always irresponsibility to girls. What you have to do is irresponsibility to girls and to get not to buy because even the You know, go to that person you've offended and see where it is. Is he the person who's been offenders? The person who sinned against you It is still a real requirement to go. So at least seventeen three and massive eighteen fifteen policy to follow things go through this. Ideally on the place that Jesus plays the things are working the way God intelligence even further on the world. If you can never say , you can have a style to read and become You focus on these four principles, command, communicating, correctness, and community. You must go. where there 's a person who are sick and in particular even more sex is going to be uns. One more thing I would say the source moving on and that is if you are building a pattern in your life every time you find a path with another person, either a pattern of going And clearing this country before guarding our purpose. And extending the limits to the limitation Or you can do something yourself by that critical attitude not judgment. An increasing critical attitude, a more bitter attitude, an easier where it's finding for because it doesn't cost you anything. By doing that we begin to do this habit to begin to generalize throughout the whole life. Rise up in father , not different things. Remember he says in the chapter and two later on. to do it not to be well I think it's uh because it's covered so much here a different Recruit some hard again and pick that up again. Make people TV without being 25 % part of it, and then 35 % Second principle here then is how to go. How to go to the person. See that in verse 16. If your brother says against the goals on his fault, what 's his thing You don't need seven with that. Luke is seventeen three, the word of two words The keep stainless thing, a word that means rewards from us. We might even find a particular word that we use here It's a legal term. And it's a term that's used to prevent your case. To go and preventing evidence to conduct. That's the word you please do. You don't need your brother and you present the case. You find it false, you present the evidence of consistency. three things about possibility. First of all, the interest enterfuckers. Intervention country. I mean by that You go, you tell you our taste, not too judging the notices. You go and you say, This is what I've observed And this is mostly a concern in my life. I want to speak to you about that. Help me to understand. You don't feel pure and what the film is, the police lady, and lady with gentlemen. If you go to the interview and say, I would think, Mountain Fair, I'll talk about this thing. Thank you. standing somewhere uh minding your own business, not uh bothering anybody. All come calm and calm from the case. Not only stands on the three, he stands on purpose. They are on standards, he stays with his whole length of all these things. And don't use over without saying anything to you. So I could make some exact sense. There are two things you can handle that. You can go to time You stupid idiot. How could you stand on my toes? You sit on them. I know you did that on purpose. You've always been jealous of my Adidas fact teeth, and I know you wanted to ruin them. You wanted to flatten my toes. How did you do that? That 's in government. You say you got the whole thing around and let me know what he did by the end. I tell what Jesus said Because they tell you. You don't want to present the other. So, brother, I got ten flat two. They hurt because you stood on them. I'd like to go wow. How did you do that? What are you doing? What are you doing? By doing that, you can the person can control the elevation of what the account was And then in view of that, you can move into the root problem. That's what you're interested in. They are concerned about whether it's lightly came from it, it's one of the gigatities. But it didn't have any If it's just something partless, people might know what it was going or what is going on. But because We put the best possible interpretation of evil names. Lord hopefully believes our things and it's not easily pervaded You go somebody say , you know. What is it? Why'd you do it? And then move them out into the new class. Or maybe it's not a personal thing. But rather it's something concerning uh an observation. And that's not going to have a seat before. You may say, I think you're saying, brother. The way I have been seen into what it's there is you don't seem to feel a lot success. A little concerned. something like my art presentation because of anything to put them into this is a new word as anything you're already and that's meant to say Only three and try to tell you how many of those you have into AD evidence, that includes no and Allow our person to explore themselves from wetness. And they make our person looking at us. Finally what I told you we go really to the deal. We go because the concepts between The phenotype told this Peter comes to him, he got the point. He and Peter says, Now how many clients can I forget my guy to do this? Up to seven times. You just remember this time is now I thought it's not the seven times. There's no There's no limit to your forgiveness off. Because you see down and do twenty-seven disorders and masses. city on him and cancel all his deaths and let him go. But that's what the Father did to us. And he is our judge And we owe him that ten million dollars, he could do that yesterday and we found them divided into that You want to be our sentence the fact that you have sinned against him. And then What did he do about the Here looked to one You go to some value. He came to have some. We told us that we had a And don't need to do this. So when you and I go, we go Based on the fact that he took upon himself as the The simulative organisms are structured in time and work. The point in both Martin here is water convinced is referenced to remain to me and forgiveness. Not just for the slaves Not just with so many stuff, but to do the weapons for the two, as the manual the weapons, who and I have received To do this time. It's the given. The application I would be saying just about those things. Think about that thing. The body's calling you to go. Somebody in your family? Somebody can you understand? Somebody in the case. Do you need to go? How can you think of those life family? Some one final thing to be first ways to care of all the left. So that you can go to the rest. What about you? Digital. Divide it into easy and things But he intends to use us to accompany that purpose of humans in loving correction of one another to a place. Are we sacrificing the spirits? Are you practical to the spirit? Do you believe that God is using That 's what it is. And the first guy to do this. And he goes by this. That 's when we want to be using that. You can use the term. And I feel that I could be a tender. You need a man. You always see to be leaders in the conviction and promise to learn what the thing before the telephone And when you say this person in this sacrifice for the key to use. I think he did a file I think. But another feed it doesn't give me time to try and that's one thing. We are believed by everyone to see all these levels and We might be three or ourselves one another. And that we can probably be simple. We might be ordinary. The remains be completely open to me and purpose-down We don't need to be on itself. Probably used to be looking Let 's now conclude with a hymn that we're putting to this presentation. Let's see. supply sub pin number two hundred three five six the second pin so these things sample one two three and six cylinder The number two hundred.