Um now this time of the year of the during the the new newest part of the new year, the first several weeks within January has always been a very uh special time for me. It's almost electric and magnetic, the the sense of refreshment and renewal that every new year seems to bring, at least for me And so what I traditionally do is uh during the uh first several weeks of the new year, um it's in that time that I make out my resolutions for the upcoming year, the things that I'd like to have done, the things I'd like to see. uh develop within my within my life, the lives of my family, my friends, the church and so forth. Um what I do though, uh before I do any of that is um I meditate on a very particular passage within the Bible. And that passage is Philippians chapter 3, verses 1 to 10. Now, um we all I think have certain passages in the Bible that mean a lot to us. Uh certain verses or or chapters or entire books that that speak to us particularly in a very special way. Philippians three is that type of a passage uh for me and so as I contemplate on what to share with you this morning What I thought I would do is share with you the way that I celebrate every new year. So if you can turn with me now in Philippians chapter 3, I'd like to read now that chapter from verses 1 to 10. For those of you who have a hard time finding Corinthians, all you have to do is find Ephesians, and I know you all know where that is, and it's a book right after that. I love having a senior pastor that I can kind of jab at a little bit. It's great. And so uh Philippians chapter 3, uh verses 1 uh to ten. Hear the word of God. Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. It is no trouble for me to write the same things to you again, and it is a safeguard for you. Watch out for those dogs, those men who do evil, those mutilators of the flesh. For it is we who are the circumcision, we who worship by the Spirit of God, we gl who glory in Christ Jesus. and who put no confidence in the flesh, though I myself have reasons for such confidence. If anyone else thinks he has reasons to put confidence in the flesh, I have more circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, in regard to the law of Pharisee, as for zeal, persecuting the church, and as for legalistic righteousness, faultless. But whatever was to my profit, I now consider loss for the sake of Christ. What is more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish, that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death. We'll just finish it off by reading verse eleven as well. And so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead Wow, every time I I have done this now for the last uh relatively recently five years of my life or so, began every new year by reading this passage of scripture Every time I do it, it always impacts me. Um this is the heart that I pray to have. This is what I long to be like. This is what I hope excuse me hope to uh to to nurture within my own faith, within my own walk with the Lord. To me you cannot get any more Christian than this, to say that everything that I have is lost compared to what I have in Jesus Christ As we uh begin, I I'd like to begin this morning really just by asking you a question. And the question that I'd like for you to contemplate on is this Why are people so dissatisfied? Why are people so discontent? No, you you look at the world around us and all you see is dissatisfaction everywhere you go. Um I'm reminded always of the words of Billy Graham as he took a survey of college students across America. He said, there is one word that I can use to describe college students today. Now, although his comments were park specifically to students, I don't think this is something related just to them. I think it applies to age group everywhere, whether you are a young child or whether you are not so young of a child and much older and seasoned in life, regardless of where you might be in your life, this I think is a statement that describes us There is one word that describes us today. That one word he used was emptiness, a lack of satisfaction. That that conviction, that feeling, that something is deeply missing in our lives. Now I'm going to give you the answer to that question right away because this answer really is the heart of what I'd like to share with you this morning. The answer I think is this. You cannot be satisfied apart from Jesus Christ. Apart from him, you cannot be satisfied in any way. So many of us trying to find satisfaction in other things of our lives. I really think about um when I think about this, I think about Disney movies, Disney animations. Um now this is somewhat out outdated, but about four years ago when I first moved to Maryland Someone gave my kids a gift and it was a Disney video. Uh that video uh w i it it was the first of a whole new uh era of Disney animation. It was the movie uh The Little Mermaid Okay, yeah, I see parents dogging their heads. Yeah I know, we all know that that movie real well. When they got this, they would watch it over and over and over again. And I had to sit there and watch it once, rewind, watch it again, rewind. They just Could they just love this movie and I always have to, you know, caution my kids whenever they watch it because the Little Mermaid, Ariel She's not a very good girl. She did not listen to her daddy. So I have to constantly remind my son, definitely my daughter, of this one point before we get into it. But after watching it maybe 500 times Something dawned on me. Ariel is not content. Ariel is dissatisfied. I mean, what does she sing? I want to be where the people are. I want to be where they're, you know, singing and dancing, walking around on those, you know, what do you call them? Feet? Flipping your fins, you don't get too far. Legs are required for jumping and dancing to stroll around on those, what do you call them, feet or screeds. Up where they walk, up where they run, up where they play all day in the sun, wandering free, wish I could be part of That world. Well the next movie my son my children saw was Beauty and the Beast The union of the B, how does that open? It begins with a girl, she is discontent, and what is she saying? You know a little town full of little people Every day, like the day before, you know? Then she says that that classic line that really captures the heart of America, the heart of the world There must be more than this provincial life. There's gotta be more than this. And then I think of the next movie, Aladdin. Boy. Here you have Aladdin who's looking to the palace and thinking, boy, I really wish I was in there. You have Princess Jasmine in the palace who's looking out on the street thinking, boy, I really wish I was out there When these two get together, what do they sing? Let's make a whole new world. A new fantastic point of view. You know, when I think of these movies, I have only one thing to say. They are absolutely right. There is no reason why they should be content. There is absolutely nothing for them that they should be satisfied with. I mean, what do they have that can give them an aw everlasting, eternal peace? And whenever I think of that, I think of that one statement again, that apart from Jesus Christ, you cannot be satisfied in any way. You know, that's exactly what Paul says here in Philippians chapter 3, verses 1 to 10. He begins in verse 1 by saying, to rejoice in the Lord. You see, he is not saying to rejoice in your status, to rejoice in your social status, or to rejoice in your economic status, not to rejoice in any title you have or any possession you have. Rejoice, but make sure your rejoicing is in the Lord. Because you see, during Paul's day, similar to our day, there are people who rejoice in their social status in what they possessed, in what they had, how much money they may have possessed, all of these things. And Paul is saying all of these things you need to throw out and make sure that your rejoicing is in the Lord. Now there might be some who Paul says truly does that, and you say, How ridiculous, look at me. If there's anyone who can rejoice in the things of this world, it should be me. And starting in verse four to six He begins to describe the the great accomplishments that he has uh gained here on earth, starting in verse um Let's see. Well all right, I guess it's verse five. Starting in verse five, he says that he has been circumcised on the eighth day. Now, this idea of boasting in his circumcision may seem odd. What he is really doing is elaborating because the Old Testament law required that all infants be be circumcised specifically on the eighth day So what he is saying is that his obedience to the law is exactly to the letter of the law even in her circumcision. You see how How righteous he is in his obedience to the law he is saying. Look at me, even my circumcision is exactly how it should be. Not like these Gentile converts over here, but I followed the law to the letter He is saying that he is of the people of Israel, the tribe of Benjamin, the chosen people of God. Of all of the people that God could have chosen to be his people, he chose Israel, and Paul is a part of Israel. He is a Hebrew of Hebrews, he says. Again, it's that Semitic way of talking about being the best of the best. He is the Hebrew of Hebrews. In regards to the law, a Pharisee, an official, a high ranking teacher of the law, as resilience, persecuting the church. Now again, it may seem strange, something as horrific as a a persecutor, the church that he would boast in. But what he is really talking about is his Orthodox Judaism. You see he wasn't lukewarm about it He wasn't half-hearted about it. Yeah, he was wrong, but at least he was gung ho. He believed in it wholeheartedly and he was persecuting the church. So he he was boasting even um in that As for legalistic righteousness, faultless. All of these accomplishments he parades one after the other Modern day equivalent? No, four point oh college or high school GPA. Acceptance into Harvard University. No the the the top paying position in the best company within the world. Whatever it might be that you have accomplished, these are the modern day equivalents And what Paul says next is the most amazing statement for me because he says he gathers all of his earthly accomplishments together and he says all of these things I consider lost. compared to what I have right here in my relationship with Jesus Christ. More than that, in verse 8, he begins in verse 8 with that phrase, what is more? Adding on to that, if you were to give me, he says, Anything of this world that I may not have right now. If you were to give to me all of the riches of this world, I would still consider this as lost in light of the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. The word he actually uses there in verse 9, he says Uh I'm sorry, the last part of verse 8. I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ. That word rubbish In the Greek is it is only it is I think it only occurs here in Philippians three and it's not rubbish like garbage. It's actually lower than that and just for the sake you know of etiquette I won't describe exactly the word that he is using here but it is much lower than garbage He says that everything of this world, the things I have, even the things that you may think I want, I consider as rubbish, as garbage, as the lowest of the low in light of what I have right here in Jesus Christ. That is just an amazing and amazing statement Paul's conviction, you see, is to be satisfied in the blessor, not just the blessed scenes. He didn't put his satisfaction and his joy in the things that God gives to him. He was satisfied in God Himself. Now that to me in our day, I think speaks volumes of data. I think about the way that we uh describe and we read something like Matthew 6, 33, to seek first the kingdom of God and all these other things I will give to you as well. Now when we read that and when we think about this, what oftentimes I think people read is, wow, this is a great deal. If I seek the kingdom of God, I will get all of these other things as well. Because these are the things that I really want. So all the only thing I need to do is to seek God and then I will get all of these things. Isn't that great? And what Jesus' emphasis there is not in all of these things. It is in the seek first the kingdom of God. He is saying, you know, I know you need these things, so don't worry about that. I will give that to you. What you need to focus on is to seek first the kingdom of God I think also of the dilemma in the book of Job, the way that Job chapter 1 opens up with that dialogue between Satan and God. And how Satan is saying to the Lord, look at Job. If you take away all of these things, he will curse you. What is Satan really, really saying there He is saying that you, God, are not worthy to be loved in and of yourself. And if you take away all of the things that you give to Job, Job will curse you You see, Job only loves you because of the things you are giving to him, not because you in and of yourself is worthy to be loved. He is saying that Job only loves you because of what you give, not because of you yourself. And if you take that away, he will not love you anymore. See, that is the insult to behind that our interest in our relationship with the Lord is only dependent upon the things that He provides, not in who He is in and of Himself. When we think about that and I think about how what that means, that really is it looks like it, it seems like it, and it sure feels like it. Idolatry. To say that we are satisfied with the things of this world and to put God and subordinate God in some secondary role, by definition, is idolatry. To put it another way, let me let me illustrate it this way. Let's make a deal this morning. And the uh the deal that I'd like to make for you is this. Pretend that I can actually do this, okay? That's the only way this will work. Let's say here's the deal, people. I will give to you Anything that you want and everything that you want. Now what if that one or two things that you desperately want? What is it? For some of the uh younger folk that are out there, like my son, maybe it's something like a new Nintendo sixty four game. A new video game. Maybe that's what you want I will give it to you. Or now with these new generation game systems, Xbox, now you can really extra go into extraordinary gaming. I will give that to you A new bike, whatever it might be, whatever it is that you desire, I will give to you. Um for the single folks that are out there who are looking forward to getting married someday, let's say for the you guys, what you really want is a loving godly beautiful wife. You know what? You can't have that. I already have that. You know what? I know I'm actually very committed to absolute truth And I really don't like relativity, but on this point I'm willing to bend on this. Relatively speaking, all CPC men have the great and most beautiful wives. And so that's okay. And for you But you ha no you wife, you can't have the godliest husband either. My wife has that. No, just kidding. But you know, you get the point Whatever it is that you want, you can have. That new house that you've been wanting to get, the the job that you've been wanting to get. Godly obedient children, I don't have that. I want that. And I'm sure many of you want that as well. Whatever it is that you want, I mean just play along with it. Whatever it is that you want, I will give it to you. Now to sweeten that deal just a little bit more, I will throw into that package everlasting life. You can have anything you want and everything you want, and you can have it for eternity. But the one thing you have got to give to me is Jesus. Will you do it? You can have anything you want and everything. I will give you everything that you have ever wanted. But the one thing you've got to give to me is Jesus. Will you do it? Well some of you are thinking, oh I don't know. It sounds like a pretty good deal, but it just doesn't so it doesn't sound right. Why? Because you see you understand. Eternal life Without Jesus is meaningless. You see, the kingdom of God, without Jesus, you see, the only reason we long to be in the kingdom It's because that is where our King dwells. That is where we can be in fellowship in absolute perfection and glory with Him And this is the reason why the Bible, when it defines eternal life, it does not define eternal life as one day, followed by another day, followed by another day, to infinity It doesn't define eternal life as some you know abstract philosophical sum total of all forces in the universe. It describes eternal life in the language of relationships. The Gospel of John chapter 17 verse 3, this is eternal life, that you may know the one true God and Jesus Christ, his only Son. Can you say that this morning? Can you say what Moses said when he actually had to contemplate this real life situation? In Exodus 33 and 34 Israel had sinned against God in Mount Sinai by worshiping a golden calf. God condemns and judges the people, and so Moses in Exodus thirty three goes back up Mount Sinai to reconcile on behalf of the people of God. It's that great picture of of that mediatorial picture of Jesus Christ that you see pre uh shadowed in Moses here, where he is standing as a mediator between God and his people. Moses goes back up into Mount Sinai and God basically says If what these people really wanted is the promised land. If what these people really wanted was just this land flowing with milk and honey, this great land, if they were so wanting of this That they are willing to worship a golden calf, then fine. That is all they are going to get. Go on up into that promised land. You go ahead and go, but I will not be with you. Now what a startling statement to have everything that you wanted, but you don't get God. What can you say what Moses said when he said, look If that's the deal, and if you are not going to be in the midst of us, then let's just forget the whole thing, because the land doesn't mean anything without you. Can you say that? Can you say, as the psalmist said in Psalm 27, verse 4, that's the one thing that I ask. The one thing that I desire is not earthly blessings and it's not earthly riches. It is to dwell in your house, O Lord. Or Psalm 42, verse 1. That's the psalm that we sang this morning, as the deer passed for the water, so my soul longeth after thee Again, our Lord echoes those words in his Beatitudes in Matthew 5 when he says, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. You know, can you say what Peter says in 1 Peter 1 verse 8, that though I do not see him, though you do not see him, you love him. Though you do not see him, you believe in his name, and now You have a joy unspeakable, full of grace and truth. Can you say that this morning? Can you say what Paul says here? That I consider everything of this world as lost as rubbish in light of what I have in Jesus Christ. No, Paul is not unique. He has been indwelled with the same Spirit of God that dwells in us. The words that he says here can be our words as well. There is a knowledge that he has of Jesus that we need to have today. In verse nine he begins to describe, if you work with me, in verse nine he says, uh, and being found in him Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. You see, Paul is understanding that his good standing before God, his peace His satisfaction is found in Jesus Christ, who is his righteousness. Not in anything of this world, not in any accomplishment that he has, but in Jesus Christ and the good standing that he has before God that comes by faith in him. You know that is something I think we need to meditate on always. One thing that I have prided myself on for years has been a being a good dad to my kids. Um I have found a lot of satisfaction in the idea that I am a good father, at least I try to be a good father. Now a couple months ago, right before one of our Lord's Day Suppers Um, I had a little dispute with my son and anger got the better of me and I more or less I I I really Uh I really belittled my son. It was a terrible, terrible thing. I came to the Lord's Supper that day very genuinely broken and repented depart And the Lord really ministered to me that South evening and when I went home my wife showed me a note that my son wrote to me. And what he wrote, and I will he never forget this, I will frame this in my room to the day I die. He wrote, Dear Dad, I love you I thank God that you are my dad. He said, I love you more than the whole world. I love you more than that. You know, I I read that from my son and it was as if God was speaking to me himself. You screw it up just now, but you want to know something? It's okay Because your good standing before me is not based on whether you are a good dev or not. It is based on the righteousness that is yours by faith in Jesus Christ. So I find satisfaction in knowing that I have Jesus' righteousness. So you should also find satisfaction that you uh can be satisfied in Jesus' righteousness. But more than that, in verse 10, I want to know Christ And the power of his resurrection, he says. I want to know Jesus' resurrection power Now this idea of knowing resurrection power really is built on one fundamental thing, and that is first the knowledge of death. You cannot know resurrection until you first die. And so Paul is really saying here that he wants to know death. so that he may know the newness of life that comes in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now this idea, this duality of living as opposed to dying is not unique here in this passage. Paul talks about it in Philippians chapter one and verse twenty one. In verse twenty one in Philippians one twenty one he says, For me to live is Christ To die is gain. Now that has been turned into a praise song, and one disadvantage of that is that we oftentimes lose the power of what the m that verse is really talking about. Paul is struggling between one of two things living. And dying. You see, for Paul, he says, to live is great. I can serve God, I can do his work. But to die means I can actually be in the presence of God my Lord. That is better. It's not a choice for Paul of a good thing versus a bad thing. For Paul the choice is between a good thing and a greater thing. And the greater thing that he sees is death, for that comes to lead him to understand the power of Christ's resurrection. And that is one thing that he longs to know. He also says in verse ten that he also wants to know Christ in the fellowship of his suffering. Now this is somewhat very unique to Paul here in this passage, I think. There might be other passages in Paul where he talks about this. But if you read Romans chapter 8, Paul comforts those who are going through trials by saying, Your trials are really going to be small compared to the future glory that you have in the eternal kingdom of God. And so he comforts you by looking to the eternal kingdom. Now that's not what I think Paul is saying here. I think what he's trying to say is look at your struggles right now. There are two ways that you can look at the hardships you are going through. If it is a result of sin, repent. But if it is because of obedience to Christ You are walking in the step of Christ, therefore you are in fellowship with Jesus Christ, because you are now starting to understand his sufferings as well. The way that Paul tries to comfort us here is not by changing our situations in life, which is a way that we may oftentimes want it to happen. What he is changing is not our situation. What he is changing is our perspective. The way we look at these types of trials as a result of obedience He is saying that this in and of itself is glory. This in and of itself is blessing. And so if it is true, friends, that by faith in Jesus Christ, there is victory and death. There is glory in suffering. I utter the words of a psalmist in Psalm 42, verse 11. Why so downcast, oh my soul? Why so downcast, oh my soul? Put your trust in God This is a prayer that I pray for myself. Jim Elliott once said that he is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. He is no fool who gives up the what he cannot keep, the things of this world, to gain what he cannot lose, Jesus Christ. Hermann Barbink, a Dutch theologian, Reformed theologian in the early first part of the twentieth century, was recognized by many as being one of the most brilliant systematic minds of that day. On his deathbed, he asked for a person to grab a chair, sit next to him, and to tell him the story of Jesus one last time. The prayer I make for myself is that prayer. Knowing you, Jesus, there is no better thing. Were the whole realm of nature mine, that be a gift far too small. Cause knowing you, Jesus, there is no better thing. Now when peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrow like sea billows roll, whatever my lot Thou hast caused me to say, It is well, it is well with my soul. Why? Because knowing you, Jesus, there is no better thing And so, congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, I encourage you. Shout for joy, shout for joy all of the earth. Let us sing power and majesty and praise to our King. Because knowing you, Jesus, knowing you, there is no greater thing. Let's pray And as we bow in prayer, I would just like to give you a few seconds to meditate. On the word that was shared. Perhaps you thought that this year can be significant if you just had that one thing If that one aspect of your life changed, what might that be? We actually fool ourselves to think that if this changes or if we have that, I will really be satisfied. And we forget the greater riches of knowing Christ Jesus our Lord. So I'd like to just lead you with time to meditate for a few seconds, to pray. uh a prayer of repentance, a prayer of joy, whatever it might be that the Spirit is leading you to do at this time. Let's go ahead and bow and pray.