Paul, take words with you and return to the Lord. Say to him , Forgive all our sins. And receive us graciously, that we may offer the fruit of our lips. Assyria cannot save us. We will not mount war horses. We will never again say our gods to what our own hands have made. For you, the fatherless finds compassion. I will heal their woundedness and love them freely, for my anger has turned away from them. Now will be like the dew to Israel. He will blossom like a lily. Like a cedar of Lebanon. He will send down his roots. His young shoots will grow. His splendor will be like an olive tree. His fragrance like a cedar of Lebanon. Man will dwell again in his shade. He will flourish like the grain. He will blossom like a vine. And his fame will be like the wine from Lebanon. O Ephraim, what more have I to do with idols? I will answer him and care for him. I am like a green pine tree. Your fruitfulness comes from me Who is wise? He will realize these things. Who is discerning? He will understand them. The ways of the Lord are white. The righteous walk in them. But the rebellious stumble in them. So, by God's word. Now let's give heed to his understanding. The fellow that I'll call Ed was a young man who loved and served God with all his heart. I'm in the course of serving the Lord. He met a draw who will call candy And it was quite clear that this was the girl that God intended for him to marry. The fireworks in his brains and the palpitations of his heart attested to that fact. It was a classic love story. The two of them were drawn together, and soon they married. And their love was deep. Things went fine for the first year or two. But gradually, problems began to be apparent in the marriage. It became gradually evident that they were not committed to or interested in precisely the same things. For Ed, his top priority was God and the scriptures. For candy, more and more. The things of this world, materialism. But more and more of her goals seemed to center around this world. And so there was tension in the relationship. And then came that day when there was the first evidence that Ed discovered that Candy had been seeing another man. He remembered with great agony the struggle that went through him as he first thought about that. As he thought of their relationship before they had married, the walks they had taken, the picnics they had shared, the dreams together that they had. And now, where was it all headed? What is he to do? Since he had their first child. And there was some evidence that this son blowing to them was not Ed 's son. The things went on a little further. And the relationship continued to deteriorate. A couple years later, she had a second child, a daughter. And this time it was even more evidence that he was not the father. Shortly after that, a year or so after, there was a third child, again a son. And this time it was quite clear it was not his child. But Ed continued to love her. He continued to seek to be as loving to her as the Lord would enable him. And during the struggles and the agony of that relationship, it would look at those children that he was raising and loving. And realized that they were not begotten by him. The relationship went to the point where finally, one day, Candy moved out, and there was no further word from her Eventually it became clear that she had become a call girl on the strip, and had become quite rich through presents, through money and merchandise of a profession. But things went hard with Candy, and soon after that she became a prostitute. And shortly after becoming a prostitute, things went increasingly worse. And finally, she was a slave. And she was living in the gutter. What would you have done in such a situation? It's quite clear that 90% of the Christians in today's churches, evangelical Christians, would have simply taken refuge in certain scriptures that appear to give warrant for divorce in such situations. Would divorce that person and seek to build a new life. But that's not what Ed did David, in fact, went after her. He pursued her, and he brought her out of her slavery. And brought her back to him. He brought her back to live with him. And she would always remember that time when he had come to her and found her. And took her in his arms, looked her in the eye, those eyes so aged and dissipated with sin, and said to her, Honey, I forgive you. Come back. This is a true story. The story that I've just recounted to you. is the story of Hosea and Gomer, recorded in the scriptures for us. You can check it out in Hosea 1 to 3. It's precisely as other candidate. Furthermore, the Bible teaches us that you are that prostitute wife. You say me? That's ridiculous. I mean certain. I mean, yes, I've sinned. But let's be reasonable. I've never gone that far. Oh no? That's not what Hosea says. John White, in his excellent book, The Golden Cow. Has some things to say about certain parallel and similarities between ancient Israel and Israel during the day of Jesus when he cleansed the temple. and the evangelical church today. I quote from page twelve. There is an uncanny similarity between our day and that of ancient Israel. God 's ancient people worshiped the Balaam. We worship a materialistic golden plough. At heart, many of us have agreed with things. We've made the world's agenda of status seeking our own Unquestionably, we have adopted the world's techniques of gaining influence and security. And it has worked. We're flushed with success. We've made time in Newsweek. And yet, can we be sure that we are featured in national magazines for the best of reasons? Is it because of our godliness and our love for our neighbors? Or is it because we've grown large enough to have political influence Have we attracted society's attention by reflecting the beauty of our Lord? Or have we prostituted ourselves, being successfully peddled to the public by public relations experts? This book is about materialism in the church. Another temple cleansing is needed. The church today is a prostitute and needs to be brought back. Strong words? And yet they're not my words. They're God's words. They're in the very beginning of Hosea, in the recounting of Hosea's disastrous marriage God said to Hosea in Hosea 1, 2, The Lord spoke and said, Go take to yourself an adulterous wife and children of unfaithfulness, because the land is guilty of the vilest adultery in departing from the Lord. And he goes on in this book to show that this is a picture of the church. This marriage was a picture. Of the relationship between God and his people, their sin, and his forgiveness. Israel, remember, was a very religious nation. Israel showed much attention to the things of God. But these things were mixed with the things of the world. Their priorities were set by the world, not by the Scripture. And so the unfaithfulness was a spiritual adultery When you and I are in that position. But when you and I realize seriously the extent of the offense That we have committed against our God, and take seriously what it means to have gone away from Him, to live our lives in our own way, as if He didn't matter. Then you'll feel very guilty about it. And what's the solution for that? The solution is not To dwell on how rotten our sin is, and to simply determine that we'll do better for the Lord. Well, rather, once we have faced our sin. In all its ugliness, realize that it's spiritual adultery, then God calls us to turn our face toward Him. To see the nature of our God as Gomer, as God who is as Hosea going after Gomer, his wife, living in the gutter. To admit that his brothers were helpless and absolutely dependent on his forgiveness and his love totally from himself. That's the purpose of the book of Hosea. And yet, how often you and I fall into subtle legalistic traps , performance basis of our relationship with God. Because we've never really heeded Hosea's message and seen how utterly rotten sin is, and how totally incapable you and I are of doing anything good for the Lord. And therefore, not having Hosea's appreciation for the profoundness of the extent of God's forgiveness and love. The church today you see is caught in two traps. On the one hand, he preached law without grace. And the church says, be more committed, do more for the Lord. But face up to your Christian responsibility and to your duty as a Christian to have a quiet time, to witness, to do this and that, and other things. And we're motivated by guilt. And in this, we center on our sin rather than on Jesus Christ. And because of that, we fall into a dead legalism and a formalism. But there are some in the church today that say, well, the alternative to that is to preach grace. And so the church often falls into the trap of preaching grace without law. And in this case, we talk about doing away with any sense of duty. But then all is something totally passed. And we get into a shallow kind of pietism. A shallow sentimentalism, which is an effect of self-sumered indulgence, in which there is no worship or awe of God. The solution you see is found in the book of Hosea. Lighten together the depths of our sin with a height of God's forgiveness. Take seriously our sin. Understand what forgiveness is and will be motivated by grace. Now we've looked so far at the first point, the extent of sin. I sort of snapped that point in on you, you see. Well that's what we really were looking at there in that example. The picture of Hosea one to three. And having looked at that, and check it out yourself sometime this afternoon to see if it's accurate. But having looked at Hosea one to three The terrible picture of a people who turned their back on God and violated the very essence of the covenant, prostituting themselves to the world. We now look at the extent of God's forgiveness. And that's described to us throughout the book in chapters 1, 2, and 3, but then summarized in chapter 13 Let's take a look again at what we just read a few minutes ago. You see they're pictured succinctly in those four verses, Isaiah 14, 1 to 4, three words that are related to forgiveness. First of all in verse 2. You see, the word forgive. Take words with you in return to the Lord. Say to him, forgive all our sins, and receive us graciously. Now notice the context there. It's a call from God in verse 1: Return, O Israel, to the Lord your God. Your sins have been your downfall. This is talking to a religious people who are unregenerate Are people who have gone through the form of religion for years, but don't know anything of the saving power of God. Perhaps that's a situation you have found yourself in, but perhaps still find yourself in. And that's his call to you. Come Come to the Lord, return to Him, and take words with you. That's a funny phrase, isn't it? But you see it's a very telling phrase. Because they were used to just bringing along a bull and a goat. And saving their conscience that everything is okay. And God says, I don't want your bulls and your goats. I want you to bring words with you. You say, words? That's the cheapest thing of all. Anybody can mouth words. And yes, words can be the cheapest thing of all, but if they're words from the heart, They're the most precious thing of all. But that's what God's talking about here. He says, bring words from your heart and come. Bring yourselves and bring this petition. Say, forgive all our sins. That word there forgive is a word that we looked at back in January, the word Nasan. And do you remember those of you who were with us in the series back at that point? We talked about that word for forgiveness, which means to bear something, to lift it up and to carry it away. That's the word that's used here in Hosea 14. 2. The petition of the people is, Lord, you must lift the load of our sin. And God here is saying, that is precisely what I intend to do. To lift the load of our sin and to bear it away. We're reminded in that word of its primary use in Leviticus 16. On the day of atonement. You remember in Leviticus 16, verse 21, Aaron has finished making atonement for the most holy place, the tent of the meeting and the altar, he shall bring forward a live goat. One has been sacrificed, another one is a live good. And he says, and he is to lay both of his hands on the head of that live good and confess over it all the wickedness and the rebellion of the Israelites, all their sins. And put them on this goat's head. They shall send that goat away into the desert in the care of a man appointed for the task, and the goat will carry on itself all their sins to a solitary place. And the man shall release it in the desert. The goat will carry all of their sins. That word they translated carry is the same word in Hosea 14. 2. Carry away our sins. Lift them up, bear them, and take them away. Remove them. And that is precisely what God in Jesus Christ has done for every one of you who are trusting him. He has lifted up, he has borne, and he has taken away so far that you'll never see them again. Every sin of your past, your present, and your future. And so he says, I will remember your sin no more, for they're gone. That, as we've looked at in these past months, is the essence of forgiveness. The record is destroyed, they're borne away, and God remembers them no more. There's a second word that's used here. That's a word in verse four. God here now is speaking, and he says, I will heal. Their waywardness or their apostasy. And that word their heal is a word that we considered in February, the word vatha, a word which means to forgive by healing. Well, God says that I am going to heal the sickness of your guilt by forgiving it. I'm going to heal that by taking it away. And how's he going to do it? And so we're reminded there of the passage we looked at back in February, Isaiah 53, verse 5 You remember there that the Lord said, concerning the suffering servant, the Messiah to come, the one who is the hope of Israel, he Was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him And by his wounds were healed. That's the same word in Hosea fourteen four. I will heal their waywardness. I will heal their apostasy. I will heal their prostitution. How? Because there's coming that one who will bear that sin. And by his bearing it, by his lifting it up and carrying it away. Through his stripes, through the punishment that God brought upon him, we are healed. We all like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. And the Lord laid on him all of our iniquity. Not part of it, not just the iniquity of the past. All of it. There is nothing excluded from that clause. God looks at you and me now with the righteousness of Jesus his own son Because he has borne our iniquity, and we have his righteousness There's a third word that's used here. That's the word in the next phrase. I will heal their waywardness and I will love them freely. That to me has become one of the most precious phrases in all the Bible. It's the gospel in miniature. It 's honey to delight in and suck on. It's something to explore as a mind, to be able to go through and to consider that phrase and turn it over again and again in your mind. I will love them freely. I will love them freely. The word there freely is a word which means voluntarily. without any constraint upon the one who is giving. And God is saying there that this is the nature of my love. There's no constraint. There is no cause from it outside of myself. It reminds us of the language that Paul used in Romans chapter 3. Remember where he said in verse 23, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ. Justified freely as a gift. As I thought about that verse, it's become so precious to me, just all the wealth that's there that I dare not even begin to get into that this morning. And so I think I might put that off a couple weeks and deal with that one phrase there. In Romans 3:24, justified freely by his grace, and all that that means. All that it means in saying that everything that we have in the forgiveness of God to us Something that was unearned, no cause in the recipient, but only in the voluntary, free will giving. Of the one who offers it to us. You and I, in no way, affect or earn God's love. It's free. He's determined to set it upon us. In the story of Goma, you remember, in the very depths of her living as a prostitute, it was God who said when there was nothing in her To lay claim upon his love in chapter two, verse fourteen, therefore I am now going to allure her And I will lead her into the desert and speak tenderly to her. Verse 19: I will betrothe you to me forever. I will betroth you to me. In righteousness and justice. Whose righteousness and justice? Certainly not German 's. Certainly not yours and mine. The righteousness of Jesus his son accounted to our credit. And I will betray thee to me in righteousness, unjustice, in love. And compassion. This is why the Lord then says to him in chapter 3, verse 1: The Lord said to me, Go show your love to your wife again. Though she is loved by another and is an adulteress. Lovers the Lord loves the Israelites, though they turn to other gods and love the sacred raisin cakes, the sacrifices given to the bales. You notice he says in both those cases, love her though she is this way and that way. He never says love her because of what she is. But God's love is free. It's in spite of what we're like. But it's a love which is greater than all our sin. You'll say to yourself, But Lord, how can I rest in that kind of love? You and I have told so tend to introspect in our Christian living. Then we say, Lord, my heart is just so cold. And he says, But I love you freely. But he says, I don't feel my need for you enough. And he says, But I love you freely. He says, But Lord, I keep walking in my own strength, and I keep trying to live the Christian life on my own, and I keep failing, and I keep becoming more and more aware of all the things that I do wrong. And he says, But I love you freely. You say, but Lord, I'm even ungrateful for your love. Sometimes I don't even care that you love me. And Lord, I don't return your love anything in the way that I ought to. And he says, Yes, I know that. But I love you freely. When will it break through to us? That the only way God can love us is freely. When will we become aware of the fact That when we seek to earn his love in anything that we do, we fall into the trap of duty and performance, to seek in some way to earn his forgiveness. And therefore we nullify justification and his free love to us. The law, remember, as we said before, it says, Do good, and I will bless you. But grace It says, I have blessed you. Now do good. And so the response to this forgiveness, to this love of God is seen there in verses 2 and 3. The response to forgiveness. You see there in verse 2 that he says, Forgive all our sins and receive us graciously that we may offer the fruit of our lips. That's the first response, loving praise. It's a phrase that's picked up in Hebrews chapter 13, 15 that talks about the sacrifice to Jesus Christ. And what is the sacrifice that the Christian offers? Are there any sacrifices? Yes, there are. There is one, and Hebrews tells us that through Jesus Christ, therefore let us continually offer to God a sacrifice of praise, the fruit of lips that confess his name. It's a very interesting phrase there in the Hebrew. It means literally the bowls or the calves of our lips. That's what we offer to God Lips that simply speak thanksgiving and praise in the wonder of a forgiveness and a love that can be so great, so searching, and so free. Remember the story there of Luke 7 of the prostitute who came before Jesus, a one so similar to Goma, in her own character. And Jesus was sitting, uh that should be their Pharisee, not publican, prostitute versus Pharisee. Jesus was having dinner with Simon, a Pharisee. But this prostitute came in and she made a fool of herself. You remember? There she was, constantly weeping, sobbing, kind of distracting to the conversation. Jesus is seeking to talk to Simon and Simon to him about spiritual matters, and here's this woman. And she just keeps weeping and she keeps wetting his feet with her tears, and then she takes her hair and she's wiping his feet with her hair, and then she keeps kissing his feet. It's a very distracting kind of scene And Simon becomes rather irritated with all this, particularly the fact of the character of this woman who dares to do this. But doesn't the Lord know who this is? That this is a prostitute? And remember, it's in that context that Jesus tells them about the two debtors, the one who was forgiven little, and therefore loved little, and the one who was forgiven much, and therefore loved much. When you and I realize that spiritually we're prostitutes, that spiritually you and I have no claim whatsoever Upon the mercy, the least of the mercies of God, but that He's gathered Him to gathered us to Himself as His children, taken us to Himself. As a wife, and said, I will allure you. I will call you to myself, and I will have you as my bride. That you and I look forward to a wedding feast with Jesus Christ one day. And what can we do but to cast ourselves upon him with the same kind of shameless devotion as that woman did to Jesus? That's the nature of real biblical praise. The spontaneous outpouring of the heart that realizes that we're forgiven. And that he loves us freely. You see, the second thing there that comes from this is the unreserved trust. You see there that uh verse three , Assyria cannot save us, we will not mount war horses, and we'll never again say our gods, to what our own hands have made, for in you the fatherless finds compassion. What are they saying there? We see so many Christians don't trust the Lord Jesus because they don't realize that he no longer holds anything against them. We always have the suspicion that maybe the Lord really sort of out to get us. Maybe there's something he wants to punish us for that we've done wrong, and therefore we're afraid to really place ourselves entirely in his care. Because we're not really clear on the fact that his intentions are us are totally with love. We see that perhaps he still holds a little bit of his character as judged toward us. We have forgotten that we're precious to him, that he's bought us, that he has lifted our sin and borne it away, that he has healed us and that he loves us freely. And because of that, we don't trust him. But what's Israel say here? When we realize that He has forgiven our sin, we do not trust in man That's Assyrians. See, that was Israel's problem. Trusting in Assyria to save them rather than I don't trust in people to lean on what I can see anymore. Secondly, I will trust in my own strength. That's typified by war horses. We will not mount war horses. Throughout the scriptures, you'll see that symbol of horses as a symbol of man's strength We don't trust in horses. Nor thirdly do we even trust in our idols, whether it's our employer, social security benefits, the bank that holds my mortgage, or the system in general. Rather, I realize that it's Jesus Christ who alone deserves my trust, is worthy of it, and that I'm perfectly secure in Him. Now let's apply it. For those of you who have not ever come to rest in Jesus Christ, put away your dreams of fitness. What could Domer hope to present? To Hosea to take her back. Absolutely nothing. Her only hope was his mercy If you wait until you're ready, until you're good enough, until you've worked out your hang-ups about Christianity, you'll never come. The only way to come is exactly as you are For that's how God's love is offered to you. It's offered to you precisely in the state that you're in, with no change. Except your sense of your need for Him and your desire to come to Him. He 'll take you as you are and love you freely, bear away your sin, heal you And love you with a love which you've never known. For those who are Christians Do you find that possibly your focus is more on your sin and your failure as a Christian? That on Jesus Christ and his forgiveness. This I find is often a trap for Christians. The dominant theme of Hosea is not the rottenness of Israel. But it's the grace of God who freely loves and forgives. And yet many Christians focus in their lives on what they are doing or are not doing for the Lord. The focus of so many Christians that I talk to is on what I ought to be doing for the Lord. And I think it's more humble for me to think about what I ought to be doing for the Lord than simply what he has done for me, but that's rather self-centered. What I suggest to you is precisely the reverse. Unless you and I dwell at length and in depth on what the Lord has done for us, we'll never do anything for him. That is acceptable. For all of our works will become from the basis of performance and seeking to serve Him, to offer Him something. The only works of righteousness that ever come pleasing to the Lord are those that stem simply in a free response of love to his grace. So you and I need to think more about what Jesus Christ has done for us. Never, never, never Think about your own sin and failure without also thinking of the forgiveness and the grace of Jesus Christ for you. Never separate those two How often you and I wish that we could overcome just a few sins so that we wouldn't be so dependent on God for so much forgiveness You know, if I could only overcome just a couple of them, and I wouldn't need to depend on his forgiveness, at least in that area. At least there's something, Lord, that I've done But I'm humbled again and again. As I come back to that and I see the rottenness of my own heart and I say, Lord, I failed again. Then Lord, it's embarrassing to keep coming back to you again with forgiveness again and again And the Lord says, that's precisely the nature of grace. It's embarrassing. It's the embarrassment of riches in Jesus Christ that God offers us when He says, I will love you. freely. And you and I can accept the love on no other basis than when we discover new dimensions of our sin and more profound depths of our depravity than we ever guessed before we're there. That does not produce in us a discouragement, a depression, but rather a further way to exalt the grace of the Lord and say, that's how great your love is. You knew that about me, and you forgave that too. It's covered, it's taken away, and it's removed. Praise the Lord. How much can we talk about Jesus Christ? And how much can we dwell on this so that it will get through to us to understand what the riches of God's grace are to us? But it'll just leap up and be able to just dance and sing that the Lord's grace is that full and free. It could just dwell on this for weeks and go, oh I know we've got to move on to some other things. It's intertwined with everything that's involved here But God's grace is just so free and so rich. Finally, let me just say a word now. Look the rest of that uh for you to um go on and consider yourself working this out, but I just want to uh give one more example under that that second point. We don't realize, I think, often that you and I, as we come to God on the basis of His love totally, find security in the fact that that's guaranteed to us to be thoroughly unchanging. You did nothing to deserve that love. You did nothing even to bring it about. Why then do you think that you can do something to maintain it? Which case do you think would produce the greater faithfulness in a husband who's going away on a business trip? A wife who says to him, Honey, I love you. But if you cheat on me on any trip that you go away, I will divorce you. I just want you to know that. I love you, but I want you to know that. Or a wife who kissing her husband as he leaves says, honey I love you and I'll always love you. And even if you were to turn from me, that would not alter my love for you one bit. Which is greater motivation For faithfulness. And yet you and I have a view of God as if He's the former wife with friends. When God tells us in Hosea, I will love you freely, there is nothing you can do to alter my love for you What a picture of relationships and marriage do we have here? And I'll leave that third part just for you to examine for yourself with your husband and your wife. If there's any bitterness and you haven't dealt with it, we're going to move on. Maybe after the first time you said, That's interesting. I'll think about that. The third time I talked about forgiveness, you said, Well, I'll put that in my notes and think about it later. Maybe the tenth time. You 've come to take seriously the fact that I intend life-changing this. If your life and your relationships don't change from this series as we leave it, It's been to no avail, no matter how much you have in a notebook about forgiveness. God wants to change us. Do we understand forgiveness? And we become, in turn, a forgiving people. Because he's born our sin. Because he's healed us. And because he loves us freely. Let's pray. Our Lord our God, how we want to dance and sing when we realize That you love for us is totally without constraint or merit. Now that we like Gomer Had absolutely no claim upon you but to turn from us, but to justly and richly deserve your wrath. But you, Lord God, have come to us. And by Kosea, you have taken us in your arms. And you've told us that you forgive us. You've told us to come back and to be your bride You've told us that you're not ashamed to be called our husband. You've told us that the Lord Jesus even prepares a feast. In that grand day when this marriage will be consummated in the consummation of your kingdom, and we shall be there for you eternally. And that one betrayal to you in holiness and righteousness. Ah, Lord our God, how we rejoice in this. Help us to make the connections between this And the guilt and the performance orientation that we have in our understanding of serving you. Free us up, Lord, as a people who are Christ's free men and women. And boys and girls who see that the reason that we serve you is because we love you, and the only reason that we love you is because we've been loved by you. That you have won us, that you have forgiven us And that you love us freely. Help us to grasp that, Lord, and to turn from our dead works into grace And the response of love, love and praise, and a wholehearted trust. For Jesus' sake , Amen