I love this time of year, don't you? When you think particularly of our times of worship. And what else We're studying, whatever issues we've been looking at in Scripture, such as eight principles on how to rebuild a broken culture from the book of Nehemiah, we set all that aside. And beginning the first Sunday after Thanksgiving for the holiday season, we simply focus upon Jesus. We take all those things, and at this time we just look to see Once again, through God's Word, looking generally for a week or two at an Old Testament prophecy, and then for a week or two we look at Luke's account own culture to look again to simply see Jesus. You sense that need in your life this morning? I'd say I do. It's it's it's all To get off of the issues, all the things that we need to be doing and be able to see once again the wonderful things that our Lord Jesus has done. For us. So we've been doing that for 15 years now, going through Old Testament prophecy for a week or two, Luke for a week or two. And after 15 We're up to now two very significant and very well-known passages on this. Uh in the Old Testament, we're up to Isaiah chapter 9, for unto us a child Is born, to us a son is given. And in the New Testament, we're up to Luke chapter 1, verses 67 to 79, what's called traditionally Zechariah's Benediction. It's called that because the first words of the song, his prophetic song, begins with blessed be the Lord, which in the Latin is Benedictus. So that's how it got the Name Benedictus. So if you ever wonder what the Benedictus is, that's what it is here. Luke chapter one, the song itself is verses sixty-eight to seventy-nine. Because these are so rich and so full, I decided what I would do was something different this time. I'm going to take three weeks this year to go through Luke's uh account of Zachariah's song, his Benedictus, and then because you probably will lose interest, you know, we come to January. Say, well, we're finished with a holiday. Next year we're going to come back and we're going to do Isaiah chapter nine for three weeks. So that way we can give these things the attention that they deserve. Now you recall the attention. Occasion of Luke's song. You remember, we looked at, did an overview of it last year, but since you may not remember the message from last year, he recalled that the occasion was the miraculous birth Of Zechariah and Elizabeth's son, John, who was later then called the Baptist, though personally I believe he was a Presbyterian. Now, John, of course, was born to Zachariah. And Elizabeth in the time when they were too old to have kids. And so the angel you remember announced to Zachariah as he was sacrificing. And Zechariah doubted it. And so because he doubted, he wasn't allowed to speak for nine months. The whole time that Elizabeth was pregnant, Zechariah I couldn't say a word. Big comfort he was. Well, during that time he had a lot to think about. And God was apparently revealing to him some of the things that are that would be the purpose and the unfolding of this significant event. So on the birth of John, you recall that uh the people asked what he should call him. And as soon as he said John, God opened his mouth. Now let's pick up that story. And you see it there and pick it up in verse 57 of Luke chapter 1 and hear God's word and see again the song. that God gave to us through that. Now, let me say one other thing about this before I read the scripture on this. You'll notice that as we read the Psalm That the theme of his song is salvation. That's the main theme of it. But there's something that we need to particularly notice. He uses the word salvation Three times as I read the song, and it's the second time you heard it, Dick read it, so you ought to get a little more familiar now, you know. As I read that, notice where you see the that word salvation and notice the connection. He talks first about a horn of salvation. He talks about salvation from our enemies. He talks about salvation which consists in forgiveness of sin. And he does it in a way that is not the way we would speak of salvation. It is not like contemporary jargon. We talk about, hey, is that Give us a song about salvation. It's not like somebody would write today. And so what we are tempted to do is to be frustrated with that and say, Zechariah, why can't you just say it? in plain English? Why can't you just tell us what Jesus came to do so we can understand it in the language that we speak? But you see, what God is trying to do is He's trying to get our attention to see that we live within a certain culture and our culture has its notions about what salvation is. Every culture does. Every culture has its notions About what they think salvation is. You want to try a good exercise this week? Say to the first three unbelievers you see in the office or in your neighborhood, say, hey, I'm doing a little survey. What do you think that the word salvation means? You know, and then they could say, Well, you know, and they'll stuff but they'll tell you something. I mean they will. They'll say, Oh well I you know and then you say, Well, you know, we're we're looking at this in our church and I just was trying to think, you know, what is What do people around me believe about this? And you know, God may get you into a conversation from that or not. But it's interesting to hear because people have some notion about what salvation it is. it means to have all that you would think would save you from all the mess that you're in. But when you read Luke I and Zechariah song, they're very different notions from what we would tend to to think and what God is doing in that is he's expanding our horizons to see that salvation is so wonderful that we need to break out of our cultural categories and get into his mindset, the biblical framework, in order to understand it. And so during these next three weeks, what we're going to be looking at are the three insights about salvation from display Now, having said that, take a look and see what you just get. What is your impression on the first reading of it before we begin to look into it? Beginning at verse 57. When it was the time for Elizabeth to have her baby. She gave birth to a son, and her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown her great mercy, and they shared her joy. On the eighth day they came to circumcise. The child. And they were going to name him after his father, Zachariah. But his mother spoke up and said, No, he's to be called John. So he said to her, There's no one among you Your relatives who has that name. Then they made signs to his father to find out what he would like to name the child. He asked for a writing tablet, couldn't speak. And to everyone's astonishment he wrote his name Immediately his mouth was open, and his tongue was loosed, and he began to speak, praising God. That 's kind of a parenthetical here now. Now. The neighbors were all filled with awe, and throughout all the hill country of Judea people were talking about all these things. Everyone who heard this wondered about it, asking, What then is this child going to be? For the Lord's hand Now, back to Zechariah opening his mouth. This is what he said. His father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied. Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has come and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he said through his holy prophets of long ago, salvation from our enemies, from the hand of all who hate us. To show mercy to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath he swore to our father Abraham. Rescue us from the hand of our enemies, to enable us to serve him. Without fear, and holiness, righteousness before him all our days. And you, my child, will be called a prophet. The Most High. You will go on before the Lord to prepare the way for him to give his people the knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins Because of the tender mercy of our God by which the rising sun will come to us from heaven, shine on those living in darkness and in the shadow of death. To guide our feet into the path of peace. The child grew. He became strong in spirit. And he lived in the desert until he appeared Publicly to Israel. This morning we're going to look at insight number one back to the basics. What is salvation? Salvation is a person. Salvation is a person. Salvation is not a philosophy. It's not some path to enlightenment. Salvation is not a religion. It's not a matter of doing Certain religious duties, and if you superstitiously adhere to those, then God will take care of making sure you get into heaven. Salvation is not a set of Principles. It's not a twelve-step program or a fifteen-step program or any other number of steps that are going to help you to rescue yourself from your situation. Salvation is not some vague higher power to help you in those principles. Salvation is a very specific person, here referred to as the horn of Now, you know, how many of you in your recent praise of the Lord said, Lord, I praise you with the horn of salvation? Not very familiar language to you, is it? Well, what does he mean when he speaks of Jesus as the horn of salvation? He means that Jesus is a very personal and powerful Savior. And you see this by the words and the phrases that are used in verses 68 and 69. So let's look at those to see through these five things to mention Three matters of his being personal, three of his being powerful, that hopefully will help us as we begin to think about this Advent season to refocus our gaze upon the Lord Jesus. To love him more, to trust him more, to increase our affections for him and our confidence in him. That's my purpose. We're simply to see Jesus. this morning. First of all, notice that he came then as a personal Savior. You see that through two things that Zechariah says. First of all, it says he came and You notice verse 68. Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has come and has redeemed his people. He has come. The amazing thing is that God himself has come. That's what Zechariah is saying. God has come for his people. And it says, you know, the NIV says he has come and redeemed. Remember how the old King James used to say it? Anybody still remember the King James enough? It says, He has visited and redeemed his people. Now that word visited maybe not one that we would use, like we'd say, comp, but there's a a point to visit that you miss in comp. The word that's used here, the Greek word, doesn't simply mean that that God came. You know, he was there and he came here. It means That it was a word that was used in the Old Testament to refer to God coming in dramatic power for salvation or judgment when Sarah and Abraham had no children. And God came to give to Sarah a child. The Bible says that God visited Sarah and gave her a child. Well, when God came to the Israelites, in Egypt. It says that God visited his people and redeemed them from Egypt. When it speaks about God coming to Pharaoh and Egypt with the plagues, it says God visited Visited Egypt with the plagues. The idea is that God's coming in dramatic personal performance of power, either for salvation or or for judgment. And so Zechariah is using a kind of a technical term here that says, God is coming on the scene. Emmanuel, God with us. God's very presence is going to be with us. this here. God is going to come to do something dramatic. Okay, I think we tend often to de-personalize salvation. You kind of think that salvation by faith is some sort of a principle by which you get salvation by faith, kind of like you get money from a Mac machine. You know, there's certain things you do and it kind of works, and you get salvation. But the fact that God Himself, Jesus, God Himself has come for you. For me is often lost on us. And I wonder if that isn't because to think of God personally coming, He has come. He has brought Himself on the scene in power. It's kind of threatening to us. It sort of invades our space. It requires a response. It's easier to speak of salvation for the Christian life than to talk about our love for Jesus, isn't it? To think of him as a person who has come. Him or me. That invades my heart and requires a response of affection, a response to him as a person that many times I think we'd rather But you see, the Bible is very clear that Jesus came and he came for a purpose. You see there in verse 68. He's come. To redeem me. He came to redeem his people. So the second thing is that he accomplished my redemption. He accomplished my redemption. Notice two things about that. First of all, he accomplished your redemption. He didn't simply make it possible possible. Jesus didn't simply make it possible for everybody to be saved by dying on the cross. The Bible's much more specific and powerful. It says He acted He has come and has redeemed his people. See, it's not that he just made you possible for you to decide what whether to accept it or not. you The Bible says in fact that what the picture of our salvation is not that you and I are drowning in a river or a lake, and that That we call out for help and that Jesus is standing on the shore and throws you a life preserver and you say, Looks like a good deal to me, I'll grab it, and you take it. Rather, the Bible presents us More like Lazarus. Corpses in a tomb. And Jesus comes to that tomb and he calls as he did to Lazarus. Lazarus come forth. Bob come forth. Lisa come forth. Out of death to life. So his redemption is not only toward God in satisfying his joy. Justice, but it's toward you to effect faith in your life. So that involved in that redemption is the application of that faith to your life. Now that's a powerful thing for us to realize, but you see, it's it's emphasized by what he says in that verse. You notice how he s how he ends it. Redeemed his people. See, he didn't redeem everybody. It doesn't say he redeemed everybody to have a chance. Not all people. His people have a chance There's a very specific group of people that Jesus has redeemed. They're called His people. Salvation was for them. It's not just something that at Christmas time we celebrate That isn't it nice? God's come into the world and now we have life in some vague general sort of way. Even more so. It does not mean that salvation isn't offered to all people. Salvation is of course accomplished only for God's elect, his own people, but we don't know who those are. And sometimes they're very unlikely people. The person on your block that you may think the least likely to come to Christ. So that's the clearly that's not one of Jesus' people. He's not one of the elect. I can tell you no interest in him for salvation. And then God goes and turns the tables on us and brings exactly that person through all the rough spots and the weakness of our witness to trust. Return to Jesus. So I'm not saying that salvation is not offered to the most unlikely people, to anyone. But again, it's not offered Not as if it just offered, and then we respond to do our part. What made you different? To respond to Jesus from your neighbor. Or from your friend who's continued to resist Jesus and to reject him. It's not that you're cleverer, more spiritually inclined. It's the fact that Jesus has redeemed you as his person. And we pray for those others that we see now that are outside the kingdom that they are in fact those who will be But let's not water down the gospel by making it a possibility for everybody as if somehow the ball's now in their court, on their own court. Autonomy to respond. Verse 68 says that praise be to the Lord the God of Israel because he has come. He has come on the scene in power. And he has redeemed his people. Let me ask before I go on to the next point, does that include me? Are you one of his people? When you look at that, does your heart say, Praise be to the Lord? Whatever the other problems I have in my life right now, praise be to the Lord. God of Israel, because He's come and He has redeemed me. I'm part of that band. I'm part of those that He's come to accomplish redemption for. If you have doubts, if you wonder about that, don't for a moment say, well, you know, maybe I'm not one of his people who can tell That's a compound. The offer of Jesus Christ is presented to you in all his power right now. And it's for you by the power of his spirit to flee to him to seek you. And so if you're wondering, and you say, I need some help on this, to understand. I I I'm wondering about this in my own life. Then I'd suggest take that gray slip that you see in the little bulletin that you have there, the yellow sheets. And on the back there, there's prayer requests, there's some lines for remarks just put in there that you'd like to talk and I'll get in touch with you and we'll pursue this to make sure that you can say I know that Jesus has come To redeem me. I am part of his people. He's come not only personally, but he's come powerfully. He's a powerful redeemer. You see that in verse 69. You notice he says he's come and he's redeemed his people, and he's raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. Now what Why in the world does Zechariah call Jesus a horn? It's just not something we think about. Why a horn? A horn in that culture was a symbol of Tower. When they spoke of a horn, they thought of oxen and their horns, or bulls with their horns, or rams with their horns. And if you had ever seen, as they had seen in their culture, someone gored by a bull, you'd understand those horns are something to respect. Daniel chapter 8 describes The conquering Alexander the Great, who swept through the entire known world at that time, crushing all before him. And he describes Alexander the Great as a ram with a horn, in which he's bashing everything left and right with the power of his horn to slay and to conquer. That's the notion of a horn that you have here. So Zechariah is saying, there's coming a horn here. A horn that's going to defeat all of the enemies of God's people, this horn from the house of David is going to be the final conqueror. In fact, he's going to be so successful, this conqueror is so sovereign in his power. That he speaks of his salvation in the past tense. Notice on the back side of your bulletin outline. It's spoken in the past tense before Jesus was even born. Notice that verse 69. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us. He has come. He has redeemed his people. Read that, that hadn't happened yet? Why does he put it in the past tense? It's a habit of the prophets in the Bible in order to emphasize that it's so sure that it's as if it had already occurred in God's mind. You and I can't say what we're going to do tomorrow with any kind of certainty. But God says, I have defeated the kingdom of Satan. as if it is already done. And if Zechariah could say that about the birth of Jesus and the work that he would accomplish and his death and resurrection, then it's just as sure that That kingdom will come, and that you who have trusted Jesus will be included in that, and you will be in heaven, and your sin will be eradicated, and Jesus will triumph in the end. Take heart, brother and sister. Nothing can keep it from happening. It's as good as if it's in the past tense. He has come. He has redeemed. He has raised up the horn. He will conquer in his power. But then notice the final thing. That power is displayed in weakness. Now, this is the thing that really gets me excited about this text. Notice horns were a symbol of power. Back in Ahaz's day, the kings of the Old Testament, there was a prophet who constructed iron horns, and he says, with these horns you're going to gore the Arameans. Horns were used in battle. They were used as a symbol of conquering and death and defeat. But particularly the idea of power. You couldn't stand before a horn coming at you. But the horns were used in another place in the Old Testament. Turn to Exodus chapter 27. In Exodus chapter 27 You have the instructions for building the altar for the sacrifices for sin and for commitment in the temple. Moses says, Exodus 27, verse 1, build an altar of acacia wood, three cubits, about four and a half feet high. Just to be square, five cubits long, five cubits wide, about seven and a half feet long and wide. Make a horn at each of the The four corners, so that the horns and the altar are of one piece, and overlay the altar with bronze. And because you may not be familiar with quite how that looks, I've taken from the NIV study bible uh the picture that they have. And so you see that they're right in your bulletin outline. Now you notice those four protuberances there on the corner That is what the altar looked like. And you can see the body of the calf or of the lamb or whatever, the bull, was placed in that. You see it's kind of a grate there. There would be a fire under that, and that would be would consume the sacrifice. But why in the world those four horns on the four corners? Why the horns? Well you look at Exodus chapter 29, and you see how the sacrifice was made. In chapter 29, he says in verse um ten. Bring the bull to the front of the tent of meeting. Aaron and his son shall lay their hands on its head. That's to identify with it. So you confess your sin, they lay their hands on the head, your sins Transfer it to this bull, slaughter it in the Lord's presence at the entrance of the tent of meeting, take some of the bull's blood and put it where? Put it on the horns of the altar with your finger, and pour out the rest of it at the base of the altar. The blood was specifically to be spread Sprinkled on the horns of the altar. When that one most sacred day in Israel's history, one day a year when The sacrifice of atonement was made by the high priest for all the people. What was done with the blood of that lamb to atone for Israel? In chapter 30, verse 10, you read. Once a year Aaron shall make atonement on its horns. On the horns horns of the altar. Why? Because clearly God is saying through this picture, there is power. In the blood. It is the blood that is the power of the sacrifice. It is in the this point where the victim that is being offered seems to be most powerless. What is more powerless than a ram or a calf that has been bound so it can't move and then has its throat cut? And its blood sprinkled on the horn. Absolutely powerless. God says, don't be deceived. It is in that sacrifice that my power He's displayed. And so Jesus comes. And he resists Satan's temptations to bow before him and to turn From his father at every step through his ministry. But then Satan maneuvers among the high priests and he gets Jesus to be placed upon a cross. And there he is, nailed, absolutely helpless and powerless. And Satan glories in his victory. He has Jesus now, the Son of God, exactly where he wants him. Here's the end of God's kingdom. Here's the end of his Messiah. He's being crucified as a crucified. common criminal. And that's the end of all the prophecies and the hopes. It reminds me of a story that I once read. About persecution in China. Some years ago, recently , the Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution were torturing And humiliating Christians, and they took this one Christian. They took him out of his house. And they hung a sign on him. The sign said right on the front, so-and-so is so- And then they mocked him and they laughed him and they drove him down the street. They scoffed. This is an example of a Christian. The Christian's heart said he felt like it would break. Lord, how can I endure this humiliation? How can I endure understanding all that this rejection means? And I'm glad to suffer for you, but Lord, this hurts so much. Talk about losing faith. faced within the Chinese culture, the greatest humiliation. And then one of the guards had an idea. He said, he's not suffering enough. I have a better idea. Let's change the sign. And instead of putting his name on it, we'll say, Jesus Christ is a bastard. And so they took that sign and they hung it around his And he said the pain that I felt before was nothing to what I felt wearing design That my Lord Jesus was past me. And when I felt like my heart would break, all of a sudden he said, I felt God's presence. And the Lord was with me. And I felt that the Lord Himself was bearing the shame, not me. Then He says, I realized. But it was true. Jesus had borne that son. Jesus had borne all the shame and the humiliation and the Degradation possible. It's the Son of God for me. When you and I hear about a sign like that, we say, no, no, no, that's terrible. I can't stand to hear that. But what did it mean for Jesus to be crucified as a common criminal in utter distance? But just at that moment, when Satan thought he had had his victory, Jesus cried out, It is finished. And three days later walked out of the temple. Showing by that that there is power in the blood. The power of his sacrifice was the fact that it was very in the very death that he died for you and me that he established his kingdom and won the greatest victory. Satan himself was defeated when Jesus established that kingdom and called you and me personally into that temple. But our world today says the same thing, doesn't it? It says that the gospel is foolishness. Christianity is weakness. And we're tempted. Perhaps you were tempted when I said, say to one of your friends or co-workers, what do you think of salvation? You think, no, that'd be embarrassing. Embarrassing, I couldn't do that. Let's face it, we're embarrassed for Jesus, aren't we? We're ashamed so often of the gospel. God wants to remind you and me this morning that Jesus is the Horn of Salvation. He's the powerful Savior who's going to conquer and all will stand before him and kneel and prostrate themselves before his Sovereignty. Declare that he is King of kings and Lord of Lords. What about you this morning? Do you glory in the fact that Jesus is your Horn of salvation who has accomplished your redemption a hundred percent for you. That is your personal safety. The one who has come in his power, not simply for anyone who believes, but for you in particular. To bring you back By the power of his blood shed on the cross , have your sins forgiven, your life transformed, your hope of heaven. Let's pray. Lord, we want to come before you this morning and have you Refocus our gaze upon Jesus. We confess to you, Lord , that we have bought into so much of the things of our culture, that Christianity is kind of foolish and kind of weak. We have not been a people who have gloried in speaking of our Our love culture. for you as our sin. Lord, how ashamed we are to think of how we avoid speaking about you. And our division Devotion to you, our affections for you. Lord, how much have we even this past week simply said to you, Lord, Jesus, I love you because you've come and you have rejoiced And when Satan thought that he could defeat you, there was power in your blood, and it was through that blood you established your kingdom, and you have risen and you've called me to yourself as your child. Lord, rekindle our affections for you again. Help us that through this song of Zechariah we too might have our hearts sing. Sing so that we not only declare our praise to you with the devotion and the adoration of our hearts. But during this season we are not ashamed to speak of you as our hope. And to talk about the wonderful thing you've done for us. And if there's someone here, Lord, who is not convinced of that. Does not have the assurance of that. Work in their heart that they would be miserable until that is clinched. Until they are sure. They can say with all the believers, you have come and have redeemed me. one of your people. Thank you for taking our seats through the power of your blood. And transcend Transforming us and giving to us the hope of heaven enable us this week to live in the light of that hope in Jesus.