For years of Christmas time, I've done a study of Luke chapter one and two and Matthew chapter one and two in my own diversions. During those years I've discovered a number of script trees that I think they often overlook and bypass the Christmas time because of focusing on the birth narrative itself. So I determined to take a look at Luke chapter one and two with you over a period of many years and to look at it verse by verse. This is the third year that we've been doing that and we're up now to Luke chapter 1, verse 8 to 17. In those verses, 8 to 17 There are two particular insights that I want to call our attention to. One is the matter of prayer, and the second is the matter of revival. We'll be looking at prayer this week and revival next week. Let's look at the scripture then, God's Word, from Luke chapter 1. Follow along as I read from Luke chapter one, verses one to twenty-five Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us, just as they were handed down to us by those who were from the first eyewitnesses and servants of the word. Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, it seemed good also to me to write an orderly account to you, most excellent theophilus. So that you may know the certainty of the things that you have been taught. In the time of Herod, King of Judea, there was a priest named Zatariah. who belonged to the priestly division of Abaija. His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. Both of them were upright in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commandments and regulations blameless. But they had no children. Because Elizabeth was down. And they were both well along in years. Once when Zachariah's division was on duty, When he was serving as priest before God, he was chosen by lot, according to the custom of the priesthood, to go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense And when the time came for the burning of incense, all the assembled worshippers were praying outside. Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense. When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped with fear. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zapariah. Your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are going to give him the name John. He will be enjoyed and be mighty, and money will rejoice because of his grace, and we will be grave in the sight of the Lord. It is never to take long for other cemented since. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from birth. Many of the people of Israel will be bring back to the Lord their God. And we will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and to disobedience to the wisdom of the righteousness Can I be ready? A people prepared for the Lord. That's why I asked Mango. How can I be good? I'm an old man and my wife is well along in you. The angel answers, I am dangerous. I stand in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and to tell you this good news. Now you will be silent and not able to speak until the days that happens, because you did not believe my words, which will come through at their proper time. Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zechariah and wondered why he stayed so long in the temple. When he came out he did not speak to them. They realized he had seen a vision in the temple. We kept making signs to them, but remained unable to speak. When his time of service was completed, he became calm. After this, his wife Elizabeth became pregnant, and for five months remained in such. The Lord has done this for me, she said. In these days he has shown his favor and taken away my disgrace. From among the people. So far, the Holy Word of God. Now let's give our attention to consider its meaning to our lives. It is the time of the daily morning sacrifice. With the great, massive temple gates slowly swung open, the threefold blast of the silver trumpets awakened holy Jerusalem to one more day. And perhaps look for the thoughts of most, even if but for a moment, with some holier aspirations as they recall the promises of God as a holiness. And the clarion called those trumpets to his worship. The time was a fall morning in 6 BC Three hundred and fifty years have passed since God had last spoken to his people through Ezra, Nehemiah, and Malachi. Years of great turmoil, of bloodshed, of civil war, of oppression, and yet years in which the hope for the fire to come and deliver Israel Still blurred in the hearts of many of his people there. When would Messiah come? Long before these trumpets had signaled the call to working, The priests had been working. They had been preparing for some time now for the morning sacrifice. Zachariah, an old priest from the hill country of Judea, was one of those in that company this morning that morning, because he was of the division of Obizah, as we read in verse 5. Now there were twenty-four priestly divisions to serve in the temple, and each one served one week at a time. And in this particular morning of this particular week, Abijah division was in service. And so Zechariah was there. We read in verse nine that he was chosen, this is Zachariah, by light, according to the custom of the priesthood, to go into the temple of the Lord. And to burn incense. Now in the morning sacrifice there were four lots that were drawn A sort of like casting dice, in order to determine who would be the person chosen for the sacred functions related to the offering of the morning sacrifice The first lot determined which person would cleanse the altar and prepare the fire. The second lot was thrown to determine who would yet to slay the land. and then would sprinkle the blood on the horns of that great altar of burnt sacrifice, a burnt offering, and then pour the rest of the blood around the base o round the base of that altar. This person would then also get to cleanse the candlestick and the altar of incense. The third lot was the most sacred of all. In fact, the third lot that was drawn for the morning sacrifice was so sacred that you could only draw that lot once in your entire lifestyle. If a priest ever drove through that lot, he was forever after called blessed and rich in Israel. And he was never again eligible to draw that third line. What was so special about this third lot? The person who drew that third lot was the one who was chosen to go into the holy place and to offer incense, symbolizing the prayer of Israel, upon that great altar of incense before the very veil that separated the holy place from the holier things. where God's Ark of the Covenant had been, and where God Himself said His name to dwell. And so every priest long that served Lot. The fourth lot determined who would lay the lamb on the altar of burnt offering, offered the meat offering and the drink offering. Now the time has come for the drawing of this second third moss. And Zaphariah is one of the priests who's gathered around with the priests in an air of suspense. Are about to draw that line. Let's take a look at Zechariah for just a moment before that third lodge law. For we see in this Zechariah an example Upon answered prayer. That riah, you see, we know, had at least three longings and prayers in his life, among all the others that we don't know. We know, first of all, that Zechariah longed for the coming of Messiah. That he longed for that promised Messiah that the prophets had spoken of to come and to deliver Israel. But beyond that longing which he shared with all the pious of Israel, Zechariah also had two personal wings, two prayers that he had prayed for many years in his life. One, he said he would be chosen to draw that lot of offering influence. Zacharias had never been chosen to do that. And though this old man had served safely for many years, God had never allowed him to be fixed or dishonest. And he doesn't have many more years left You wonder what went through his mind as he saw younger piece. And we know from the times readings of the writers that wrote about the religious uh atmosphere of that time that there must have been many slippant, insincere priests who would have desired that lot for nothing more than to show off that they had been chosen. He must have changed that variety, and he saw, time after time, the lot wrong, and his name bypassed for others who perhaps cared much less for the Lord in their hearts. Why not? All these years God had not allowed him to be kicked on the moment that I kissed so much The second one that Zachariah had inserted it was that of a prior. As they lived in a culture that treasures children. He saw that to not have children were a disgrace, as we read in verse 28. That Elizabeth was a woman disgraced. Because they had no children, how far different from the way that is used today. But Elizabeth low the children. And Veteran low the children. Now they were too old to have any children. Once again, goddamn, seemingly indifferent to their prayers. All these years expanded their time. And all they could do was to care for the children of others and make power of their own. But now What about you? You identify exactly all you. Is there something in your own life? Some hope, some vision, some longing that you've had that God has seen indifferent to. Something that's been unfulfilled, perhaps your hopes even dash in that area. Bill Gothers speaks of a pattern that God often carries out in the lives of his people. The pattern of what he calls the death of a visit. Where God will give a person a vision of a ministry, of something to do, in service for Him. And then having gained that vision, we seek to carry out that vision, but oftentimes in our own strength. We're thinking to do it on our own for the Lord. And so the Lord has to reduce us to a clean clean sense of our own helplessness. We have to bring about what Darby calls the death from a leader. Where we reduce the utter helplessness in knowing that only the Lord can bring that about. You see, they God had anointed him to be the king of Israel. And instead of setting upon the throne, the one who should be there, for over ten years David was hunted by Saul like a wild animal, persecuted, driven about homeless. in the hills of Judea and even in foreign territory of the Philistines. And on one case, after ten years of wandering about The David is disappointed in an excursion that he sets out to accomplish. He comes back to his home in Ziklag, where there's a camp there, and he finds all of Ziklag in flames. But the whole camp has been routed by the Amalekites and they destroyed everything and burned what they couldn't take. And David's two eyes are missing. Have they been raped, have they been killed, have they been burned? No one knows what's happened. And not only that is it, that's not bad enough for David, the people now want to stone him because they blame his poor leadership for all of this. And so here he is, the one he's been chosen to be a noise of God. He's waited all these years for God to vindicate himself. And now his wives are gone. Everything that he's had has been burned and his people are ready to change. And the Bible tells us that David strengthened himself in the Lord. And with only David But he recovered his life and all that had been taken. Saul was killed, and David was safe on the ground. Not David from the lowest point in his life. William King was a man who had a reason for going out and taking the gospel to Asia. And he fought against tremendous odds in order to be able to even get enough support to be able to go out to India and set up a base in Sarenta. And so he goes out there and he seeks to make it known the claims of Jesus Christ to the people in India and use that as a base of operations. And no one shows any interest for you For years, not a single convert to Jesus Christ. And Harry sets up a translation work, and two others join with him. And they seek to translate the Bible into a number of languages. And after six years of working on this in one evening, in 18 cells, everything that Carrie had burned in a senseless fire and was reduced to a Over six years of work, burn, talk about the death of the deal, belong to serve the Lord, to pray and ask for God's blessing. And all is up in smoke and tingle. And William Perry Aphrodite Spears wrote, The Lord has laid me long, that I might more simply look to him. And look to him he did. So that by the end of his life the Lord had enabled William Carey and those that worked with him to translate the entire Bible into 19 languages And parts of the Bible into 27 other languages. And the first fruits of a tremendous harvest of people who had come to Jesus Christ in that area of the world had begun to come in. Cory Ken Boom had a reason for a ministry among Jews and not rejoining. And for all her prayers and her works begin the enrollment into a concentration point. And she and her sisters were placed there to die. She watched her sisters suffer, watched them be cruelly treated until her sister finally was two And Corey Peng thought that this was the end of all of her ministry. But God brought about a miraculous delivery. from that concentration camp and brought about from that small ministry that he expected a worldwide ministry that continued to this day. Nothing would be What is it that you have longed for, for the Lord to do in your life? Some deliverance from a particular trial or circumstance which laid heavy upon you Do you pray to the Lord for us about this matter? It doesn't seem to occur. And you've all but given up praying with acceptant faith to him about that matter. Well let's come back now to Zachariah standing there waiting for the lot to be blown. If the lot is blown, we read in the Bible on this particular morning. Zachariais, please. Zatariah was chosen by lot according to the custom of the priesthood to go into the temple and to burn incense. So the immediate thing that Zachariah had to do was to see two special friends of him to accompany him to this very special prison. The first friend would go into the holy place and he would remove the office from off the altar of incense from the previous evening. He would worship and be followed. The second friend would come in and he would place live coal taken from off of the altar, a burnt offering outside, bring them into the holy place and lay them scattered around very carefully from edge to edge. of the altar and burnt off of the altar of incense. And he too worshiped to his heart. But then Zachariah would go in to the holy place alone. A windowless room lit only by the stream of the seven-branched candlestick, having only three articles of pharmacy in it. To the right of Zechariah was the table of sobred, the dread of the second. To the left of him was the seven-bread candlestick, shedding its golden glow over that room. And before him stood that giant altar of instance, right before the very great veil that separated him from the holy of holies. Zechariah would go into that room and in the signal given everyone to depart and they would all go outside. And Zechariah would be charged to go in and place that incense under altars. Wait for it to kindle, and then to retire. Read in verse 10. When the time for the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshippers were praying out on the The people were outside praying. The Zachariah offers on the inside the symbol of their prayer, going up to God Now I'm not going to claim to you that this is a command of scriptures to have a morning quiet time. But I don't think it's insignificant That in Israel's worship, the most special time of the day when God's people assembled to pray and to worship was at the morning sacrifice. It was as that morning incense was laid on the altar and plastered its way up to God as a sweet-smelling favor of incense. That the people we leave were outside assembled in first. Not all the people of Israel, but representatives of them, indicating that all the people of God were together at that time To bow before him in worship and in prayer. Can you do this? Does God have for you and for me in the morning A sweet-smelling favor of our prayers going up to him at the beginning of our day, a time of worship, a time of prayer, to consecrate the day to him, to begin that day. This is the pattern that we see that in humans of a picture of the old Western And a pattern which I think is instructor when our own practice is working. Black Eyes here, he comes and lays some incense on the altar and he's waiting now for it to come. He's waiting for it'll kindle and then worship to worship and a leave. But wait. Just before he's about to leave, he sees something appearing at the right side of the altar, there beside the table of children. It's an angel from the very glory of the Lord. We read in verse eleven and twelve, but then an angel of the Lord appears to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense. When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped with fear. Do you know what fear is the Lord is? Imagine what it would be like to see an angel in the very presence of God standing at the altar there with that variety. A friend of mine, a very dear friend, that came to visit from Syracuse just recently. And he said, Al, recently the Lord woke me up at came to three o'clock in the morning, and I was driven to pray. And I got my Bible and I got down on my knees and I began to pray, pray for my family, pray for direction in our lives. And I began to seek the Lord as I had rarely sought him before He said as I began to pray, I began to claim some of the promises of God and talk about his character. Lord, you're the one who said that let there be light, and there was light You're the one who called the world into being. You're the one that spoke to Moses on the mountain. Lord, you're the one who enabled Moses to become bold before you and ask for you to show him your glory Lord, I want you to kill me in a special way your glory now. So my friend began to go on and He was getting bolder and bolder and asking the Lord to show him a special manifestation of the glory right there in that room that morning. And then he said, Ah, you know what happened But all of a sudden it occurs me. What if God answered that? What would happen? And he said, all of a sudden, he said I'd began to become more serious than I had ever been in my life. And began to think, what it would be like if the holy God of all the universe filled me with glory and with glory He said, I always said I began to realize how great our understanding of the fear of the Lord is. He said I began to pray with a greater fear and awe and reverence to God than I had ever had in my life. And recognizing that he is the brief and awesome God with whom we have to be. Sacha had a glimpse of that in the holy thing. Do you and I have a sense of being gripped with a fear? Do we come into the very presence of God The worshiping here Sunday morning. If we open our Bibles at our own quiet time to seek His faith, know that we are speaking for the very God who's made us Dr. I was right and new to the field that many of us need to learn in order that we might keep more humbly and more intimately to the God whose neighbors involved. World upon the cease to that arise, and we see the second place. Fair Verse 13. The angel says to them, Don't be afraid, Zachariah. Whenever God shows himself to man in the entire Bible, the very first words that always are uttered are. Don't be afraid, for it's only natural, natural, to be ripped and appeared before the Holy God. Don't be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayers can heard Of course. How could he have doubted it? And all those fears that that Mariah had, all those doubts for all the years did God ever hear me in a single instant in time about Of course my prayer has been heard. How could I have doubted it to an instant? What about you? You say, Oh, if I could only have an angel come to me. And all these things have I've been asking the Lord for it. And if you can only just come to me this afternoon, and tomorrow morning in my quiet time, and Gabriel could say to me Your prayers have been heard. Why that'd be a comfort. But I want to say to you, on the basis of the Word of God this morning, with all conviction and all assurance Your prayers have been heard. The same way that Zacharias had been heard, the same God has heard your prayers and my prayers offered in the name of Jesus Christ. Your prayers have been heard. How did it work out with that right? Well notice how it goes on. Your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. And you are to give him the name John. You know what John means? Jehovah is gracious. The angel is saying, Satchari, Lord can wear grace. He prayed his prayer. And in his grace he's given you a son, God. The Lord, his grace. But he will be enjoyed with the lights of you, and many will rejoice because of his death. To break the crown for three hundred and fifty years. The very first words of the New Testament are these words If many good reasons and offered the background, your prayers have been heard. I pray comfortably But I want to notice with you one more thing about this passage. Discover something of the ways of the news. You can use this in very special. Notice it Notice how God answers prayer. He doesn't answer it as Zechariah asks it. He doesn't answer it barely. He answers prayer super abundantly. And so if the third if the first point was prayer unanswered, and the second point was prayer answered, the third point is prayer superanswer. You know what Paul says in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all that we can ask to imagine. According to his power that work within us, to him be the glory in the church and in Jesus Christ throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. God never does anything dangerous. He never just is able to quite pull it off so that he meets the minimal sin. The Lord does things according to his nature. Wonders. And so he doesn't simply give to him a gift This from John is a joy and great in the sight of the Lord and has a great and joyful ministry. Lord, thank you for my praise. The both awesome and people abundant only must be. You know the the kind of fun that he got Verse 14, this one's going to be a joy. She's going to be a joy and a delight to you. In fact, not just to you, the angel says. But in fact, many are going to rejoice at his verse. He's going to be great in the sight of the Lord. Notice verse 15. He'll be great in the sight of the Lord. And notice two things about that. He's never to take wine or other from any drink. That's the indication that he's going to be wholly consecrated to the Lord. An asorite vow. Of complete concentrate concentration to God with all his life and ministries. How about as you and I not only to receive the promise of God that He will give to us our son and a daughter, but that we would receive the promise in addition to that. That our son and daughter would be wholly consecrated to Lord. But they're in parallel. All the things that husbands and wives teach to appeal to their lives And so many of them turn to ask us, in spite of children, to go away from Jesus Christ, who have no interest in following the Lord to say But here's a promise. This one's going to be wholly consecrated to me. In fact, he's going to be filled with the spirit right from the womb on. Now there's a child for him. From the day of his birth, he's going to be filled with a spirit. In fact, Luke goes on to tell us, even while he's still in the wall, he's praising God. That's the super abundance of mercy that God gives. Exactly from the Lucas' prayer. But he's going to have a great and unusual and joyful ministry. He's going to lead a revival. He things exactly like, this son's gonna turn the whole nation back to God. Now there's a promise for you. Look at verse 16. Many of the people of Israel will bring black to the Lord their God And he'll go on before the Lord in the spirit and the power of Eliza to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children and the disobedience of the wisdom of the righteous. Then finally secondly there's to make a ready of people proclaim for the Lord. Not only to go and believe it in the Bible But this one has been chosen to be the forerunner of Messiah, to prepare his people for him, for his own coming. Now is that an answer to prayer? Or is that an answer to prayer? Well, I want you to see from that, not that you and I should expect to have answers to prayer on the level of that reliance in every case. But that it's the same God who hears your prayers and my prayers and our longings and answers according to that same character of love and generosity. Because the forerunner, John, who came for the Messiah, came to declare the one who said to you and to me Whatever you are, in my name I will do it. Lord Jesus, please And he suffered the penalty that you and I deserved that separated us so that we couldn't call on God for anything. And he suffered and he died. So that you and I could be reconciled to that God, forgiven and pardoned, and brought to him, to be able to lay before him our petitions and our requests to pray in Jesus' name. This Jesus said, You ask anything in my name, and I'll do it, because I've loved you. And I've laid down my life for you. I've died that you might come and call my Father, your Father. He didn't just say, I will answer that prayer tomorrow. Zachariah prayed for you. He didn't say I'll pray answer that prayer just the way you prayed it He said, in my name, and it may take a refining process for you and for me to learn how to pray in his name. We may change our minds about what we're to be praying about It is the same God who heard that lie, who hears he or me doesn't call upon us But until you come to know him, the only thing that you can plan is Lord be merciful to me with sin. Lord, be merciful to me who have broken your law, and who have no hope of your hearing me about anything until I get right with you, based on the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And if you're outside of him this morning, I urge you to pray that prayer as the foundation of all truth But if you're in Jesus Christ this morning, what is it I ask you that almost dies in your own longings and aspirations? What have you been praying for? You see on the back of your bulletin there, the application. What have you prayed for so long that your reason is just about died? I want to declare to you an example of this story that we have before us. God's delay in your life is very perfect for you. He's not the priestess in when he answers prayers. He isn't holding you off because he's doing other things and he's busy right now. And if you just want to wait for a while, he'll get around to you. God has a definite purpose in the divine in answering your prayer. Notice from this story Some of God's purposes. Number one, notice the beautiful timing of his good gifts. Why was it the Zachariah's prayer concerning incense, the offering of incense? That longing of every priest wasn't answered for so long. Because God's got a very special way of giving us. So many things he could give us, just sort of in a matter of course, it is hard to even notice. And so many things he does give us, and we don't notice But then he saved those special occasions for a sort of a dramatic slance so that we can see and understand his love for us in a very special way. Now who else but the Lord would have thought of preserving the giving of his son to that life and answering that prayer To be the time when Zecharias would be in the holy place here, offering the incense, the symbol of Israel's prayer, so that the angel of God, Gabriel himself, would come and announce to him I'm going to answer that prayer and give you a voice sacrifice, the poor one after God. But God brings those two things together Maybe in your life and my life, he's bringing certain things together and the time isn't right yet for him to present his good distance No the second is that he shows his power when we have come to realize our very complex. You and I are so intense You pray something for six months and you say, Now Lord, I'm that way you give up on this, you know. Six months is long enough Seems like we've been praying for facilities around here for years, doesn't it? You guess how long we've really called for prayer for that? One year. We called for special prayer only in August. And yet to many of us of teams like God's never going to do that. I mean we've been praying for a year for that. Where is the Lord anyway? How long did that lie praise my God? The Lord says your prayer has been heard by Christ. But our prayer for the needs of our congregation has been heard The giving of God's good gifts having come in his time. Maybe he wants to show us a little more of our helplessness so that his power will be magnified more greatly We don't know. But whatever it is that you and I are glad, the important thing is for us to come to that recognition of our helplessness. Roth and that's what the Lord wants to seek us. Before he can give it to them. You know, the third one, that he wants to keep the throwing often takes us to wait on it. The key coming back is still saying, Lord, you haven't given it yet, but I still trust you. You know if the Lord answered all of our prayers within a couple days of when we saved him, we've never learned to exercise faith and trust. There'd be no need for it. But the Lord wants to teach us to exercise what we have an opportunity to exercise only at this point in all existing As I've reminded you before, when the Lord comes and we go to be with him, never again will we exercise faith. You'll have it all in Christ. But right now, we can wait on him, even though we don't see the answer, and honor him by trusting his promise. Finally, there's often unknown factors that will require a delay. John was not to come until six months before the Messiah was to be born And that was in God's grand scheme of things, a particular point in history. And so Zechariah had to wait And God didn't feel that it was necessary for him to consult with Zachariah back when he first married Elizabeth about how long Zachariah might have to wait for that son to come. And God was in control. And he knew that when it all was said and done, Zachariah would understand. There's gonna come a day, brother and sister in Jesus. And your life and my life will all be made clean. There's gonna come a time when we'll see what he superancy wants. These are those things that you so long as we made before us. The question before you and me right now is will you trust him? Will you honor him by persistent in prayer? Until he shows his answer. In his way, we realize. Let's speak to the Lord. Try to do that. responding to him about the things that we keep speaking to us about this morning. Let's take a moment. Lay before him now those longings of your heart. If you don't know the Lord Jesus, the longing to know him. Is it some longing that you've all been given up on? Some prayer that you've often no longer. Confess your doubts And come before him now, being to refresh your face, to remind you of the faithfulness of Agriculture Lord our God, we are such impatient children. We want what we want and we want it now And when we don't get it after we've prayed for a matter of weeks or months, we're ready to move on to something else or maybe to negotiate with you to um pray something that may be a little more likely. Our Lord our God, He should teach us the patience that looks to you and rests only in your promises when we don't see the answers before us. We pray, Lord, that you would minister to your parts this morning. Minister to those who are broken in spirit. Minister to those who long to see you binding yourself in their lives Lord, we pray that you will lift us up to recognize your grace and for me. Thank you for this story of Zechariah and Elizabeth. Thank you for how you answered their prayer and a reminder at least to us of your ways. You are so good and so kind. How could we ever doubt you?