Season we have uh looked at a prophecy concerning Christmas in 2nd Samuel 7. We've looked at some events leading up to Christmas in connecting 2 Samuel 7. with Luke chapter one. And now part on to Christmas Eve, we're going to look at the meaning of Christmas. And I want to look at this meaning of Christmas, not by looking at a passage from Matthew or from Luke, but rather from Paul's perspective on Christmas. A perspective written about 60 years after Christmas happened. Just one single verse from 2 Corinthians chapter 8. One verse from 2 Corinthians 8 verse 9. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. So that you who this poverty might become rich. That's such a rich verse. Let me read it again. Follow. For you learn the grace Of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that you, through his property, poverty might become rich. Now the context of this verse is Paul's appeal for gracious generosity in giving. He's appealing for the Corinthians The graciously give on behalf of the impoverished brothers and sisters that they had living in Jerusalem. And it's in this context that Paul wants to give a motivating example of grace. Now he could have picked those He could have said now you know the grace of Moses, that though he was a prince in Egypt, with all those riches of his command and the status and the power, yet he decided to put all that aside. and to identify with his brothers and sisters who were slaves so that he might lead them out of their slavery. But he didn't pick Moses. He might have picked Nehemiah, that some of you have gotten to know this fall. And he could have said You know the grace of Nehemiah, that though he was a cupbearer to King Artaxerxes in Persia, with all the lavish surroundings that he had and the power that he had there and all that he enjoyed, that uh Nehemiah put all that aside to go to the wasteland of Jerusalem with his brothers and sisters to take charge of building the wall. But he didn't pick Nehemiah. He could have picked himself. He could have said, Well you know I was a Pharisee in a very comfortable position, studied at the best schools. I had a lot of status among my colleagues. But I put all that aside in order to follow Jesus Christ and I became an apostle. of the off scouring of the world, of the dregs of society, being stoned and left for dead, because I wanted to minister to the Church of Jesus Christ. But he didn't pick himself. saying, you want to know about grace? Let me tell you about grace. If you really want to know grace, look at what Jesus did. Though he was rich, he became poor. So This verse breaks very neatly down into three parts. I didn't preach it because it just breaks neatly into three parts. It has something very important to say to it. It just so happens that it breaks neatly into three parts. The first part he was rich. The second part, yet for your sake he became poor. The third part, so that you, through his poverty, might become rich. Rich. How can they understand that it means that Jesus was rich? He was rich. How rich was he? We have some glimpses in Scripture of what heaven was. It's given to us in pictures of ivory palaces, so rich that the very streets are paved with solid gold. The music that's constantly filtering through the atmosphere is the music of angelic choirs. singing praise to the Lord. Every single desire is literally fulfilled in his command. He says simply to speak a word and instantly whatever the Lord Jesus desired was fulfilled for him. It's hard for us to picture that though, isn't it? We don't relate to that a whole lot. Maybe the best way that we can understand what it means that he was rich is to think of the scale of poverty to riches that extends the length of this room. Now let's picture that scale going from that wall to this wall, and pressed against the mirror there in the back is a third-world beggar. A person that has nothing to his name, and just the ragged clothes. On his body, doesn't know where his next meal is coming from, has no home to call his own, sleeps in the streets, has nothing in this world's possessions. At the other end of that scale, against this ball is you and me in our riches. And we are rich. I mean, let's not fool ourselves when we face the bills and all the things that we might like to have at Christmas to think we're not rich. We're rich. Just think of the food that we have to consume. You go to Christmas parties, you find that there's always plenty of food. Food left over. Food taken home in bags sometimes, uh asked Brandon Pat. There were things that were unopened at their party. There's just so much food that we have, the variety of it, the freshness of it, so much food that we don't eat simply for nourishment, but purely for enjoyment. The different kinds of sweets and delicacies. Get your mouth water now, huh? All the different things that you have to enjoy and the things that you'll enjoy today and over the next few days. I mean our problem is not where's our food coming. Our problem is weight control. I mean my wife works a couple of hours a week for Weight Watchers and she tells me, you know, after January the 1st they're going to start rolling in. Because we consume so much that our problem is how can we keep it off? So rich in food are we. But we consider our clothes. We don't worry about just keeping our bodies warm and keeping them clothed. Our concern is for style. Our concern is that uh that dread day when we would be found to be out style, where we would uh wear something that is no longer uh considered to be the style. We don't throw something away because it's just in tattoos. If it hasn't single O or a stain after the good will or the Purple Heart or something like that it goes. Our concern is for labels. Our concern is that if something doesn't look the way it should look, we can discard it. rich we are in clothes. For amusements, television, VCRs, going out to eat, movies, various kinds of entertainments that we have. The vacations, the travel. My uh 10 my order of the content grade tells me that uh so many of her friends are going to Europe for their winter vacation. You know, where it's a pride family. I haven't been to Europe for any vacation, for any reason. But by tenth grade, at least by twelfth grade, you ought to have been abroad at least once, you know. The travel that we do, the cars that we have, not just one profound to all squeeze into, but two so often, and sometimes three, our homes. So that every convenience and comfort that a king would have never known anything about a hundred years ago. The different conveniences that service the services themselves, medical, dental, cultural services. And insurance to cover the whole thing, to make sure that our Afnoid lifestyle is secure. We are rich. And if you consider a scale from that person with nothing in the back, to those of us in the front that look and say, We have so much. Where's Jesus on that scale? Uh Jesus over by the uh long reach Church of God? Is he out by one oh eight? Do we go beyond that and say maybe His riches are at the Chesapeake Bay, or over the earth, or to the moon. The scripture's clear that Jesus' riches are infinitely beyond anything on that scale. Infinity is always infinitely beyond any point on the scale that you can name. And so there is nothing that we could conceive of that Jesus himself with his infinite imagination could conceive of that he couldn't have. His riches. are an infinite riches. You go and see the Grand Canyon and it boggles your mind and you stand there and watch the vastness of it or see it from the air. And he says, Yeah, I put that together in a few spare moments. Like a woodworking project in an evening. The Niagara Falls or the oceans or the mountains. All these things are but just in a spare time to him in what he's put together. He's so rich. And yet the Bible says, For your sake, he became poor. For your sake, he became poor. We're all aware that well does not necessarily make generous hearts. Right does not necessarily make for a caring heart, for an unselfish heart. How many of us know third world students who have come to the United States, who have seen abject poverty about them firsthand, have come to the United States to get an education so that they can go back and serve their fellow countrymen more effectively. Christian students. After the education we say, Well, what are you going to go back to your country to serve? And they say, Well, I think God's calling me to stay in the United States. It's better here. I'm not at all judging the motives of students who would stay. I believe that God would cause some students to stay. We need their impact in our own myth. But I think so often there is the attitude that it's Nice to have become rich, and I'm going to stay rich. But not so, my Lord Jesus. While he was rich, he put aside his riches, willing to become poor for you. Well, I think of the Irish Potato Fantasy of 1845 and the years after that. At that time of life wiped out the potato crop in Ireland. And it wiped it out for several ye Years. Two million Irishmen did not have potatoes to eat and they couldn't afford anything else. And they began to go hungry. There were many possible sources of relief with their suffering. The wealthy landlords had plenty to eat. But in fact, they chased them off their lands. And in many cases, when the families would try to come back and just to um to live in their dwellings, the landlords were Ripped off the thatched roofs of their houses so they could not find shelter there, rather than let them even live on their land. Because they couldn't pay, they were driven off. The British government was appealed to. who was a professor and Christian by the name of Charles Trevalian, was begged to provide help. He was a high official in the British government. And his answer was, if we help him, the whole country will be upon us. They vacationed in France and wrote a book about the famine. Or the Prime Minister, Lord John Russell, Prime Minister of England at that time, was beseeched again and again to stand at the breach and help the Irish, but he refused. Typhus broke out. People died by the hundreds, by the thousands, by the tens of thousands. People died so quickly that they couldn't bury them and the corpses laid in the streets and in the fields and the dogs ate the corpses. And then the people became so hungry that they resorted to cannibalism. Over two million people perished in that band. Hundreds of thousands of others escaped to come to America. At that time, lest they starve to death also. And during the whole time, there was plenty of food in Ireland and the British Isles. During the entire famine, grain and cattle were excellent. Exported from Ireland to countries who would pay. But they refused to give it to their own countrymen because they wanted it for themselves. To this very day, the seeds of the bitterness that were so In the Irish potato famine against the British government are still reaping their humbly harvest. Because we as people, when we are rich, tend to want to stay rich. But not so, my Lord Jesus. Jesus. While he was rich, he gave up his riches so that you and I would know something of his riches. He gave it up for us. I think of the wealthy Philadelphia merchant who during the Civil War was asked why he did not join the army. I quote his reply. He already sent three uncles, two brothers, and thousands of dollars in tax money. And I tell you I stand fully prepared even to send my mother-in-law. He was rich, but he wasn't willing to give it up. And I said, my Lord Jesus. He was rich, but he became poor for you and for me. Why was that? Was it because that he felt guilty? Somehow he felt responsible for your flight, and so he ought to do that? No. Never think that Jesus felt responsible for our sin. That is not why he came. Or was it because he felt guilty that he We had so much and we had so little. So much of that is played on today, isn't it? How can you enjoy it so much and this person has so little? You should feel guilty for that simply because of the discrepancy. Did Jesus feel guilty because of the discrepancy? No way. That had nothing to do with his coming for you and for me. He felt no guilt for what he had. He had a right to every bit of it. It was his. He came for your sake. He came simply out of love for you and for me. Be clear on the motive. The verse here says, for your sake, not for his sake, and what he would get out of it. First thing, he became poor. And then the third part, so that you, through his poverty, would become rich. He became so poor that How poor did he become? He who was infinity, enclosed infinity, in a tiny body. He wrapped eternity in a confining bit of time, and was born in a particular spot, in a particular point of time, in Bethlehem, in Judea, in the Middle East, on planet Earth. Jesus confined himself to space and time. And even according to human standards, he didn't have a decent birth. His parents, as we know, were very poor parents, Mary and Joseph having very little of themselves. His parents were rejected by the innkeeper and others who could have put them up. And a woman about to bear a baby was scorned in her knee. And they were given a stable, the stable itself was a dead cave. There are those caves, those limestone caves in the hills of Bethlehem to this very day. And one of them is designated as the probable cave of Jesus first. It may be the one or it may not. If it wasn't, at least it was a cave very similar to the one that I understand you can visit now. It's a very damp cave, I'm told. Water drifts from the walls. A drift biting wind blows into the cave from the outside, and the smell of manure permeates the entire place. It was not Christmas card clean. Our Christmas cards portray a romantic image of what it was like to be born in this nice sweet hay in a pretty little manger with little halo lights all softly. Glimmering about. It was not like that. It was cold and stinky and damp, with no sense of divine presence seen by halos. It was abject poverty. That's what Jesus was born into, so that you, through his poverty, might become rich. He came, the Son of God, become the Son of Man. So that we, sons of men, could become sons of God. He died so that you could live. He became man so that he would fulfill the law that had to be fulfilled. Fulfilled according to God's covenant. And having fulfilled that law, he laid down his life as though he were the worst sinner on the face of the earth, and suffered all of God's wrath and curse, so that it would be entirely consumed upon. So that you could go free, so that you would not have to suffer for your own sin. That's why Jesus came. That's the meaning of Christmas. That he took hell. So that you and I could have heaven. He took your spiritual poverty so that you could enjoy his spiritual riches. James tells us if you and I who have given our lives to Jesus Christ, are rich in faith to inherit the kingdom. It's his kingdom, all that he has. We read in 2 Corinthians 4, 17, that we are to inherit the eternal weight of his own Glory. You know, I have a friend that's and anybody ever asks him how things are going. He says, Well on the balance they're doing pretty well. And he says, What I mean by that is the Bible tells me that no matter what my troubles here, they're far outweighed by an exceeding weight of glory on a head. In the balance, they're pretty good. And he's right. We have an eternal week of glory ahead of us. Because Jesus gave up that glory in his own poverty. Proverbs 1022 tells us that you and I have an inheritance, inheritance of riches with no trouble. Isn't that beautiful? I love that verse. Riches always bring trouble in this world. The Proverbs tells us that you and I are going to have riches with no trouble with it, because we're going to be the riches of his kingdom. Revelation twenty-one and twenty-two describe in imagery, something of the picture of the glory of that new Jerusalem, in which the There's a spring of the water of life, and there's that forest, that grove of those beautiful fruit trees, the jewels along the walls, the streaks of gold, the pleasures and the water and all of those things, the sensual pleasures and the spiritual. Flesh is to speak to us of the presence of Jesus Christ. You know, Ephesians 1, 18, we've quoted so many times, because of being a part of the essence of what we are as a church, Paul says, I pray. Limites on chapter two, verse seven, to say, not how long it's going to take you to just explore the riches of that inheritance that you have because Jesus became pulled and went to the cross for you. Paul says it's not going to take you a hundred years or a thousand years or a million years. Ephesians 2 7, beautiful verse. Paul says it's going to take you all Ages to come. Just to explore the riches of his grace and his kindness to us in Christ. Ten million years down the line, you'll say, boy, I know much more about how rich and gracious the Lord's been to me than I did ten million years ago. Then another ten million years ago might say, no, I didn't know anything about what it was like ten million years ago. I was just beginning to learn it. Now I'm really getting a grasp on and on and on and on and on. Millennia after millennia. Millions of years by millions of years. Eon after eon. You know, and I think of that in contrast to Christians. You know, you kids Maybe you've got your list made out, and I know every one of you. There's things that you're hoping for and expecting on Christmas. But you know, different families have different customs on how you open gifts. Some families it's sort of you know ready set, go! Looks into the packages, you know. Have a fun, you know, and then in a couple of minutes oh I've seen Vages and he does it just so he gets a wrap off, he's off to the next package. I see it, I've identified it, on to the next one. You know, edit them We take turns. We about that one. We take turns, you go around, you know, so everybody can see and sort of enter in. A little bit of sanity with the thing. But I have to do it. After a few minutes, it's over. many times there's the sense, whether it's the dog or tits, of that all? Is that all? You just waited your wave through ten feet of gift, you know? And you know that stuff took the last September to pick up. You know, he just went through it all and five minutes. And he's like, Is that all? Is anything else? Isn't it wonderful to know that in heaven we'll never say Is that all? Because there will be no end. To the riches that Jesus Christ will have to display for us, purchased for us at the cost of his own life. And we will not have selfish, greedy hearts to consider. Assume it upon ourselves, but we will receive it with joy and thanksgiving. And that's the point of this verse. Don't forget, brothers and sisters, why he gave it. Paul says, I want you to see if we grace of our Lord Jesus. Because I want to free you up from a tight-fisted selfishness to an open-handed generosity. Verse 7, just before this, he says, just as you excel in everything, in faith In speech. You excel in knowledge. You understand the doctrines of grace. You understand these things in complete earnestness and in your lovefulness, then he says. That you also excel in this grace of giving. That's why Paul gave this verse. So that you and I would be free to not to respond to every financial appeal that comes from every Christian organization, you know, every challenge, every opportunity to solve every problem in the world, whether it's in poverty or spiritual poverty, through your check. That's not what this is intended to do. It simply so that you and I might meet a punished and grow this Christmas in the grace of giving. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. But though he was rich, yet for your sakes, he became poor. So that you, you, this morning, through his is poverty might become rich. Have you received that gift? Is it yours this morning? Let's pray. Lord Jesus, how can we begin to understand your riches? How can we begin to understand What is meant for you, who are infinite to wrap yourself into the body of a tiny baby. For you who are eternal to confine yourself to the limits of time. And to be born in a cave in Bethland. Lord Jesus. We can't begin to really understand that. But we do have the sense that that's something that we need to wrap our minds Around. And we do have enough of a sense of in order to know that your love for us was so great, so great, far greater than any love we've ever felt for anyone. That you became poor for us. And you did that, Lord, not not because of any need in yourself that you needed to fulfill fulfill. But you did it totally for our sake. So that we through your poverty Through your obedience to the law, through your death on the cross, might become rich in all the display of the glory of your inheritance and your kingdom. Oh God, for did there would be anyone hearing this now who would remain in their abject spiritual poverty by ignoring this the greatest gift that was ever offered to a human being. Lord help us To not relegate the Christmas story to a fairy tale status. But we might see that this gift of eternal life is genuine and if it's offered to us right now. Lord we pray that everyone And I found their hearts beating with gratitude and love to you because they received that gift. And Lord, if there's anyone's heart down, it's beating with a sense of rejection, despair, refusal to take away. Take a hold of that gift. We pray that you would break that heart, that you would melt that person. That they might not walk out of here in poverty, but in the riches of Jesus Christ. Lord, help us. as your people, to be freed from our tight-fisted selfishness, unto an open-handed generosity, realizing that this is how we can show you our love and our gratitude. Lord, help us to grow in that. Help me to grow in it. Help us each, Lord, this you, to grow in our love for you and express that love by the grace of our giving. Oh, Lord, help us. Because we know this pleasure. In Jesus' name. Amen. One of the things I've really grown in this year working with Al is thinking and reflecting on what God has done for us and his great love in the Lord Jesus Christ. As I've said before, I'm uh more of a doer and let's you know, let's get on with it, let's do, let's take action. And I've really grown in And stopping and looking and reflecting on what Christ had done for us. Like this morning's message, reflecting on Jesus, how yet, even though he was rich, he became poor for us. A way to help us do that this morning, to reflect on that. You know, it's hard for some of especially those of you who are more action people like like me, maybe to to be reflected is hard. So I thought that uh it might help us this morning to use a section from the Westminster Shorter Catechism, which is part of the subordinate standard of our church. subordinate standard. What is the standard for our church? The scripture, the word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice. But in the sixteen hundreds, uh a group of men, many of them in England, wanted to come together to express systematically what the scripture teaches. Because the scripture isn't written systematically. You find about Christ in the Old Testament and the New Testament all through. But in the in the Westminster Confession of Faith and the Catechisms, we find a systematic presentation of what the Bible teaches about uh Christ as well as all the other things that we believe. Uh we say that we are a reformed church in our doctrine because we believe we always reform back to Scripture. We don't go by the traditions of men. Even our catechism, our standards of the church, we always have to critique them under the l in the light of scripture. But I thought that this morning it would be good for us to read this. Now some say it's hard to read it in a responsive sort of read reading, but we tried it last year at Christmas and y'all did great. So I thought we'd do it again. The section that It speaks about us and our fall, that we are sinners, and how in Christ he who became who was rich became poor, and through him we also can become rich. So let's read this together reflectively. It is hard to read responsibly, but I think we'll do well if you follow me and uh look at the commas and we will not read the references from scripture that these portions are taken from the course. Let's confess our faith together from the Westminster Shore of the Catechism. haven't found it already, it's uh an insert in your fullism. Into what estate did the fall bring mankind? The fall brought mankind into a state of sin and misery. What is the misery of that estate? Wherein two man fell. All mankind, by their fall, lost communion of God, are under his wrath and curse, and so made liable to all miseries in this life, to death is Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery? No. God having, out of his mere good pleasure, from all eternity. He led his son to everlasting life. He entered into a covenant of grace to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery, and to bring them into a state of salvation by them. So I ask you, people of God, who is the Redeemer of God's elect? The only Redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ, who, being the eternal Son of God, became man and so was and continued. God and man in two distinct natures and one person according. Well, how did Christ, the Son of God, become man? Christ, the Son of God, became man by Taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul, being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary, and born of her, yet without sin. We've heard about what God has done for us in Christ. We've heard uh it preached from the word, we've confessed it with our mouth. Now let's sing about that with our mouth as we sing a song that we all know that has changed a little bit to reflect the sermon today. Let's sing the Again. So