Recently we uh look in our consideration of God's word at the uh matter of God's adopter and love, he recalled, in sending his own son to satisfy his own wrath against us as sinners. And uh you remember that at that time we saw what God's wrath was. We're going to be looking again at that this evening as a reminder as we come to the Lord's Supper when we consider uh and hear from this evening probably the most famous sermon ever preached, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. It's a marvelous thing to think of what Jesus has done in turning away that wrath. And then last week we saw the inheritance we have is an eternal Inheritance and what it means to have that eternal inheritance, which endures so long that God says that fifteen billion years of the geological span of ages is like the changing of his clothes in comparison. with eternity. And we have so little time to invest in the extension of his kingdom here in this life. And so this morning I want to take a look at what it is that God is doing in extending his kingdom. What it is that he calls us to invest this brief span of years that we have in doing. I want for us to get a global picture of the extension of God's kingdom. I want for us to see this morning that missions is part of the gospel. It's not that you preach the gospel, and then in addition to that there's the Great Commission. So when you understand the gospel, commission is part of that gospel. And God's called for us to be involved in doing that. God has graciously raised up a world missions task force in our congregation in the last weeks and months. And they kind of help us to see that. But I think that sometimes we can look at something like that as kind of a little intrusion on our life. So every time there's another task force raised up, you sort of uh you know it's kind of a mixed blessing. You say, Well, that's really great that we have somebody else that's there to help us to do part of what a church ought to be doing. But of course what that means They're going to be reminding me of some things that as a Christian I need to be doing. And uh, you know, we we're so saturated with advertising messages. You know, the average American receives nearly 800 advertising messages. messages every single day on the average. And there are so many needs that we hear about, so many things that we ought to be responding to. That there's a tendency for us to drill in a kind of a block-out mechanism, you know, whereby we can just hear something and say, I just can't observe anything else that I need to respond to. So I'm just going to block the whole thing out. And by blocking everything out, we begin to shriek our world so that we say, all I can cope with, my family, my job, and the things right around me. In doing that, when we begin to do that in terms of what God's worldwide global purpose is, in extending his kingdom, we began to shut out something that ought not to be shut out. And what I want for us to see this morning is not the negative. You know, you ought to all be more involved in missions. You ought to all be more doing something that you're not doing now. Here's something else I ought to add on to my life. But I want to refresh us, I want to encourage us by seeing what God is doing. In our day. And to see in what he's doing that he's giving us the privilege and the opportunity to be involved in the extension of a kingdom that he is sure to bring to pass. And I think one of the easiest ways to see that in the script. is a passage that's uh I've never heard used in terms of missions, but I think is one of the clearest with regard to. And it's in Matthew chapter 12. So if you haven't already turned to it, please turn to Matthew chapter 12. I want for us to consider similar incident of a conflict between Jesus and the Pharisees is after he had killed a man who was a blind, mute, demon-possessed man. The text I want to consider is from verses 28 to 30. To understand it, let's pick up the uh incident from verse 22. So I will read from God's Word Matthew chapter 12, verses 22 down to verse. 30. Then they brought him a demon-possessed man who was blind and mute. And Jesus healed him so that he could go talk and see. All the people were astonished. And they said, Could this be the son of David? But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, It's only by the L 's above the Prince of Demons that this fellow drives out demons. Jesus knew that And he said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself will be ruined. And every city or household divided against itself to a large stand. If Satan drives out Satan, he's divided against himself. How then can his kingdom stand? And if I drive our dealers dyes of the else about, why don't do you people drive them out? Instead of Baby will be his judges. But if I drive our deal. by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon him. Or again, how can anyone in a strong man help and carry off his possessions unless he first ties up the strong man, then he can rob his house. He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters. And I want for us to consider from these three verses, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, and thirty, the three points you see in your fortune outline. The kingdom has come, verse twenty-eight, the kingdom is established, verse twenty-nine, and the kingdom is extended in verse 3. All along as I seek to open up this text to you. First of all then the kingdom has come in verse 28. Now Theo can argue, Dragon Lar Day, about the question of whether the kingdom of Kenya. And there are some Bible teachers today who will say that the kingdom has not come, it is still going to come, it will not come until Jesus comes again. But it seems to me that this verse is absolutely clear on that matter. Jesus says, if I drive our demons, then it's clear he has just given. mouth of humans, one of many that he's driven out, then he says, the kingdom of God has come. Past tense. Absolutely clear in the Greek. No way to get around. The kingdom of God has come. Jesus has an ask for it. The fact that he has given out demons is a demonstration, an irrefutable demonstration, that the kingdom of God has come. Now why is that true? To appreciate that, why that must be true, we must understand a couple of things. the kingdom of God. First of all, it wants to help us to see the nature of kingdom conflict. The nature of the kingdom conflict. And there are two things we need to see about that. First of all, we need to see that it's a spiritual war is doing the it's a spiritual war. It's the demons versus the spirit of God. Spiritual conflict. That's why there's so much emphasis in the gospel on the casting out of demons. Because the children conflict is a spiritual conflict. God knows says to absolutely clear that the big conflict in history is not the conflict of human powers. It's not the conflict of nations. It's not the conflict of man versus man. It's not the conflict of psychology. It's not simply the conflict of ideas. It's not simply an ethical conflict of good versus evil. The real conflict conflict for the world in history is ultimately a spiritual conflict. You and I are this moment surrounded by spiritual forces. It's kind of spooky when you think about it, but taking away all the girl stories and all the things that have to do with ocultic activity, which give to us a genuine dread, fear, awareness of the spiritual world which exists. The fact remain here and I are surrounded by spiritual To influence. And Jesus raised the purpose of that in his ministry, saying that the ultimate conflict is between the head of the spiritual forces, Satan, whose very name means adversary, and God. God, who is the king, the creator of all spiritual forces, and those who are arrayed with him. And the one who is his chief representative, the Spirit of God who works in Jesus. spiritual conflict that is really. But it's not only a spiritual conflict, and he told us also that it's a cosmic conflict. It's a universal conflict. We're talking about here the ultimate goal. did see every Saturday morning. The universe is constantly in jeopardy. I mean though, three times a week there's somebody's got some scheme to capture the universe. And it's actually there's always some dear guy who can transform himself and to a plane or a you know, uh a tape recorder or anything else you might want to have. And he's gonna come in through as a victor to conquer and save the kingdom to from evil and to do it. So God's word says there is really a conflict conflict going on. That concept conflict was right in the beginning. Because God is the king. God is the king of everything. Yeah, which all those that's the very that the creation story is constructed. Did you ever notice that? But oftentimes people miss is how God is demonstrating it in his order of creation, but that didn't be thrown over everything. Give him notice that the first three days that God created, he created Jon with the light. Day two he created this and the sky. Day three, he created the land. And then what did he create in day four, five, and six? In day four, he created the sun, the moon, and the stars to rule over day one, the light. In day five, Uh uh day five, he created the birds of the air and the fishes of the sea to rule over the sky and over the sea. And in the day six, what did he create? Both man and animal spon the same day. Why? To rule over. And that's day seventh. You see, he can't create the rule of all. And so God says day seventh is my day, in which I rest. God. Because God will Over everything. And so right from the creation, God has established the fact that I am the King and everything is to be subject to me. Man alone of all creatures, consciously, can decide whether to subject himself to me. And he stood here this morning deciding, will you subject yourself to the rule of Jesus that over your life? Or will you resist that? But God has established right from the beginning that He is King. And He's killed not only of Israel's people. He came over all the nations. So it has to make that absolutely clear. Do you remember when Assyria came up to to um surround Jerusalem and to attack it? Hezekiah went into the temple and he laid out before the Lord his prayer. And he begins that prayer in 2 King 18, 15, O Lord, you alone are God over all the kingdoms of the earth. And so God is king. But the Old Testament also has another king getting through it. But where God is king, he also will come to be king. You see this in such passages as Psalm 96 and 98, and many of the prophetic passages we don't have time to turn to this morning. I've listed a number of scriptures this morning. is if you can go home, check out what I'm saying and do a study, particularly using cross references and other things, to see if what I'm what I'm saying is what the Bible teaches. But I believe the Bible teaches absolutely proof that God not only is king, but he's also coming to become king. He will be king. And Psalm 96 and 98 say that the very fields and trees rejoice over the fact that God is coming to rule in righteousness. He's coming to judge the earth. And the Old Testament says two ways in which this kingdom is going to come. It presents it on the one hand as an earthly kingdom. And it presents the king as a son of David. If you remember that just as we gave here in Matthew chapter twelve, when he Could this be the son of David, that earthly, messianic king that we're looking for to rule the train? But the Bible Apostle in the Old Testament presents the kingdom in a lizard way. It presents it as a transcendent kingdom. A kingdom that can't be restricted to anything in this world. But it's a kingdom described in Daniel 7 by the Son of Man who comes in the cloud. Of heaven. At this one comes and all people shall worship him. And his kingdom is a universal kingdom. His kingdom is a kingdom that shall never end. And so this kingdom is perfectly and transcendent. an earthly king and it has a transcendent king of glory. And so when Jesus comes, he comes the last three figures by a prophet, John. And John says, the king is coming. The kingdom is near, it's coming. And Jesus comes on the scene and he says, The kingdom is near in Matthew chapter 4. And now he comes, you see, to bring upon us this tremendous announcement. Kingdom has come. Can you picture what what none of that means for the people to hear that? Here's Jesus comes and there's no new age that's broken. He hasn't come and he hasn't swept the way all easy. He hasn't taken the Romans captive. He hasn't forced everyone to submit to it. But he's coming and he said, the kingdom's here. It is present. It has come. Because I have conquered the demonic powers of this universe. I have exercised my powers. power over them. The kingdom has come. And so that shows us another thing about the kingdom, the timing of the kingdom conquest. Not only the nature of the kingdom conquest, but the timing of the kingdom conquest. It's both present and present. Future. He says the kingdom has come. Absolutely clear it is present because I the king am here. But on the other hand, Jesus teaches us to pray, Thy kingdom come. Deliver us from evil. and better translated, deliver us from the evil zone. We 're still subject to his power. They're still looking for that kingdom to come and to be established and consummated in Christ's own refuted rule over all powers. We're still looking for that. We're still looking for what it was meant in such parables in Matthew 23, verse 24 and in uh other places where it talks about the kingdom to come , the kingdom that will be established in judging. all evil and defeating Satan once for all. So we're still looking for that. But that, you see, is what is what Jesus calls the mystery of the kingdom. Look at this in the parables, he introduces that again and again When he speaks to you about the mystery of the kingdom, what is the mystery? You see the mystery is the fact that God has now established this law, this kingdom, that we've been waiting for, this kingdom, that the prophets that have come in the day of the Lord, the day of Jesus. Judgment, the day of his great power, the end of the world. That kingdom has come, but the end of the world hasn't come. There's still time before that final day of judgment. There's still some time between those times where Jesus has. establish his will and authority and when Jesus will finally finish and wrap up all history and say, Now there is no option. Everyone will bow their knees before me. That's the mystery of the kingdom. But the kingdom has invaded history. It is a weight of the present without bringing that final judgment to pass. And why is that? Because the king is still gathering his subjects. You see, I get ahead of myself if I do that. Not only has the kingdom come, but Jesus has established it. You see that in verse 29. He says again, how can anyone enter the strong man's house and carry off his possessions unless he first ties up the strong man. How can he do that? Then he can rob his house. Luke says that he doesn't strongly. Luke says unless he comes in and attacks and overpowers the strong man, then he can Did you see the picture that Jesus presentates this? He said Satan's kingdom is like his house. His forces. And Jesus says, You're never going to clean to that house until you subdue his forces. And so Jesus says, I have come and I have subdued his forces. I have broken through that barrier. I have come and I have I have defeated and I have conquered the strong man. And how has he done it? The interesting thing is the Baptist says that he's done it through two means. First through his authority or through his submission. Easy, isn't it? He doesn't do his authority. How does he heal this man who's blind and meeting verse 22? He does it by the word of his power. How does he exercise his authority again and again? It's by the word of his power. The demons feared his Lord. Matthew eight, he comes to cast out the demons from a man whose name is reason because he has so many demons. And the demons stand in fear and terror and they say, Please, our time isn't yet. Don't destroy us. says, don't cast us in Luke 831 is the parallel passage in Luke took it, don't cast us into the abyss. The demons themselves fear the word of Jesus. But Jesus comes with that word of power. And by that he has demonstrates its authority. You see that? The scribes as his thing, their authority was a stabbing started by quoting every other ragai that they could think of. And then they pulled a few out that you know that maybe nobody else would heard of. gives a little more authority to their laws. But describes me that nothing happens. Jesus speaks and the blind see. Jesus speaks and the lame get up and they walk away. Jesus speaks and scones like Baloria. Are still when he says peace, Jesus speaks, and the dead get up and walk out of their tombs. Jesus speaks, and the very demons cry out in fear and terror. And it is Jesus, by the word of his authority, who comes to establish the kingdom, and he says, I bound it strongly. How? By the word of my authority, but it's not ultimately by the word of his authority. He who comes with that authority ultimately defeats Satan. Not through the word of his authorities, but through his submission. Because Jesus comes and he comes to keep the law of God that no man has ever kept. He comes to love the Lord his God with his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and his will. He comes as that gentle, loving faith to demonstrate the character of God. And then Jesus comes after actively obeying the law, he becomes uniquely eligible to be the substitute for you and for me. Who has so violated that law. And Jesus, by what theologians call his passive obedience, becomes the Lamb who is sacrificed. And Jesus defeats David not by the word of his authority, great. As that is, but the only way he can defeat him ultimately is by submitting himself to the Father's curse for you and for me. And so Jesus establishes his kingdom on the cross. So he's crucified. I love Colossians 2 because it puts it so beautifully here. It talks about what Jesus did on the cross, and then in verse 10 it says, and having deformed the powers of the cross. authorities. He made a public spectacle of them. Isn't that bigly? Jesus made a public spectacle of all the demonic powers and the authorities of the universe arranged humanity to destroy us. How did he do it human public spectacle of him twirling over them by the cross. And it is at the very point of his weakness that Jesus saw through the crucified, that he was trying to Triumph thing at that moment, they were all the powers and the authorities arrayed against him. And so it was put in the grave and he rose up triumphant in his victory. Triumphant. So there was verses 13 and 14 there tell us God could forgive us and cancel. All of our sins by marrying them to that rock where Jesus could be the safety. And so he's established his kingdom. Now, what does that mean though in 1985? You see, he's established. But the end hasn't come. And that time the kingdom of science is for the purpose of his extending the kingdom. That's what he's doing now. That's what he's been doing since that time he established it way on to today. It's being extended. And you see that in verse 30. Verse 30 says Jesus, after he says he has now defeated, he's robbed this strong man of his possession, human being, held captive. He's taken us out of the prison. He says, Now, he who is not with me is against me. And he who does not gather with me scatters. That's a very heavy statement. Jesus given. He says, either one. Either you gather with me or you scatter. Either you're with me or you are. You can't be literally with Jesus. You can't come here and use the gospel and say, Well, you know, I'm not against what you're saying, but I just don't believe it yet. I'm not really against your saying that. I you know, I don't mind that. It's just that I don't want to give my thought to that yet. I want to be able to control excuse me to control my life a little longer. Jesus said, you don't have that. You either are with me or you are against me. You either gather with me or you stand What is gathering and scattering? Gathering and scattering have to do with sheep. You gather sheep together or you scatter the rock. And so Jesus is talking about gathering his sheep into his kingdom. And why is it that he has to To establish and cancellate that kingdom. Because he's gathering the nations. He's gathering all people into that kingdom. And you see that by the very nature of his, the way he's established the kingdom. that by the very fact that Jesus when he began in the establishment of the city, what did he gather? He gathered twelve disciples. Don't have enough food if you should twelve disciples, okay? And he gathered those twelve disciples to follow him. And why Well in Luke chapter 12, verse 32, he calls them his little flock. And what is his little flock? That's Old Testament language. Israel was God's flock. So Jesus is saying you are the fulfillment of all the prophetic evidences about the believing remnant. Remember that? The believing remnant of Israel? It comes down to twelve. Here it is. That's the believing women. Jesus says, You are my little flock. And he says to Peter, as the one representing them in their confession, It's upon you that I will build my church. And so he says the twelve to whom? To all the lost sheep of Israel. Do you remember in their missions? And they come back? And there was a mixture of some success, but with a lot of rejection. And Jesus finally turns and he says, That block has rejected me. And so the next he sends out, what did he send? He sends out not 12, but seventy disciples. Now why does he send out seventy the second time? He has to understand that in Jewish tradition at that time they believed that there were seventy nations in all the world. Seventy nations inhabited the earth. The Torah, so Jewish tradition had it, was translated into 70 languages. The Septuagint, which was the Old Testament for the nations, was translated by 70 rabbis, they said. Because seven he represented all the world. Okay, what's Jesus saying? He said he's saying establishing my kingdom now, I'm taking it from that nation just like those two is going to beat one uh one uh representative of divine people. and they wanted to stone another and they wanted to kill the son and he said, I'm going to take that barn, that vineyard, and I'm going to give it to the nations. We're going to take it away from those who love. Men are going to come from the east, from the west, and sit on an easy. And those who belong, who have the kingdom, are going to be uh cast into out of darkness with his weak and a national peace. And so we take seventy disciples to say, No, the very nature of my kingdom and the good news of this is for all. And so where is that established? It's established in Pentecost, and what 's Pentecost? We remember some couple of years ago we looked at the fact that Pentecost was the first gift of the wheat harvest, the wind gathering of all the grain into God journal. And so Pentecost is typey to us, it's a picture to us of the fact that we now have a worldwide hardest of the kingdom. This happens, this kingdom which has been established is now being extended through all the world. And so what do we see in the book of Acts? You look at Acts and it's a series of cycles. Read it very carefully, and we won't find that even help us to see this in the summer. When we look at that phrase, the word of God increases in the words, you see that in chapters 4, 6, 12, 13, 19, and other places. And each of these is a cycle of outbreak, of flossing out, of a new direction, a new breakthrough of missions. And every time there's that breakthrough, you see the Word of God being demonstrated, you see persecution, you see reaction, you see the triumph of the world. You see that when Jesus began to do, Luke says, in the in the Gospel of Luke, he's now continuing to do an act. And it goes on and on and on. But how did Act end? That always freaked me when I used to look. He's into a dancer and it's a friend. You know, it's sort of like cutting off a hog of a lone, you know? And he 's got to say one or whatever you may have to handle a lot of things just air, and they're a piece of this tall, that's the evidence. Eastern storytelling. There's a point to that. What Luke is saying is you finished the story. You see, I haven't finished. This is what Jesus began to do. But there it doesn't end, so begin continue. to fulfill those cycles of worldwide expansion of the kingdom until he comes again. And that's the very essence of the good news of the kingdom. That Jesus is extending it to all the world. And this is going to happen Until finally when we will see, as we're given an inside information of it, the glimpse of the book of Revelation, Revelation chapter twelve, verse ten. Then I heard a loud voice in heaven say , Now have come the salvation and the power of the the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ. His comes. There is no warm end. History 's been wrapped up like a scroll. The span of the geological ages has come to an end. And the kingdom is now come Consuming. And what will be the picture of that thing when you go to chapter 15 and you see in verses 3 and 4 and 5? They sang the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb. Great and marvelous are your deeds, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are your ways, King of the ages, who will not fear you, O Lord, and bring glory together, for you alone are holy. All nations Will come and worship before you for your righteous acts have been revealed. You see, if you understand the never make it cut your spine clean, don't ever make your blood cable, but understand that you have And I are those who are revealing the anxious acts of Jesus, so that all nations will come one day and declare you are great and marvelous and your resistance in the world. And so you see , either gathering the justice or we scatter. If you are part of his kingdom, that means that you share in his purpose and you're sure of his victory. And if you are, the heavy response. I 'm not saying that we'll do for every one of us because we'll quit our jobs and head for the mission field. Could he do that? No, that's not just our purposes. But his purpose is that every one of us are conscious of that worldwide extension of his kingdom. We are conscious of our participation in the extension of that green. Just by praying. Jathering with Jesus through prayer. Jathering with Jesus by following the lead of the World Mission's Task Force. They give us information, read also in particular. In the newsletter, articles, letters, commissioners, that's not just there to fill up space. It's there to help us gather with Jesus in praise. You take a look at the back of the calendar, the monthly calendar now. part of culture that's happening in the kingdom of Jesus. In Columbia Presbyterian turn the other side is just something that's happening in the extension of the kingdom of Jesus around some part of the world. So don't just look at that part and rub it on your tone. Turn it around. Use that. Focus on it area of the world in prayer for each month. We just even reminded us of it on the flip side on the back so that we can be reminded to pray. This is gathering with Jesus. Gather for those who pray on the second Friday of the month. It happens to be this coming Friday. Give them errors for a mission prayer meetings, body meetings. Use believable answers to pray for missing requests that you see there. Extending the kingdom through prayer. He gives also our giving. The means that we take from our resources is that we set apart that version for missions. One of the key plays that we do that is through the given and benevolences of our own church. We've established certain missions. Biblical, they are trustworthy, God is blessed, and we are committed to them. You can also designate to some mission, some particular ministry or particular ministry , do we are benevolence of them? Just put that out on your check. We'll take notice of that. It may become part of what we would put in the line item for our budget, if it was next year or year after. We consider particularly now the ISIS that's going to Japan. Now that part of our being involved in extending the king. They're trying to be given an opportunity to see what we as a church will limit ourselves to. But then in addition to that, there will be the opportunity for you to say, beyond that, what do I believe that God would have me to do? And then we will be able to add that to what result for their support is for some of us that may be a step of faith beyond what we're giving them. Because we see that God is going to use the Ivory Foods. We believe in their ministry. And so we're going to be part of extending the kingdom in Japan by supporting them. By the way, he didn't ask me to say this. He just tell you that because that's part of the application of this. And then the third thing would be for us to be willing to go and gather with Jesus anywhere, being willing by simply showing our concern to our And being willing to share the gospel to people that we see. Being willing to if we're on a business trip in some other part of the world, find out what God is doing, who his missionaries there. Encourage them. about them, being linked in different parts of the world where some of us get the opportunity to travel to other countries. To be willing perhaps to go short term. To consider possibly the summer of 86, particularly those of you who are single and may have flexibility in this. To say I'm willing to looking back to the possibility of going some part of the world and just being useful for the Lord in whatever capacity I think, but also to be exposed to God and be willing to then say, Lord, I'm willing to go. Where the word that you want for me to do. To be willing to be involved in hospitality ministry to international students. The kids going to be making us aware of more of this kind of opportunity. We've got limited to our doorstep, particularly if we come The opportunity to share the gospel with those who will go back. It's best for us to take the gospel if they come to know Jesus while they're here. All these kinds of opportunities. What I want you to see is these opportunities are exciting to us because we are sure that God is establishing his kingdom. He's done it. He's always letting will do it. He's promised to do it. He says the kingdom has come. I had defeated Satan. Otherwise , clearest and most poetic extractions of this was from a sermon, preached by what he sometimes called the perfect preacher, Charles Spurgeon, on September 4th, 1855. During the sermon he preached on the text, Many shall come from the east and the west and shall sit down with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven. And here's part of what he had to say. Servant says, Oh I love. God shalls. There is nothing comfortable for that. Let a man say shall and let the gift for him. I will, says a man, and he never forfolds. I shall, says he, and he breaks his promise. But it is never so. The God shall. If he says shall, it shall be. When he said will, it will be. And Aries said here, many shall come. The devil says they said not come , but they shall come. You yourself say, You won't come. God says, you shall come. Yes, uh, there are some of you who are who are laughing at salvation. But you can start the Christ. And you can mark the gospel, but I tell you, some of you shall come yet. Why do you think, can God make me become a Christian? By telling you yes. Well here in rest the power of the gospel. It does not ask you to He does not say, you you have it, but it makes you willing in the day of God's power. They shall come. They shall come. You may laugh. You may despise. But Jesus shall not die for nothing. If some of you reject him here, there are some of you that will not. If there are some that are not saved, others shall be. Christ shall see his seeds. He shall And the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands, then he shall come, and not in heaven or in earth, nor in hell, can stop him from coming. I think of an illustration given by Simpson. He says, Well what if you were a sixteen year old kid? You're out in the driveway and you're just shooting some baskets. And I'm only shooting some baskets, you know , and an angel comes and appears to you. This angel comes and says, Where I have Bringing good tidings from the Lord. For you shall adjust him to become a great basketball star. And you will be the rookie of the year in the NBA. And you will go on beyond that to become known as one of the greatest. greatest basketball players who ever lived. He'd say, ah come on, that's the catch. Then he went up to do a little catch, he rego, and he takes off. Now, Basis, how does that affect? He says, it all depends on where your heart is. He says, let's do a shooting gas just because we're kind of bored that way. You know, you just didn't have anything to do with it, but you tuck a few up in a little hoop and see what you could do, you sort of walk off and you could put up that. Interesting. I'm going to be the best at all working in the year. Well, yeah, I'll be on a great time. It says, Follow your lifestyle. But he says, Now suppose you're a kid who eats, drinks, eats. Read and live fast of all. But it says that message will make all the difference to you. Because it will free you up. Because why says they were practice and the message, but that's okay. Because I know that that's the And you may be a success one day, you may be a failure the next, but you're still okay because you say, I know that ultimately I'm going to be the working of the year. And I know that I'm going to be running the service back of that way in the other place. So it doesn't bother me. Do you see the connection? Billy Howard is a missionary, many of you have heard of. Hundreds, thousands came to Christ through his ministry in college of his in Columbia, other parts of the world through his ministry. a man de missionary. I identify with David. But they've had it as a brother's birth. They woke up in Alaska for fourteen years without seeing one single convert to Christianity. What kept still going? And not the fact that James was getting all those conversations down at Columbia out better. That probably didn't help them a whole lot of it. What kept them going was the kingdom is established. God is sure. He's bringing in the nations and whatever Well I have to say the fact is God complicates his purpose. Are you gathering with Jesus this morning? Or are you scattering? If you're gathering with him, the good news is he has proud. He cannot fail as a part of his global purpose in bringing into nations much right. Forward. Glory and purpose, that you have established your kingdom, and you are bringing relations to it. The unfinished cycle of acts are continuing to our day. Pentecost is still going on. America how we thank you for the fact that you have called us together with Jesus. Oh Lord, how how wonderful to think. That man that you have a promise you will accomplish, that the nations shall come and worship of Holy. is being fulfilled through sinners like us. Oh Lord, encourage all us , encourage each one of us here to be gathering with Jesus. Lord, we pray that you would forgive with any of us here. Would be counted among those who scatter. Counted among those who would stand under your wrath because they never submitted to Jesus and to his kingdom. Oh Lord, we pray that you would fulfill this innocent for us. We may glorify you through Jesus Christ. Amen.