Last week we've been looking at the uh filling of the spirit, and we have seen there that the spirit is a flame with light The gospel so that it burns within our hearts and produces supernatural joy, even in the midst of tears and suffering But the many presented as a masterpiece of the magic. The planet is composed of stones , snippels, and squares. I'm afraid that um let's read the Bible or I'm interested in her Then there are play hearts help me. If I find in the Bible, a book that I understand. A book that does. But attractive things about reading the Bible, there's a book that understanding. If I read the Bible, there is a lot about characterism, about weakness. In fact, some people came to voice call attention to in the Gospels, in the last day of these, just how many references there are today And to weeping. Remember that the last reason for Mary and Martha weeping. There is anything on the tone Sunday weeping for Jerusalem. Going out and weeping bitterly. There is the women of Jerusalem as Jesus going to the cross We can work the women at the crowd. The women at the tomb. And I have practically I realize that a number of you are with me. I understand that after the service somebody says they have our hand the requisite binary. But that's super fine for many of us. Or we think maybe we think the call of the wall Uh we're still like it's probably the more like that. They're very close to him. Oh , is destroying their life by refusing to let me just point. Perhaps they're It can be called the feeling that you're married. Feeling like you're married to somebody that doesn't really not you or care for you. Or perhaps it's because Or can you work Something in your life that has caused you to find when you read about the coming of the Spirit brings joy to say Does that relate to my situation? And so I can love the thing of the spirit and the joy, the supernatural joy that he brings on what And now the bottom of the latest. First of all, every kind of weekend is during Passover week twenty eighteen. And how those situations relate to you and to me as we come up two thousand years later. First of all, we can have compassion for others who review this impossible. That's today. The weighting of guilt and the sense of overwhelming personal failure. And then thirdly, the weighting of grief and what And that will be on Easter morning. So the first one today, we think of compassion And playing it on Palm Sunday. Now I know I just on Columbia Sunday on March twenty-eighth. Uh But we have one meter is the failure and theater is the comb after comb, so many before theater. And so I'm not finding this which is a phonology for that. Just gonna have to take that one phone somebody expecting a phone sumday and come earlier. And I will show you that We're gonna talk about Paul Sunday this morning. And that morning, he was sent Perhaps the planet one morning of the newspaper for the crucifixion. They're accompanied by a large crowd of people who saw And they get down so I guess they're company in the fashion immersion. And it seems to come up And the thing turns into a great crazy. And they can't just run him around and big glass trip and call him crazy off. And everybody 's 118 Because the nation is a famous grandfather. And then it's Jesus the Messiah. the room and just the rest of the people and the pregnancy. And as it comes up road, I understand how fifty and falls and rises. And then it comes to responding down, cancer back and full of blue. And then they come up They have a regular event in the outcropping of the rocks, and they are suddenly and dramatically everything appears before your eyes. That depends on one of the seven wonders of the world. I mean they've been following Jesus now for three years. Years of sacrifice of hope for His and Death of And this is the day of vindication. This is the day that is actually being recognized for who is a They stand there and they look at them, everything really beautiful machines, beautiful things, and they look at it for genius enemies. And you cry. Stop. And he starts to wait. He starts to stop Because that's Hey, here is the pain you want to be What you are crying for? Human rights, look at that And we can understand that the disciples are surprised Jesus would be crying. Because they didn't know what they said You are right now that he gives up glory about crucifixion setting up the kingdom of my head working. Crucifixion We have a good thing. We can what the president would be what the president is every tax to be thankful. Chapter nineteen, verse forty two, right? Between this spoken between things. The rest of the game is you. But now it can turn your eyes. The next will come upon you when you're enemy and against you and circle you and everything on every eye. It was bad to the crowd of you, and the children within your wall. It was nothing but another company did not recognize the crime of God I would like to ask those questions. The first question is, simply species. Why the species? And the answer. Simply because people are precious to him. People are precious to him. It is not worth looking for people. Verse thirty-four and say again in a couple of days in Matthew twenty-three, verse thirty-seven. How often would I have gathered their children? There's a hands like you guys. are precious to Jesus. Jesus was coming on this text I don't break down at them at all. Too bad. But if I hit my car or stain or tear my clothes I probably will not come out of my certain cars and certain clubs. The point is that I will win if I lose what is precious to me. And if I lose what is precious I believe we think the people Impression work to him. It's a destruction. So the second reason why it breaks is because they read the animals to receive it. It's because of their breath animals I can peace but now it has me from your eyes will fully. I walk the way I can say, but you know that you were unwilling. Because you did not recognize, you refuse to recognize the time of God's coming to you The Bible often portrays God as angry against those who refuse to acknowledge, who refuse to believe, to trust But that person shows unless you like to God's character. He not only is angry, he is not only right He is also profoundly saddened by it. Of our parents , close and leader, who is helpment on self destruction. The third reason that he is weak is because he sees the destruction that is coming. It was a heavy weight on every side. The already surrounding the city You need to remember that we're depression with one of the one that we can That are in built but at this point. It 's been under construction for forty seven years. It took us seven years to build this problem to magnetism. The step was vastly larger than solvent. You could put solvent stepping inside every step several times. Herr Stephen has not seen Putin. Next to it, next to it is Antonio's fortress. Another fantastic Evidence. Yes, that parents passed something. And the parish corpus of the hills of degree called them magic And off the inhabitants. The weeks, even for once. Right so terrible I wouldn't seek to describe them in a congregation. That's an honor to make sure. But this is what the foretaste of the final document. They will dash you to the ground. You have the children in your wall with no merch. They will not leave one stone or another. Because it is not I recognize the time of God's coming to me. This is not something that's simply on a human level, psychological level, rule against Judaism That's an experience of that. Wait until the service is over. Jesus on the outside of your life. Jesus of our it will come upon such. Called for our minds to imagine and the worst disaster we've ever read about. The worst earthquake, the worst fire , the worst tsunami. The God and Jesus' heart breaks see those volume That leads me to the second question. Do you deny? Do we? We My heart. But there are ideas. And I want you to become more like him. Thank you. And I want to think more of the way to Understanding clearly interrelations. Your heart wanted to precious God. They're trying to divide the twerkism. Do we have a divine do we listen to work You care enough about the Christ and salvation. We should never shed a tear for them. Well can we take it nice if that person became a Christian? I hope they do. I'm not going to lose it to sleep over it. And not tell you the truth. It's been three weeks since I remembered the praise. It's a little hard to believe in that. They don't seem like they're happening to me for Jesus, but being for spiritual We are mindstreamed, and we are heartstands. We are mindstreamed, we are convinced of the lost of the lost. I find that I tend to follow out. And if we can look at people that you know and you know that this person is outside of practice. What happens when you begin to kind of think of the implications of that on the last day? And what people are doing more and more to that saying, well, they think there's another way or think that maybe somehow I look at their heart And you know, kind of like baby they, you know, with hands there. And it's because hell. The consequences against the heaven God Is that true? I'm not afraid I didn't hear that this morning because there's people that thought about that kind of and I do pray for But I guess I really don't think a lot of this the curve of their judgment. And that is the second thing we we need to care for them because they were fresh. That's a hard thing. They'll stand the document of a God whose justice and whose sovereign purposes can never be dismissed. There will be no blame They will get what they deserve. But you look at their heart and go to kill the high deserter. Everybody here is a person who shut them out and they will get exactly what they deserve. I record the thought that it doesn't make impressions to me. The thing causes me to weak, to be broken It's when they become precious. And a dream was precious to Jesus. That way is to be great to me. Great library to thousands of saving relationships with Jesus. I can speak. But we 're still very passionate, man. And rather than you get through a marriage without at some point come to Breaking down or shedding tears. On one particular occasion he was breaking to a crown. And he began to wait He lost his component. He jumped up a little bit. He couldn't go more to the number of minutes because the game is compiling because he saw every time. Responded to Jesus Christ Exactly. They're people that they care enough about. I think of my own mother and father. Both of them have sent into eternity. Without any indication. Jesus Christ. I remember that time was back. Can't you see that? Can 't we talk about relationship with God? You could kind of think hear me talk about something With my mom. Thinking about this, I could just write down before I'm sure how much that matters what it means if we can talk and talk and Because I stopped people, I didn't do before, but I said slowly for it now. People doesn't do it. A couple of weeks ago, the person who said about revival, why is it that we do not have revival? Because we can out of the bell. Why is it that we don't see any more of our friends and our families coming facing Christ? Because we can find that. I might think that I don't think that if we worked up prayers, that that becomes a means of gaining their salvation. I do believe that God would have us enter more into the heart of Jesus. So then goes to Billy Graham, Fernando, and Jimmy, the Land of Crusade and South America. When I recognize the woman came up to him and said, I 'd like to ask you a favor. Tomorrow I'm going to bring someone with me to the room. A couple of years ago she went away to New York City. He thought that she would try and fame and big life that she was looking for something like that. Instead, she went into the company and then who one after another shamelessly up against her and then throw her away like a piece of trash. She 's coming along with a different girl. Hard. Cynical. I try to talk to her about feelings. She won't listen to me. And after she had come to these meetings, she said, No , if I have 5 % and so on, she's all right about what time to stop mad. And she said she'd come tomorrow night. After the meeting, if you'd come talk to her. And Johnny said it went next night and preached the gospel. Sir, you saw her on the back when the woman he recognized and went back. And you said that I saw your best piece. She said, No, I don't want to hear anything. So he said, Well, could I at least pray for you? He said, They looked at her and he saw the hardness. He saw the bitterness. They saw the a girl that was getting me up. His heart began to break for her. He began to weep. He began to So then he couldn't finish the crazy and just finally cut off and he said, I'm sorry. She said, No, I wouldn't She said, No, there's a requirement for me, isn't it? Now you can tell me about Jesus. Stabilized in your life. The issue is not what we show to them, the issue is our own hearts. To pray for God to give us a heart like Jesus His heart is broken for those who are going to hell because they refuse it. Michael I have a challenge for me for me. A challenge for me. One person that's important enough to you. What's the one? One person. My Easter service because the campaign. Easter simply because it's easier to ask this on time of opportunity where it can send us up on it, working for the church women. Let's celebrate Easter Couple family. Happy by life. Happy everybody 's family couple. in the last month. In that case, if they got to the point where we didn't really talk to them about Jesus. In better cases, they come up to a certain point, then there's a way to shut down them We understand that we don't quit. We don't go beyond that. And I thought about them and I prayed about them. I haven't looked at my own heart recognition I do long to let the time to Jesus. I haven't really wept. All kinds of things about my background and characters. But heart is broken. What happened on top length? We're just talking about all these things over Just don't want to get there about when I ask Jesus to make your heart more like his friends. Jesus For you again, I'll show you what your life can do. I wish you'd come to be kids with all Make himself available, active disposal, and a way to be And rest and taking the government of God so that you would I have to bear that. Oh, but you and I deserve to be seen from God. And the work in your heart to share that life. Experience that Perhaps her somebody is. You need her heart to be changed. The sacrifice that he's made So that you can be free and forgiven and given your life To the heart we're talking about. Heart of future. Oh Marjorie, it's more like a heart. You know, when you stood on the ground, that film was over here. The hardest thing could be on all of that. Lord God, thank you that you look to us. To die on the cross out of your great compassion for us. We might be saved. Lord forgive us our heart to tell it, take that for breakfast. I'm going to have to have the reality of virtue, but it doesn't matter all that much women Transfer to our three. People have been seeing smiling. Oh God, we're gonna be my best