I will leave from Acts chapter 1, verses 1 to 11, and then chapter 2, verses 1 to 4. Let's do the principality. In my follow up the artist, I wrote about all the things that began to do. to them over a period of forty days and spoke about the kingdom of God. On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he gave them this command: Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift my father promised, which you heard have heard me speak about. baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. And so when they met together, they asked him, what Are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It's not for you to know the times or dates the Father has set by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. After he said this, he was taken up before their very eyes, and the cloud hid him from their sight. They were looking intently up into the sky as he was going, when suddenly two men dressed in white stood beside them. Men of Galilee, they said, Why do you stand here looking into the sky? This same Jesus who has been taken from you into heaven will come back. In the same way that you have seen him go into heaven. Then, skipping later to chapter 2, when the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. And suddenly a sound, like the blowing of a vial, Came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tones. It was on a spring day like this, fifty days after the Passover at which Jesus was crucified. But the Holy Spirit began to be poured out on his church at a feast that we call Pentecost. We celebrate that feast, Pentecost, on this Pentecost Sunday. And in doing that, we want to turn our attention to that gift of the Spirit. And I'd like to do that by spending two messages with you looking at Acts chapter one, at a few verses from Acts chapter one. I would like to look this week. at Acts chapter one verses four and five. And then next week conclude just this brief uh consideration of the Holy Spirit for this year with Acts chapter one verses six to eight. And word willing, I would uh Like to have us uh each year on the Sunday of Pentecost think particularly about the ministry of the Holy Spirit in our lives, and to make it a custom that we seek particularly for the work of the Spirit in our lives at that season of the year that we pray for God's work by His Spirit to come upon us as we think of what He gave to us that day in Pentecost. Now I want to begin whatever we do in the future, at least this year, to begin by considering a very fundamental question that is often asked. What are the conditions for receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit? That's a pretty loaded question, isn't it? What are the conditions for receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit? Many, many messages have been preached on that. Many booklets have been written. Many books have been published on that particular question. What are the conditions? What must I do to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit? In fact, I'd be interested in knowing how many of you have heard a message on that particular subject, or that a booklet or a book, on that question. What are the conditions of the baptism spirit? Let's just see by hands how many of them. Well, that's not a question, and it's unknown to a good many of you that are here this morning. And so what I want to do is consider that particular question. How do you receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Let me give you an example of one very popular answer to that question. It's from a book by R. A. Tory called The Person and the Work of the Holy Spirit. R. R. Tory was a man mightily used of God as an evangelist. And he wrote a book in which a major consideration in that book was particularly this question. And he has seven steps for receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Very briefly, let me just Just run through what Tory says are the seven steps to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. He says that the first step is that we accept Jesus Christ as our Savior and Lord. First, accept Jesus as Savior and Lord. The second step in the path that we leads into the blessing of being baptized with the Holy Spirit is renunciation of sin. And Tory goes and explains all what he means that that's an absolute renunciation of sin, even the smallest thing. He gives an example of a woman who was arguing with God years about certain hair pins that she wore. And she was convicted of this and never gave it up until finally one day she said, forget it. She took the hair pins out, threw them across the room, and was baptized in the Holy Spirit. Then he goes on, he says, now a third condition is an open Confession of our sin and in our acceptance of Jesus Christ. An open confession of sin. The fourth step, he says, is absolute surrender to God. Absolute surrender to God. He talked a lot about that. Absolute yielding of yourself to God, holding nothing back, being thoroughly open to what God wants to do in your life. Absolute surrender. Total obedience. You say, what does it mean to obey God? Some will say doing what we're told. Right. But doing how much that we're told, not merely one thing or two things or three things, but doing all things that we're told. The fifth step, he says, is an intense desire for the baptism of the Holy Spirit, a consuming desire. The sixth step, he says, is a definite prayer for the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Definite prayer, specific prayer, Lord, give me the baptism of the Holy Spirit. And then the seventh and last step, he says, Is faith. Faith. Anyone who will accept Jesus as their Savior and their Lord, put away all sin out of their life, publicly confess their renunciation of sin and acceptance of Jesus Christ, surrender absolutely to God, and Test for the baptism and take it by simple faith in the naked word of God can receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit right now. The seven steps given above lead with absolute certainty into the blessing. And boom. Now there are a number of people who write uh similar kinds of things, and I would suggest that with all the variations they come down to basically three steps. In all case one is regeneration, that in fact you have been made alive. In Jesus Christ. You've come to know as your own personal Savior. The second step that is given is that of obedience, total, absolute surrender. You're giving yourself in total surrender and yieldedness to Jesus Christ. And then the third condition is faith, asking for the baptism of the Holy Spirit in faith, believing that God may give this to you. Now there's an awful lot of confusion and disagreement about this. You may be uh mulling in your mind now certain things that ring bells to you, uh things that uh you like, things you don't like when you hear that. There's a lot of confusion and a lot of disagreement in the Church of Jesus Christ about how do we receive the Holy Spirit. Spirit, baptism of the Holy Spirit, what are the conditions? What I'd like to do this morning is to look at the Word of God. And I would suggest to you that the passage that we have just read is extremely relevant to that question of the conditions for the baptism of the The Holy Spirit. So I want to look at what the Bible teaches on this as we look at the last words of Christ before they receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Now it seems to me that if we want to investigate this question of the conditions for the baptism Baptism of the Holy Spirit, the most relevant portion of scripture that we can study are the last words of Jesus Christ to his disciples before they received the baptism of the Holy Spirit. What conditions did Jesus Christ take them? For them in order to receive this. And so let's take a look at that. You see that most pertinently in verses 4 and 5 of Acts 1. Therefore, he discusses that particular issue. Next week we'll going to look at the results, what happens when you receive the baptism of the Spirit. He goes on into that in verses 6 to 8. But particularly now, this is where he talks about the instructions before they're to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. What does he say? On one occasion, while he was eating with them, again demonstrating that he was physically resurrected, he gave them this command, do not leave Jerusalem, but wait, gift my father promise, which you have heard me speak about. baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. There's three things that I want you to notice about what he says there. You see them in the bulletin outline, so follow along as we go through this. The first thing is that his words are are in the indicative. The first point is then his words are in the indicative. You will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Now, in case you're not an English major, and you're sort of dusty on all of your moods and tenses of the English language, the indicative mood is simply a statement of fact As contrasted, for instance, with the subjunctive mood. If Jesus had stated this in the subjunctive mood, he would have said, you may be baptized with the Holy Spirit if you do this or this or this. Or you might be baptized with the Holy Spirit if you do this and this. Or you can be baptized with the Holy Spirit if you do these conditions. But what if Jesus said? He says it in the indicative mood, a simple statement of fact, no conditions stating. He says to them, verse 4, You will excuse me, verse 5, you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Simple statement of fact. He simply says, you will. Don't miss that. There's no condition added to the end of that statement. You will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Second thing to notice. Is the inclusiveness of his words. First of all, they're in the indicative. Secondly, they are inclusive. You all will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. The word all isn't there. But he's talking to his disciples. It says here, who is eating with? And he simply says, You. You will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. We're told that in verse 4, he gives them, those who he's eating with, this command. You don't say to some of them. You don't say certain of you, some of you who will absolutely surrender yourself to God will receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Doesn't say that. He doesn't say here, some of you who pray and seek for the baptism of the Holy Spirit will receive him. He doesn't say that. He says, you, simple statement of fact, you will receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. But what in fact happened? Look over at chapter 2. In chapter 2, you see in verse 1. When the very Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. They got them all together now. It's all the disciples. Nobody's missing. None of those that he was referring to. For the verse three. They saw now I have to miss the sound of a violent dream They saw what seemed to be tons of fire, but separated, and it came to rest on Each of them came to wrestle with each one of them. Until everybody was excluded. In fact, that's confirmed by verse 4. But what's verse 4 say? All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues with the Spirit of Abraham. All of them were filled. No one was excluded. All of those that Jesus gave that promise to all of his disciples were filled and were baptized with the Holy Spirit. In fact, I would suggest something further. If you check out the book of Acts, you will find That in every single case where the Holy Spirit comes upon a group of believers, there is never a believer left out. You will never find when the Holy Spirit comes upon the Samaritans. When it comes upon Cornelius' household and those who are with him, when it comes to the disciples of John in Acts chapter 19, never do you receive read that the Spirit came upon some of them who had absolutely surrendered themselves or who had believed with particular faith that the Spirit would come. In every case you need that he came on all of them In fact, this is so true that in Acts chapter 8, you have Simon, who's got a problem because it seems to him that all you've got to do is uh the disciples have to lay their hands on people and they receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Nobody's excluded, so he concludes that I can do it too. In Acts chapter 10, you're specifically told that all who were there were baptized from the Holy Spirit. In Acts chapter 19, you're told about twelve of them there, disciples of John, and they received the baptism of the Spirit. Spoken other tongues. So that you have the inclusiveness of this promise. All receiving when it's given. When the Holy Spirit comes to the book of Acts All believers receive this. Then finally, I want you to notice the inactiveness of the command. It's a command to be inactive. All Notice that. He says in verse 4, do not leave Jerusalem? Okay. Wait for the gift my father promised, which you've heard me speak about. We're gone baptized with water, but in a few days, we will Be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Wait. What are we to do, Lord? What are the conditions to fulfill, to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit? Wait Well wait, Lord, surely you don't mean just wait. Surely you mean that we must also search our hearts to make sure that we've absolutely surrendered every known sin to you to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. No, no, I didn't say that. I said, wait. Well, the word surely you must mean in addition to that, that we should intensely desire the baptism of the Holy Spirit and set our mind upon it to something that we cannot do without and seek it with all of our hearts. He said, No, I didn't say that. Wait. But surely, Lord, you must mean that that without waiting we're to pray in faith, believing that we can have the baptism of the Holy Spirit. That we should be persistent in that prayer. That we should strive to have that baptism of the Holy Spirit, taking the naked. They'll promise it, you'll give it to us, both we won't get it. He said, I didn't say that. I said, Wait, that's all I said. You see, Christians today, they give to us a whole string of conditions of how We're the wait. And I would say that there were a whole group of Christians there standing there that day, at that beast, a good number of them have said, I got a list of the things that you need to do between now and the next ten days when you're going to receive that baptism. But the interesting thing to me is that Jesus gave no list. He gave no conditions. He said, wait, how inactive can you be? Wait. How undramatic! How unherroic! How unspiritual. All he says is, wait, he doesn't command it to hold a ten-day prayer meeting. He doesn't command it to Do anything except wait. That's all he says. What a contrast to what we often hear today about how to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Why is it? Why did Jesus simply say, wait. There's an absolutely vital reason for that. And you and I must understand that if we're to celebrate Pentecost in a way that really is full of joy and celebration of Jesus Christ. The reason is that the most important thing is that the most important thing is that the most important thing is that the most important thing is that the most important thing is that the Because it's a gift promised of the Father. See that? First point? He says, I want you to wait. Wait here in Jerusalem. Why? Wait for the gift my Father promised. the New Testament. A gift is in contrast to works. A gift, according to the New Testament, is something that God gives by grace. It's not something that you and I own. It's not something that we work for. It's not something that we fulfill certain conditions in order to receive. If something is a gift, then you receive it freely. Now, what are the conditions? For receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit. I would suggest to you that there are, in fact, very, very clear conditions, and those conditions are very absolute. The conditions for receiving the baptism. Of the Holy Spirit are not simply for you and for me to surrender all known sin. The conditions for receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit is in fact absolute surrender, absolute obedience to the word of God. of God at every point. It is an absolute, unyielding, uncompromising obedience to all that God has said. It is absolute righteousness. And therefore The message of Peter, the day of Pentecost, was hallelujah, the conditions have been fulfilled. The conditions were fulfilled not by you or me. The conditions were fulfilled by Jesus. Christ. Take a look at what Peter says. And you see four conditions that had to be fulfilled in order to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. A perfect life. Chapter 2, verse 22. Peter says, Do you want to know why we're doing this? Do you want to know why we're speaking in languages that can be understood by people all over from a lot of different tongues without our having ever learned those languages? Do you want to know why we seem to be drunk to you because of this spiritual activity? That you can't understand? And he says, Let me tell you what enabled us to be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Verse 22, he says, Men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God been among you, uh through him, as yourself known. He was credited by God twice. He said, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. He has perfectly kept my law. What is the second qualification? The second condition was his death. Peter says that in verse 23. This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge and yielded the help of wicked men. Put him to death by nailing him to the cross. He had to die. So that that perfect obedience would account not only for his righteousness, but that righteousness would be placed accredited to everyone for whom that death was made. We talked about that last week. And so Jesus was put to death. So that his death, by his death, his righteousness would be given to others. Peter goes on and he says there's a third condition. He had to also rise from the dead. Now Peter really sort of waxes. to that topic, you know. And he goes on from verse twenty four all the way to verse thirty two to talk about the amazing fact of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. He says in verse twenty four that um but God raised him up from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep the toll on. Any quotes from David in the Psalms, talking about the Lord's uh releasing him from death, and then uh finishes that whole thing up by verse thirty. 2 saying God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of this fact. He's alive. Then the fourth condition, and this is the most important one of all for us to see right now, is that Jesus Had to be exalted. That's why they were waiting. Jesus had to enter into his glory and into his exaltation. Verse 33. Exalt to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit, and has poured out what you now see and hear. He received the baptism of the Spirit, because he fulfilled all the conditions. And all those who are delighted to him by faith in Jesus Christ, Peter says, by grace, receive that gift. That's why he then says in verses thirty eight and thirty-nine, You have received this gift, he says. So Peter said, repent and be baptized. Every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ so that your sins will be forgiven. And then you will receive the reward for the conditions, the reward for your absolute surrender and your intense desire and your believing faith? No. You, by simple repentance, turning to Jesus Christ in your life, Peter says, You will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. And that promise is for you and for your children. all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. Praise God. When I look at the conditions for receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit, I say in humble despair, I could never fulfill those conditions. Praise God, Jesus did for you. He fulfilled all the conditions. And therefore, Jesus has the fullness of the Spirit, which He has given to you and to me who come in simple faith, trusting. Jesus Christ. Because he's been exalted. That's what Galatians is talking about. Paul gives us the same message. In Galatians chapter 3, remember, he says in verse 13 and 14: Christ redeemed us from the curse of the Lord. Becoming a curse for us. What's right accursed as everyone who's hung on a tree? Now he revealed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham, all the promises of salvation given to Abraham, were come to the Gentiles through Jesus. Jesus Christ so that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit. Why do we receive the promise of the Spirit? Because Jesus became a curse for us. He redeems. And therefore, all the promises to Abraham are given to us through him. Now that's something to celebrate. And it means three things in conclusion or primus to our lives. Number one, it is a comfort to To you and to me. It's a comfort because it means that you and I can reject all the conditions of man. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, then you have to be baptized. With the Holy Spirit. Because Jesus fulfilled all the necessary conditions, and there is nothing that you need to or ever could add to those conditions. You have been baptized in the Spirit because He is a gift. Promised by the Father for all who come to Jesus Christ. I don't know if that grabs you. I mean, I don't know. I don't know what you're thinking just looking at there, but I mean I get excited to think that Lord there is no condition I have to fulfill all these things that I read. And made all these things on me, and I have to introspect on this and I have to make sure I committed that and I have to look at this and I said, What about this? And it was one fifteen years ago, I forgot about that one. And all these things, then maybe I'll have the baptism of the Holy Spirit. He's a gift. Jesus did it all. And so you and I had that baptism. He's poured out on all flesh, the Lord Jesus Christ, this morning. Praise God for that. Rejoice in your possession of this morning. There's a second thing to notice about. There's a call involved in this. And that call is involved in the fact, as Jesus said in verse 5, John's going to baptize you with water. But in a few days you will be baptized by my baptism in the Holy Spirit. Now that is a baptism that will be evident. John's baptism was as evident as as long as you stayed wet. But as soon as you got dry, you couldn't tell that you were baptized by John. Jesus says, I will baptize you with the Holy Spirit, and that will change your life. And as long as the Spirit, that baptism is upon you, it will be seen. The Bible is very clear about it. This is Galatians 5. 22 to 24. It says that the spirit in you will produce a war. And Within that war there will be the fruit of the spirit evident. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control against which there is no law. You can't produce that by the law. That is the fruit of the spirit of God. Now, 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 talks about the evidence of the power of the Holy Spirit, a love for God's Word, a desire to make Jesus Christ known. Turning from your idols to serve the living God, waiting for his son from heaven. These are the evidences that the Bible gives us in other places, but these are two good summaries of the evidence of the Holy Spirit, the evidence of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. in a person's life, that the person in fact does have this view. But notice if in fact you do not have This baptism of the Holy Spirit. But that's not something that you simply seek for to add to your Christian life. Because Paul tells us in Romans chapter 8, you had a lot bigger problem than that. In Romans chapter 8, Paul says in verse 9, You, however, are controlled not by the sinful nature, but by the Spirit. If the Spirit of God lives in you Now notice this. If anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ. So we see no evidence Of any of the fruit of the Spirit in your life. If you don't see a desire in your heart to please Jesus Christ, If there's no character changes that you can make and that others can say, sometimes we get depressed and we say, I don't see anything changed my life. You need to go to somebody else, and you need to say, What do you see in my life that's changed in the last six months of a year? Do you see God's work in me at all? They may need that other brother and sister. Hopefully we'll be honest. If they don't see any change, then they'll tell you. But if they do see it, that they'll tell you, yes, I see the Spirit of God working in you, my life. I have to do that all the time. People come to me. They come to Jesus Christ. And then they're down because they don't think see things changing quick enough. In six months I gotta say, you know, you're a whole different person than the person I talked to six months ago Spirit of God's been working in you amazingly. Well, you know, but all I see is the lack of this, the lack of that, and I don't do this, and I won't do that. We sometimes need to preach the gospel to each other. We need to comfort each other and give each other that kind of assurance. Don't raise to each other questions. But my point is simply: if there is not that evidence Then you need to ask yourself this morning, do I in fact know Jesus Christ? Not simply, do I in fact have the baptism of the Spirit? If you have the baptism of the Jesus Christ personally, then you do have the baptism of the Spirit. But the question here this morning is, do you in fact know Jesus Christ? It's possible to be religious. It's possible to know an awful lot about Jesus Christ. It's possible to be seeking to worship with us here this morning. As a religious work, and not know Jesus Christ personally. So my question I call to you this morning is: Do you see or do others see any evidence in your life that you have been baptized with the Holy Spirit? That he has changed you. That he has done a work in you. If you have doubts about that, don't dismiss them. Don't simply say, well, you know, somehow I think about sometimes. I urge you, I think. I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ. If you don't stop in your question, and you're seeking me, you're seeking somebody in this church that you might know, and is there somebody that you don't is there somebody that you know here in this church? At least that you see me after the service and say, I would like to talk to you about that. I would like to go to a spiritual inventory in my life to check out whether I in fact ensure that I know Jesus Christ. Because if you do, It will be that evidence that'll give her. Then there's the third and the final thing that I want to call our attention to, and that's the challenge that's involved here See, I think that there is a danger with grace. The danger with grace, when you hear me say this morning Hallelujah. Jesus has fulfilled all the conditions. If you know Jesus Christ, then you are in fact baptized with the Holy Spirit. Because where you just sort of say, oh man, you know, I get a little nervous there. I was thinking maybe there was something that uh I should seek for. of the Spirit's work in my life. But now you're telling me that it's all well and I have it. And since I know Jesus Christ, then I don't have to worry about that anymore. Well I didn't say that there's nothing to seek for. I simply said that you have the Holy Spirit. But this week, as I was praying about this, as I was outside and I was praying and I was crying out to the Lord about what it meant. really understand baptism with the spirit in my life. I call out to the Lord, Lord, forgive me more of the Spirit. And it was as if the Lord responded back, I'm not going to claim some audible revelation, but I distinctly had in my mind this thought that came in response to that. Alan You have all of my spirit that you can have. But how much do I have of you? How much do I have of you? To be filled with the Spirit Means for us to be receptive to His control in our lives. And I'm afraid that so often we as Christians want a comfortable feeling. We want the kind of feeling that we can control. I want enough of the Holy Spirit control in my life. life, but they'll put down those sins that I have decided needed to go. And those sins bag me and they bug me and I want the Spirit's victory over those areas of my life. But then I begin to think about what it means to be totally, fully controlled by the Holy Spirit. I get a little nervous. Because then I think, I'm not sure what that means. I'm not sure what he might lead me into if I fully yielded to his control in my life. And so here we flew. Let's not take the conditions that some Christians will speak to us about to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. And as we shut those conditions aside and say, I reject those conditions, Jesus has fulfilled it all. Do we buy it? Put ourselves in a place of spiritual apathy and presumption. So that we say, well, because I have the baptism of the Spirit, there's nothing more to seek for. His baptism is by grace. His control Is involved in your response. If you do not respond in an openness to his control, you can grieve him You can quench him. So praise God that he has given his Holy Spirit to us this morning. But the question to you and to me is: how much does he have of you? How much is he able to control your life? Or how scared are you that a little too much control is going to get out of hand? And you're not sure what he may do with you if you really love. And you don't you can't really love him because you don't trust him All let's see, Jesus said, gift of the Spirit, it's the gift promised by my Father. My heavenly Father, who sent me to die for you. And how will that heavenly Father not freely with him give us all things? For our good, as we yield to the control of the Spirit in our lives. Let's pray again. Let's confess to the Lord each one now those elements where we're afraid of his control. Where we have backed off because we have been afraid that if He really filled us and God a hold of us, We're afraid of what he might do. We don't trust him. Slay that honestly before him now. Lord be when it comes for rejoicing in the fact That all the conditions for receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit have been fulfilled. That you, Lord Jesus, fulfill them all by your life, by your death. By your resurrection and by your exaltation to the right hand of the Father on high. And yet in your exalted state you have given your spirit to your people in his fullness upon all flesh. Debons us. Even sinners like us. Even ill-deserving people like us. Even people with cold hearts who are ungrateful for such an unspeakable gift. As us. And we come before you, Lord, in amazement. Lord, we know what it's like to give a gift very precious to us that's devalued and despised. And we're hurt because the person doesn't realize what we've given them. And yet, you, Lord, have given us your spirit. Part of the eternal Trinity to live and to reside in us. And so often we've ignored him. We live as if he wasn't there. Lord, forgive us. Lord, may we seek your Spirit's control in us. May we seek his power in boldness. Oh Lord, we seek to give ourselves afresh that you would fill us and that you would use us And then if there's anyone here this morning who has never given themselves to you, that you give them no mastery until they settled with you and give themselves to you. For the name of and the sake of Jesus Christ, who is exalted on high. Hallelujah. At this time I'd like to ask the ushers to come forward so that we can present to God the first fruits of our labor. And at the same time, any visitors who are with us this morning, I'd like you to fill out this insert in the bulletin. So that we can get to know you better and drop that in the offering plate as well. Let's pray again Lord, we have been reminded of the gift that you've given to us. The gift of the Lord Jesus and the gift of the Holy Spirit, which we have. We thank you for that gift. Give us the sensitivity to follow the leading of the Spirit in our lives. Warm us Father, we pray that you will take now our offerings and use them for the work of your kingdom and the spread of your gospel. We give our gifts to you in confidence for what you will do. In Jesus' name. Amen.