My name is Pastor Bob and I am very excited to be here this morning again and what a blessing and a privilege it is to worship the Lord. Amen. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 10 As uh Joel mentioned earlier, we're going to be looking at the account of Jesus visiting the home of Martha and Mary Although that's a familiar passage, sometimes familiar passages sneak up on us because we think we know them so well. So I want to invite you to Pretend you're hearing it for the first time. And as we walk through this in a narrative structure this morning, let's pray that the Lord will have something new for us. Join me in that prayer before the word is read. Almighty God, we thank you that your word is like a storehouse from which old and new treasures are found. We read that description in the Bible, and Lord, we pray that you give us the faith to approach your word that way. Lord, we can never plumb the depths even of any one scripture, as it calls us to know you better and to serve you well. Father, we pray that you would give us eyes to see and ears to hear. Lord, help us to remember to, in our own hearts and minds, exalt your word above all things but your name, even as you have. And Father, we pray that in the preaching that follows the reading of your word, Lord, you would bless the preaching as well. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 10, beginning with verse 38, the Word of God. Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me. But the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is needful. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her. This ends the reading of God's Word. There is something about this text that you may not know. Because of the way we tend to structure our Bible reading, if whether it's in small groups or personally, sometimes We miss certain aspects of the forest for the trees. Now, when we read the Gospel of Luke, We are reading an account of the life of Jesus Christ and if you look at part two of Luke's great work, the book of Acts, what Christ continued to do through his apostles. And Luke is an ancient historian, a devout Christian man, and he's being led by the Holy Spirit to give us this inspired and inerted account. But it conforms to the standards of an ancient history. And so when he writes this history, he is not writing it in a slavish Commitment to just mere chronology. He is sometimes grouping things thematically and then recapitulating back in a timeline and going on another slant. Let me give you an example of that. If you were to create a photo album, now I'm asking you to again do the work of a historian. How many of you still have photo albums? Nowadays with everything digital it's different. So on a photo album, imagine you have a photo album, and it's a photo album of your family growing up. And let's suppose that you're the second of four boys, like I was. And you look at that old photo album and you see pictures from when when dad and mom were in grad school in Urbana, Illinois, and you see pictures of Doug and little Bobby, and boy is Bobby a cute little baby. I don't know about that guy, Doug. But uh and and and all of a sudden you see pictures in Pittsburgh where dad did a post doc, and now there's this kid named Jimmy. And uh and then Steve doesn't show up for like a million years, but then you see pictures from Maryland. And then you see something strange begin to happen. You'll see pictures that follow Doug for a while, and then go back and see a bunch of pictures that follow Bobby for a while. And then followed Jimmy for a while. My parents refused to call Doug Dougie. They thought that wasn't going to work out. And so then when when the Dougie cycle ended when he was like in third grade we'd recapitulate back to the Bobby cycle beginning in kindergarten. and going back up and then we jump back. You see what I'm saying? In your photo album, sometimes you you jump as you tell the history for thematic reasons, you you kind of jump around a little bit. Well This account of Martha and Mary is out of place. Anybody ever noticed that before? Where did Martha and Mary live? Bethany. The Gospel of John makes that very clear. And although we didn't plan it, God in his wonderful wisdom determined that Joel would read that text. That tells us he lived in Bethany from John chapter 11 and his words of assurance of pardon. If you look at Luke chapter 17, verse 10, you read about when Jesus and his disciples approach Jerusalem. Where is Bethany? Right next to Jerusalem. Everything Jesus is doing in these verses around chapters 9 through the rest here are things that deal with Galilee and Samaria. And all of a sudden there's this one text that happens down. In Bethany, and then we're back up to Samaria and Galilee. Now, some people that have looked at creating a map of Jesus have uh Decided that he just took a a flash trip down there and then popped back up and he may have done that. But there's another perspective Given that Luke in other places also puts things in thematic order rather than strictly chronological order. And that is that this text was understood to be an important second part to the story of the Good Samaritan. I want you to think about the Good Samaritan for a moment. What is the question that that teacher of the law, that scribe, asks Jesus? He says to him, What must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus then asks him, what do you think? And that teacher of the law, that scribe, that lawyer, depending on your translation, he says. He quotes the Shema from Deuteronomy chapter 6. It begins, here, O Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one, and then the part that the scribe quotes. Love the Lord your God with your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and your neighbor as yourself. And Jesus says, you've answered well. Do this and you will live. And the teacher of the law says, but who is my neighbor? And so the story of the Good Samaritan, which is given in part as an answer to what must I do to have eternal life, focuses exclusively. on the importance of demonstrated love for neighbor in the form of service. And it would be very easy for us to then look, what must I do to inherit eternal life and think, I gotta treat my neighbor well. You see, nothing in the Good Samaritan explicitly connects the importance of the well-lived life with loving the Lord your God with heart, soul, mind, and strength. The entire point of the Good Samaritan has to do with that second great note of the commandment, and your neighbor as yourself. And here we have a situation in the home of Martha and Mary, where one person is focused on the purely horizontal service plane. Being a good hostess, providing good physical, immediate care, much like the Samaritan did for the injured man. And her sister Mara is focused on a different plane. Focused. What did I say? I have a sister-in-law named Mara. And now I owe her five dollars for dragging her into a sermon. Good luck collecting. Her sister Mary is focused on Jesus and Jesus alone. And that is a way of reading this text that has been popular in the church since early, early years of the body of Christ. that this text reminds us that there is a better portion that must not be neglected because it is needful. It is necessary. So let's look at this text now. In terms of the development of the plot line, it begins with a very good start. And it's always a mistake to think that decency, etiquette, physical service to others, it's always easy to overlook that. It's never wise. At the beginning we read that as they go on their way, Jesus enters a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed her into her house. And there's two things that are happening here. The first thing that's happening is that in the ancient world, as we saw and and alluded to when Jesus sent out the twelve in chapter nine, and then at the beginning of chapter ten of Luke's Gospel sends out the seventy-two, he says, When you go to a village, go to the first home that welcomes you. In the ancient world, if you visited a city, they didn't usually have uh inns and hotels. You would go to the town square. or the village square, and somebody from the village would see you there and invite you into their home. We see this in Genesis chapter 19, with the two angels that appear in Sodom And are invited into someone's home. They're shown hospitality. We see this in Judges 19 Where the Levite and his concubine go and stay in Gibeah and they go to the town square, and in J in in Judges chapter 19, No one invites them into the home and they're laying there and we read that an old man appears and says, What are you doing here? No, come, let me let me take you. You can't stay in the square overnight. So as part of the ancient custom of hospitality with deep roots in the earliest the Pentateuch itself That when people are visiting a village or a town, it is incumbent upon people in that village to put them up for the night as they're going on their way. It would be disgraceful for that not to happen in that culture at that time. And so Martha is doing that. But there's something else at play here. Jesus is renowned as a traveling teacher. And that was significant. Now, a book that I came across many years ago was first written in 1936 by an Aramaic Christian. named George Lamza. And if you ever see these books, Gospel Light and More Gospel Light in a used bookstore, they're they're out of print forever. Buy them. You know, Armenian Christians Still exist as Christians and they live everywhere from Turkey to Iran. They're a minority. And up until the collapse of the Ottoman Empire They existed pretty much the way they had for millennia. The Ottoman Empire, by the way, collapsed right around it really at the end of World War I This is written by a man who grew up in that culture and recognized the solid and loud and consistent echo of the biblical narratives from the time of Christ with the way people were still living, even in 1900, in some of these minority communities tucked away in from the Caucasus to the Levant. Now He describes this in that story. And I don't often read paragraphs from other books in my preaching, but I am going to this morning. Listen to what he says. When an honorable guest is entertained in a home in one of these small near eastern villages, All women in the house and the servants drop their work to serve. In the Holy Land there is nothing more important than entertaining an honorable guest, especially a holy man of reputation. Women would neglect their babies and their bread in the oven and food on the fire. Remember, bread in the oven was cooked every single day. They would neglect all that to serve the honorable guest first. No women in the household is exempt from this duty. Some sweep, others rush to borrow bread, plates, and other necessities, and still others are occupied with cooking and other preparation. It was a busy time. And here is this twofold aspect of etiquette and hospitality being demonstrated faithfully by Martha. Martha is eager to recognize this great teacher. She's eager to be the family that gets to host this visitor to the community. And she does so with a will. She welcomes him into her house. What a wonderful start. To welcome Jesus of Nazareth into your house and to serve him. Can you think of something that would be a more delightful statement about your home? That you have welcomed Jesus of Nazareth into your home and you serve him. You could scarcely have a better start to this year than to determine that that is precisely what you will do. That you will not leave Jesus in the great marketplace of ideas, but that you will embrace him, draw him in, stop what you are doing, let the bread get too crispy, and you will put a plate in front of him, you will wash his feet, you will Seat him, give him to drink and to eat what you have. That's the good start. But then we have a troubling development Verse 39 gives us two parallel, think of them as continuing actions. We read, and she had a sister, or there was a sister to her called Mary, not Mara, Mary. And she sits at the Lord's feet and listens to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving. So two things are happening here. Mary is sitting at the feet of Jesus This doesn't mean that Mara did absolutely nothing. Can I say it again? This is why I can never preach from the book of Ruth. I can't preach ever from the book of Ruth because I haven't my brother married a beautiful, godly girl from Mexico named No Amy. If I preach from the Book of Ruth, people are like, who is Naomi? Because I can never get Naomi right anymore. Mary is sitting at the feet of Jesus at this point. That doesn't mean she didn't help welcome him at first. That just means that Jesus has begun to teach. He's had a little something to eat. Now he's offering instruction. And Mary will not miss out on it. But Martha. There's two words here. That give us pause to consider carefully what Martha is doing at this point. The first is the fact that the conjunction is the word for but. It doesn't say and Mara. Someone said fifteen dollars Paul, just send your next mortgage bill to our house. It's gonna be a long day. Goodness gracious. It doesn't say, and Mary was sitting at the feet while Martha was serving. It doesn't say, and Mary was sitting at the feet of Jesus listening to instruction, and Mary, and Martha made sure that his cup of water stayed full. It says, but. It creates this opposition between the two ideas, this contrast. Person A does this, but person B does this. That's the first thing that should clue us into something here that we should notice. The second thing is the unnecessary word. When you read your Bible in your personal quiet times in your small group, sometimes it's a good idea to look at a Bible verse and say, are there any words here that are just completely unnecessary for the sentence to make sense? Because sometimes those words are words that carry some weight you need to be aware of. Listen to what we could just as easily as anything else read there in verse 40. But Martha was distracted with serving. No, see the Bible makes it clear with much serving. With much serving. The much has the idea almost of a superarrogation of more than was necessary. And the fact is she was distracted by it. There was something else that clamored for it her attention that she neglected in favor of much serving. This is the difficulty. The difficulty is that Martha in this narrative demonstrates an inability to switch gears And say, Jesus has been welcomed, he's been fed, his thirst has been slaked, etiquette and protocol are satisfied, and now he's teaching. And now there's something different that I must do. You see, she's distracted from that by much serving. And that troubling development leads to a bad end that I have seen over and over again, not only in my own heart, but in the lives of people I've pastored over these decades of ministry. Two things happen here. She says to Jesus, Lord, do you not care? You see, she begins to question the wisdom or the goodness of Jesus. Do you not care? That my sister has left me to serve alone. She's now critical of her sister as well Being distracted by too many things, even if they're good things, being overwhelmed by busyness for its own sake. can lead to adopting a critical stance towards God and a critical stance towards those who aren't sharing in your busyness. And how many times has this happened in traditions, in denominations, in congregations, in families, even in marriages? where you're committed to one or another good thing that should be done, but but you have let that become the thing that You can't understand why God hasn't given everyone the same burden you have, and you're critical of others that don't share it to the extent you do, even if they are every bit as committed to other good things. This disunifying overemphasis on doing good things, being distracted from the best thing can become a great divider of marriages, of families, of churches, of denominations This ability to begin to be judgmental with respect to God Himself, because, well, he should have been more clear about this. I'll never forget. When I was preaching through Philemon just uh two summers ago Here at CPC. This is my first summer here, summer twenty twenty-four. And I was preaching that that summer series on Philemon. And whenever I preached through a book of the Bible, I take my professional expense line item, thank you for that by the way, and I find out what has been published since I last did a major study on that book. And I'll buy the one or two highest rated, uh most academically relevant uh Bible commentaries. And I came across a commentary on Philemon that had been recently published by a fine theologian. And in the introduction, it had a shocking statement. It is to be wished that God had spoken more clearly on the subject of slavery. For me, that was a full pause. The Bible says a lot about slavery and human dignity and freedom and the connection between work and wealth and wages. But when we care about something to the point that we begin to be critical about God and what he has said about something That's that's a bridge too far. Am I wrong Once you decide that you are going to be in a position to be critical of God as if he doesn't care enough about something important to you, You have taken such a large step towards idolatry that you ought to tremble. The wisdom and the goodness of God are matchless beyond compare to anything you can imagine. And one day we will marvel at his wisdom in saying what he has said, how much room he has allocated to it, and how he has spoken. on every single subject the Bible touches upon. And today we can do no more than make that an article of our faith. And trust that where the Lord has spoken we may safely follow. Martha was concerned that Jesus didn't care enough about what was important to Martha Jesus cared exactly the right amount about every aspect of that dinner party. And Martha began to be critical of her sister, who decided that the best thing for me to do right now is to sit at the feet of Jesus and learn from what he's saying. That's a tough end. It's a tough end to start well, be overcommitted, overly focused on one thing, and end up being critical of God and man alike. But for those of us who have painted ourselves into corners like that, and I suspect that to some extent or another we all have, I want to encourage you with the response of Jesus to Martha. The Lord answered her, Martha, Martha. Two times in the recorded history of the life of Jesus Christ, he repeats somebody's name. The other time we find where Jesus says to Peter, Simon, Simon. Satan is asked to sift you as as wheat, but I have prayed for you. You see, that repetition of the name. It's not a rebuke. It's an appeal. There's a tenderness to it. Martha, Martha. You who are critical of me and critical of your sister. You who have failed to love the Lord your God with your heart, soul, might, and strength, and have failed to love your neighbor. Mary as yourself. Martha, Martha. That gracious and affirming response That underscores and guarantees relationship, even as it does with Simon. What a promise. Not only is it gracious and affirming of relationship, but it is insightful and corrective. He sees what is wrong with Martha. He says, you are anxious and troubled about many things. Again, many things. Much serving, overwhelmed with all that there is to do, so much so that you're worried about them and not focusing on that one thing that is necessary. And he sees what is right with Mary. He says Mary has chosen the good portion. She has chosen what is necessary that will not be taken away from her. That is an invitation for Martha to do a course correction. That's an invitation for her to turn from those things that cause anxiety. Other cares and burdens of the world that are causing her to question Jesus Himself And be critical of her own sister. It's an opportunity for her to say The guests are sufficiently fed and watered. I can sit and listen to the one who is the resurrection and the life And what a thought. Even when you completely fail at loving God and loving your neighbor, the way Martha did in this one dinner party. You have an opportunity here in this text, here at this church. Hear from this platform. Hear your name, your name, with words commending to you what is necessary, the good portion. Something that can never be taken away from you. Are we as Christians today anxious and troubled by many things? Even good things, even things that concern etiquette and manners and custom, even things that are in proper proportion, beautiful and edifying and notable. Do we find ourselves critical of other Christians who don't share our angst over the degree to which such things are demonstrated? This gives us an opportunity to reflect that there are parts to the Christian life You know, one of the great, one of the other great mysteries of this text is the fact that Jesus uses this language. Mary has chosen the good portion. Why does he use the word portion? It's a simple and not uncommon word in the Koine Greek of the New Testament. It's a word that has many occurrences in the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, executed by some, or performed, I should say, by some 70 rabbis in Alexandria. Well, before the time of Christ. It's a common word, but it implies a part of a whole. Let me give you an example of how that word was used in the Jewish world at the time of Christ in its Old Testament context. In Genesis chapter 43, verse 34, Jacob and his family, all of them are now in Egypt. And we read in that verse that they are fed portions, same word in the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, they are fed portions from Joseph's table. Remember, he's the prince of Egypt. But Benjamin's portion was five times as large as the others. There's our word portions. It also occurs in Deuteronomy 32, verse 9. Where it says that the Lord has established the boundaries of all the nations for as many as there are sons of God, but Jacob was his portion. The allotment of his heritage. You see, in both cases, there is a broader whole, whether it's the table of Joseph or the geopolitical map of the known world. out of which some section is identified as a portion. So ask yourself this question. Why is choosing to listen to the Lord described as a portion? Why isn't it described simply as a thing? Why doesn't it say simply something like, Mary's chosen something that's really good? You see, it's put in contrast to other things that you could be doing. Imagine it is, and it's the language of the serving table. It's a word that is remarkably consistent with a dinner party context. Think about if someone's passing around a uh uh uh an apotluck kind of a situation like the ancient Near East, and it's let's imagine they eat cheesecake back then, which they did not. But it's a fun thought. And they're passed around the cheesecake and somebody who's geometrically challenged cut to pieces Good luck if you're the one to get the last piece. It'll be a sliver. And if you can be so privileged to go first, which piece are you going to get? You're going to get the piece that some geometrically challenged person cut that's easy a third again as large as the piece next to it. You're going to get the good portion. You see, sitting at the feet of Jesus and learning from Jesus. is presented as if it's on this great menu of options for things you can do. And do you consider it the good portion? The choice, delectable morsel from the smorgasbord of the Christian life? You consider your time with Jesus, learning from him. Whether that's by attending the preaching and the ministry of the word, whether that's your personal time, your quiet time, you are reading scripture and meditating on it, do you consider that to be The very heart of your spiritual life? Or has that atrophied down to almost nothing? And you're Hellbent on frenetic activity in the name of a God you barely know anymore and who you're critical of. The very heart of the Christian life, the foundation of it, must be love for God, from which love for neighbor grows. And therefore, that culture, that soil, that bedrock foundation of love for God must be nourished as the great needful thing. Because if you have that, You're going to love your neighbor. If you do not, even your dis demonstrations of love for neighbor will become divisive amongst your brothers and sisters in the church. And will become mere motions. Love for your neighbor. What a beautiful thing. When it grows out of a love for God. Are we distracted with much serving? Maybe you're feeling a little threadbare and you're convicted this morning. I want to invite you to put the plates down. Put the plates down for a season and sit at the feet of Jesus. Spend more time in fellowship with Jesus and his people. And for those of us who are well centered on the gospel joy of simply knowing Jesus, maybe it's time for us to step up and do a little bit of serving. So that those who see the needs around us aren't overwhelmed by it and distracted. And my last thought I'd like to share with you this morning. is perhaps the most important. Have you chosen the good portion for yourself? Next time you fire up your computer, I want you to think about the menu options you have. I want you to think about this. And every one of you is going to fire up a computer at some point in the next couple days. And you're going to have a menu. And I want you to remember, life has a menu. What do you pick? What are you going to move your cursor over? What are you going to tap that mouse for? Is the first thing, the needful thing, the important thing of being reconciled to God the Father, your Creator, through the life and work of Jesus Christ is that the first thing you're going to click Or are you going to be, like the person referred to in the Sermon on the Mount, distracted by what you will eat, what you will wear, where you will live? All the things that the Gentile world slaves over and pursues. You are this morning being offered the good portion, the choice stake. The most imaginable portfolio item. You are being offered life through Christ. That's what the preaching of the word is all about. And come to him and be satisfied. Rest before him. Be instructed. Have your name recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life. Learn how to know him and love him better. And find your heart strangely warm towards your neighbor, whether that's your spouse or someone living in Japan, where we have an active ministry. Only come to Him and choose knowing Christ and hearing His voice over all else. Almighty God, we thank you for this day. Lord, we confess that we all go through seasons of life where we're like Martha. And we have such a good start, and troubling things begin to happen where we're so committed to our our agendas and our activities and the use of our gifts that we begin to. Begrudge both you and your people because they are not exactly on our page with respect to how we should be functioning as your people. Lord, forgive us for that. Inflame our hearts with a love for you. Lord, swell them at the thought of sitting at your feet and hearing from you. And Lord, empower us to build upon a foundation of love for God, heart, soul, mind, and strength. than love our neighbors as ourselves. We ask these things in Christ's precious name. And all God's people said