You think of last week, how we celebrated the fact that because of his resurrection, Jesus is invisibly with us. He's here right now because he has said that he would be with us. If you have your Bibles, turn to Matthew 28 again. We read again those words we read last week and continue meditating on them. Matthew chapter 28, verses 16 to 20. Hear God's word. Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go, and when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. Then Jesus came to them and said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. In teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. He is with you. He is with us. He is here in this room. He could make himself visible if he decided to. Just as we saw some Person who is in the third dimension could make themselves visible to creatures who are limited to only two dimensions by intersecting the plane of their existence. But as long as that creature that person was above or below that plane, they would be invisible, not because they were less real, but in fact if anything were more real, more substantial And Jesus is more real, more substantial than anything that you and I see here. Because he's risen, he has an enduring, glorified body, and he is with us. He could make himself visible to us just as he did to Saul. On the road to Damascus. But he chooses not to do that. He's given rather his word That you and I read, and in reading that we believe that he is with us. He's with us all the days, he said. The good days. When we feel his presence, we're delighting in his blessings. He's with us all the days. The bad days. The days when he seems so absent. When it seems like he's not caring for us. We make the mistake of thinking that Jesus with me means that things will go smoothly because he's with me But of course, he was with Stephen, even made himself visible to Stephen in Acts 7, when Stephen was being stoned by his enemies. And so Jesus is with you, not because of the circumstances by which you can verify that and say, well, things are going well. He must be with me But rather, it's simply because he has risen and because he has said he would be with you, that we believe and trust that Jesus is with us. But that statement is at the end of a paragraph. It's the fourth of four alls, all the days I'll be with you. In fact, there are three other awls that precede that, and you can't separate them. And so this morning, what I would like to do is to look with you at the other alls The other three statements that Jesus makes here in the time between his resurrection and his ascension And that we would see not only the significance of these, but we would understand in them something of the mission that Christ has given to us corporately as well as individually as a congregation. And a particular challenge that's before us in faith to respond to that. Now the uh the alls, uh happily uh if you look at them together at the beginnings, uh they make up uh CPC. Uh now that just happens to work out that way. Uh because you see the first and the last have to do with his comfort. And so the beginning scene, the end scene have to do with comfort. All authority is given to me. Relax. I'm in control. I have all authority. And then I am with you all the days. The two commands are his purpose. That's the P, His purpose for us. First of all, to make disciples of all nations, and secondly, to obey and teach others to obey all my commands. So that's what we want to look at. It's commonly called the Great Commission. Let's look at it briefly. First of all, there's the first all, the first comfort, all authority Jesus is saying here that he is the fulfillment of that prophecy in Daniel chapter 7. Remember that we looked at some months ago? Where Daniel, anticipating the coming of Messiah, had a vision. And in that vision he said, He looked, in Daniel 7. 13, in my vision at night I looked, and there before me was one like a son of man. Coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the Ancient of Days, and we saw that that Ancient of Days, mentioned in verses before, is God Himself. He's certainly this one who is the creator seated in unparalleled majesty. This one, the Son of Man, comes before the ancient of days, is led into his presence, and he was given authority, glory. sovereign power. All peoples, nations, and men of every language worshiped him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away, and his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. It's a rather remarkable picture here because you have two sovereign deities, as it were. Here you have God, the ancient of days, and this other figure, the Son of Man, comes And he has given authority, power, the kingdom, and it seems as if you have two gods. But of course, as we come to the New Testament, we understand this is the Father and the Son. uh a mystery that we can't fathom, but here it is prophesied, and Jesus says, who's risen from the dead, that's me. All authority has been given to me. And so as we looked a couple weeks before, when Jesus said on the cross, it is finished, what he was saying was, I have accomplished all that was necessary in my obedience and in my suffering. To establish a kingdom where all authority is given to me to rule and to reign, God's kingdom that will put down all rebellion and all evil against himself. He is saying here, I am beginning my reign, my rule. All authority is given to me. I have been raised from the dead. I have conquered that last enemy death. And so you and I hear those words and we rejoice. Amen? Oh man. Well we gotta have the Oregon and Easter again to get you the, you know. Jesus is ruling Do you understand? He's saying, all authority is given to me and I'm with you. And so Jesus is here before us. To be worshipped and proclaimed. And therefore, as a church, you see, not just as individuals, our mission is to proclaim Jesus rules and reigns in all authority. You know, uh just earlier this month, I went back uh to the place where I grew up, Alden, Pennsylvania, west of Philadelphia. And they went back there because there was a reunion. It was a reunion. I actually found somebody in the first service that had heard of this group, Delaware County Christian Endeavor. Anybody ever heard of Christian Endeavors? It was a youth movement some back in fifties and sixties. Actually it was been around for a hundred years or so and it still exists. I didn't even know that until I went back But in this group, I had gone to some of the conferences. I was in high school. And I remembered that at this one point I was at this conference, 1959, I was going to my senior year in high school And I had learned by associating with Christians that there was something very attractive about these people, about Christianity. But I did not want to give up my authority. I did not want to bow the knee to Jesus. I wanted to remain in control of my life. That was a tremendous conflict. When I was around church people, I'd kind of fit in and I'd sort of act like them. And then when I was with my unbelieving friends, Um my mouth actually offended them at times and I uh that's pretty gross character And uh uh somehow I don't even recall who the speaker was, but with that group uh that that year they had a guy who was saying something and just that night I mean, you talk about irresistible grace. God got a hold of me, and I saw I had to choose I couldn't stay on the fence any longer. If he was the final authority, if all authority was given to him I had a bow and I had to give up trying to rule my life and play God. And if he wasn't, I needed to be honest to say, I'm going to renounce it and I'm not going to pretend Maybe some of you are in that kind of situation. You see, we we love to hear the messages about Jesus is with us, Jesus has died to take away our sin, to forgive us, to give us a new life. You see, what he's saying to us right here, brothers and sisters, is you can't call me Savior and not call me Lord. All authority is given to me. And that night, by God's grace, and I mean that quite literally, only by God's grace, I went back to my bunk I said, God, I want to trust you. I don't know what it means. I don't understand it. That was over 40 years ago I've never regretted that decision. But I was particularly reminded of that because at the reunion I went back, and a couple of things that I saw, I went back and I I went back to the house that I had grown up in. was born in, raised in, and uh God enabled me to to sell that house to missionaries who are living there now, and we've gotten to be friends over the years And I was walking around. In fact I uh when I drove up there they were taking some brownies over to some neighbors across the street and they were sharing with some neighbors in the back and I thought, My God, how good you are. Here's this neighborhood was so dark and You know, he there's this little beacon of light and they're just they're making disciples around him. And um if I talk to this guy next door who had grown up there There were two kids that lived across the street. They were in the picture of that same youth conference that I saw where I had given my life to Christ. Two brothers. And uh I had not heard what happened to them. I found out that one of them, a few years later, asphyxiated himself in the garage. Turned away from Christ. The other has become one of the nation's leading plastic surgeons. And I thought again, choices, the little choices that we make. When I went to the banquet, I found out about, you know, what's happened to so and so and this and that one, and some had gone on with the Lord, and some had turned away from him. To see the consequences, just to look down through 40 years, you know, I mean I can't believe it has been that long, you know Forty years to see what's happened to those that have gone on with Christ and their marriages and their lives, and those that said, I want them to go to heaven. But I'm not going to bow to his authority. I'm going to run my life. I'm going to do it the way I want to do it. I know better. I wish I could communicate to you how that affected me to see the differences of those different lives and the ways that they've gone. And once again, made me so grateful to see how different my life is Because of Jesus Christ. I was not raised in a Christian home. Sometimes people think it's frustrating to me. They think that I talk about Jesus because I'm a preacher and I'm paid to do it. Let me tell you, it's just the opposite with me. I never aspired to be a preacher. I talk about Jesus because of how He changed me, and that's why I became a preacher. Just to get the opportunity to do it. Because Jesus has made a radical difference in my life. I, you know, I could tell you about my home and where my life would have been headed without him. And I shudder to think. All authority is given to him. And he asks you to come and to submit to that authority. To have his forgiveness and to have what he could do in your life to change you. And that really struck me going there. When I went after college, I went to seminary not because I wanted to be a preacher, just because of answers I had to get from my own faith. And I went then to Intervarsity Christian Fellowship and was a worked on students. Well w worked on students, worked with students. Sometimes it probably worked on them too. They worked on me and I worked on uh for ten years with Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. And uh at that the time just before I came with them, C. Stacey Woods had been the head of the movement. And uh one of the stories he loved to tell was of a fellow uh that he knew, Dr. Alexander Clark, who was a missionary in Africa. And uh one day Clark came upon an African being mauled by a lion. And this guy was in pretty desperate straits, and Clark had just enough time to raise his rifle and shot the lion dead. Uh the fellow was uh pretty severely wounded. They took him back to the hospital, mission hospital, and uh worked on him, prayed, and um The fellow survived, and after several weeks he was actually able to go home, leave the hospital. Some weeks after that, Dr. Clark was sitting out on his veranda and he heard this terrible commotion down the trail in front and There was all these uh sheep and goats coming down there and there's chickens and hens and people coming along with stuff on their heads and and there in the middle of all this large procession was this African who he'd rescued. It turned out this fellow was a prince, and here he was coming with all his retinue and comes up to Dr. Clark and prostrates himself on the ground before him. He said, Dr. Clark, our tribe has a law that if a man is rescued by another man from the mouth of a lion He no longer belongs to himself, but to his rescuer. All my possessions, and I myself, am yours. I'm your slave. And Jesus has rescued you from the jaws of hell. Jesus, at the cost of his own life Came to save you. And do you still stand erect and refuse to bow before him? We as a church have a tremendous privilege to declare the Lordship of Jesus Christ to this community. To enforce the victory that he has won. And so after he says, All authority is given to me, he says, Go make disciples. It's a rescue mission. The idea there of the go is not so much to go from one place to another, but you could translate it as you are going, make disciples. The focus is on the making disciples. And you see, what that says to me is Jesus is talking here about a mindset. A mindset in which you and I bear the presence of Jesus. And as we live, as we're walking through life, people that we see, we view with the mindset that every one of them are potential disciples of Jesus Christ. You see? That makes quite a difference with your neighbors, people you work with, people that you interact with. There is one who's a potential disciple of Jesus Christ. Wow, if God got a hold of this person, what he would be do you know, what God could do with that person. You know, I I was talking to a an one of my neighbors yesterday, came over and We started talking about the Lord, this fellow's become a Christian, and uh they plan to start coming here. And um as we were talking about, we're talking about another neighbor, and we're just kind of dreaming about what would happen if God got a hold of this guy's life. And then another guy just moved in yesterday next door where he's renting. And I met him. And as we met, you know, I'm thinking, what's God going to do in your life? You see, it's not a matter of where you go. It's a matter of that Jesus is saying this is not to some elite group of Christians that are called missionaries. This is what he's saying to all his people. You, you, every one of you, you see, if you belong to Jesus Christ, this authority is over you, go make disciples. Be used of him. See what God is doing. And I'll tell you, God is blessing here. We're seeing God do some amazing things in this base of operation that He's established here 21 years ago, Columbia Presbyterian, and making disciples. We're seeing people that are saying, and I've I've been hearing this more recently than I think I've ever heard before, people saying, I'm learning what it means to live in line with the gospel. See, that's what he talks about in that third all, that you will not just go and make disciples, we're not just after membership, but we're after maturity. Learning what it means to live in conformity with all of his commands, with the way of life of thinking, living in line with the gospel. But it's it's it's not it's not simply for us to grow, it's also to be moving out, you see, not only locally, all nations. You know that There's over a dozen nations represented in cultures represented within our congregation. We have missionaries to five different countries from Columbia Presbyterian, a whole team in Japan. And so as we are maturing, as we're growing to learn what it means to love the Lord, there's also the moving out to making disciples, the seeing this as a base of operation for making disciples. And some of you that are here are not disciples yet. You're seekers. Somebody called me just this week, who's been coming to CPC for almost two years. To say, I just want you to know I I've given my life to Jesus Christ. Totally foreign to the gospel before being here. From another country. And uh God's blessing. For some of you, it it it's he's still he's still drawing you to himself. He's still showing you what it means to follow Christ. That's okay. But don't put it off any more than you need to to come and to submit to him, to learn what that means God's blessing in many ways. You know, last last week they told me that we had over seven hundred people here. I don't know if that's true, but uh When you look at that, you realize there is another step of faith that God is calling us to as a congregation. This base of operation, you've noticed, I hope, that it doesn't say outside big letters Columbia Presbyterian Church, it says Columbia Presbyterian Church Ministry Center. That's the large letters. And that's so that you and I recognize this is not a cathedral and this is not a church. It's a ministry center. It's a base of operation for making disciples. But right now, we're being severely limited in being able to be obedient to the Lord and doing that. And we're being limited in two particular ways, kind of a short-term way, and then we look down the road and we see a long-term way, we're going to be limited. The short-term way Is that in this idea of teaching to obey all the commands, we have three structures. The Columbia Presbyterian. One is the celebration time, that's this, Sunday morning service, where we worship him and we hear his word. And then there is the Sunday evening Lord's Supper service. Have that next week Where we come, receive the elements of the body and the blood of Christ to feed on Him, have our faith strengthened, and to be able to hear from within the body what God is doing To grow in grace in that way. That's celebration time. Secondly, there's the seminar time, and the seminar time is where we particularly seek to focus on how to equip you by God's word to live more successfully under the obedience under in obedience under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Those are the middle hour classes. New set of them just began today. Hope you picked one, that you're in one, you're enjoying it. There's also the weekend seminars where we do that more intensely, like gospel in the heart and other things like that But if you went to one of the middle hour classes this morning, you probably noticed they're kind of crowded. In fact, they're so crowded that not everybody is even able to come who wants to come. In fact There's people that sometimes look at a class and they'll say, I just can't sit there, and they turn away. In fact, just on the high school level Tim and his group, that gang meets over there in the garage, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth grades. You know if all those kids ever showed up on one Sunday we couldn't fit them all in the garage. They just have to, you know, stand outside, listen in or something. I don't know You know, I mean chop a hole in the ceiling and kind of listen down and we'd you know, they'd have to move outside or something. Can't have discussions, can't break into groups Can't break 910, 1112, which is what we'd want to do, so we can have better discussion. Just simply can't do it. So those are some immediate problems in making disciples. We simply, as a base of operation, have exceeded the effectiveness of what we can do. Some people say, well just have a different schedule, you know, run classes during worship. That produces another set of problems. Other people say, well, just start some daughter churches. Well daughter churches, very expensive. We hope to do that with one in the next couple of years, but um that's not a way to alleviate space problems So what is it God's calling us to do? We don't know. We don't know. Short term, this group of us that are working on that But then there's a long-term problem. Think the short-term problem's bad. Oh, another short-term problem. We're looking for a fourth staff per uh pastor And uh right now Tim's in an office that's smaller than some of your closets and your bedrooms. I mean I you know I know that. I've been in some of your closets and I think, yeah, you could you could fit Tim's office in here. He at least to have something to hang his stuff on, you know and um and we're looking for a fourth pass. You know a fourth pass that's gonna be another classroom to get switched to an office, one less class I mean we are just really being limited. Now it also happens that in about four years we're going to run out of space here. Based on our current growth, we will have maxed out and exceeded How many people can sit here in two services, you go to three services, and you got other things to deal with than that? How many want to come to the one o'clock in the afternoon service? Or the six AM service. How about that one? Yeah, they got other options. What are we gonna do? You know, we're gonna run out of parking, a parking place. But it also turns out that as you look, you know, and here's where our faith gets really stretched, you look at It the bonds that that are just to pay off this place, they run out in 2007. That's great. That's three years after we've already outlived this place. You know, it's already been too small. Well, what happened was a very interesting thing at the January Congregational Meeting, Max Bilke stood up during the meeting and he said Well, you know, you know, we talk about uh some trustees, some of the trustees have talked about this early debt retirement thing, that if we can pay off two sets of bonds rather than one, that saves us each six months about thirty thousand dollars of interest each time you do that. Smack stood up and he said, I want 299 people to join me in giving an extra $100 for this July's bonds that will do, and that'll save us another $30,000 interest. And then some of us began to think about that. We thought, you know, if we did that every six months, rather than paying off the bonds in 2007, we pay them off at 2004, which is just when we run out of all the room. You know, to do that, if we had 300 family units that did that, it would cost about $103 a year extra to do that. I mean, that is not exactly a major challenge, you know. But Max started it. He started us thinking about that. If we did more than that, we could pay him off earlier, pay him off in 2003. We don't know where we're going, but what you see I'm trying you to understand is that God has called us here with a base of operation for making disciples. The celebration is going to run out in 2004. Seminars, we're already already to the point where it's counterproductive, where we can't fit. The cells, no problem. Meet in homes, 8 to 15 people that are learning to live in community. We can continue to expand those and there is no limit to what we can do It's the celebration and the seminar time in making disciples that's really hurting us. And so as we look at the Lordship of Jesus Christ upon our lives, We're setting aside next Sunday as a step of faith for 300 of us or 299 of us to join Max and Lisa In giving on an average of $100 extra, over and above our regular giving, just by faith. Not because we're given to a facility You know, it's not that we're raising money for a facility. This is nothing sacred about this place. It's simply a tool for Jesus Christ in making disciples. And if you buy into that vision, then ask God what He'd have you to do. Some of you wouldn't be able to do $100. Some of you could do more than $100. That's between you and the Lord. Nobody's going to know how much you give, just going to take up a special offering and people give what they give. We'll let you know after that, you know, uh how much the total was. We don't have any idea what each of you give. We don't want to know. It's a question of you and I understanding who we are as his people and to see God in these next months and years solve this problem that we have. in a way that we don't know what he's gonna do. I you know, maybe we should go buy Upton's over at uh you know Dobbin or something, you know. I mean, I don't know. I don't even know if it's for sale. I mean it's it's vacant but Uh you know, what what should we do? We don't know what we should do. We would like to make this facility work. This site is an excellent site And God's going to have to lead us and bring us together on that. It's going to be exciting to see what he does because I don't know. I just do not understand where he's taking us. But I do know that once again that fourth all is, I am with you all the days. I'm with you in this. All the authority is mine. It's the authority to bow before me. It's the authority to take care of you, to provide for the needs that you and I have. Therefore, go make disciples of all the nations. You and I are not here to be comfortable for ourselves and to say, ah, congregation is big enough. I don't want it to grow. That's not obedience to Jesus. He's saying there's people that are lost, they're going to hell without Jesus Christ in this community. You and I are called to make disciples. And God is blessing him. We're doing that. We want them to continue, right? So we need to step out on faith. We need to see what it'll do in establishing a larger base of operations so that we're able to continue to do that. Back in 1991, when we built this facility, we called it Vision 91, we adopted at that time Psalm 115, verse 3. Our God is in heaven. What was the second part? Anybody remember? He does whatever pleases him. Amen. And so now as we go into that, we remind ourselves again: our God is in heaven and he is with us. And he does whatever pleases him. But the issue for you and for me, personally, privately, is do I understand that the authority of Jesus Christ is over every square inch of this universe and over my life? Have you ever submitted to that authority? That's the personal thing. Are you his disciple? Have you come to the place that I had to come to? Well, you finally say, I want to be a little God who runs my own life, but I can't have it both ways. Either as Jesus is my Savior, which means his authority is over me, or I run my life without him. Jesus doesn't take a corner of your life. And so he says, learn all the commands that I've given. And I learned in my life and you're learning in your life the areas right now that he wants to take over pockets of resistance And maybe there's one of those areas that he's speaking to you about this morning. And he wants you to know that he's with you. He's with you as you step out in faith. Let's pray Lord, we come to you now and understand again that when we call you Lord, we're recognizing that we're not Lord We recognize, Lord Jesus, all authority is given to you. And Lord, we hate authority over us. We chafe at it. We want to live the way we want to live. Until we come to see that we've tried to live as gods and we've messed things up pretty bad. And you come to rescue us, not only to forgive us for our arrogance and rebellion that deserves hell. But also, Lord, that you might rescue us from our own foolishness. You've said that we're to follow all the things that you've commanded. Not to pick and choose. And so, Lord, we come to you this morning to remember that you are with us all this week. Lord, I thank you for the brother that said that he was delivered for some significant temptation this week just by remembering again that you were with him at that moment. Lord, speak to our hearts and those of us who are resisting, resisting your Lordship, to see how foolish, how foolish. And to come to bow at the feet of Jesus And Lord, we thank you for what you have been doing in our body. That we see how you are conquering new areas in our lives and showing us our idols, that you are teaching us more of the profound way of living by the gospel. You're bringing people to yourself on a regular basis here, that you are adding to the number of those that are here To the point where we're bursting our seams. And we don't know what to do about that. But Lord, we know that you do, and that you can provide And so we simply want to free up our resources by saving all those thousands of dollars of interest and paying off those bonds so that as your spirit is ready to lead us, we're in a position to follow. And so we pray, Lord, that you will be speaking to us this week about our participation, simply out of our love and our obedience to you. To join Max and Lisa and to see what you will do, to see how you'll provide. And over these next months and years, Lord. To see you who have provided for us at every step as a congregation, the next step that you want to lead us. Lord, make us available to you, that our faith might increase. We pray in Jesus' name Jesus, who is with us, Amen