If you have your Bibles this morning, please turn with me back again to Romans 8, where we were last week. As we look at verses 1 through 14, and I don't want to fail to say, at this time, if you so wish, your children who are in ages four through second grade to go to their time of children's church. Romans eight, verses one through thirteen. Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Because through Christ Jesus, the law of the Spirit of Life set me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law was powerless to do, in that it was weakened by the sinful nature, God did by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful man to be a sin offering. And so he condemned sin in sinful man, in order that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully met in us, who do not live according to the sinful nature, but according to the Spirit. Those who live according to the sinful nature have their minds set on what that nature desires, but those who live in accordance with the Spirit have their minds set on what the Spirit desires. The mind of a sinful man is death, but the mind controlled by the Spirit is life and peace. The sinful mind is hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law, nor can it do so. Those controlled by the sinful nature cannot please God. You, however, are controlled not by the sinful nature, but by the Spirit. If the Spirit of God lives in you. And if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ. But if Christ is in you, your body is dead because of sin, yet your spirit is alive because of righteousness. And if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal. bodies through his Spirit, who lives in you. Therefore, brothers, we have an obligation, but it is not to the sinful nature to live according to it. But if you live according to the sinful nature, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live. Because those who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this your word. We pray by your spirit, open our minds That we might see wondrous things in your word. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. So this is the final sermon in a six-sermon series on our purpose. To know Him, to know our Father through Jesus Christ, and to know our hope in the resurrection and the resurrecting power of Jesus Christ. And to know his power, the power of the Holy Spirit. Last week I said that what I wanted to do was to look particularly at knowing and what it means to know his power by his spirit through two different ways. One, looking and understanding what does it mean to live by the power of the Spirit in the midst of our weakness. Today, I want to look at what it means to live by the power of the Spirit in obedience. And so we're looking at verses 1 through 13 and also be referring to the larger context. You have the outline before you: two freedoms, two existences. Two powers. Two freedoms, two kinds of existence, and two powers. You see I've given you some uh markation, demarcation there of of the verses that I want to focus each point on is because not because I I necessarily I'm not trying to be pedantic. I'm I I I know you can understand the text and how it's outlined, but I'm trying to drive home what is so central to Paul. So central for Paul is that the life of the Christian is one marked by living in the resurrection power of Jesus Christ. But that resurrection power of Jesus Christ isn't something that simply is to be remembered or reminded of of what happened in the past. And resurrection isn't something something simply to be hopeful for, as Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians, about what Jesus Christ promises to do at his second coming. He means for us to live by the power of God, that is the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ, the Holy Spirit, in the presence. And what does that look like? And so the best way to do that is to go to this chapter, which is, I think, one of the most important chapters in regard to who and what and how the Christian is to live by the power of the Holy Spirit in all of Scripture As I stated last week, eighteen times the Spirit is referred to in this one chapter. Many may not think of the Apostle Paul as the apostle of the Spirit. But you'll know if you look at your Bibles, particularly, of course, the New Testament, that the b the overwhelming balance, the number of books written by a person, is by one author, Paul. And the Spirit has spoken about some hundred and forty times in all of his letters together. So if you have not understood Paul to be apostle of the Spirit, it's not the only thing that he talks about. But in terms of what it means to be a Christian, it is indispensable, and this chapter is as well indispensable. So let's look together first at verses one through four, the two freedoms that he talks about. And I apologize, but the first point is a review. Two freedoms. The first is freedom from If you look at verses 1 through 3 again at the passage, you will note this. Therefore it says, There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. He's already telling us that in Christ there is already a freedom from something. He says here that there's a freedom from condemnation. What condemnation? And here you need to remember the whole totality of the letter. If you're not familiar with the letter to the Romans, Paul is writing to Christians who are living in Rome. Some were Gentile converts, but a good number were also Jewish converts to the Christian faith. And therein he recognizes that there is a problem. That it's very easy for either the Gentile who's been converted to Jesus Christ or for the Jew who has been converted to Jesus Christ to begin then going back to the ways in which they used to live. And he means to say, look, if you're a Jew and you are trying to obey the law, trying to earn favor before God by what you do If you're trying to earn God's grace, be secure in God's salvation by what you do, you are under condemnation. Likewise. That if you're a Gentile converted to Jesus Christ, if you believe that you are living before a holy God, then you need to recognize that His holiness is a condemnation over you outside of Christ. But he says, in Christ there is now no condemnation. But he goes further, because through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit of life set me free, key word, from the law of sin and death. That whether one was a Jew or whether one is a Gentile, regardless, that there is a problem in our operating systems. And it's not about our behavior. It's not about our thoughts. It's not about our physical body parts. It's in our hearts. It's in the very nature of our being. We before a holy God have chosen sin. And as he says throughout the letter For all have sinned, meaning every human being, and fall short of his glory, fall short of his holiness. But thanks be to God. In Jesus Christ, and here is a review. You'll remember what I said last week. Paul is saying that life and living by the Spirit is namely living on this promise, that Jesus Christ, because of Christ, through Christ, and all of that Christ has done. That is, he satisfied God's perfect holiness. He lived the life that we were supposed to live. And was without sin, taking on our flesh, taking on a human nature, with his divine nature, without mixture, in one person, glorifying God as the divine Son of God, He's done everything that we could not do. So therefore, Paul means to say there is now no condemnation, meaning we are free from condemnation in Christ, we are free from God's judgment in Christ, we are free from the law which brings death. We are free from the sting of sin, which is death. We are free from that through Christ. And I said last week, and I want to say again, and here I want to say it slowly. It is Christ plus nothing, his righteousness plus nothing It is His grace, His love, His faithfulness, His life, His death, His resurrection, plus nothing Lest, however, we misunderstand Paul, and many did, and many still do. That when one comes into an encounter with Jesus Christ, where you are convicted to your heart and recognize That before a holy God there's nothing you can do, and you simply fall and ask for forgiveness, claiming Jesus, Lord Jesus, help me. I am a hopeless sinner. If you have done that, it doesn't mean therefore That though it is Christ plus nothing, there's nothing you can do to secure yourself before a holy God, it doesn't mean then that you can just go on living however you want. It's not just a freedom from condemnation, it is also a freedom for something else. It is a freedom for obedience, said this way. That we are not to receive grace as if nothing happened and to keep on living as if Christ did nothing, as if the presence of his spirit means nothing. We're not to live that way. Rather It means that there is a second freedom. And it is a freedom for obedience. You see, the same power Paul says here The same power that God used to raise his son from the dead is the same power that God gives to all those who trust in Jesus Christ, and that power is the presence of his Spirit that frees us from the world. from death and sin, but also gives us something else. It gives us in our heart and our hands something to do, what God calls us to do, to walk in his ways Look at verse 3. For the law was powerless to do, in that it was weakened by the sinful nature, God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful man to be a sin offering. So he condemned sin and sinful man. Now look at verse 4. In order that, meaning for this purpose. in order that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully met in us. That's referring to what Jesus did. Who do not live according to the sinful nature, but according to the Spirit. In other words, we're to live for what pleases God, what pleases the Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit ought to be the fragrance of the life of a Christian. So no longer is obeying God something I have to do, it now becomes something in Christ that I get to do. And there's a huge difference. Said this way, Paul Tripp, writer, pastor, counselor, says these words Your obedience doesn't secure you for God's grace. Again, your obedience doesn't secure you in God's grace, but it is a sign that His grace has invaded your life. Did you hear that? Your obedience doesn't secure you in God's grace, but it is a sign that His grace has invaded your life. While it is salvation through Christ and through Christ alone and what He has done, plus nothing, it does produce something. And it produces a whole new way of living, a whole new kind of existence. So stick with me for just a moment because now Paul goes from showing us these two freedoms to then he says, okay, let's look at these two kinds of existence. Look again at the passage. These two kinds of existence are what I think I'm calling flesh walkers versus spirit walkers. And so he goes on in his argument. If you look at verses five through eleven, verses five through eight, he says this: those who live according to the sinful nature Have their minds set on what that nature desires. But those who live in accordance with the Spirit have their minds set on what the Spirit desires. Stop. I need to define something here which is sometimes easily to misunderstand. What does it mean when Paul says for those who live according to the sinful nature? Or those who live according to the flesh in this passage. It's the Greek word sarx Now, so oftentimes we take this Greek word sorks or we see the phrase sinful nature and we begin to identify that with things of the body Things that do not please God with the body, stuff we do. But I want to tell you that that is not what Paul means in this passage. You see, in this passage, actually what Paul is saying is this. That flesh means unbelief. And spirit means belief So when he says in verse five, those who live according to the sinful nature, in other words, those who live who do not believe. in Christ, all the things that He's just said. So Those who do not walk and believe in the freedoms that are ours in Christ, this is what their existence looks like. So whether it is a Jew who's seeking to please God and secure his grace by obeying the law, you're living according to unbelief. If a Gentile is seeking to live by the wisdom of the world, for we know that the cross is a stumbling block for the Jew and foolishness to the Greek. So for the Gentile to look at a crucified man outside of Jerusalem and say, there is your Savior from sin. It was utterly foolish. And so whether it is the Jew trying to obey God's grace or get God's grace through obedience That is unbelief, but so is also the rejection of Christ outright. Both are a rejection of Christ One is saying, I can achieve glory without Christ. I'll do it through the law. The other one says, I'll achieve glory. I don't need Christ. Both are an example of unbelief And so the flesh walker, he says, is somebody who in fact walks in unbelief or denies Christ. And we can deny Christ. By trying to obey God in hopes that He will pay us back. Just as much as walking in unbelief looks like somebody who utterly just rejects Christ outright. So the flesh walker, he says, is defined by this. They have set their minds on what that nature desires. In other words, is focused on that which does not please God, doesn't consider God, feels that they don't need Christ. He goes on. He says, the mind of the sinful man is death. And then he goes on, look at verse seven. The mo the sinful mind is hostile to God. So he's saying that the existence of someone who lives in unbelief is marked by death, hostility And is consumed by self. It is a running to standstill Now here particularly I want to talk to those who are junior high, high school students, college students. I remember very vividly of looking in the mirror and having no idea who was looking back at me. Because for so much of my own life, I was running to stand still To finally find myself. But as I look back, I was trying to find rest. I was trying to find peace And I was defining that peace through acceptance from others, acceptance through doing something really well. acceptance from just trying to be who I am, but as I look back, I recognize that I was trying to be whatever chameleon was necessary for the moment. I didn't know who I was. And I was trying to find myself. I was trying to find joy in the midst of anything I could give myself to. I was reminded of just this kind of idea recently as I have an acquaintance who has lived most of his adult life attending three to four different live concerts a week. I had an opportunity to to see the B-52s with him in New York. He's not a close friend. I I actually just he's a friend of a friend. And as we started talking before the concert, I realized this I think you had seen the B-52s, and if you were like me a teenager in the eighties, you'll know that that's when they were cool. Not in 2011, right? And um so we're in this concert hall and and uh we're surrounded by pretty much my age people and slightly older. And they were talking and comparing their different experiences in these concerts. Will they be as good as they were back in nineteen so-and-so? Or what about this playlist? They remember the playlists. And what was so interesting, not only about him, but as the number of people that I was standing in line with Each person had a different tour shirt on and as you heard them talk, what they were trying to do now as forty-something year olds, now I want to talk to us forty-year-olds, right? They were trying to go back and relive the glory days because they're not happy with right now. And they're angry about really not really achieving what they had wanted to. The stuff that they had hoped to give themselves to really didn't pan out, but the one thing they can do is they can try to go relive the moments that were really cool. And what my heart broke over was not that they enjoy concerts. I love live concerts. But I recognize this: all concerts do is leave me with a memory. That's all I have. And a ringing in my ear. And a good story to tell. But when the stuff of life hits the fan. When your marriage is breaking, your children don't even want to be in your house anymore. When your longing for a spouse didn't pan out, when you're worried about your job leading to a layoff slip? Where is the life of the one who doesn't believe? Where does the mind turn to? I will tell you, it is a restlessness. It's looking for the next big thing. And Paul would say that is the mind of the sinful nature. Running to standstill. But he also describes the spirit walker here in verses nine through eleven. And here we learn that the life of the spirit walker is one marked by peace, verse 6. There's a certainty of the resurrection and therefore hope in verse 11. But it is not an easy road, lest anyone not remember what I've said over the last couple of weeks. In fact, Paul expands throughout chapter 8 to recognize even for those who walk in the Spirit, who trust in Christ Jesus, who have received the Spirit of God, doesn't therefore mean that life Goes well. In fact, oftentimes life can still be marked by grief, and we learn in chapter 8, groaning, deep groaning. There can be suffering and there can be trial. And even the one who is has the spirit can still feel the tension The same tension that this is not the way it's supposed to be, just as much as the person who doesn't know Christ or doesn't have the Spirit can look at life and go, this isn't enough This is not the way it's supposed to be. Paul is saying both the Christian and the non-Christian can still end up in the same place. This is not the way it's supposed to be. The question is, if that is the conclusion, what existence is Paul holding out to us? There's one that is marked by life and one that is marked by death. There's one that's marked by restlessness and one that is marked by rest, though both may experience the same trial and suffering. Paul calls all of us to this truth that the Christian who trusts in Jesus Christ and what he has done has been given the Spirit. The spirit of life, and in the midst of the tension, the way things are not supposed to be, still has a hope. in the here and now of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, which happened back there, and if that's what God in Jesus Christ did back then, how much more then Will he not also do the same in the future? And he's given us a s the Spirit as a down payment that he will be faithful And though the Christian may feel the restlessness of the tension, of the way things aren't supposed to be, He gives us a hope and a rest and a way to walk, that is, by the Holy Spirit Yes, I want to say to you, for the Christian, sin still exists. Temptation is very much always before us. But Paul says he God has given us his spirit. He says in verse 9, You, however, are controlled not by the sinful nature, not by that restless unbelief, not by a hostility be before God. But you have been controlled by the Spirit. If the Spirit of God lives in you, and if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ. You see, having the Spirit is absolutely the mark of being a Christian, then how do we know that we have the Spirit? We know because he tells us about the two powers. Look at verses twelve through fourteen. He tells us of these two powers, a power that leads to death and a power that leads to life. He's just told us in verse 8, at the end of verse 9 rather, why this living under the power of unbelief leads to death, because he tells us here. If anyone doesn't have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ. And the scriptures are clear. If you do not belong to Christ, you do not trust in Him, you do not rely upon Him, then Death is your end. But not a physical death merely, but eternal judgment. You will die. Isn't that what he says in verse 10? But if Christ is in you, your body is dead because of sin, yet your spirit is alive because of righteousness. And as the Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who lives in you. I just read the wrong uh verse. My apologies. This is what he's saying. Verse 13. That's what I meant to say. For if you live according to the sinful nature, you will die. Not meaning literally right now you're going to die. He's referring to the end, to when Christ returns. If you live in unbelief, if you do not have the Spirit, and you do not have Christ, you will die. It is a power. Just know this. If you're rejecting Christ, I respect and recognize that that's what you do. And know this. I know what it is to reject Christ. So if you are rejecting Christ, if you're wondering when I'm going to end and you can finally leave, I've also been there too. But while I want to respect you in your unbelief, I must tell you the truth that the scriptures here at least put something before you that you must wrestle with. You can have your power. You can live according to the wisdom of the world. You can give yourself to sexual immorality. You can give yourself to hostility. You can give yourself to the world's definition of what it means to have success and acclaim. You can live by that. But I will say to you, the scriptures say that will lead to death. Just know that when you reject Christ, you are choosing death. You may disagree with me But let me say this. C. S. Lewis said, but just before he said he became a Christian, he says he remembered God saying to him, put down your guns, let's talk. So if you have not believed on Jesus Christ and you are rejecting him, hang in here for just a moment. Let's talk. Because what he is saying here is that there is a power that leads to death, that is unbelief. But there is also a power that leads to life. It is by the Spirit. Now I use the words by the Spirit because that is the phrase that Paul uses. Again, he says to those, verse 10, but if now here's where I was supposed to read that, but if Christ is in you, your body is dead because of sin, yet your spirit is alive because of righteousness. And if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who lives in you. The word give you life. Is Paul saying, will give you power? If you don't believe me, he continues, verse 12. Therefore, brothers, we have an obligation. But it is not to the sinful nature to live according to it. And he says, what's the end of that? But he says this, but if by the Spirit you put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live. Here he's saying, if you want to trust in Jesus Christ, And walk in him, it will not happen on your own power. It will only happen by someone else, through someone else's power. That someone is the person of the Holy Spirit. The message of Christianity is not, now that you know Jesus, try harder. The message of Christianity is not now that you know the forgiveness that is yours in Jesus Christ, pull yourself up by your own bootstraps. What are bootstraps? That's not a word I use. Pull your s pull your own socks up, you know. Use your own my it doesn't happen that way The message of Christianity is not try harder according to you. It is to live by the power of someone else. And if God, he tells us, if God raised Jesus from the dead, and he has given us his spirit, he will give life By that Spirit. Remember what I said a few weeks ago? Augustine says, Command what you will, but give what you command. What does the practical thing look like then? Let me read these words from Paul's letter to the Galatians. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law. Those who belong to Christ have crucified the sinful nature with its passions and desires. Since we live by the Spirit, let us keep step. With the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking, envying each other. And we all, if you're a Christian, you've heard that before, you'll say, Yes and Amen. What beautiful fruit. But we also are aware of the fact that Paul says, I say all these things to the Ephesians, but I have not attained these things. So we we we look at the life of Paul, and Paul says, I haven't achieved these goals, and we look at that and we'll say, if Paul hasn't done it, how can I do it? Oh yeah, I I hear that we're supposed to live by the power of the Holy Spirit. But you know what? I feel powerless against my sin. And so what happens? We give up. If you have grown lazy in your Christian life, I want to tell you that that is just the back door to rebellion. The excuse of laziness, the excuse of saying why bother, should never be a part of the Christian's lexicon. Because what God's promise here is, it's not a triumphalism as if we'll never sin again. Of course we will. But he's given you everything that you need for life and for godliness. He has given you his spirit. And by that Spirit, in our prayers, if you are struggling with sin this morning, And by that I mean the kind of sin that Paul talks about in Galatians 5, the things that are part of the sinful nature, unbelief. What sexual morality, impurity, debauchery, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage, selfish ambition, dissensions, infections, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and the like. With this many people in the room, there are many of you here this morning. Who claim to follow Jesus Christ, yet find yourself battling these kinds of sins. That is real. But let me say again, do you believe this morning that God has given you a spirit? His Spirit, the Spirit of Christ, the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity. As the Godhead who raised the Son from death to life, victorious over sin and death. Do you believe that he's given you the power today to say no to ungodliness? If you have forgotten that, I want to remind you this morning, on every Sunday morning is a celebration of the resurrection. That this morning can be a morning of resurrecting. The promises that you have forgotten. It's not that you're not going to sin again, because if you do sin again, guess what? Where sin abounds, grace abounds Yes, I said that. If you are still struggling with sin, God's grace is enough. He'll provide you forgiveness, but he also gives you the spirit to say no. You have crucified. The text says in Galatians as well as in Romans. You have put to death the misdeeds of the body by what? The Spirit. And again, I want to say, this is not a triumphalism. This is not as if we're never going to struggle with sin again. But I want to say to you, so many Christians spend so much of their life navel gazing. This is the sin I struggle with. I can't let go of it. This is and we read books and we go to conferences and we we talk to so many people about it Yes and amen, that's fine. But if that's all you're doing and you've forgotten the power of the Holy Spirit that says today is the day of resurrection. Today is the day of renewal power. Then you have forgotten your first love. I want to say to you upon good authority that not in your hands or your arms or your heart is enough power to try harder. But I say to you, God's Spirit, God's power in you can enable you today to say no to sin. And Presbyterians and Reform folk, we need to be reminded of the power of this Spirit. But it is not a try harder by my own strength. It is a renewal. A renewal Of trust and reliance on his power, his spirit. I have to go. But let me say this final word. I want to thank you for these last few weeks and being so kind and allowing me to go so long. But here's why I've gone long. Some of it is because of my own problems and I'm still learning how to I'm going to scoot this back for just a moment. I go long because I'm still learning how to be an okay preacher. We as pastors struggle with going long because we like to talk. But this is from my heart. As we've talked about in the pastoral team, and I want to say to you again, I am so excited about the purpose of this church. To be able to have a meal in the Williams home where this church began as a Bible study, they don't know it, but that was such a gift. Because I was able, by God's grace, to plant a church beginning from a living room. And to go back and to be in the Williams home where 34 years ago this church was started and it was given a purpose. Ephesians one seventeen through twenty-three, to know God through his personal son, Jesus Christ. To know our hope in the resurrection of Jesus Christ and to know his power through his spirit is a purpose that I am so utterly committed to and excited about. And I'm so happy to be serving alongside of these elders and these pastors. But it is a purpose that will mean nothing, and this place will turn into a funeral home only. Unless we by God's word and spirit renew by His power our commitment to this purpose, this church will die a slow death. But I'm excited because I see what God has done in you. I see grace at work in you. And I want that same grace at work in me. And I believe in this purpose. But may it be for his glory. And if you are not a Christian this morning, we are glad that you're here, but we want you to know we're We don't want to rehearse the gospel. We don't want to worship simply to please ourselves. We want to make this knowledge, this hope, and this power known to this community, this county, this region, and the world. And if you do not know the Lord Jesus Christ, today can be the day of new life. If you have questions or arguments about the Christian faith, please see me after the service. I'm right out there in the north Northsex. But again, I want to thank you for this purpose that you have started in this church. Let me pray for us as we end that God would give us these truths that we've been going over to equip us and prepare us for Advent in the new year. Let's pray. Father, again we thank you for your word. For your word tells us of so many wonderful truths Father, it is so easy for us to forget the purposes that we once had. But we thank you that you've called us to know you, to know our hope, and to know your power. So, Father, we pray that by your word and by your spirit, for the Christian, I would pray this morning, remind them and renew them in the person and work of your spirit. and by the Spirit to walk in new life. For those who do not know you, Father, I pray that by that same Spirit That they will know you even today. Make us a church that seek your glory Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be glory. In Jesus' name, Amen.