Seems like we drag our tails a lot more than the gospel would indicate a Christian should when you consider the promises of joy and contentment that we have in Christ. As I thought about that, I thought about why is that? And one of the basic reasons that I've come up with is a diagnosis about a progression that I think contributes for many of us to this lack of joy. I think for many of us we lack joy, peace, sense of victory and well-being in our Christian lives because there's no awesome sense of wonder in our being forgiven. We don't wonder at the magnitude of grace for our being forgiven and reconciled and adopted as God's children. And the reason we don't really wonder and stand in awe of that is because we don't have a sense of the magnitude of the horribleness of our sins. We don't really see sin as a major problem. We don't see sin as something that is loathsome in the way that Rick was even just praying about We see sin as something that's kind of a minor problem that just needs to be taken care of so that God can go on loving us. And because we really don't see the magnitude of our arrogance in sinning against God. Uh we don't see that, that is uh the next part of the progressions. We don't really see how awful that is because we don't understand the holiness of God We don't really understand the God that we've sinned against and how terrible it is that we have ignored his commands and his words. And so I would suggest to you that this progression, lack of joy from a lack of a sense of forgiveness, from a lack of a sense of sin, from a lack of an understanding of holiness, is foundational in our restoration of joy. I would suggest to you, therefore, that if you want to begin to reestablish a foundation for joy in your life, that you would do best to start by understanding the holiness of God. Now that's pretty well talked about, but not very much understood in our generation, is it? I mean, we're a people who are so secularized we barely understand transcendence. Let alone understand holiness. The interesting thing is that back just a couple of generations ago, the idea of holiness was very central to the Christian life. Uh people talked about holiness, uh they preached about holiness and sanctification and these kinds of things. But when's the last time you've ever heard a sermon or a series about holiness? Or about sanctification, the Christian life as a holy way to live. Think of a book uh with uh kind of an unlikely title, Hot Tub Religion by J. I. Packer. It's a good book. Probably not like what it would sound if you just think of the title. But uh Packer says in this book, in a chapter he has on holiness, he quotes from a poem by Rudyard Kipling And in this poem, Kipling says, They shut the road through the woods seventy years ago. Weather and rain have undone it again. And now you would never know there was once a road through the woods. Commenting on that, Packer goes on to say, that seems to me to be exactly our story with regard to sanctification or holiness. To listen to the sermons and read the books that we published today, you would never know that once the highway of holiness was clearly marked out for Bible believers, the pastors and people knew it well and spoke of it with authority and confidence. Weather and rain have undone it again. And now we have to rebuild and reopen the road starting from scratch. It was back in the 1830s that a powerful preacher by the name of Robert Mary McShane, who was used of God to bring many to Christ Said that when uh he thought about the thing that was most needed in his life, he said, the one thing, or to quote him, he said, my people's greatest need Is my personal what? Holiness. Not power and preaching, not articulateness, not skills and strategy My people's greatest need is my personal holiness. I believe that's true of you as a church. Your greatest need is the people of God, as far as my duty is concerned to you, is my personal holiness. The greatest need of the people in the sphere of your influence and of Howard County is your personal holiness. The greatest need of Howard County is the personal holiness and the corporate holiness of Columbia Presbyterian Church. And I believe that as we think, as Rick was praying about the great ideas and the vision that we have for God using us in this county That as we come into this fall when we are at some point a transition where we are longing for God to break new ground with us, and I don't mean that just physically now upon breaking ground for the facility as well as breaking ground and opportunities for us. That the best thing that we can do is to consider this matter of holiness. Now, we are still in the series on the names of God. So what I'm going to do is that I'm going to approach this idea of holiness in a little bit of a different way. We're going to look at two names of God. And if you are new or you just may recall, you know, what was that series? You look on the back of your bulletin outline. You see there the list of the names of God. And these are the first eleven names. We've covered eleven now in the last two, three years. of this series. These are the first eleven names that we have covered. I'm not going to tell you how many there are total. We are hoping to finish it by the time I retire and the Lord comes back, whatever comes first. But it really won't be all that much longer, but we're going to take all Paul just to consider two names now. The first one, number 12, is the Holy One, or the Holy One of Israel. A name that is used a number of times in the Old Testament to refer to God. The second one that we'll consider, we're just going to look at that name this week and next week. And then for the rest of the fall, up till before Thanksgiving, we're going to look at the name Yahweh Mekedishkim. Now, I don't know how many of you who you know have names of God hanging around your house and all that Have ever seen or heard the name Yahweh Mekedishkim? How many have ever heard that name before? That's about what I thought. Okay? Let's say it together. Yahweh Mekedishkim Ah, now you'd never pass Hebrew school with that. Come on, turn it again. Yahweh Mekedishkim. What's it mean? It means the Lord who sanctifies you, the Lord who makes you holy. And so we're going to look at this fall at three identities that we have as the people of God that flow out of that name, Yahweh Mekedishkim. that transform our thinking about who we are and how God has called us to live here in the Baltimore, D. C. corridor. What I want to do then today is I want to start by looking at this name, the Holy One. That name's used a number of times in the Old Testament. Testament, as early as Leviticus 19:2, God said to his people, You shall be a holy people, because I, Yahweh your God, the Lord your God, am a holy God. I am the holy one. I am holy. Wherever you see I am holy, you could also translate that. I am the Holy One. In Psalm 99. The psalmist calls all nations and all the earth to tremble before Yahweh, who sits enthroned between the cherubim, because he is the Holy One. He is holy. In Psalm 22, quoted by the Lord Jesus on the cross, that Psalm begins addressing God as the Holy One who sits enthroned upon the praises of his people Israel. But nowhere in all the Old Testament do you see this name more than you see it in the book of Isaiah. Now, perhaps it was because of how Isaiah was called into his ministry. Can you imagine having a vision of Adonai, the Lord, the Master, high and lifted up in the temple? Where his train of glory filled the temple, and the smoke of glory filled with billows that temple, and Isaiah saw a glimpse of the majesty and the holiness of a holy God, before whom the radiant cherubim bowed and prostrated themselves and said, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. Imagine if you or I ever got the barest glimpse of the essential holiness of God It'd never be the same, would you? We'd never forget that experience as long as we lived. And I'm sure that was true of Isaiah. He had the privilege of seeing something of the holiness of God, and he never forgot it. And so when he wrote his book to the people of God, he uses this name, the Holy One For the Holy One of Israel is one of his favorite designations of God. He uses it at least 26 times in the book of Isaiah to refer to God. And I want to this morning and next morning, next Lord's Day morning, to just look at two of those passages where that name is used for us to understand something of what it means that our God has designated Himself as the Holy One. And the whole idea, remember, of the Names of God series is that we know our God in a more balanced way, so that we know him and we understand him. That we worship him, that we can be drawn close to him with a more balanced picture of who he really is, and not just our distorted images. Well the first one is in Isaiah chapter fifty-seven that I want to look at. I want to take a look at just one verse here in Isaiah chapter 57. Without spending time on the context, God is speaking to his people, he is warning them, he is wooing them. But in Isaiah chapter 57, in verse 15, we read this. This is what the high and lofty one says. He who lives forever, whose name is holy. I live in a high and holy place. Just that much. Now, I want to look at three things that we see from Isaiah's designation of God as the Holy One in this passage and another one we'll look at. The first thing I want for us to see is the essential meaning of God's holiness. So on the back side, now the front side of your bulletin outline, you see there point one, the essential First blank is meaning, the essential meaning of God's holiness. You see it there right in this verse, what he's talking about. He says, uh, this is what the high and lofty one says. He who lives forever, whose name is holy. I live in a high and holy place. Now, what do you think of when you think of holiness? When you think of the word holy, when you think of something that's holy, what does that bring to your mind? For a lot of us, it probably conjures up the notions of religious Good, pure, not bad. Something which is holy has kind of religious connotations to it. Now that's part of it, but it's not the essential meaning The essential meaning of the Hebrew word, which is translated holy, the Holy One, is simply the meaning separate And so we see that next blank, the word holy equals separate. Holiness is separateness. Things which are holy in the Old Testament are simply things which are separate. The word does not so much refer to an attribute as it refers to a relationship. Something isn't holy in itself. It's only holy with respect to something else. You got a bunch of things here, you got ten of them lined up, and you put one and separate it and Put it separate from the other nine, that's holy. It could be for good use or it could be for bad use. Doesn't really matter. If it's separated from the others, it's holy. Things are referred to as holy in the Old Testament. For instance, the furniture in the tabernacle. uh was referred to as holy because it was used for a separate purpose. It was used for the worship of God. Utensils we referred to as holy. I have all the pots for cooking, but you have a particular pot or pan that's used for incense. in the uh tabernacle and that's called a holy pot. It's a holy pan because it doesn't look any different, doesn't smell any different, just it's holy Uh some of you have poly chairs in your uh home, you know. I don't mean that they got holes in them. I just mean that, you know, and when you guys come home and you say, you know, whatever chairs everybody else sits in, that's my chair. You ever know guys like that? That's that's my easy chair, you know? And uh, you know, it just sort of conforms itself to my body. So anybody can sit anywhere they want, but that one is holy. That's for me. And uh, you know, the kids sit in it, the dog sits in it, they get thrown across the room, you know, because that's holy. Certain things that you have, you say, I'll lend you this, I'll lend you that, but not this piece of jewelry. That one's very precious to me. It's holy. It's separate, you see, in its use. Places were referred to as holy in the Old Testament. When Moses was out as a shepherd in Midian, and God called him out of the burning bush, and he saw that awesome sight of a bush. out of which God spoke and burned but wasn't consumed. The thing that God first says to him is, Moses, take off your sandals, because the place you're standing on is Holy ground. It's separate ground. It's not like other ground because I'm revealing myself here. And so recognize that it is separate, that it is consecrated Because I am revealing myself at this place. Persons were referred to as holy. In Exodus 29, God says, sanctify, set apart, set separate, the sons of Aaron. Because they are to be used separately for the worship to represent my people in worshiping me. I'll call them priests They don't look any different. They wear funny clothes to show that they're separate. They have the twelve gems and the names of Israel on them and and they do certain things that are very separate. But they're no different in no more no more uh good than other people. They're simply separated in their function. They're holy. And so that was the idea. But God's whole people were referred to in is as Israel in Exodus 19 as a holy nation. He's simply saying, I've separated out from all the nations on the earth, a people that are my own people. And so they're holy. And you and I are called God's holy people because we're separated from the rest of Howard County and the corridor and Maryland. We are separated unto Jesus. Now what does it mean? When we say that God is holy, what does that mean? It means that he is separate. Now, what is he separate from? He's separate from us. Now, how is he separate from us? You need to understand this before you understand anything else about the gospel. You've got to understand this. God is separate from us. And he's separate from us, the Bible tells us, in two ways. First of all, he is separate from us as creatures. That's A there. And that's what you see right here in this verse. God is separate from us as creatures. He says in verse 15, this is what the high and lofty one says: he who lives forever, whose name is holy. I live in a high and holy place. His very name is holy. Now, you might say, well, maybe that just means that his name, Yahweh, is holy. You know, that uh his name is to be set apart and not to be s uh to be desecrated. The only problem with that is his name never appears in this whole chapter. The only way he designates himself is the Holy One. And so his very name is the Holy One. And he is holy. He is separate from us in two ways, you see, in this verse. First of all, you notice that he is high and lofty, and he lives in a high and holy place. He's separate from us in space. God dwells in a whole different dimension that you and I cannot begin to imagine it is so high and lofty and separate from creation. That we can't begin to imagine the majesty of the place of his dwelling. He is high and lofty and lives in a place of a different dimension of existence from you and from me. He also is separate in the dimension of time. You notice he says, I am he who lives forever. And it means that he inhabits eternity. Now you and I just came on the scene, and we tend to think nothing very important ever happened before we were born, you know? But God says that you and I are the merest newcomers on the scene. He has pre-existed creation. His being is totally independent of creation. He inhabits the realm of eternity. Time is not even something to which he is subject And so, in the realms of space and time, the two continuums that you and I as creatures can understand, God is totally separate. And we can't begin to imagine what that means. But as astronomers begin to discover more of the universe, we begin to get a glimpse of what it means that God is holy. For instance, if you were to take to a high-powered telescope and look at what is called the globular or globular, great globular star cluster. which is affectionately known to astronomers as NGC 6205. How'd you like to be called that, you know, by people that study you and here's old NGC six two oh five. I mean this thing just got a little number, you know, but but what is that? Well it's something in our galaxy. You look through a high power telescope all you see is this little bright spot Now when Dean and I go out camping in the summer, one of the things we love to do is to get a really good clear night. And we try to pick the nights that we go so we get a good clear night. And we'll go up on top of a hill where there's no trees. We just lay down on the macadam and hope that some snake isn't trying to sun himself on the night warm macadam after the dark there, you know Because we just lay down altogether quiet, we just stare up at the sky and let our eyes take about ten, fifteen minutes to get used to the darkness and just gaze upon the heavens. We'll have a long pair of binoculars and we'll see all these stars and they say about the most you can see just looking up like that, even on the best conditions, maybe six, seven thousand stars. And we'll take a pair of binoculars and we'll just look through with just basic, regular, ordinary, everyday binoculars. And you take one look at one spot where you saw one star, and you may now see dozens of stars in that one little spot That's just with the merest simple magnification. Now if you take a high-powered telescope and you looked at NGC 6205, you just see this one blob That's within our galaxy. But that one little blob that you would see is over one million suns in that one dot. That one million suns are about 25,000 light years away from us. Now remember a light year is about six trillion miles. If you were to take a 747 jet traveling at top speed, it would take 170 million years just to cross one side of that dot to the other. Of a hundred million stars. Excuse me, of one million stars. In fact, if that jet were to try and get to it From here to there, it would take it 150 quadrillion years to reach it. This is within our own backyard. You begin to move to other galaxies. For instance, take the Andromeda galaxy, NGC224. Another just a little spot. You gotta have a more high-powered telescope just to see that thing. There it is, just a little dot out there from us, it just looks like a star. You begin to look at that and you see that that's in fact not a star, it's a galaxy, it's two hundred billion suns That thing's two million light years away from our own galaxy. If you took the fastest spacecraft that we have today and took off for that galaxy to try and reach it, It would take 150 billion years to reach it. If it took off the time that Abraham was walking the earth, he'd be still getting out of the driveway That's the vastness of the Holy One. God says, I am the high and the lofty one. I live in a high and holy place. And these stars are simply the handiwork to show you something of my holiness. I am utterly separate. From you as creatures. Our own galaxy contains perhaps 300 billion stars, suns. We think that we're a big deal. And we think that the Earth's kind of the center of the universe, don't we? We need to put ourselves in perspective. Let's suppose that I had for you right here a photograph of our galaxy. And here it is. This is our neighborhood. within God's creation, of which there are billions of galaxies, but this is just our own little neighborhood, you know. This is kind of the Columbia of the universe. And there it is. Now, can you see the sun on that? Well, no, you've got to blow it up a little bit more. So we blow it up the size of the screen. Can you see the sun? No, you still can't see it. You can blow it up a little bit more Uh to the size of Howard County, still further. Size of Maryland, still further. Size of the United States, still further. If you were to blow that picture up of the galaxy, the Milky Way So that that one photograph was the size of all of North and Central America, only then would you begin to be able to even spot the sun, which would be a tiny pinhead dot At one point in that photograph. Now, in that one little pinhead, the nearest star on that kind of a scale would be 800 feet away. We tend to think you look out there and they're all kind of crowded together. You're sort of afraid they're gonna bump into each other, you know. And they're really millions and billions of miles apart, eight hundred feet away on that kind of a scale. On that kind of a scale, you can say, well, can you see the earth? It would take an electron microscope even on that kind of a magnitude where the whole where the galaxy is the size of all of North and Central America. Still take an electron microscope to discover the speck that's one thirtieth of an inch away from that little dot called the sun to find the earth. And on that one little speck detectable only by an electron microscope. There's five billion people. God says, I am the high and the lofty one. I dwell in a high and holy place. You and I don't begin to understand what it means when we take that God and we look at his word and we say, I can take it or leave it. I'm the center of the universe. When we begin to see what he has to say, and we say, God, this is what you have to say, but I don't feel like I want to live that way You see, God has said that he's not only holy in terms of relationship to us as creatures, but also to us as sinners. And that's the second thing. He is separate to us, separate from us, in terms of our being sinners. He is the undefiled one. Habakkuk chapter 1, verse 12 refers to God by this name, calls him the Holy One, and then it goes on to say, your eyes are too pure. To look upon evil. You cannot tolerate wrong in your presence. If you and I see evil on television and the magazines and books we read all the time, we kind of smile at it. Say it's no big deal. But the Holy One is utterly undefiled. The Holy One can't be tempted with evil. The Holy One has never had an evil thought. The Holy One has never compromised to the slightest degree with any evil or sin or unrighteousness in all the eternity that He has existed. He is utterly separate from sin. And so when you and I look at who he is and we begin to understand what sin is in the majestic, radiant presence of the one who hates sin. With a holy and undefiled hatred, because it defiles you and me. And if that sin were to be allowed to go unpunished, it would bring chaos through the universe, because then God Himself would no longer be ruling In His holiness and righteousness. And you and I begin to see the second thing, and that is the necessary response to God's holiness. And I'm only going to have time to just begin this. I only have a few more minutes, and I just want to begin this. We'll pick it up again next week. But to understand that, take a look at Isaiah chapter 30. In Isaiah chapter 30, Isaiah uses the same name: the Holy One. And here God is addressing his people, and he's saying, I've tried to show you that I am the Holy One. But here's how you've responded. He says in Isaiah chapter 30, verse 9, these are rebellious people, deceitful children. Children unwilling to listen to the Lord's instruction. They say to the seers, See no more visions, and to the prophets, give us no more visions of what is right. Tell us pleasant things. Prophesy illusions. Does that sound like our generation? Give us upbeat messages. Tell us things that make us feel good about ourselves. Things that send us away smiling with a song in our hearts so that we can feel good about the weak and the stresses we have to cope with. We're here to feel good, aren't we? That's what Israel said. Tell us pleasant things, prophesy illusions, leave this way, the way of holiness, get off this path. And notice this. Stop confronting us with the Holy One of Israel. The Hebrew is there literally cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us. And these are the people who are religious people, the evangelicals of their day. It reminds me Of how we want to not see reality, but we want a delusion when it hurts. I remember I told you before about my wisdom teeth Always get into these stories about teeth. I yeah, I hit both I hit you know, Doug McElroy and Don Olson both here today. But I remember that time, yeah, I've told you about my wisdom teeth. You know the doctor looked at my teeth and said, You like you should die before you should have those teeth out? Worst teeth I've ever seen in my practice, you know. But finally they had to come out. Well, I wasn't about to want to savor that experience and know exactly what was going on. So they gave me something like sodium pentathol, you know. And what it does is basically You know, it kind of puts you in la la land, you're kinda half in, half out of it. And so this guy he's working around. He could have had a hacksaw in there for all I knew, you know. I wasn't aware because I'm just sort of off here, you know, kind of vaguely aware that he's there and The passing of time goes very quickly, you know, and I don't know, all this blood is coming out, and my teeth are coming popping out of my jaws and all that. Because you see, I'm out of touch with reality And when I think of that, I think of Isaiah 30. It's like America wants spiritual sodium pentathal. We're saying, stop confronting us with the Holy One of Israel, because if you do, we'll begin to see what our hearts are like. We'll begin to understand the rottenness that makes us up, and we like to think that we can live in a way that God's going to be happy with us. We don't want to think of ourselves as failures. Give us a spiritual sodium pentophil. Tell us pleasant things. Stop confronting us with the Holy One of Israel. We can't take it. We flee from holiness, don't we? You begin to understand something of what God is as a holy God, and you say, I'd rather hear something else. I'm going to switch the channel. I'm going to turn the station. Because I'm very uncomfortable. I am. I begin to think of holiness, and I get uncomfortable because I know that my own heart searched before the light of holiness is rotten. Now, I can't go on to unfold this the way I'd like, but I want to just tell you this. The amazing thing when you and I begin to understand that is turn back to Isaiah 57 again. In Isaiah 57, God says, this is what the high and the lofty one says. He who lives forever, whose name is holy. Who lives in a high and holy place, he who is utterly separate, goes on to say, But I also dwell with him who is contrite and lowly in spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite. Do you understand what God's saying there? This God who looks, and if we were to just be able to see this galaxy displayed on a photograph of North and Central America