I'm worried that my marriage is going to fail. The culture war is escalating and I'm even seeing in secular press that term. When Jesus says this, he's not saying, well, just stop your emotions. But the lights that will far surpass the contentment and joy of our hearts, because He is our heavenly Father, and He will never abandon us What John read before? Doesn't mean you're not allowed to continue to delight in God after this. And were envying those who didn't have that burden. As we saw last week, you will not suffer what you deserve justly under the judgment of God in hell. Call it the A B C's because it's got three points to begin with A, B, and C. Look at some of the worries that we have and see how they are expressed in these verses. Give to the poor. and uh read an article about fundamentalists trying to take over the school systems and and there's more and more of a fear of the culture in terms of the pro-life movement, in terms of education, in terms of politics. very easily in the years to come that being a biblical evangelical Christian in this country is gonna cost. People say scripture does not command emotions. Can you imagine Jesus speaking verse 32 severely? And you stood before him under the law and under its condemnation. And wanted his best. If you follow him fully and turn your life over and say, Lord Jesus, I want fully to follow you, then he's going to say, good, that's just what I was waiting to hear. And then you and I claimed that promise, and he said, Oh, well, you know, I made the promise, so I've got to keep my word. by some other principle that was outside of himself, but simply because within himself he was pleased to give you that kingdom. You were just exhorting one another. And of being able to come before Him to confess your sin and to receive forgiveness for that sin and new life. That we serve him with a duty orientation. that we grow as Christians not by disciplining every natural impulse, but by beholding the Lord Jesus and being changed into his image. as we delight in him and as we behold his glory, as we worship him, and our love for one another flows out of that Produces delight because it increases our intimacy with the Lord Jesus in our fellowship with Him, in our anticipation of glory to come. You know, you evaluate anything or think about the day and look at the past week and all the clouds and the rain, you know, and of course if it'd been hot and dry I've been complaining about that, you know, it n nothing's ever quite right. And so I thought it'd be appropriate to end the series by looking at that one verse in its context to see how the Lord Jesus He says to his disciples, therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life. And do not set your heart on what you will eat or drink. And then he even goes on to say further, even more amazingly, sell your possessions. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. If we're young, we're worried about, am I going to be popular? Am I going to be a success in whatever career I choose? What's going to happen? spasm, you know, after about my third or fourth mile and think, you know, muscle spasm. Begin to see my friends die off. We're full of fretting. Will he remove the pleasures that right now I'm trying to say there's really nothing wrong with this, is it? Christ, what's he going to do with me? And this verse is d addressed to those fears. But what he does is he addresses it by giving to us reasons. And he gives us reasons to not be afraid. So this verse is addressed to our fears, and secondly, it's based on his character. First of all, it tells us that he is a shepherd who cares for me as his sheep. Switched once and for all from judge to father. As if God is some sort of a monster who delights to lay severity upon his children, but rather wouldn't say, My child Let me show you some delights that you wouldn't have dreamed of. And you are precious to him. In Jeremiah chapter 32, he says in verse 40, I will make an everlasting covenant with them. Morning to the end of the series on delighting in God. And we have been particularly since March focusing on verse four. I think you ought to say that to each other. And he showed you how futile your resistance is, how foolish to resist the God that made you. as Savior and Lord. That the di the danger is that now though we are not rebels so blatantly, but now we are serving God But the fact is that if our orientation towards serving the Lord Jesus is simply a duty orientation then that is neither satisfying to ourselves nor to God. And our service flows out of that delight, which is his intention for you and for me, to delight ourselves in him, so that he can give to us. So we've been looking at this whole idea of delighting in God and Psalm 37, written to speak that truth, was written To those who were frightened fretters, people who were uh fearful, who thought that they had it rough because they were following the true God. Anxious complainers. And it's in one verse, Psalm 37, verse 4, has a counterpart in the New Testament. Consider the ravens, they do not sow or reap, they have no storeroom or barn, and yet God feeds them. Who of you by worrying can add a single hour to his life? And if that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today, and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, how much more will he clothe you? You get older and beyond that then you begin to worry about health and you know what's this ache mean and you know I'm running along this this week and get a s So really, I'm sorry to hear that. And the sane society, you know. cord here getting wrapped around me. That we're a threat to society. For your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. Do not be afraid, little flock. You imagine him. I went out and I began to go through Psalm 23, not study Psalm 23, but simply to recite Psalm 23 to my heart. Not only as a shepherd, but secondly, we see here that we are encouraged to not be afraid, because he is a father who passionately delights in his children. Now you would expect for him to say, your king has been pleased to give you the kingdom, wouldn't you? But just because Jesus is again concerned to address your fears and my fears, he uses this most intimate term, Abba, your father, your daddy. So that his son would not carry that disgrace, but be able to achieve what he longed for. Now, let me do what I can to make you miserable and take away all those things that you've delighted in. Thirdly, you see, Jesus gives us a reason based on his character to not fear In what he says in the end of that verse, he is pleased to give you his kingdom. God really is basically irked and angry with me, but He threw out this promise when he was in a generous mood that said, Whoever comes through Jesus to confess their sins, I will forgive them and bring them into my heaven. You know, one of the things that I find is when I really get honest with myself, I wonder how not only could God ever like me, but how could anybody like me? Trying to do things so that you'll think I'm a nice person, a decent person, you'll respect me, you'll like me. At some point, God breaks through to you, and you see, I am so bankrupt in any kind of goodness that I have no hope in making God pleased with me. See what he says back in Jeremiah chapter 32, to a people who had again and again gone away from his ways. Because as a bridegroom delights in his bride, so I delight in you. You know, by nature, you and I are rebels against God. Love that we have for the Lord Jesus as we receive his love expressed to us, that even suffering reinforces this idea to encourage our hearts. Just pulling out of my driveway yesterday morning, a neighbor pulled out in his car and stopped alongside me and he said, Al, I want to talk to you sometime if I can this weekend. And of course you see it just this week with the murder of the abortionist and uh assistant, you know, uh how the press handles this. And Jesus says right here in verse 32, do not be afraid, little flock. A very tender term. Who sacrificed his own son so that you and I would not be cut off. We resist him. That we most honor God when we are most satisfied by God. The refocused desires of our renewed hearts. But you will inherit his kingdom. You see people dying and you think, am I going to be alone? Is pleased to give you the kingdom. Will follow me all the days of my life. And you will not be cut off, but you will dwell in his house forever. And as a father, his concern is not to punish, but to discipline and to draw you into the delights of his love. And shortly after that, he was silenced forever with three shotgun blasts. For your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. And so I try that with God. I have no hope in doing something to make him like me. It says, here you are frightened about this stuff and you're fearful about that. This verse is addressed to your fears and to my fears. And these things will be given to you as well. As we get older, we may be still concerned, am I going to find a person to marry? Year and a half ago, buried his wife, died of cancer. I know I'm half-hearted. Now, what he's speaking of us as a flock, that implies, of course, that the Father is the shepherd. Recently I was discouraged and I was fretful and I was fearful. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. He is a father who passionately loves and delights in his children. And back in during World War II, his son, uh it was just before World War II, his son wanted to get into the Naval Academy But that wasn't enough because they didn't trust that his connections were really severed. Because of his Father's sacrifice. He would rather not get very intimate with us because you and I are always messing up. For your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. Consider how the lilies grow. And yet when we're honest, don't we spend a lot of time during the day worrying, being anxious about certain things that could happen or what the future's holding Master of all, and he calls you and me, not you disciples or you know, you lowly worms, you know, all kinds of things we could think to address ourselves, but he calls us you little flock. The Lord is my shepherd. He causes me to lie by the still waters. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. I will fear no evil. By some legal maneuvering to pardon you when he really doesn't like you. Because it's only when I understand that most of my life is spent in trying to get people to like me. And when you and I begin to understand that the Father has given you his kingdom, not because his arm was twisted, You and I need to lay hold of this idea that God is pleased to give us his kingdom Now, what I want to do this morning is to take a look at, we've seen Psalm 37 speaking that, and to look at the New Testament counterpart to Psalm 37. And Psalm 37 is written to those who are tending to want to complain and to fret. Maybe you're fearful of what would it really be like if I serve Jesus with all my heart Now I believe I told you the story some time ago of a fellow who I believe was called Slippery Eddie. Do you see how that psalm picks up these themes of Psalm 37 and Luke 12? You look at our culture and you see the things that are happening. And he had to have an approval and uh they would not sign for him because his father had connections with a mafia. Even if you walk through the valley of the shadow of death, don't be afraid, little flock, for the shepherd is with you. And it's only when I go deeper than that to look at what my heart is like in its radical evil that the gospel begins to make sense. Will I find another person? Don't we come here and we sing those songs and we feel like everything's fine, it's good, but that can be so circumstantially oriented. Take just turn to the person next to you and just say that. Do not be afraid, little flock. He cut off all of his connections with the mafia so that his son would be able to get what he delighted in, to make good, to be a success You ever imagine the tone with which Jesus spoke this verse? Provide purses for yourselves that will not wear out, a treasure in heaven that will not be exhausted, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys He says, Yeah, it's bad. I know there's a lot of areas that I hold in reservation that I don't want to give over to him. But that law nature, that stubborn, resistant nature in us so clings to us I'm already at my age, beginning to see some people that I knew, one girl that I dated die We fight him. They're just, you know, neither right nor wrong. Okay. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. You find you're a complainer? Is this marriage going to fail? Luke chapter 12, verse 32. He sees you as his child. I'm not saying this stuff just to make you feel rotten. But the gospel begins to free you up and free me up from our fears. Be afraid that I'm gonna hang myself, you know. Or maybe I've had a marriage that's already failed and I'm worried about what I'm going to do now. They do not labor or spin, and yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his splendor was dressed like one of these. For your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. I shall not want. It just means you know now we're gonna get back to the sober stuff. You will be brought into his kingdom, into the land of peace and promise. And you try that with God. What's going to happen to me as I get old? It's real bad. Now there's nothing wrong with the word duty. And which one should I choose? And then the verse: Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Maybe not the delights that you and I would choose. And then you look at our culture. You know, you're afraid, you're fretting about all the things in your life. That love is as nothing compared to the love of your Heavenly Father for you. We ignore him. I don't know about you, but I'm noticing a severely intensifying antipathy to Christians. We're a threat to the democratic process. Now notice what those are. He is no longer your judge. He calls us a little flock. Culture wars. You prepared a table before me in the presence of my enemies. It was written to those who are anxious, those who thought that life was not what it ought to be Or are my kids going to go home with the Lord? We don't delight in him. He addresses our emotions by speaking to our thought process Can you imagine him speaking this sternly? Don't worry about your life, what you're going to eat, about your body, what you're going to wear. Could it be a heart attack? For your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. So the only reason he is ever going to set his love upon me is because of himself he is pleased to do it. Delight yourself in the Lord and he will give you the desires of your heart. Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart. Do not worry about it. I can't talk about it now. What should be clear, what should be more direct than this commanding of your emotions? That's the bee. Am I going to find somebody who is going to love me and want to marry me? And even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death with all its fears and all the anxiety We read in Psalm, I mean excuse me, in Luke chapter twelve. And will I be able to do what I hope to do and make some mark in life? Do not be afraid, little flock. And since you cannot do this very little thing, why do you worry about the rest? Seems like it's okay, it's nothing really sinful about it. Jesus says, Do not be afraid. This is not just a term Christians are using now. But at the moment that you received Jesus Christ as your Savior, God's identity and relationship to you I am. It's Luke chapter 12, verse 32. I want to end the series by looking at this verse and see how it teaches to you and to me the ABCs of delight. We don't like to think of ourselves as fearful people, do we? I'm wanting to get you into this into the situation you'll be in tomorrow morning when all this is gone, all the singing and all the fellowship, and you're back facing reality. Okay. Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. It's a good, strong, honorable word that needs to be recaptured in our culture. That's a fears lurking It's very helpful when you're doing Bible study often to think about the scene and to imagine the tone with which words were spoken. The whole preceding verses, John read some of them. I was looking at situations for which uh I didn't see any answers and didn't seem like I saw any way through it. You and I tend to worry. Now, you think about how tender that phrase is. He's your heavenly father. I'm going to show you what discipline and discipleship is really like. Does that seem artificial? That's what I've been trying to demonstrate over these past weeks looking at Scripture. Don't you see the larger perspective? Don't just worry that you don't have enough, but get rid of some You're gonna be getting rid of the nominal Christians because you're gonna have to take a stand No, no, no, not that. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. And then at some point the Holy Spirit got a hold of your life. And so we have seen over these past weeks Or if we are married And so Slippery Eddie turned state's witness against the mafia. I'm trying to do this and I'm trying and trying. And then what happens? Three things that this verse tells us about God to take away your fears and my fears. We delight in ourselves. You know, I I hate to admit it, but you know, I think about the it's always things could be better, you know? The reasons, point to, are based on his character. That's what many of us believe, isn't it? Get with it. And I want to give those, but I'm afraid what's he going to do if I do? The first point is that this verse is addressed to my fears Notice Jesus says, do not be afraid, little flock. Now that would make sense in the context. Certain dreads and fears And I'll tell you if anybody is I'm getting my little For the pagan world runs after all such things, and your Father knows that you have need of them. You know, what about this and what about that? We fear He restores my soul. He gave his life purposefully for his son. Now do you notice there once again the scripture is commanding our emotions? I couldn't find it, but it was named something like that. And how much more valuable are you than birds? They don't seem like they're really interested in spiritual things and so many worries He is now your father And when we think of him as our shepherd, what do we think of in Scripture? And his son became one of the most famous World War II flying aces. Now just stop it. Do you think then he's going to leave you in the fears that you dread that I don't know what's going on with him, but his eyes were full of fear and anxiety. That's your hope as a Christian. And the salvos are being launched with greater intensity both ways. When you came to Jesus Christ, God changed roles. And he showed you of your need for Jesus Christ, of his sacrifice on the cross. He was pleased to set his love upon you. Just you know, since January we've been looking at Psalm 37 Did you think of what you're saying? Don't have to fear, you're his sheep. But what's gonna happen if I'm really a hundred percent committed to Jesus He's not been trapped. My cup runs over. Here it is again, you know, and these people and on and on and Go ahead, exchange that for a minute. Of course not. Let's go back to verse 22 to see the fears that Jesus is addressing in this passage. Do not be afraid, little flock. Oh, yeah of little faith. But basically, he'd rather remain distant from us. These are the people who he's just said have despised his covenant, they've gone away from him. We've been doing that so much Have you come to believe that more in these last few months if you've been around for that? And so from that point on, you began to serve Jesus. And it does that by giving to us a larger perspective. Unbelievers are talking about culture wars between the radical right, the religious right. You know, just don't be afraid. You will not be cut off We most glorify Him when we most delight in Him. For thou art with me. If it's a kingdom, it's the king who is the one to distribute it, to call people into it. The fears don't go away. Doesn't make sense. Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothes We're always disobedient, half-hearted And I'm always seeing the deficiency of it Do you believe that? Do not be afraid. We don't like to think of ourselves as people who are anxious. What Jesus is doing there is he's tenderly coming to us. He was a lawyer for the mafia Here's Jesus, Lord of the universe. Do not be afraid, little flock. You go back out and after a while you're alone and they return. And surely goodness and mercy. He says, I'm sick He delighted in you because he decided to delight in you. However Will he take away all my happiness? Isn't that interesting? Not even Solomon. And so because the father cared for his son. Before that point, he was your judge. Psalm 23. And why is that? Whatever it is. And I can see But seek his kingdom.