Well, at last, after a 17-week interruption, we return to the series on the Church of Christ. We began, you remember, last November With a definition of the church, we talked about the Church of Christ, the Ecclesiah, as the called together ones. the literal definition of the church, the called together was , the gathered assembly of God. We talked about that being defined by the activities Certain events defined the church. The Old Testament Church defined by its gathering at Mount Sinai, where God established his covenant with his people. The New Testament church defined by its By its gathering in the New Jerusalem, our gathering at the New Jerusalem spiritually, each Sunday morning as we come to praise our God and our great high priest Jesus. And that when Jesus Christ returns and The church will be gathered at the New Jerusalem physically. We were there. We will be there. And it's our being there spiritually that gives meaning to our being here this morning. We then uh began part two. In talking about the identity of the Church of Christ, and first of all, we are considering the church as the people of God After this, we'll go on to consider the church as the body of Christ, and then thirdly, as the fellowship of the Spirit. But right now, first of all, we're considering the church as the people of God. And we're doing that primarily from 1 Peter 2, verses 9 and 10. We started by looking at the church of that time in November as the chosen people. We talked about the the fact that we are the chosen people by God's sovereign selection. And the fact that that also means our being in Jesus Christ, who is the chosen one of God. We can never separate our chosenness from Jesus. Jesus Christ. That's never an abstract sort of predestination or an election. It is our being chosen in Christ, together with Him, in Him. And that that's because the word chosen also means precious. So we're not only chosen in Christ, we're precious as Christ. We're chosen as God's precious ones. And chosen means that we're precious to him. We're chosen not just as individuals, but we're chosen as a people. We have a corporate identity. We're the new humanity in Jesus Christ. With a corporate solidarity. Now today we begin looking at the second phase phase of this identity. That the church is also the royal priesthood in First Peter two, chapter nine uh chapter two, verse nine. We read, but you are chosen people, a royal priesthood. Now this phrase is so rich. That after I began trying to deal with just this one phrase in one message, I realized this week, after much labor, I could in no way really deal with that in one message. So I tried to deal with it in two messages, saw that too is hopeless that I decided I would have to deal with it in four messages. Um four messages dealing with the different aspects of our being a royal priesthood. First of all, as you see there on the handwritten bulletin because of all of the various editions that this message went through, that we are not only that by being a royal priesthood, we are priests of God. But not only are we priest, but we're also the temple. But not only is the church priest and the temple, we're also the sacrifice. And not only are we the sacrifice, but we're also kings as priests. Well, then, as I uh tried to develop just this one aspect of our being a royal priesthood, the fact that we're priests, it finally came to Let's then look at the scripture first, the Word of God, to see what we're doing. What he is saying to us in First Peter chapter two, we'll begin at verse four through verse ten. First Peter two, four to ten. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him, you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood. Offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in Scripture it says, See, I lay in a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone. The one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe, this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe, the stone the builders rejected has become the capstone, and a stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. But you or a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Once you were not a people But now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. May God enable us to understand what this means as we pursue it in the weeks ahead. Let's focus then on that one phrase in verse 9. You are a royal priesthood. If you've been a Christian for any length of time, you've heard used a number of times that phrase, the priesthood of all believers. And what does that mean to you, that you're a priest? How often do you think of yourself As a priest, are you ever conscious of the fact that you are a priest of God? Or is that a phrase that's rather foreign to you, particularly in the way you think of yourself? Well, you know you should The Bible calls you a priest. And you can't fully enter into your identity As a believer in Jesus Christ and part of his church, until you understand what it means that you are a priest. Now, where does Peter get this idea? Does he, uh, in writing to this church that's undergoing suffering and persecution, try to pump up their ego and say, you know, you you people are just so wonderful, you're just so precious to God, I mean you you're chosen by him, you're you're just you're you're you're priests, uh, you know, just trying to somehow grab onto something that will help them to see how important they are. Well it's not bad at all. Peter didn't just somehow grab on to this idea because it sounded good, he's quoting scripture. Peter's quoting from Exodus 19:6. Let's take a look at that. For it's in Exodus 19:6 that the people of God were first called priests. God has just taken the people of God. He's just rescued them, he's brought them out of that land of captivity into a wilderness. And he brings them to Mount Sinai to gather them all together before his face to establish a covenant with them. We read in Exodus 19, beginning in verse 1, in the third month after the Israelites left Egypt on the very day They came to the desert of Sinai. After they set out from Rephidim, they entered the desert of Sinai, and Israel camped there in the desert in front of the mountain. Then Moses went up to God, and the Lord called to him from the mountain and said, This is what you are to say to the house of Jacob, and what you are to tell the people of Israel. You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt and how I carried you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words you're to speak to the Israelites. It's not a promise. But God's here telling Moses, tell the people that if you keep my covenant and are in covenant with me, I will make you to be a whole kingdom of priests. Not just certain ones of you, but the whole kingdom, the whole nation of the people of God will be priests. This defines, you see, the very nature of the people of God. as he's talking to them there. The very nature of the ecclesia then, the church in covenant with God, is that it's a c it is a people who are priests The rest of the Bible then shows how God brought this to pass. You see it in three stages. The first of all, there was the priesthood of Aaron, the Old Testament priesthood. Now, in order to understand this, We have to ask ourselves, what is a priest anyway? A priest literally is one who brings near to God One who brings near to God. To understand it, for instance, contrast it with a prophet. A prophet is a person who brings God near to man. A prophet represents God to man in revealing his nature and his will. A priest, on the other hand, is one who represents man to God. And brings man to God. Probably the closest definition that we have in all of the scripture to what a priest is and does is found in Hebrews chapter 5, verse 1. And in Hebrews 5, 1. When we read these words, every high priest is selected from among men and is appointed to represent them in matters related to God. Did you get that? That's the job description of a priest. He's selected from among men and appointed to represent men in matters related to God. And he does this in two ways. To offer gifts and to offer sacrifices for sins. He offers gifts And he offers sacrifices for sins. Now there's likely a distinction here, breaking down his job into two parts. On the one hand, he offers gifts for worship. Because God is so worthy. And on the other hand, you offer sacrifices for sins, for atonement Because we are so unworthy. Adam, you see, was a priest. He is a priest who is called to worship God and to offer gifts to God And to rule the earth under God and to offer that up to God as a pleasing offering to him. And that was his role as priest. But ever since that time when we turned our backs on God and sought to offer the gifts to ourselves instead of to God. From that point on, before we could worship God, there needs to be atonement, sacrifice made to cover our sin, so that we can even approach God And so the priest, before he can worship God, must offer a sacrifice for the penalty of sin in order to approach God. Now I want you to understand what Peter's getting at here in this phrase where he calls us a royal priest. We have to understand two things about what a priest did. First of all, you notice there that he represented and bore God's people. A priest represents and he bears God's people. And he does This in two ways. And those two ways were symbolized by two parts of his vesture, two parts of his garments Two parts of what a priest wore whenever he was in that office of representing the people. And the Bible makes a major point of this. And we dare not miss it, or we'll miss what it means for you and me to be a priest. First of all, there was the Ephid. The Ephid is described to us in Exodus chapter 28, in verses 6 to 14. Now the Ephid was a garment made of fine yarn and wool and linen. And it is placed hanging from the shoulders of the priest. Notice what God says in Exodus chapter 28. In verses nine to twelve. The instructions are to take two olix stones and engrave on them Now this is on the epid, take two olive stones and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel. Do it in the order of their birth, six names on one stone and the remaining six on the other stone. Engrave the names of the sons of Israel On the two stones the way a gum cutter engraves a seal. Then mount the stones in gold filigree settings and fasten them on the shoulder pieces of the epid as memorial stones for the sons of Israel. Aaron is to build the names on his shoulders as a memorial before the Lord. You get the picture? Aaron, every time he went in to make sacrifice for the people of God, bore those people on his shoulders. Now notice this for those of you who have been around for a year or so. The word it's used in verse 12 Aaron shall bear the names on his shoulders. That word is the word masa. And those of you who are here on the forgiveness series may recall that that's a very precious word. It's a word which means to something up and to bear it away, to take a burden and to carry that burden away for a person. It's a word that was one of the key words used in forgiveness to define what forgiveness is. It's to bear So what's the picture we have here? That Aaron shall bear the weight of the people's sins by having that symbolized by having the ship. Having on his shoulders the names of the people. God's people are hanging from his shoulders, and he bears the weight of that every time he goes in to make sacrifice. And in that vivid picture, God is reminding us that the priest must bear the weight of the sin of the people he's representing. But that's not all. There's another garment. And that garment was the dressed piece. We sometimes call it the breastplate, though it was actually mostly cloth rather than some piece of armor as a breastplate might indicate. That's described in Exodus 28, verses 15 to 30. But if the ethid hung from the shoulders, the blessed piece covers the heart. And if the ethid is a picture of the priest bearing the weight of God's of the sin of God's people. The breath piece is a picture of the priest's love for God's people. Love for the sinner. Notice what he says in Exodus twenty in verse twenty one. After describing what this breast piece will look like, Aaron is told that there are to be twelve stones One for each of the names of the sons of Israel, each engraved like a seal with the name of one of the twelve tribes. Then verse twenty-nine. Whenever Aaron enters the holy place, He will bear the names of the sons of Israel over his heart on the breastpiece of decision as a continuing memorial before the Lord. Also put the Urim and the Thumb on the breastpiece so that May be over Aaron 's heart whenever he enters the presence of the Lord. Thus Aaron will always bear the names of making decisions for the Israelites over his heart Before the Lord. You get the picture? It's not enough for the priest to bear the weight of the sin. You must also have the people on his heart. And there must be that precious, close identification in a love for the person you represented. Now this is the picture in the Old Testament. And but then the question comes, as the priest day by day and year by year offers the sacrifices of atonement. Which is a second function, not only to bear the people, but to make atonement year by year as he goes in to that holy of holies. And makes offering on behalf of himself and for the people, to make offering for sin, bearing the weight of that sin. Bearing the preciousness of those people in his heart, will there ever be an end to this? Will there ever come that sacrifice that will be effective in removing sin For year by year, his offering was merely of consciousness of the fact that the sin was still there And so we have in Psalm 110, verse 4, a very precious promise. For in Psalm 110, verse 4, there's a remarkable statement where David writing concerning His Lord , that which was from his own lineage as a king, he says of this king to come in Psalm one hundred and ten verse four, the Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, me. Are a priest forever in the order of Melchizedek. There's coming a priest who is going to be a king. A king who's going to be a priest. And this one, as that psalm goes on to describe, will bring salvation to all of God's people. And this one is a priest who is going to ultimately then leave God's people in worship. And that function is described for us in Hebrews chapter two. When Jesus comes, who at least five times over is called by the book of Hebrews a priest after the order of Melchizedek, In Hebrews chapter 2, verse 10, we read that in bringing many sons to glory, it was fitting that God, for whom and through whom everything exists, should make the author of their salvation perfect for suffering. Both the one who makes men holy and those who are made holy are of the same family. See the priest had to be from among men in order to represent men. So Jesus He is not ashamed to call them brothers. And he says, I will declare your name to my brothers In the presence of the congregation I will sing your praises. Now that is an amazing statement. Jesus, as the great high priest now, is leading the people in worship. Jesus here is presented as seen in worship and praise to God. But notice that word in verse 10, in verse 12, in the presence of the congregation. That word congregation is ecclesia. In the presence of the church I will sing your praises. And so we have a picture here of the great high priest leading worship. And he's leading worship in the midst of the church. But in order to lead that worship, he must make atonement. But the atonement that he makes is not an atonement that needs to be repeated. But that it's an atonement that is a final sacrifice, once for all, to remove sin forever. And in this he represents sense embarrasses. Aaron was a picture of the fact that he bore the people of God and the weight of their sin on his shoulders. Jesus comes as the great high priest, and He's not a picture. But in reality, Jesus comes and he bears literally the weight of our sin. And when Jesus came as the great high priest to offer himself as a sacrifice, the whole Not only then does he And the picture of the priest offering himself. under the weight of that sin. But Jesus Christ bears us on his heart. Jesus, you see, doesn't simply bear our sin and the weight of it in some impersonal way. But Jesus Christ has a tender love for us in doing that. The salvation that he accomplished for us in representing us as the great high priest is a salvation that is intensely perfect. When Aaron went into the holy place once each year, he represented a million or two million or more Jews that he didn't know. He simply knew there's a mass of people out there, and I'm going now into God, and God knows. And I represent them. Not so with Jesus. But when Jesus bore your sin and my sin, He did it for each one of us personally. When Jesus Christ takes hold of our lives, And saves us. He does it personally. He knows you more than you know yourself. He understands you more than you understand yourself. He doesn't simply bear you on his shoulders. He comes to your hands. Constantly bears you on his heart. And so we read in Hebrews chapter ten concerning his work, beginning with verse eleven. Notice the contrast now between the work of Aaron and the work of Jesus. Day after day, every priest stands and performs his religious duties. Again and again he offers the same sacrifice. Which can never take away sins. But when this priest, Jesus, had offered for all time one sacrifice for sins, he felt Down. You see the contrast of the priest standing daily as an indication that his work is never finished. Jesus makes one sacrifice and he sits down. It's over, it's finished. And so he sat down at the right hand of God. Since that time he waits for his enemies to be made his footstool. There it is again, you see, Psalm 110. The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit on my right hand. Until I make your enemies your footstool. This is the one who's a priest after the order of Melchizedek. And so he finishes his sacrifice, and he sits down till his enemies will be made his footstool. Because by one sacrifice, He has made perfect forever those who are being made holy. The Holy Spirit also testifies to us about this. First, he says, This is the covenant that I will make with them after that time, says the Lord. My laws and their hearts, and I light them on their minds, and then he adds, their sins and their lawless acts I will remember no more. And so where these have been forgiven, there is no longer any sacrifice for sin. And Jesus Christ has made the sacrifice, and it's finished. What does that mean for you and for me? It means then in the third stage of God's economy that we the church Now our priests after him. We as the church then stand without any guilt. Before God's throne. Guiltless, forgiven, our slate-weight clean, and we have direct access to his presence And so Exodus nineteen six had promised I'm going to make to you, make you to be a kingdom of priests if you keep my covenant. And what happened? Again and again and again. These were a broke of the covenant. And there was no claim that they could make upon that promise. No hope that they would ever become a kingdom of priests. For all they were reminded of was year after year how many times they had broken the covenant. And yet Isaiah reminds them that God has not forgotten this promise. But rather, even more emphatically, he says in Isaiah 61. Look at this later sometime when you have time to sit down and see it in this context. Isaiah 61 is the precise passage that Jesus quoted at the beginning of his ministry. It's the passage of the liberator. You remember Isaiah sixty one, the one that begins, The Spirit of the Sovereign Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. Then he talks about the works of liberation that he has to going to accomplish as the Messiah. Jesus says this day, this could just the thirty live. But if right after that, on the heels of it In verse six, that the promise comes from God as a result of this, you will all be called priests of the Lord, and you will be named ministers of our God. And so with that hope of looking at the fact that through this one who is to come, the whole group, the whole nation, the whole people of God will Be constituted priest and Jesus comes and we believe that He has made a sacrifice once for all And so the result of that in Hebrews ten is that we go on from verse eighteen to verse nineteen. You've got to keep all that in mind in order to see what the author of Hebrews here is driving at He says, now here's the work of the great high priest. It's finished. That's all then wrapped up in Isaiah 61 and Exodus 19 and all that. And that first word in verse 19. Therefore Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place, by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way open to us Us through the curtain. That is his body. You see, when Jesus died on the cross at the moment of his death, The veil of the curtain was rent not from bottom to top, but from God, from top to the bottom. And the veil being rent of the most holy place made it visible and open to anyone who could look. And God is saying here is this demonstration of the fact that I have now opened up the most inner place of the sanctity of my presence with my people who are priests. No longer just the great high priest. No longer Aaron, the high priest representing the people. But now all of God's people. Can enter into that holy place by the blood of Jesus, by that new and living way. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, here's the invitation. Let's draw near Let's draw near. Let's draw near to God with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience. Having our bodies washed. With pure water. Let's enter the holy place. And let's enter into the very presence of God with direct access for his priests. We now all have direct access. Access to God. Our hearts and our bodies are clean. Our hearts are clean because Jesus bore us on his heart. We 're the breast peace over his heart. And because of that we enter in with him in the holy place into the very presence of God. Now next week I'm going to deal with the second part of our priesthood. That is the bearing of one another, which is described in Hebrews ten verses twenty three to twenty five. But this morning, in applying this, I want to focus simply on this aspect of our worship. What our priesthood means. In our worship, what it means that we can enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus. First of all, you notice there in the bulletin, the application, you and I need to ask ourselves the most important question. Is your heart and conscience clean through the work of the great high priest Jesus Is your work, is your heart, and your conscience clean through the work of the great high priest, Jesus? Hebrews 10 verse 11 says that every day, day after day, Every priest stands and performs his religious duties. Again and again he offers the same sacrifices, which can never take away sin. Is that a picture of you? Is that a picture of you offering day after day religious duties, sacrifices in the hope of gaining a clear conscience, in the hope of gaining a sense of acceptance before God. You see what this is telling us? It's saying, look to Jesus Simply saying there is no way that you can buy any sacrifices or religious duties, know you to be able to offer them for a thousand years, ever gain you access into the holy place. The great high priest Jesus was the necessary and the sufficient sacrifice. Necessary because the sacrifice had to be perfect and innocent, spotless. The high priest had to be consecrated. And he alone is the consecrated high priest. Sufficient because once the sacrifice is made, there's nothing that can be added to it. And if you're continuing in your life, this week, today, to offer sacrifices of religious duties. Because you don't want to go through the great high priest. But let me plead with you and warn you, there is no other way. You can't be a priest. On your own. The only priests to God are those who enter in after Jesus, their great high priest. And I plead with you, don't continue on your own. It'll never work Come to the great high priest Jesus through the sacrifice in his name. For those of you who are in Jesus Christ. And notice the second point there. You need to realize that Jesus not only bore you on his shoulders, but he bears you on his heart. You need to realize how precious. You and I are to him. You see, many Christians are what I call effid-only Christians. That an effid-only Christian is? That's a person who believes that Jesus bore me on his shoulders. He's taken the weight of my sin, but I really don't understand that he's borne me on his heart. I really don't identify with the fact that Jesus has a place for me in his heart Look again at verse 22 of Hebrews chapter 10. The result of this sacrifice, brothers and sisters, is the invitation that we draw near to God. That's not my invitation to me. What's Jesus' invitation? He's calling each one of us, you and me, who are purchased by the blood of his own sacrifice, to say, draw near to God. Come out here in the holy place and understand that I've placed you on my heart. Come and understand what it means that you're precious to me. I understood just a a little of this. Recently when my younger daughter Julie was brushing her teeth, it was uh bedtime, we were in there in the bathroom together and uh Back and forth instead of up and down, you know, as you keep saying, brushing and scrubbing away the teeth, hitting guns, nose, and everything else, and all of a sudden she just burst out spontaneously, Dad, I love you this much. And I said, I'm very glad to hear. that. Uh good to know. You know Julian it just struck me as she was saying that. I thought about her for a second after a few more scrubs with a brush and I said, You know I love you more than you could ever know. And she looked at me very seriously and she said , Unbelievable like each other, Dad. But it occurred to me in the very simple and spontaneous way that she responded to that But there's no way at the current level that she is at that she could understand the depth of my love for her. And no way that she could understand how much she's on my heart. The things that I do for her from love. And the things that I would do for her if needed for love. And the only way is for her to spend time with me and to continue growing in understanding what our relationship is. And for you and for me. And for Jesus to tell us in his word, I've placed you on my heart. And you and me, we respond the same way as Julie. We say, Well, Lord, I'm glad you and I like each other. But Jesus is all the while saying, But spend time with me. Draw near into the holy place, so that you might understand what it means that I've placed you on my heart. The only way for you and for me is to spend much time in the holy place. In God's presence in his word, daily, worshiping, and meditating on what his love is. But the third point where you want to mean is that we need to realize that we all have direct access to God as priests. Individually as priests and as a priesthood. Individually, as we spend time worshipping God in our daily quiet time , What a privilege. We don't have to go anywhere to be with God. You just have to think about, well suppose God had ordained that every time that you and I wanted to worship him, we had to go to the top of Sugarloaf Mountain. So it's about you know an hour from here by car. And I suppose any time we wanted to worship God, we had a drive over to Sugar Loaf Mountain, we had a drive up to the top of the mountain, and there was the place that you could meet God. Well, I dare say that we fit into our Schedules as much as we could, the opportunity to get up to the top of Sugar Lurk Mountain because there was an appointed place that you could move down. And we'd have that very special and very precious that we could meet with God there. But God has said , but our bodies are the temple. We develop that a little more later. But he has said that we can worship him anywhere. And the tendency for Europe believes on something is so accessible is to make it cheap. To take it for granted. To not realize that because Jesus Christ has made himself accessible to us anytime and any place It does not in the least diminish the privilege and the cost to him of doing that. It cost him his life. It cost him his own blood, so that he and I could at any time every day run around to the holy place. And to worship him. Don't take it for granted. Set that time aside every day. Not simply to study is, not simply to pray for the needs of your family and your friends. But to worship God. But a priest. As one brings an offering of praise and worship him. But notice also that we're not only individual priests. But Peter says, in 1 Peter 2 9, the two are a royal priesthood. That you see is looking at us as a separate solidarity, a group of priests, not considered in the Individually, but as a whole. That's what we all right here this morning. A congregation, the church, the gathered together once, the people of God as a whole. That means you See that when the elders lead us in worship, they then is that to them. Leading us in worship. There's a real tendency, you know, for all of us when we come to a worship service to be spectators. But the medieval church had a screen, and when the priest went behind that screw, he worshipped the guy. From the Holy Polish. The preacher had the merit that 's in worship The priesthood of our believers, let 's all establish that the Reformation means that you don't like the person upfront worship. We are our worshiping. And yet we need to be careful and aware that there's always that tendency in us to fall back into the realm of spectators, to watch Jerry Bath worship up here. To that we or others. And as we seek to be created in an universe and to different laws and leads of worship, to ask ourselves, why what are we going to do with the bush group? What do they have in store for us now? That's not the role of a priest. We 've still worship. And in order to worship We've got to prepare ourselves in worship. Let me again implore you, urge you, to take whatever opportunities you can on Sunday mornings to prepare yourself to come to worship. When we arrive here, uh in the best way that we can when there's that minimum turnaround time. It's so less, and I know it's so difficult, and we're all less than classes and getting goods and doing a hundred different things. But let's try the best we can to get in as soon as we can, to get seated as soon as we can, and to get quiet so that we can meditate, so that we can prepare ourselves as priests to come and bring the offer. If we don't, you see if we rush in and we just sit down just in time when everybody hear me so close to risen excuse me the tendency then is to say now the show begins But that we need to prepare ourselves to be active in that. And so that we all together, as a crescendo of the worship that we've individually been given God through, that we come together in a symphony of praise to ask for that worship. Worship to him as we learn and learn. And then finally, a priest focuses on the giving of offerings in worship You are a royal priesthood. In chapter two, verse five, he had said, You like living stones who being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood offering spiritual sacrifices. Repeat, but he also sacrifices focuses on the giving of offerings in worship, not the gigatat of the offering. When God Christ is preached, he convinced by that that you and I are to focus on what gets from the offering. Not only what we get. So many people evaluate a worship service by what could I get out of it? Was I blessed by that service? How uplifted was I How spiritually blessed did I feel? But that's not the question of the priest. Aaron didn't leave the holy place, and what kind of a hand would I get out of that day of atonement? How good do I feel now that I've been in the holy place? That manner is that stated as a requisite a requirement of the offering of the priest If you and I need to concentrate on giving the offering to God. And the question we ask as we come Sunday by Sunday is, What does he get out of it? Is the Lord pleased with the offering of the sacrifice of our worship? Cleansed through the blood of Jesus. I guarantee as we hurt as priests of the worship being offered pleasing to him , if you and I will go away blessed Let's pray. Far Lord our God, how little we think of the fact that you have constituted us priests after the great high priest Jesus. Have direct access to your presence. Lord Jesus, we praise you as the great high priest who does not spell daily offering sacrifices. But whoafter you had offered the sacrifice of yourself sat down. Your work is finished. And because of that, the therefore he can enter. into the holy place and had direct access to the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, to that new and living way, the blood of Jesus. We pray that if there's any here who does not have that access Father, that you would bring that person to see their need in the offer of the pardon through Jesus Christ, that they would seize that and become a priest of yours based on what he has done But all Lord our God, help us each, who know you and love you, to understand more and more what it means that we're your priests. To understand that Jesus bore us not simply on his shoulders, but on a but on his heart. And because of that, they're very precious to you. But we're precious and you call us to draw near to you. Help us, Father, this week to take advantage of that. To not simply seek somehow to fit in some time with you. In that time focused on simply learning something from the Bible and then muttering some prayers concerning things that we need God, but help us, Father, to spend some time in worship with you this week. To realize that our worship in our Under Shepherd groups and on Sunday Is simply the Chrishundo, is simply the climax of that worship that we individually offer to you day by day Father, we pray that you would enrich our worship, that you would draw us nearer to yourself , that we would focus on you , that we would spend that time at the holy place And then from that, Father, that the fragrance of Jesus would follow us as we seek to live as priests of the Most High God. Father Lord our God, how we thank you for the privilege. And we worship you this morning, each one of us, not as spectators, but as active participants, Sunday by Sunday. Help us, Father, in that. As we worship you now through Jesus. Amen