That's a quite a reasonable row of pairs. But we have two parallel purposes. For this by a prayer. The first is that we'll be able to, at the beginning of this passing us, is draw near to our God and humble ourselves before Him. We don't simply seek the ministry, but we begin to fall by seeking by seeking God Himself and coming before Him to Be able to sacrifice it, the sequence things. The second is we 'd like to come and specifically ask that for direction as a church. We're at a very important time as a church now. Um deliveries um have particularly responded this morning uh to the uh Justing remade concerning uh 50 worth of time. And uh they had invaded a three to one margin because we want to see it remade at the same time. And so we now do not have the options of teaching to an early morning worship here in the meeting house, as far as we can tell. And so we want to come together and focus attention as a conversation. He asked God to talk to me, Lord, what would you have us to do? Where would you have us to go in this land? Provide a place for us. Give us the reference. To lay ourselves before the Lord and to let him set the agenda and to be able to open ourselves up to completely depend on our motives and our desires So that the Lord can take us as a congregation and eat us. And then the third purpose that we have together for the third we need is that we also are able to intercede for one another. And intercede for our ministries, for personal concerns, for the church ministries, for search concerns. Uh to be able to move out from that and and uh land before God some of the concerns of our county, state and listen, and then the real change of Jesus Christ. Before we have these desires to humble ourselves before God, to seek Him, to pray about the future of our church and our schedule and place of worship, and in the interfeed on the hands of one another in our ministry It is designed there is going perspective with that. You know, perspective is so well doing that we need. We were able to see things from God's point of view. And I believe that it's entirely appropriate that we begin this time together by reminding ourselves of Jesus' promise concerning prayer What I call the master promise for Christ. In fact, the promise is so great that for many of us it's a problem. It's a problem because this promise is so abounding that for many of this it seems like God Himself is unable to deliver on it. And Jesus has given us a promise so accomplished, so astounding concerning what we have available to us in the power and prayer. But for many of us, we really wonder if God meant what he said. That Thomas was found in John chapter 14, verse 13 and 14, and I want to consider that with you this morning. John 14, 13 and 14, Jesus promised, I will do whatever you ask in my name. For that the Son may bring glory to the Father. You may ask me for everything in my name And I will do it. Now let's take that time from context and we'll read our scriptures for this morning the first 14 verses of Psalm chapter 14. John thirteen, the first thirteen versus Do not let your hearts be troubled. Peace and God Plus also in you. In my father's house, for many reasons, and he said, When I saw I would explain you, I am going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me, if you also may be where I am. You know the way to the place where I'm going. A Thomas says to Jesus, Lord, we don't know where you're going, so how can we know the way? Jesus told you, I am the way. to truth and the light. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you really knew me, you would know my Father is well. From now on. You do know him. Philip seems. And Philip says , Man, for us the Father. That would be enough for us. Thank you, my means fellows. Even after I've done my view Such a long time. Anyone who has seen you has seen the Father. How can you say so as the Father? Don't you believe that I am in the Father? And that the Father is in me? The words that I say to you are not with my own, rather, it is the Father, even me, who is doing his work. Believe me when I say that I am in the Father and the Father is in me. At least believe on the evidence of the miracles themselves. I tell you the truth. Anyone who has faith in me will do what I can do. He will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father. And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it. The first God to instruct us if we come to his word now. Father, these words are astounding to us Probably with some people here wondering how I'm going to explain them away so as not to just be in a tight spot. But how I'm going to reconcile these with our experience to so often seem to believe them. Proper father to understand exactly what he intended here, and to enfield it more fully than we've done before. Because we're willing to take you with your word. Talk with him out this farm. In whatever our situation is , be open to you. The heavy ministry to us to provide people into our lives. Through Jesus Christ. Amen. I want to consider these words under the three headings that you see in the bulletin outline I want first of all to consider the promise that Jesus says. I want secondly to consider the conditions of that promise. And then thirdly the balance of the promise and the conditions. First of all, the promise That Jesus means this. That's what this is all about. It's a promise concerning prayer. When you see this really there are two promises involved in these verses. I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. You may ask me anything in my name, and I will do it. What are those two promises? The first one is personal attention to all your concerns. There's a promise here of personal attention to all your concerns. Look at verse 13 and 14 what he says. I will do whatever you ask me in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. You may ask me For everything in my name and I will give. You notice I, me, I Prayer fees not a request by mail for the bureaucracy of heaven, and if somehow the prayers get filed away And they are then delivered from certain sort of course of events and God gets around to it and somehow send them down to a number of intermediaries, some sort of satisfactory answer. But Jesus himself says, I will listen. You speak to me directly. You and I have direct access to the claim that promised you. Jesus says the way he says, He himself listens to you Nobody else doesn't delegate that. He listens to. You read the Bible and all you read the quiet time, you read about Jesus at Galilee and how he walked and ministered. You say to yourself all those who have been there. All of those through Jesus as the disciples said as he walked along the road to have been able to feel the power of his personality. We 've been able to feel the security of his love and his caring. We 've been able to be wisdom And he spoke directly to me and I would feel so secure in dealing with him. Uh he's been able to have uh experience That infinite reason with which he dealt with every situation. All to a deal with Jesus. Jesus is promising him, brothers and sisters in Jesus. But seems close to us. Then tell me and listens to you when you call on him. He promised that right here. I will listen to you. Peter says, Cast all your care upon him For he says to you. Jesus Lord says, speak positively, friends, and things will work out. Jesus says, rather come to me. with your problem and I personally will give it attention. I will give it myself attention. Isn't it amazing that you and I neglect such a person? We neglect it because it's so readily available. He said often come to him anytime. And so if you speak to it. And forget that that privilege was purchased at the cost of his own life. So that we could come to him as sons and daughters. We say, oh, but Lord, I've called on you for so long and I've suffered for so long and I just don't need to get it to answer. Lord, sometimes I wonder if you really fail. A little writing that's helped me many times in my life from time to time when I've been tempted to think that particularly difficult situations is this little poem called Lean Hard. Proud of my love. Mean heart. And let them feel the pressure of thy care. I know thy burden powers. I faced it, poised it in mine own hand, and made no proportion in its weight to thine uneated throat. For even as I laid it on, I said, I shall be you. And rather you for me this person shall be mine, not you. Then shall I keep my child within the purpling arms of my own life. Here, look at that. Merci to impose it on a candle which opposed the government of the world You're cleaner, Ken. Thou art not new enough. I would embrace thy king. Shh For I might feel my child reposing on my breath. Thou lovest me, thy Lord. Not my friend, but loving. Green heart. These are causes that you can for that problem and that concern of yours than you could ever know. But he wants you to bring it to him so that he might give it his personal attention and draw you to himself. But instead of own promise, his personal attention to these verses. But you see that also beyond that, you have promised power sufficient for all of your problems. Power sufficient for all of your problems Again, look at verse 13 and 14. What if we say this? I will be like over You ask in my name, that the Son may bring glory to the Father. And you may ask me for most of the things One of the things, uh forget the biggies, uh a certain amount to be reasonable. You may ask me for anything in my name. And I will do it. You know the problem we have with this verse is we take that verse, these two verses, and we decapise them, put them on a nice room, you know, and put them on a piece of wood. And then we collapse it all over and we hang it up there on the wall and we look at it and say, isn't that a beautiful promise? Whatever you ask in my name, I'll do it. You can ask anything in my name And we just sort of sit there and we look at it and we say that a beautiful verse, a beautiful precepts for Australia in prayer. And then our experience belinds it. And gradually we just leave it up there on the wall. And we begin to live in two worlds in which we say, well, you know, the world of reality is a world which doesn't really live on that common Well what's the problem? In time is that we haven't understood what Jesus is saying He's just taken this thing with a cart glance. He just said, well, it's just sort of a nice promise to take an isolation. And we have violated Jesus meaning because first of all we haven't seen it in the context And it's the context of this verse that defines the whatever. And secondly, we haven't concerned ourselves with the conditions of the concept That's all I'll take a look at now. We come to the say that this promise is not true. I urge you, come and understand what Jesus meant by it Well, first of all, we have to understand the concept. The whatever is defined by the concept And you have to pick that up at verse 6. You know, that's what Jesus had said, uh that I'm the way, the peace, and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through me. And if you really knew me, you know my father as well. But now I know him and see him. And with that response, that comment, that group and fellow to the Son, the known thing, this course the Father. Just to look at blunt, yeah, we'll bring something. Some beef news looks, that'll be enough. Jesus ' response Jesus response to Philip, but Philip is missed a place If you see me, you've seen the Father. If you want to know what God is like, look at Jesus Christ and there you'll see the fullness of God displayed. But Peter, look at my character, look at what I'm like. There is nothing that I am like that is not what the Father is like. You look at me, and I am a replica, a character to the Father. So he builds on this and he says, and uh if you don't believe my words, then at least believe my works. Because my words and my works have famous the Father. Says that in verse 9 and 10. One goes on verse 11, believe and I said that I'm in the Father, the Father's in me. The belief believe on the evidence of the works they tell. I tell you the truth. Now there's a contract The contrast now is between those who believe and those who haven't. Those who say, Wow, really wonders, uh, I can really look at Jesus and see the Father in Jesus. Now there's other people and don't believe this Verse 12, I tell you to teach anyone who does have faith, who has faith in me, what's going to happen? He's going to do what I have been doing. Why? Because his concerns are going to be my concerns. To what? To establish and to build up the kingdom of God. That's what Jesus came to do. The first time the person he's come and he believes in me is going to do what I've been doing. And he's even then he He progresses now here. He's even going to do greater things than I've been doing. How could you do greater things than Jesus is doing? I'm going to give you an example. But Jesus raised the dead and raised Lazarus after four days in the grave. But Lazarus died again. When you and I preached the doctrine For Jesus Christ, because you're in the age of the Spirit and the F and Jesus has gone to the Father and the Spirit has come now. And a person comes to believe in Jesus Christ, that person has a life that can never be taken away They have eternal life. They'll never die. But if he greater, to be resuscitated for a few years, or to be given eternal life to the preaching of the gospel. Which is greater for Jesus to go around Palestine and gathering a following to himself as he did for three years there or for the whole world to be turned upside down through the permeation of his church, through the whole glory. Jesus says, when the Holy Spirit comes, because I go to the Father, you see, in verse 12, because I'm going to the Father, he'll do greater things than I have done. Now, catch this. Verse 13 is a climax to God 's progression. You cannot separate verse 13 from verse 12, or you'll miss the whole point. Jesus is saying what I do, the person who believes in me will do because he can go to my concern. In fact, because I'm going to the Father, the Holy Spirit's going to come, he'll do even greater things than I'm doing. Oh More than that, whatever you ask in my name will be done. Holy good father will be glorified in the Son, and if you ask anything in my name, I will give. You get the point. Whatever. And the anything do not refer to the scope of prayer. but rather to the magnitude of it. Now that's very important to understand. Jesus is not saying you whatever happens to come into your mind it seems to be a falsified thought, it seems somehow uh to be consistent with kingdom ideas, somehow consistent with my glory, you can claim that and it'll automatically happen What Jesus here is promising. This is all he is promising. But what he is promising is far beyond any of us, what any of us have experienced, is he is saying, when you enter into my concerns for the present When you begin to operate by my spirit, who has come to establish his kingdom, there is absolutely no limit to the power that's available to you and answer the prayer. The point you see of what Jesus is saying here is that there is no prayer that ever goes unanswered because it is too large or too difficult. Now, I suggest you that sounds something we need to understand. Because you and I, if you're anything like me, are mistaken. point is to go exactly closing to that verse. You know how it works? You pray some very large prayer, something that seems very unlikely and you're very concerned about And you tell this thing for days and weeks and perhaps months, and then it's not answered. That's what it is So well I guess I overshot. And leave back off and I'll play something in the more lightweight, he said. Um yeah, I mean that that was a you know, close as well to one that that would happen Uh maybe I ought to try for something sort of seventy-five twenty-five, you know, and you know, sort of build up my faith again here a little bit. Because then we sort of try and then uh maybe that doesn't happen, so we sort of sit down to the you know, would you believe 6040? You know, you know, if we use it We know in our faith and we start working on the 50-50s, you know, and if it comes out and says, Praise the Lord, it's not going to happen that I praise it. What do we do? We pray according to the likelihood of something And Jesus is saying the very reason that you most subscribe for Claire not being worshiped namely it is too unlikely. Jesus said that is the one reason that is never valid Never valid. The prayer is never unanswered because it was too unlikely. Because it was too great or too difficult. Jesus says, in the kingdom, there is no limit to what is available to you and to me in the power of prayer because Jesus Christ himself you can also. He says when the spirit comes, there is nothing that is beyond what my power is to do through my church. Now that is what Jesus is telling us if we don't understand. That's what he wants us to get a hold of. Yet the problem for you and me so often is that we don't see this of something as personal to us I remember one time, a number of years ago, and I was up on the northern upper peninsula of uh Michigan. and uh uh the CEO campus, uh University Conference, so having a fly time out on the floor of Lake Team. As I was sitting there on the bank, I remember reading these verses as asking why the tones doing it. All of a sudden it occurred to me, well, you know , because I was sitting here, uh, I saw a little bottle coming across the link. You know, it sort of blows in with the wind, you know, and those little bottles here that's got a cork and got a message in it, you know. And this bottle comes into the store and I reach out and I grab that bottle, I pull the cork off and there it is, I pull out the message and in that message it says Do Alan Harris. Whatever you ask in my name, I will do it. If you ask anything in my name, Alan, I will do it for you. Sign Jesus Christ. Wow. Boy, would that transform my prayer life? How'd you like to get a note like that? Lord, that's familiar. Every time I call, I'd rip out that little mace, I'd take that card and I'd lay it on my desk and say, Lord, that's what you told me. You've given me that promise constantly And of course, to the point of obvious. The Lord was speaking to the hour and I have given you that. I've given it to you just as personally as if I had written it in. They 're going to help you in your Bible to raise your name in that margin. That's the Jesus Christ to you. A big promise to you that whatever you want It's increasingly to control the building of his kingdom. He is normal to what he can do. I remember one point in our life when this promised meant a great deal to me. Back in nineteen seventy-two. We were living in mall, we looked off of here in the mobile home. Are you supposed to move? I think uh up the Ministry of University in Upstate New York that summer. We were able to sell the mobile home, everything worked out fine, it was no problem, until I told the person who owned the mobile home part And then I found out that there is a custom among Mobile Home Park owners that I had been naive enough to overlook before that. That is that Mobile Home Park owners when they saw Mabel Home have um the right to pick you out, it's their land, and they can tell you to uh take your mobile home out of there on the basis that uh a dealer who is selling a mobile home, of course he can't sell mobile homes if there's no place to put them and so the mobile home park owners and the dealers work out this thing where uh if the park owner promises a space to the dealer he'll give that person five hundred dollars hitback and then they can sell the mobile home and they can guarantee a space for it. I'd sold the mobile home, sold the person we were leaving, he then informed me we're gonna have to sell our mobile home 60-foot mobile home out onto Route One. And we had one week before we were going to move. Of course it was the rather difficult to sell a mobile home pucked on the curb of Route One. And so that uh was just the end of the possibility of our moving. Well uh even during that week we weren't going to be around, we were in a training conference and so there was absolutely nothing I could do except made uh just what he promised. And I believe he's called us up here said, you will need to work in this person's heart. There was nothing I could do. We went, we prayed for it for that week. A week later, just a couple days before we move, I went back to that person. after having code about this. I went up to the mobile home park owner and I said, uh, uh, are you still uh speaking to what you said before? That we're going to have to move our mobile home out of here And I remember so clearly what she said. She looked at me and she said, Well now, what would you do if you were my situation? I'll get five hundred dollars if I make you take that out of here because of the home that's coming in And uh I wasn't prepared for that question. I just looked at it and I said, Well uh I thought I know that'd be very comfortable, it'd be very difficult. But I thought yes, because you'd never told us that before Because we were led to believe that we could keep it here when we moved in and all the time until I sold it, uh I would feel that uh it was only right to let us have us say that. Take out the ground and look up at me as very shrewd businesswoman. And she looked up and she said, uh, I don't know why I'm doing this, but I'm gonna let you keep it there. He didn't know why she was doing it, but I knew why she was doing it. A dramatic expression in my own life, a very precious example. An example I would have never known if the problem hadn't come up. The fact that Jesus can do whatever He desires to do. Whatever we ask for him, nothing is too much. Everything that we ask in his name, he is able to do. said the Father will be glorified in the Son. Christians were concerned over the United States a year ago about the IRS ruling concerning Christian schools and moving women to make it much more difficult for Christian schools to operate. The Christians prayed. And they called God's promise. The IRS was stayed at least Kent Rowland from enforcing the ruling that they had in mind. God answered according to his power. Christians prayed when the Supreme Court was undertaking the consideration of the Hyde Amendment. The United States would be forced to fund abortion. Christians had no recourse but to pray and be praised. And Jesus Christ works according to his power, whatever you ask in my name And the Supreme Court ruled in favor of upholding the Hive Amendment. And there has been prayer that we've seen God answer to moving in that way. What is a condition that he adds to this? What are the conditions of this comment? You cannot receive hopefully hold to the promise without understanding fully what's intended by this. Why would he say? Look at verse 15. I will do whatever you ask in my name. So that the Father, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son, or so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. And again you may ask me for anything in my name. And I will do it. There are really three conditions. that Jesus lays down here in this promise. Suppose this is for disciples only. For disciples only. You see, these verses are set in the context of the intimate upper room discourses between Jesus and his own disciples. Were those precious last words to his own disciples before he was to buy them And you notice what he says in verse thirteen and fourteen. Notice he does not say, Whatever anyone asks in my name, I will do it. If anyone asks anything, I will do it. But rather he says, I will do whatever You ask in my name. Say the Son will bring glory to the Father. You may ask me. And you tell me Shh my name, and I will go. Because less than this to his disciples. It's that precious promise of the father to his children. What is it for you and me who have followed Jesus Christ? And so the question right here now is are you a disciple of Jesus Christ? If you are a disciple of Jesus Christ The promise in all extreme is you, whatever your circumstance, whatever your lead, you know that you can come to the throne of grace and find help in the promise me. Because Jesus has promised to you as his disciple, these words. But if you're not a disciple of Jesus Christ, then you have no part of this promise You have nothing to hope for of Jesus' mercy, of his protection, against the wrath And the judgment that you yourself, as the rest of us, have brought upon ourselves by ignoring God in his ways, growing our own way and living our life, as if he's closed upon us to be disregarded. And Jesus comes and says, Come to me, you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you less. And that's the first promise. that he didn't decline from him. To come to him. To find that rest. To come to him in order to be his disciple. To be covered by by his sacrifice and by his blood. So that you then And come under the shadow of these wings. He's not a disciple of Jesus Christ. I urge you, implore you, in the name of Christ, if you would come to them, if you would come to Jesus Christ. Second condition. Jesus names down here. But those who are disciples, he goes further. He says the second thing is that you must say, In my name. In my name. Come what does that mean? Impressive twice. I will do whatever you ask in my name. Verse 14, you may ask me for anything in my name. What time that phrase qualifies the promise? And we've all heard messages talk about the fact that his name refers to his character. And when Jesus calls us to pray in his name, he's really talking about all of that character which defines and uh describes him as Savior and as Lord. To pray and it's known as the claim is character. But let's look even a little more closely to see what Jesus particularly meant when he gave this promise. This promise is given four times in the Gospel of John. Three of those times, he uses this phrase in my name. in a particular context. The first time, the phrase is not used, but a parallel phrase is used, which helps us to understand what he used the other three times. In chapter 15 , in verse 16 , Jesus says, You did not tease me, but I chose you to go and bear fruit, fruit of your life. Then the Father will give you whatever he asks in my name. This is my command, love each other. In my own day, speaking of uh is is in a context of the spiritual fruit that Jesus has called for us to bear. And that fruit is summed up by his command that we love one another. Because in that context that he says In bearing spiritual freedom and loving one another, you will ask for these for whatever is my name. In chapter 16 , verse 23 and 24 Again he uses it. Because in that day you will no longer ask me anything. I tell you the truth, my father will give you whatever you ask. in my name. Until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask and you will receive, and your joy will be complete. The Father gives the request in Jesus' name for his glory. And as he says in those verses, for our joy. So that it's wrapped up. Our joy is wrapped up in his glory. Let it chapter 15, verse 7, he uses the parallel frame. Yeah. uh does not remain in me. He's like the branches thrown away, what do you such things? It's a pickup thrown into the fire and burn. Contrast, if you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish. And it will be given to you. So we see from that verse that to ask in Jesus' name is to be remaining, abiding in Jesus Christ, and having his word abide in you. His word saturates your thinking. His word is what determines your desires. His word is what infuses your thoughts and your longings. To light yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart, you see. You say this is what it means to pray in Jesus' name. I think it's primarily speaking of two things here, two basic ideas. Number one that the basis of prayer is Christ's merit on alone. The basis of prayer is Christ mad alone. No bargaining with God. No saying to God, Lord I'll do this if you just answer this prayer. Lord, I'll witness to three people next week if you'll just pull this one off because Lord I'm in trouble. Lord, I'll I'll read my Bible every day for the next month if you just answer this You see, bargaining with God. Oh Lord, I have done this and this and this. So at least you can dishear me on this little favor, couldn't you? Maybe not so blunt, but isn't that what we do? R. A. Torey calls it an example that he came upon in one of his speaking campaigns. He was posting the platform and a man handed him a note and the note read, Dear Dr. Corey, I'm in great con I'm in great perplexity. I've been praying for a long time for something that I'm confident as according to God's will, but I do not get it I've been a member of the Presbyterian Church for thirty years and have tried to be a consistent one all the time. I've been superintendent for the Sunday school for twenty-five years and an elder in the church for twenty years and yet God doesn't answer my prayer and I can't understand it Do you explain to me? Rather than God. Praying in his own name. Rather than in Jesus' name. And every time you and I begin to pray in our own name. Pray in which we claim our own merit when we have not prayed in Jesus' name and it's not meeting the conditions of true prayer. More often than not, I think our problem is the other way around. We are aware of a sin, of something we've done wrong. Lord, I've been a bad boy, I've been a bad girl. And I don't deserve for you to hear me. And so our prayers are weak. And you say, Well Lord, I just don't have any right to bring this to you now. I I just have uh I I've uh lost my temper and Lord, I haven't had a consistent quiet time and I've been a sinker and this Now Lord, I'm willing a spot and I I come to you now and yet, Lord, I I just don't have any confidence that you'll hear me Because of the way I sin, what's that doing? That's calling in your name. Sometimes in my own life I think of God Is really pleased, understand that rightly, when I am aware of a sin in my life so that I feel weak in my prayer. Because that forces me to say, Lord, I don't have any right to come see you now. Lord, you know what I've been doing in my life. Lord, you know I don't have any right to you to listen to me. But all I can plead is Jesus. No, I think that's about the oh you've got the point. You know, maybe you took that in your life to say it. What do you think you were pleading the rest of the time? We need to practice justification in our prayers. We need to please Jesus alone when we pray. His merit is the only access to heaven in order for Jesus to answer in the whatever and the anything. Not only does it mean pleading Christ's merit, but it also means that the focus of prayer is Christ's concerns alone. The purpose of prayer is his concern. Remember the perversion. Very fail. You don't have to believes in me, will do what I've been doing, will do greater sins than I've been doing. In fact, whatever you ask in my name I will give you. Remember an example that Jim Boyce tells about concerning the peasant uh alcohol rehabilitation movement to illustrate this point, run by a man by the name of Addison Law uh Addison Waugh over there. Let's suppose that a fella who's in that uh alcohol rehabilitation center decides that the rules are too strict, too stringent, and so one day he cuts out a present new jersey And he takes off to the local town into the local bar. He gets the bar and walks into the bar, he doesn't have any money, so he comes up to the bartender and he says, Give me a shot of brandy and raw's money. Well, you know, the bartender's about to write down to this fella. Addison was a kelp, uh, a shot of brandy. All of a sudden the uh bartender owner sees from the rear room and he walked out and said, Wait a minute Whose name did you say? He says, Well, I said give me a shot of brandy in Ross name. Do you mean Addison Ross? The director of the Alcohol Rehabilitation Center over there in Pescock, New Jersey? Right of the rabbit man, that's the one. How dare you come in here and ask for credit for a drink in the name of law? That man that rehabilitation center to rescue derelicts like you. And how dare you come in here and violate his name For your own wishes. Use the name of Jesus Christ. To pray in his name, brothers and sisters, is not a light thing. We don't come to indulge our own desires. When we claim this promise. The prayer in Jesus' name is to create a concerns that are consistent with Jesus' character I don't come in and I say, Lord, and I hear something that seems good, and it also seems consistent. It doesn't seem to violate anything in scripture, so I pray in Jesus' name. Pray in Jesus' name is to use his name for his account. And that can be used only for his kingdom. Find the purpose, we see that this is all for You'll say that the Father will be glorified in the Fun. That the Father will be glorified in the Fun. Is that your purpose and clear? I think we need to realize that prayer is not so much a matter of what we get from God as what God gets from us, namely glory. We tend to look at prayer as a means by which I can get things from God. The scripture says prayer is a means by which God gets glory from us. Because it's whatever we ask in his name to build up his kingdom to give any glory. It is the purpose of prayer. Is that your purpose when you pray? I have to examine myself so many times because I consider the very purpose for which I pray. Why am I praying this? He definitely said for his glory, that the Father will be glorified in the Son. Jesus said the purpose of prayer, notice verse 13, I will do whatever you ask in my name. Why? So that the Son may bring glory to the Father. Don't miss that. It's part of the promise. Jesus prayed, he offered that same promise. Jesus who knew how to pray more than any man who ever walked the face of the earth experienced more power in Christ He knew more of the intimacy with the Father in gaining things in prayer. That same Jesus a couple chapters later, what did he pray? Chapter 17. Jesus prayed, Father, the time has come. Glorify the Son. If his son may glorify you. Therefore , has brought his glory on earth By completing the work that you've given me to do. Now, Father, glorify me in your presence for the glory that you had before the world began. What glory? What is glory? The glory is for God to answer some great spectacular requests, and I can tell my friends what the great things the Lord has done. Isn't He powerful? And Jesus says to get a hold of glory. Some thousands to realize that it needs the most abject humiliation. For Jesus, glory. Meant the cross. Jesus' glory didn't mean that he bypassed the cross and said, Now, Father, this is too awful, so I asked you to deliver me. But he said, Lord, not my will, but your be done. Of the whatever and the anything can never be dissociated from the glory, which means only the T and I have to lay everything at the altar. For God to have that going. Going is never an escape from humiliation, from trials, from difficulty Glory doesn't mean that you and I are promised comfort and ease and safety and a lot of difficulties. Jesus didn't somehow overlook those things when he gave this promise You can take that depot back off your wall. And you can take that from a cartel and begin to rewrite it in terms of glory. So if you understand that when you claim this promise, first and foremost, you're claiming, Lord, glorify yourself in my life, whatever it costs. That's the desire of prayer. That's what it means to pray in Jesus' name. Before it means that if I'm a wife And I'm praying for my husband to come to know Jesus Christ. I don't care, my lord, you bring my husband to Jesus, but if you're not going to bring him to Jesus, at least make him a person to God and Israel. You know, and you sort of get the idea that I want him to become a Christian. serve to be pleasanter to live with and God says, Of course I want to make a more wretched for you to live with. Because in that I'll accomplish my glory in bringing him to myself. Say, Lord, am I willing for that? Lord, am I willing to Or Lord, do I simply want those things which are convenient for me? Go on. You need to see finally the balance of these things. By the way, uhless you're looking at that uh application on the other side, uh I'm not gonna touch that this morning so you don't have to worry about being here all afternoon. That's a another whole message I decide. I want I want to um I want to bring together however the balance of this promise and the condition. Teaching on prayer emphasizes one at the expense of the other in my experience. The promise is all that's talked about in prayer, little said about the condition. Or it's all the focus on the conditions and nothing on the promise. And either of these is a very deficient in body. to the great time. For instance, where you take the promise without the conditions that you have. We have the presumption of king's kids, you know. We're the king 's kids, and so God has promised to us whatever is and everything. And therefore I simply pray in Jesus' name for those things to cross my mind and seem to me to be somehow in uh consistent with his glory. And I pray for those things to happen. What happens? Some of them do and I pray for the Lord that's great. Some of them don't. And what happens to them? My experience is that down through the months and the years the person becomes discouraged, their faith in fact grows rather than grows. And what two things will happen? Either they will uh lose their faith in prayer Well secondly we begin to what I call manufacture the supernatural. You know what that means? See the few people that manufacture the supernatural? I was talking to a woman just a couple of weeks ago. She said uh I was uh called to sing before our congregation. Now I don't have a boyfriend It wasn't me singing, it was the Lord's singing. That's no, who would have listened to? You know, it's just uh, you know, I don't have any voice. It's the Lord's singing. Uh he was singing. The Lord used it but he somehow left to believe that there was a supernatural act in there, that it was the Lord saying it. Or you hear people say, We didn't have any money, we didn't have any idea where the money was going to come from. And yes there was a minute all of a sudden the money appears now. Don't tell you they had this bank account, but they were hoping they wouldn't have to start because they got it from this force without source. But in the back of their mind was a possible alternative You see, but they just say that No, I didn't have any idea. Making it dramatic in order to lift that up and deep in their heart and say, I know that I'm manufacturing that. That's not doing God glory. Now I know the fellow once a said he must turn it by faith. I live my whole life by saying that I don't know where anything's coming from. You go into your house, you walk in and you happen to notice in your closet and you say Boy, the Lord has really blessed you. Look at those seats that you have there. It's just terrific. Isn't it terrific how the Lord's blessed us? My goodness here's one that just fits me. So the Lord's been good to me. You know, I've been crying for God to give me a seat like this. If he praises me, that God would provide. What do you gotta do, you know? And so uh you uh yeah, well you know, he got it on our sure, you know, and then he goes on to the next church and he says, You wouldn't believe I didn't even have a suit, the suit that I'm wearing to my god provided for me so and it just came out like a style dropped it into my lap. Hello the fellow else he's a publishing his prayer letter lists of things that he wanted for people to pray for You know, and he'd say, I you know, I want a um I want a pen toxic lens, you know, one hundred and five millimeters, his uh super coat, you know, and he'd go all down to the Then the next parallel he said, Oh this fellow gave me this Praise God how he asked it. Manipulation. You know? This is me, we manufacture the supernatural. That truth is we take the promise without the condition. If we forget the conditions of praying and be his name for his glory and claim his concerns so that God can work in his house. The other side of that of course is what I think is probably small of the problems we have, not taking the conditions without the promise. That last will come to the return emphasis. Reformed emphasis on growing refreshments.