But to know that we you don't have a copy of our budget yet that We have the trustees in the session have put for the first draft of that for our missions giving in 1988 $10,000 for the Iversons and $10,000 for Linda. So that we would take on a significant portion of her support, but that still is not even quite a quarter of what's needed. So the needs are very great and uh we need to be praying for hers Sometimes it's uh tempting to be even overwhelmed with the task that's ahead of her The hardest thing I would say to accept about Christmas, in all of the mad rush, its pleasant busyness, and its intense longings Is the simple truth of Mary's song that glory is not found in tinsel, but in a humble heart. Or as James has put it to us, that God opposes the proud, but that he gives grace to the humble, or he lifts up the humble, he exalts the humble. Notice again that theme of God bringing down the proud, but lifting up the humble, as we see it in Mary's song in Luke chapter 1, verses 46 to 55. Follow along as I read what is familiarly called the Magnificat, Mary's song. And Mary said, My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. For he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed. For the mighty one has done great things for me. Holy is his name. His mercy extends to those who fear him from generation to generation. He has performed mighty deeds with his arm. He has scattered those who are proud in their inmost thoughts. He's brought down rulers from their thrones, but he's lifted up the humble. He's filled the hungry with good things, but he has sent the rich away empty. He has helped his servant Israel, remembering to be merciful. To Abraham and his descendants forever, even as he said, and to our fathers. Now I suggested a good way to get a handle on this song, which can be kind of overwhelming when you try to break down the thought. is to put the ups and the downs into two columns, as you see in the bullets and outline. The abasing, God's putting down the proud in the left column, and then God's lifting up the humble. in the right column. And so you notice in doing that that three times in this song, Mary refers to God putting down the prowl. And God refers to the proud in three different ways, you notice in this Psalm. First of all, in verse 51, he speaks of the proud who are proud in their inmost thoughts. Verse 52, he speaks of those who are the rulers, who feel secure in their own invincibility, their own strength. And then thirdly, verse 53, he speaks of the rich. who are full of themselves. And you notice in each case what God does to them. Verse 51, he scatters the prowl Those who are proud in the notice, in their inmost thoughts, they're not obviously proud. These are people who are self-sufficient. Now there are people who feel like they have a standing before God because of what they have done, their religious activity, or something that they've done to please God. Or he says in verse 52 about the rulers. What about them? He says he's brought down the rulers from their thrones. And they thought they were invincible. But God has brought them down, and God has done it then and he's doing it still today. And then in verse 53, he speaks about those who are rich, and what does he say? He sent the rich away empty. They're full of themselves. And so he has sent them away empty. Now you see the contrast between that and what God does to the humble. And you see that on the right side there. Looking at it, there is four examples in the song. Remember last week we saw four plus three equals the number of salvation, seven. Three examples of putting the good news is that your brother Esau is coming to visit you. He's coming to meet you. He says, well what's the bad news? He said, well the bad news is he's got four hundred men with him. You don't usually bring four hundred men with you to have a tea party. And so Jacob sends his wives and all his goods across the brook Jabbok, and he stays there all night, and he wrestles with the angel of the Lord. And in that wrestling, Jacob cannot prevail. But Hosea tells us in an inspired commentary, looking back on that, that Jacob finally prevailed when he was reduced to tears. And pleadings at the very end of himself. Jacob has now finally been reduced. He has been humbled. Proud Jacob, who's always got one more trick up his sleeve, finally comes to God and he says, God, I am undone. There is nowhere I can go but with to you And he wrestles with the angel. And the point in which he prevails, the scripture tells us, is when the angel takes his socket of his hip and he puts it out of joint. And in putting his hip out of joint, Jacob is reduced to weakness. Now, if you're wrestling with someone and they put your socket out of joint, at that point you think it's all over But for Jacob, in that wrestling match, it was precisely when his socket was put out of joint that he won the match. For the scripture tells us that he won in his weakness. And for the rest of his days, Jacob, who at that point in his weakness had his name changed from the heel grabber to Israel, the prince with God. And that's how Israel got its name was from that wrestling match at the Brook of Jabbek that night when a proud man was reduced in humility to coming to the end of himself and humbling himself before God. But for the rest of his days, Jacob would walk with a limp. And he'd walk with that limp to remind himself that he would never forget that the only way he prevailed with God Was in his weakness and not in his own strength. For God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Or take Moses. Moses was a prince in Egypt. He was a big shot. The Pharaoh and his daughter had adopted Moses into the royal lineage. They had brought him into the family. But everyone knew that he was a Jew. One day Moses is a grown man sees an Egyptian struggling with one of his own fellow Israelites And Moses, who's not about to let that happen, comes and intervenes with his own force, and he kills the Egyptian. Nobody's going to get away with that while I'm around, thinks Moses. But then he soon finds out there's a price on his head. And Moses is a hunted man. And so Moses has to leave all that he has in Egypt, and he flees to the backside of the wilderness of Midian. And there Moses for forty years is a nameless nobody shepherd. The one who is the mighty prince has now been humbled to take care of sheep on the backside of Midian till after forty years. God comes to him and he says, Moses, now you're ready to be the leader of my people Israel. And Moses says, Oh no God, once I was somebody, but now I'm nobody. There's no way you can use me. I can't even speak. All I do is talk to sheep all day. There's no way I can go back into a palace or lead your people. And God says, Moses, that's just what I've been waiting for. I've had to humble you and bring you down to that place after forty years, so now you are able to be lifted up and to become someone who can lead my people. For God opposes the proud, but he lifts up the humble. Or you take Hannah Mary's song is an echo of Hannah's song in 1 Samuel chapter 2. Do you remember that Hannah shared a husband with another wife, Pinina? And the problem in that household, there's a problem just whenever you got two wives and one husband, but that was further aggravated by the problem that Panina had several children. And Hannah had no children. And proud Panina was always rubbing it in to humble Hannah and despising her because she couldn't bear children. And Hannah humbled herself before God. She poured out her heart to him. She pleaded with God in her helplessness. And God gave to her children. God gave to her first of all Samuel. And after that birth of Samuel, do you remember that Hannah wrote the poem that was to be the foretaste of Mary's poem here in Luke chapter one. In part, Hannah said back then, those who are full hire themselves out for food. The ri the those who are rich go away empty. But those who are hungry hunger no more. She who was barren has borne seven children, but she who has had many sons pines away. Proud Panina has become pining Panina. The Lord brings death and makes alive. He brings down to the grave and he raises up The Lord sends poverty and wealth. He humbles and he exalts. And if you look at Mary's song, you'll see it's a parallel. to the thoughts of Hannah's song. And Hannah Song becomes the theme song for 1st and 2nd Samuel. So to understand 1 and 2 Samuel, you've got to keep hearkening back to that first poem there in chapter 2. And you see the distinction between proud Saul and humble David and their sons and all of the conflicts that go through that book of 1 and 2 Samuel. And Mary comes as the culmination and she says, It's still true. Well, you look at contemporary Jewish history at the very time of Mary, and you see that what Mary's referring to here, God had shown to be true in reality. You have, for instance, that back just uh about a hundred and seventy-five years before this, a man by the name of Antiochus Epiphanes, who had been the king of the Syrians. uh the Seleucids at that time. Uh Antiochus Epiphanes, whose name Epiphanes means God made manifest. I mean this guy wasn't very humble, you know. He said, you look at me, you're looking at God made manifest. And uh Antiochus didn't take too very kindly to the fact that the Egyptians were humbling him. He was losing to them. And he wanted to consolidate his fading empire. And so he decided that he would eradicate the Jews because they were a thorn in his side. And Antiochus outlawed Judaism. We'll go into this more next week in the second hour as we go through that history. But just very briefly now, Antiochus decided that he would outlaw all Judaism. And God raised up against that proud ruler a very humble nobody by the name of Matathias. A man who decided he would not recant, he would not burn his scriptures, he would not bow to the emperor, but he would stand true to the Lord God. And Matathias killed the emissary from Antiochus. And he and his five sons, one of whom was called Judas the Maccabe. Maccabe means hammer. And Matathias and his five sons led an incredible revolt against the entire Syrian army. Incredible odds. But God raised up that small force and added to their numbers until they had won independence from the entire Syrian army. Which is to this very day celebrated in the feast of Hanukkah by the Jews. God raised up the humble in that case to defend his people. But that tribe, that family, the Maccabees, the Hasmonean household, whose humble origins God blessed and used, grew to great power. And they began to control Israel. And as Mary gives this song, people think that if they were to publish the song, everybody would know what she meant. For in the previous 100 years the Hasmonean household had risen to great prominence and power, and that power had turned to corruption. And the corruption to degeneracy, until that family was so corrupt that the high priest who came from that family, by fire of the family Turned against the Jews and sought themselves to extinguish Judaism, only seeking their own ends. But the funny thing is that as that began to happen, the tide turned against the Hasmonians. 63 BC, they were stripped of their power when Pompey came in from Rome and took away their independence once and for all. And it's been only thirty years or less from the time that Mary wrote this song that the very last of the Hasmoneans was executed and the entire family. A family that had been in prominence for 150 years, the very last distant relative and remnant of that family, was executed by Herod. The entire family not only was shorn of its power, they were literally wiped from the earth. And who could doubt what Mary meant when she says, He has brought down rulers from their thrones, but he's lifted up the humble. And so you look at Mary herself, and do you see in her the example of what God has done in bringing down the proud, but in lifting up the humble? What a contrast she is to the Jewish expectation of the Messiah. The Old Testament had predicted that the Messiah would be one who would come in glory. And there was some indication of his humility. For instance, Zachariah speaks of him coming riding on an ass. But you know, the Jews were so determined. That the Messiah would only be one who would picture their ideas of glory and grandeur, that even the ass, the rabbis said, would be an ass of a hundred colors. I mean not going to be any ordinary ass he's going to ride on, you know. And you look at Mary, and do you see in Mary such a contrast? And do you realize Mary's a princess? She's a direct descendant of David. You know, if the lineage had carried on the way the Jews had expected and the way God seemed to have promised, Mary should be living in a palace. But here she is, a poor peasant, betrothed to a carpenter. And the two of them are so poor that when they have their firstborn son, Jesus, That they have to take advantage of the exception in the Levitical Law that said when you redeem your firstborn, if you don't have money for a regular sacrifice and you're so poor She can afford practically nothing. God graciously made provision that the sacrifice they could offer would be two pigeons Now, how much is a pigeon worth, you know? And that's what Joseph and Mary had to offer for Jesus. That's all they had money for. But Mary says, that's who God chooses. That's the one who He's decided to work through, to glorify Himself, so that I can magnify the Lord Jesus. And Mary's song, you see, is that sign to you and to me that God is accessible to people like us. He's going to bring through Mary, his own son, into the world. And God is accessible to you and to me, not when I prove that I am worthy to him, by some means of faithfulness. But rather simply when I recognize that I am totally unworthy to approach him, and that like Mary I have nothing to offer But simply come as a servant to magnify the grace of God. Or you see Jesus. And in Jesus we see the clearest example of this principle from the very dawn of creation. And without fear of contradiction, I can say he will be the clearest example that you will ever see for the rest of eternity. For Jesus comes from the celestial courts And from eternity he has never had a single wish that has been unfulfilled. And now he has to cry to be fed. He's born in a dirty stable, somewhat like akin to someone being born in a greasy garage in today's world. And the first who attend his birth are shepherds, not simply shepherds because he's the Lamb. But shepherds also because shepherds were the very off-scouring of that society. Shepherds, as I've reminded you in the past, were such ruffians, had such a low reputation in Israel, that it was illegal for a shepherd to testify in a court of law because it was assumed that he'd be a liar. And it's shepherds who come to pay the tribute to the King of Kings who's come to be born. And it's impossible for you and for me to consider how high this one was and how low he has come for you and for me. It's sort of like last week, you know, I was just kind of on the spur of the moment without any forethought that I decided to throw in that astronomical illusion. I figured I hadn't done it long enough. for long enough and that uh Doug McElroy might start rattling his cage about that. And so I threw in a few references to the stars and wanting to not overplay it and to exaggerate I purposely stayed within what I knew was true and talked about hundreds of thousands of stars in our galaxy, and of course Doug immediately afterwards reminded me that I hadn't gone nearly far enough. that in fact there are about two billion stars in our galaxy. And as Doug and I chuckled about that at the end we said the principle of astronomy is you always take what you think is the highest number it could possibly be and then multiply it by a few and you're probably a little closer to it. And I think of that with Jesus coming for you and for me. You think and stretch your imagination as far as you can possibly stretch it in how high he was and how low he came. And then you multiply that by a couple, and you're only beginning to approach the nature of his humility for you and for me. And every Christmas I find that it's a round of my seeking to stretch my imagination just a little bit further this year to understand how high Jesus was and how low he came. Because of his love for me and for you. This Jesus, who then, when he grew, taught about a kingdom. A glorious kingdom that's entered only by those who are humble in heart. This Jesus who then came to speak Of how that kingdom could only be entered by those who were made perfect. And then that Jesus Took on your sin and took on my sin. And the Father came to the place where he had to hide his face in disgust from Jesus. For he couldn't bear to look at him, because this Jesus had become so despised in his sight, taking on your sin and my sin. Until the Father ultimately cursed his own son. And there is no lower that you can go but to be cursed by God. And Jesus is cursed. He hangs on a cross. He says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And he's forsaken, so that you and I could come into that kingdom. So that in coming in the way of humble Jesus, you and I could be lifted up with him To become kings and princesses. And Jesus, when he was humbled, was then exalted Even at his birth, there was the foretaste of the fact that after the shepherds, there came some months later kings to bow before him. And Jesus soon after is hunted by a king, Herod. And Mary's going to have to remember her own song where she says, He's able to bring down rulers from their throne as they run to Egypt for their very lives. Then they're brought back to Nazareth. Why? Because God has brought down Herod. And he's removed him from the throne, and Herod's been killed. And now Jesus comes back to reign. And Jesus is lifted up after his death, resurrected to glory, and lifted up upon a throne where every knee shall bow and every king shall prostrate themselves in the dust. And you and I before him, against our will, if it must be, or by his grace coming willingly to prostrate ourselves before Jesus and declare him the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Because he's called us by the way of humility to himself. But you see, this same principle wasn't true only in the Old and New Testament. This principle continues to be true. And so you see, even after the New Testament, this principle of God opposing the proud and bringing them down and lifting up the humble. is seen in many examples to take but just a couple. Do you remember Augustus Caesar? Who was ruling at the time of the close of the New Testament? Augustus Caesar is sitted on the throne of the eternal city. Which would never lose its glory, and today has lost so very much of it. And Augustus Caesar, whose very wishes are carried out to the farthest reaches of the empire. Whose word is absolute law. If you were to tell Augustus Caesar that there was born in a stable in Bethlehem a little Jewish kid And that that one is going to grow up, and his empire will be the end of your empire, Augustus Caesar. This one is going to raise up an eternal empire. And long after your name has been totally forgotten, people will worship his name. How the courts of Rome would have laughed in derision, and yet it would have been true. And long after Augustus Caesar has descended the throne in death Jesus is still alive and still gathering his people to worship him. Or you take the sixteenth century and you've got a man on the throne there, Pope Leo X. And Pope Leo X's word is the rule of the Roman Catholic Church in that time. And far off in Germany, there is a humble monk. Dr. Martin Luther, and he's nailing 95 thesis to the church door in Wittenberg. He wants to debate these principles from Scripture And people laugh at this upstart monk. And long after Pope Leo X has been humbled So that scholars in his own church, the Roman Catholic Church today, admit that his rule was a corrupt rule, and that he was degenerate and an embarrassment to the Roman Catholic Church. Even East German Communists honor the name of Martin Luther. The Roman Catholic Church in many segments honors the name of Martin Luther We look to Martin Luther as a hero of the faith. And the one who is humble has been lifted up. And we honor him. And God has used him mightily because God opposes the proud. But he lifts up the humble for his purposes. Arrogant, proud Napoleon, the conqueror of empires who would rule the world and take all Europe by storm. was finally banished in humility, driven off to the island of Saint Helena, and in the last days of his life he wrote these words that whereas he, as well as others, such as Alexander the Great and Caesar and Charlemagne, have founded great empires, but he says, upon what did the creations of our genius depend? They depended, he says, upon force. But he says, I look at this man, Jesus. And he says, Jesus alone founded his empire upon love And to this very day, millions would die for him. Napoleon had written earlier, nobody will die for me anymore. They've all left me. Nobody cares about me. But he says Jesus' empire keeps on growing, and to this day, millions would die for him. I think I understand something of human nature, and I tell you that all these were men, and I am a man But none else is like him. Jesus Christ was more than a man. And that's the testimony of Napoleon. But you come down to our own day, and what do you see? You see the very same principle at work. You see, Mary said that God was going to lift up servants. And that was a radical thought in her day. And I'd suggest to you that that's just as radical a thought today, to seek to be a servant. Because everything in our culture says that nobody should want to be a servant. Everything in our culture says visualize what you want and go after it. Whether it's New Age philosophy or life spring or whatever it else or MasterCard and Master the possibilities, you know, go for it. You only have one chance Our culture is a culture of image and rights. Establish an image of success. Defend my rights and nobody will trample them. And in such a culture, you and I look at the notion of servanthood as a rather net radical notion, don't we? It really isn't something that is naturally very appealing to us. And in conclusion, I suggest for you here a number of applications. Save you the trouble you see of writing the math yourself. You can simply put check marks on the left side there of the ones that you identify with. Because these are things that I've been convicted of in most cases as I've looked through them and meditated on this passage. For instance, the ambition for recognition. These are ways that I see myself and I see us even within the Church of Jesus Christ violating the gentle, humble spirit of Mary that she says is the spirit that God. gives and honors. The ambition for recognition. I think I shared with some of you that many months ago I was praying out in the woods for revival and renewal within Colombia. And I was particularly focusing on that for a while. And all of a sudden a thought came to me Alan, what if I answered your prayer for renewal and revival in Colombia? Oh Lord, I'd be so happy about that. Lord said I wasn't finished yet. Suppose I answered your prayer and I used another evangelical church in Colombia to do it. I say, hey Lord, don't wait a minute, you know. I mean, I'm the one that's praying this now. I mean that's not fair, you know. And and the Lord seemed to speak to me, but would you be willing? Would you be as eager? For revival and renewal to come in Colombia if Columbia Presbyterian Church and Alan Harris didn't get the credit for it. That was a very searching thought to me. And I wasn't so sure that I was as eager for a great work of revival to happen in Colombia if I had nothing to do with it except that I was the one praying for it, and nobody knew that. I so clamor for recognition, to get credit for the things that I do, that people will know me and they will recognize all my talent and all the rest of it. And in doing that, I slip in to exactly what Mary is saying is what God can never use. Do you clamor for recognition? Do you demand that If you do, you've missed what Mary's talking about. Or there's the drawing attention to myself in conversations. You know how it goes all Give you your chance to say your piece and I listen for something that'll remind me of a story that can outdo yours or it'll remind me of a way that I can talk about myself. Where there's the always thinking about what people can do for me and little of what I can do for them, even in subtle ways. What can I get out of helping this person? What can I get out of doing anything I can do for them? Or postponing attention to my family for my plans. Right now, just for now, you know. Just for now the kids will have to hang on. Just for now, my wife will have to hang on. Until my kids have grown and my wife's become a stranger so that I could meet my goals. Or the envying of success of other people, and not being happy for what God has done to use them, or what He has given to them But coveting and envying it. Being discontent as a homemaker because it it lacks status. I don't get enough recognition for all the work and the drudgery In seeking to raise godly kids or the sacrifices I've made in one way or another, the discontentment of that, finding it hard to admit that I have weaknesses. He said, I'll tell me about your strengths and your weaknesses. You say, well, I can tell you about what have been weaknesses. No, I want to know about your weaknesses right now. I don't mean just little flaws, I mean character weaknesses that are still plaguing you. And we twinge no way to think I have weaknesses, major weaknesses, yet. And it humbles me before God. Now, somebody once said that every Christian should carry two rocks in their pocket. And you should take them out and feel them. Perhaps a smooth rock. Which is to remind you that you are a child of God, for whom the world was created, and perhaps a rough rock. It says, you are also a child of sin, for whom the Son of God had to die. That's what Mary's song is about. And that's what Christmas is about. Amen.