It is fitting that we look into his word. I was uh I'm always reminded when things get tough around CPC, my um What I do is I think back to the time when I was in seminary, you know, and get a little chill in the air up here. I think back to summers in Georgia and I think to uh the roofing business that I had Uh, we always make the joke I was you know, I had this roofing business to make ends meet and ends never met usually and so God was gracious to make sure that we had food and Could pay our rent and stuff like that. So my business prowess is not going to be highlighted here today, but uh Um one of the things that uh would normally happen is if I found out that we were gonna not be making money by the end of the job, I would cut my crew loose a couple of days early so that I could not pay them and I could and we could get paid. And I found myself in that situation in the middle of summer with a trailer load full of debris from a tear-off job Pulling into the landfill, notice the bulldozer that I was expecting to grab the chain and pull my load off in 10 minutes time was temporarily out of order. And so went on up to the uh field that was baking in the Georgia sun, stinking of the debris and waste And uh not looking forward to pulling off that entire trailer by hand by myself. And so I backed into the spot where I was supposed to be and standing in the muck in the mire and just starting to unload it. And while I was standing there another pickup truck uh came pulling in and he backed in next to me and two guys that were leathered from the sun And from a life of toil, got out and they started doing the same thing, you know, moved their chain out of the way 'cause that was not going to be used And the question ringing in our heads that I wanted to verbalize that they just voiced before I could get there, what did we ever do to deserve this? And we laughed. Yeah, huh. Kinda went back to doing it. And then the thought hit me. And I guess it was because of the sun or because of the heat of the day. I didn't you know how you always kind of guard your tongue and you don't want to get into some kind of evangelism or whatever 'cause you haven't prayed it up and all that. And I just blurted it out. You know, God save us from what we really deserve. And both of them, oh, what have we got here? Some kind of preacher? And we had a fairly good conversation about um working definition of mercy, not getting what you deserve, working definition of grace Getting that which you are not deserving of. And as I reflected on that, I just thought, you know If we are to believe the truth of God's word, if we're to hold fast to this, then we're to see today as we approach his word That not only do we deserve toil in the Georgia sun, in the middle of a wasteland, three football fields wide But we deserve so much more. We deserve hell. We deserve the wrath of God, fully and unmitigated, poured out on our sin. I want you to let that sink in. Think about that. Think about it because the scripture that we look at today If you enter in with the with that truth that that is what you deserve, then this will be even more beautiful a text to you. We're going to look at what Christ has done. And then, based on our need, we're going to look at the exhortation to take advantage of the privilege that He's given to us. It's in seeing how desperately far away from God we are, is to see how amazing that love, that reconciling love really is. Amen. Amen Amen. You know we you know when Alan does that, when I do that, when anybody who stands in this pool, we don't do that to like get on you or anything. We realize that when we speak about truth It's dumbfounding. It strikes us silent. And so we're just trying to prompt you to, you know, hey, you can you can respond to that if you want. So don't ever take that as a oh should have said amen again. I always miss those amen. Just join with us in the in reveling in the beauty of his truth. Turn in your copy of the scriptures, if you would, to Hebrews. Chapter 10. I'm going to start to read at verse 19. We're going to look at 19 to 25, and I realize that we have so much to cover. And so let's pray together that we'll be able to. Meet with God today in this truth. Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the holiest By the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way which He consecrated for us through the veil, that is, his flesh, and having a high priest over God Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope. without wavering, for he who promised it is faithful. And let us consider one another In order to stir up love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, but exhorting one another, and so much the more As you see the day approaching. We were reminded last week As Alan took us to Exodus six, verses six through eight, to review for us that nutshell of the gospel That we who were like the Israelites in bondage to sin and slaves to our sinful natures. Have been redeemed. We've been set free, forgiven. We've been redeemed completely to a relationship We're no longer orphans, like the Dickens classics, you know, spending for ourselves, but we are sons and daughters of the living God Invited to sup at his table, redeemed to a relationship with the hope of a reward A reward that is so great that our minds can't wrap themselves around that kind of a reward. A reward that no eye has seen, no ear has heard, nor mind conceived. The things that God has prepared for those who love Him Remember that reminder from last week? And every time I'm reminded from that passage in Exodus 6, 6 through 8, I always want to go right back to verse 5 in the same passage. Because it is in verse 5 that I believe the writer of Hebrews pulls us in today. Moses records in Exodus 5, the Lord speaking, and I have heard the groanings of my people in bondage. Listen, and I remembered my covenant with them. You see, he did all those things Because of himself, because of his covenant, because of his faithfulness. That's refreshing Oh Lord, that it would refresh us to action. So that's that's a picture. That the writer of Hebrews has before him as he writes to Jewish believers. And he has explained in the first nine chapters here. There's no chapter divisions in the original language, but up until this point The writer of Hebrews has said all of the wonderful truths of who Jesus is, his excellence, his superiority, the permanence of his priesthood, his sacrifice, sufficient and full. And he says, therefore, and as Vern Rushing was reminding me, a senior preacher to a preacher boy Whenever there's a therefore, you always look and see what it's there for. And this therefore is to indicate that the first nine chapters reveal Christ the fulfillment of the Old Testament law. Christ the fulfillment of the covenant. Christ the fulfillment for you and for me. And so we enter into this text. He says, therefore I want to remind you of some things. There's here in this sermon The privileges of the covenant, a reminder of that privilege. And then three exhortations based on our need of what to do with these privileges, what to do with this truth. And then some application. Lord, get us there so we can take your truth away today and be changed. Be different from when we walked in So let's look at the privilege here. The privileges. What has been accomplished for us apart from us? The writer starts with this thing. Get bold. Enter into the presence of the holiest, the holy place Now the Jewish reader would certainly know what he's referring to here, and that is the place within all of the outer circles and inner layers of the of the tabernacle where the sacrifice for the people was offered by the high priest one day of a year. He would enter into the Holy of Holies, offer the sacrifice, and he would not linger there. It would not linger there because God is a God of holiness. They would remember as they read that, as they have this letter read before them in the assembling of the saints. We remember the story of Nadab and Abihu, Aaron's sons. We remember in Leviticus 10 how they thought of themselves that they were going to offer a strange fire, a profane fire before the Lord. And the Jewish readers of this passage would remember that because of their foolishness, God sent out a fire from Himself and consumed them. And as Aaron, I guess, tried to enter into dialogue with Moses, they would remember well Moses ' words. Do you not remember? God said That to my people I will be regarded as holy. And so to be hit with this thought, with boldness Enter in. Enter in with boldness. Enter in because his blood has been shed. We enter in by the blood of Christ. We were reminded during a recent sermon in Acts 20, 28, the church purchased with what? The blood of God. Remember how we had to pause and take that in. Colossians 1. 20. We have peace with God through the blood. Of the cross. First Peter 1, verse 19, we are redeemed by the precious blood Of Christ the spotless Lamb, the blood of Jesus Christ, cleanses us from all sin, John tells us in his first letter. And it's not a requirement when you preach up here to mention Ephesians, but I will. I will because God wants us to hear in Ephesians 2. 13 that we were brought near. By the blood of Jesus Christ. You see, it's an invitation to enter with boldness into the holiest of places. By the blood Through his body broken. The curtain. You see in your outline, there's three passages in the New Testament where on the cross, when Christ willingly gave up The Spirit. The veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And the writer of Hebrews wants to point you and me to that. We have been given access To a holy God. Because He gave Himself for us. Man Woman. Rejoice in him. It's a new and living way. The privilege of the covenant is a new way. It's like they've not heard before There is a sacrifice that has been offered once for all who would believe. No more yearly trips to the temple. To spill the blood of animals. The blood of the spot spotless lamb was shed once and for all. It's a living way because it's tied up and bound, inextricably bound to the living Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul reminds the Roman Christians that our bodies are to be offered as a living sacrifice. It's a living way. It's a different way. And then this final phrase that we'll pass way too quickly over That he has been appointed the great high priest over the house of God. Would that we could develop this? I think I put in your outline the passage there in Hebrews 3 and verse 6, how Jesus in his humility is the Son over the house of God, and how in Hebrews 4 he is revealed as the great high priest. And we're reminded from that Christmas series Isaiah fifty-two, thirteen to fifteen, the introduction to that uh psalm, that that song of the servant in Isaiah fifty-three His exaltation to the highest place simultaneous with his humiliation demonstrated in a lowly act of service giving himself for us. That's the privilege that has been afforded to you simply because of who God is. To the praise of his glory. Amen and amen Have you ever stopped and thought, why is it that we're instructed to do things from the scriptures? Here we're getting ready to uh approach three Lettuces, if you will. This isn't where you don't you get away from the meat of the message and you go to the salad. This is these are the exhortations to you and to me as believers What do we do with this great truth? And I would commend to you a thought that whenever you see an instruction, a command, an imperative, an exhortation like these three It is based on a need that you and I have as human frail beings. Look at the first one. So then let us draw near. God knows what's best for us. In fact, God knows he's best for us, right? And that's why he says, I know your need. I know your need, and and I tell you, draw near to me. Draw near with what has been afforded to you. You can draw near to a living God. With a true heart, in full assurance of faith, because your hearts have been sprinkled from an evil conscience and your bodies washed with pure water. We can draw near because he's done the sprinkling and he has done the washing You know, so oftentimes in the Christian circles, we get this Christian ease, this language that flows from next generation to following generations, and we got it from the preceding generations. And one of those phrases that has Bug to me from time to time is you gotta have that personal relationship with Jesus Christ. It's a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And sometimes I'm I stop and I I step back and I say, all right, what am I saying to people? And what have people said to me? A personal relationship with Jesus Christ? And then God graciously takes me to his word and reminds me of passages like John 14. Jesus says, if anyone loves me, he will keep my word. And my Father will love him, listen, and we will come to him, and we will abide with him. A personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Jesus says, I am the vine. You are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit. But apart from me, you can do nothing You see it? A personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Jesus says, if you abide in me, my words abide in you, then ask whatever you desire. And it shall be done for you. A personal relationship with Jesus The deliverer, the redeemer, Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the anointed one of God. As the Father has loved me, Jesus says, That's the way I love you. Now, abide in my love. Do you get it? A personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Every once in a while it's good to examine these phrases that we throw around so lightly. Would that I could highlight all of the reasons that I came up with in my study of why we don't draw near to God. Maybe it was all the reasons why I don't draw near to God. Why don't I take advantage of the privilege of the covenant? But two that I would highlight for you here this morning. One of the reasons that I believe we don't draw near to God is because we doubt. God. Without his character. We don't think we're supposed to be there Maybe we've gotten out of balance in our doctrine. You know, the holiness of God is not a doctrine that overshadows the mercy, the love, the benevolence of God, the benevolence of God. They go simultaneously together. Truths that are too beautiful to try to outweigh Maybe we doubt that we're supposed to be there. Maybe we doubt it because our focus is wrong. And that's why the writer of Hebrews gives us the verse that he does. In verse 22. Listen, draw near to him. Your hearts have been sprinkled clean by not the blood of a goat or a bull or a dove, but the blood of Jesus Christ. Once and for all. Draw near to God with a full assurance that comes from the faith that is developed in knowing that truth See, this exhortation comes to us out of our need. We need to be reminded of that truth, don't we? We don't live this truth by ourselves. We need the body to remind us. Our bodies have been washed with pure water. He wants us to get us to see. The gospel is living out of the truth of the reality of who you already are in Christ. Right? I believe we don't draw near because we doubt and we don't think we're supposed to be there. I believe also another reason that we don't draw near to God Is that I think we don't really understand just how good this good news is. Here's another phrase for you: the power of the gospel. If you've been around CPC for any amount of time, you've heard that phrase. Step back again. Examine that, but what does it mean? The power of the gospel. Why did Paul say, I'm unashamed? of the gospel of Jesus Christ, because it is the power of God for the salvation of all who believe. Examine that phrase because it is good news. You see, we we love standing in the middle of a toxic waste dump. We love it. Our hearts are inclined to it because of original sin. It's what God's Word says about me and about you. It's a sobering thought. We don't understand the good news of the gospel. We don't understand that we've been set free fully. There's a movie out. I haven't seen it. I don't know if I'll see it. Maybe I'll get the video when it comes out. Life of Muhammad Ali, probably the uh now second most famous Muslim that we know, second only to Osama bin Laden. after September eleven attacks. And I was reading an article of an interview between Ali and uh I don't know, some guy named Bingham. I don't know who he is, but anyway And I just want to point out a couple of things that's typical of every religion outside of Christ. Listen to Ali. He's asked the question, how do you feel about different religions? Ali, rivers, ponds, lakes, streams, they have different names, but all contain water Religions have different names too, but all contain truth. Read on So what does your faith mean to you then, Ali? It means a ticket to heaven. One day we're all going to die, and God's going to judge us, our good deeds and our bad deeds. If the bad outweighs the good, you go to hell. If the good outweighs the bad, you go to heaven. I'm thinking about the judgment day and how you treat people wherever you go. Help somebody through charity, because when you do It's recorded. I go to parties. I see good-looking girls. Listen, Dolly. I dig a box of matches. Out of my pocket. I light it. I touch it to my finger. Ooh. Hell hurts. Worse than this. So buy a box of matches, carry them around with you, put one on your finger and see how long you can hold it there. Just imagine that's going to be hell. Hell totter and for eternity. Do you hear the burden of the law? Do you hear the weight of trying to keep that tally sheep? Do you hear the elevated view that Muhammad Ali has of himself? That if the good outweighs the bad, he's in. I might leave these here But I think I'll take them down. Is that what you want? If I can offer this pack of matches to you And encourage you to put on the anvil that you'll have to wear, the weight, the burden of trying to keep the law by yourself. Or we can offer you What we try to do every week when we gather together is God's people, the freedom that Christ offers freely, the forgiveness that He has granted Through the shedding of his blood and the breaking of his body. I hope that you've made the choice on that. I hope that if right now something's hitting you, do I have a tally sheet mentality, even though I've professed to believe in Christ and Christ alone? I believe there's another exhortation here. The exhortation, again, based on our need, we need to know That we're weak, that left to ourselves we won't persevere until the end. The communion that we have with Christ is so imperative to our walk with Christ. That we're exhorted, draw near to God. And that the communion that we have with God's people, the body of Christ, is imperative as well. Listen to that sec second exhortation. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. For he you promised is faithful. You see, there's one thing Alan would probably have you take away many things from the spiritual warfare series, but if there's one thing that I would have you take away as his assistant. It is this that we have a real enemy who hates God and wants to launch his attack on God through God's special creation, you and me. And the enemy wants to pull you away. And so we've been encouraged and will be encouraged again when we take up Ephesians 6 again to stand firm. To be steadfast. Listen, Peter said it really well when the apostle writes in his first letter Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Resist him Be steadfast in the faith. And I want to admonish you and encourage you With all the strength that I have, we need to do everything we can to hold fast to the confession of our hope. And you say, wait a second, Tim Why don't you just change your name to Pollyanna? Because every time I try harder, I fail worse. Oh, you too? Good. Then remind yourself of the second part of verse twenty-three Listen, our confession of hope is able to be held to without wavering. We should probably all say it together, because he who promised is faithful. You see that? He who promised is faithful. He's reliable. He's trustworthy. He's dependable. We must depend more on his promises to us than on our promises to him. See, one of those things is very great and mighty and trustworthy and faithful, and another of those things, our promises to him, are weak and frail and feeble. And that's another reason why we're called together in accountable relationship in a church. It's a family of God. The scriptures describe it as many things: household of faith, family of God, the communion of the saints. Because you're to point me and my family to the trustworthy God. And I'm in turn to point you and your family to the trustworthy God. When things are discouraging, when life doesn't go well, and our hope seems to have been dissipating, we need to hold fast to the confession of our hope. A couple of weekends or a couple of months ago, I was uh flipping through some channels on a Saturday evening, as I am prone to do And um Kevin and Leah were with me. They were on the couch. I was in my lazy boy. And um stumbled across Rocky Four It's the one where he goes up against the Russian. Now Apollo Creed has already been um you know, he's already lost his life. It's a very sad thing, and Rocky's going up against the Russian and Rocky's just getting pummeled And I look over and Kevin about the same time and we see Leah, just you know, our five year old, very skittish about what's gonna happen with Rocky You know, I mean, 'cause he's, you know, head and shoulders shorter than, you know, the Russian. And Kevin utters those words that I go back to frequently when my faith is shaken. Don't worry, Leah. Rocky always wins. That's what we're called to. Right? I can't hold fast to the confession of my hope by myself. But you come alongside me and you put your arm around me and you say, Tim Jesus Christ is victorious. He's conquered death and hell, and he's done it for you. Amen. One final exhortation. If you have the NIV translation, it may seem as if there's more let us exhortations. But those in the original language are simply participial phrases that all launch off of this one. Let us consider one another. Let us consider one another. Now, sorry I haven't directed you to this, but on the back of the outline there, if you've got three blanks to fill in, they are faith, hope, and love. Sound familiar? Faith, hope, and love. Now one might argue, but I think unsuccessfully that you can have faith by yourself. I disagree, but anyway. Someone might argue that you can have that hope. Hold fast to the confession by yourself. I would disagree, respectfully. But there is no way in heaven on earth that you could argue successfully that you can express agape, other centered, self-sacrificing, giving love in a vacuum. It's a mutual Endeavor. We have to be part of a body in order to love the way we're exhorted to love here. Agape love. Wow. Let me read a quote from Chuck Coulson as we conclude. Which I happen to agree with, by the way, unlike Ali Colson says this about the assembling together of the saints, the communion of the saints, the accountable relationship that church membership affords us as believers. Says this, one cannot claim to be a Christian and at the same time claim to be outside the church. To do so is at least hypocrisy and at worst blasphemy. Those are strong words. But I think that's what the writer of Hebrews is laying out for us. We're exhorted with the view that one day we all stand and give an account of ourselves. We're exhorted To consider one another, not forsaking the assembling together, but exhorting one another, spurring one another on toward love and toward good deeds. Irritating one another on toward love and good deeds is actually a literal translation there. The application part of this sermon, I want you to write. But I would give you two major headings under which to write that portion. The communion with Christ. And communion with the body of Christ. I'm going to pray and have a time of reflection. But I would ask you, under those two major headings , ask God to tell you particularly how to apply this message. Would you? Let's pray together. Father, it is with a child like trust and reliance upon you as the God who answers prayer, that we cry out to you to answer these prayers. Father, help us, touch us, penetrate our hearts with our need for communion with Christ. Lord, touch us, penetrate our hearts with our need for communion with the body of Christ. Lord Jesus, make us mindful that whatever action results from this message, from this worship service, that we want to step into that Walk in the strength that you provide. And we will be careful, Lord, if you will help us enable us to be careful to give you all the praise and glory to your name. In the name of Jesus, we pray it all. Amen