Last week we looked at uh Jesus in a minor incident in Matthew chapter twenty one after you remember he drove the money changers out of the temple on that Monday morning before His death. We looked at uh seven insights into his heart and character at that time as we saw him healing broken beggars We saw him thoroughly enjoying the rowdy praise of children. We saw him facing the hostility of the Jewish leaders without flinching. Some even appealing to their conscience to try and warn them of their destruction. We saw that by that courageous act he sealed his death warrant. And we saw something of what his heart was like. And I suggested that you meditate on the seven things we talked about this week. So I don't I don't know if you did, I'm not gonna ask for any hands or anything. But uh if you did, then I hope that uh it helped you in your love for the Lord Jesus. Um If you didn't, then I'm going to offer to you some more things this week to give you something to think about in the coming week. Let me urge you to To use this for meditation, somebody came out of the first service and said to me how much the message meant to them this morning. And they said, um, I wonder if it didn't mean more to me because I had been meditating each day on what you said last week And that really primed me for this week. How else are you going to get to know and love the Lord Jesus more unless you feed on his word that reveals him and what he's like? And think about it. So Hope you take that opportunity. Well I want you to fast forward now from that Monday morning to Thursday evening. And um Thursday evening of course was Passover We'll reflect on that a bit more a week from Friday at our March 29 Good Friday Tenebrae service But right now I want to move after that meal to when Jesus takes his disciples out of the city. They go east Down that steep Kidron Valley, where they smelled the smoldering remains of hundreds of sacrifices that had been slain on the hill above the Temple Mount. And then they go down that valley and up the other side, steep sides to that valley. The other side is called the Mount of Olives. As you begin to ascend the lower slopes of that, you see all those olive trees, the grove after grove of them. Olives, of course, were Very significant, very precious to the Jews at that time, olives were used, major staple in their cooking In their healing and in anointing. In fact, the word Messiah, Mishiach, means the anointed one, and they anointed with olive oil. As they come to the lower slopes of the Mount of Olives, they stop, Jesus stops them, where all a number of the olive presses are. And olive presses are called, guess what, Gethsemanes. What's a Gethsemane? A Gethsemane is a round circular stone trough in which a large stone wheel rolled on the olives to crush them to get the oil out of them and then that olive oil would drain in a hole and be collected underneath. When the stone would roll around, uh it would leave a pulp after the oil had been drained, and that pulp was precious. They didn't want to waste anything, so they would take the pulp and gather it up in baskets. which are right there at the Gethsemane. And the there would be a large stone tower. And they would put the baskets at the base of that tower and then they would use a lever to apply tremendous pressure on the pulp in order to squeeze out the last bit of olive oil. And so here Jesus comes now, the Messiah To this grove of Gethsemane, where he is now about to be pressed and crushed by the weight of God's wrath. which no human had ever endured, a weight that was unbearable, so that we would not have to bear that unbearable load. We can never fully appreciate the horrors of what occurred at Gethsemane and what Jesus endured there. But I would like with you this morning to consider at least the record as we have it in Mark and three types of horrors that Jesus endured because of his love for you. So Michael, let's see the overhead up here. You see that's not going to fit. You gotta go up and down from where we do it there. Um can we turn that just a little bit again so I can get the spotlight right in my eye Hey, that's great. Thank you. Good. Now I can see you again. You can't all sneak out without my noticing it First thing to notice is that at Gethsemane, Jesus was awestruck by sin. Three A's to help you to remember here. He was awestruck by sin. You notice in verse thirty-three, it says he took Peter, James, and John along with him and began to be deeply distressed and troubled The word they're deeply distressed is a word that you can translate also alarmed, astonished, appalled. It's the kind of word that you would use of somebody who thought they'd seen a ghost. In fact, that word is used in 1 Samuel chapter 15 and 1 Samuel chapter 14 and verse 15 in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. to describe the Philistines when God caused them to panic by hearing the sound of an earthquake. It's that same kind of word. They were astonished, they were alarmed, they were appalled. It's a word that Mark uses in chapter 1 and verse 27 when he describes the people, astonished at Jesus' teaching. It's a word that Mark uses in chapter 16 in verse 5 to describe the alarm of the women who come to the empty tomb and they find an angel sitting there. They're alarmed, disturbed. And now this word is used of Jesus, the man who could look at the steely gaze of the Pharisaic leaders and not flinch. And now we read that he staggers. Look at verse 34. My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. Stay here and keep watch. And going a little farther. You notice it doesn't say he bowed down to pray. He knelt to pray. He fell to the ground and prayed. He staggers and falls. My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. If anyone else said that, we'd assume that they were exaggerating to make a point. Jesus never exaggerated to make a point. Imagine what it means that he, the Son of God, is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. What is it that shakes himself? What could surprise him? What alarms him Apparently, he is now seeing the full horror of sin that he is beginning to bear for the first time. He is now clearly seeing what he had not seen. He had seen the cross. He knew he would bear that But now for the first time he sees the full weight of the Gethsemane that is about to press and crush him. The weight of your sin, the weight of my sin. And all of its terror. And all of its horror. And apparently the sight of that far exceeds even his expectations. Because the word clearly has the idea of being surprised, alarmed. Jesus staggers at it. He's now seeing human nature in all its full foulness. Corruption, hatred, bitterness, maliciousness, the oppression of helpless people Malicious gossip, lusts that corrupt, destroy, mutilations, blasphemies. All of them on and on. And he says, My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. He's falling to the ground. Praise Father. Everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but you. Jesus is now staring at the yawning pit of hell. He's beginning to see now with overwhelming sorrow Like looking into a venomous snake pit and beginning to feel the vipers crawling over your body, Jesus now begins to become sin. This is a critical moment. You see, Jesus has the choice to not go through with it. And as he sees this in all its fullness, he can turn back. And if he flinches now, and if he turns back, all hope is gone for you and me You and I would be lost for eternity. Will he? Will he run? Will he turn? While he has the chance, he's praying desperately for another alternative three times. Lord, take this cup. Give me an alternative. There must be another way. But there is none. And so he goes on. Not yielding to his feelings, as many of us would do, in a day when feelings rule in so many of our choices He goes on, ruled only by love for you and for me. And for the Father that he determines to glorify. You can see the sigh of relief, brothers and sisters. He's going on. He does not turn back. But it gets worse. The second horror of Gethsemane is that he is now attacked by Satan. Attacked by Satan. Look at verse 35. Going a little farther, he fell to the ground and prayed that if possible the hour might pass from him. The hour. What does the hour refer to? Well you see in verse forty one, flip up there to the end there. The hour has come. Look, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. In Luke chapter 22 and verse 53, when he is arrested, he says to Those who are his captors. This is your hour when darkness reigns In John chapter 12 and verse 27, he refers to this hour as the reason that he came to earth in order to drive out the prince of this world. In John 14, he refers to this hour and says that the world will know the extent of his love for his father by his obedience in this hour. But who of us can know or feel the cost of that obedience? Now Satan himself and all of his fiends gather by Jesus in order to seek by any means To cause him to fail, to tempt him to turn back and to be unfaithful. Luke chapter 22 says at this moment that he was in anguish Notice what the disciples are doing. They're sleeping. And I believe that that sleep, of course, is not just from psychological or physical weariness Uh I believe the the sleep is something that I have experienced and I don't know about you when you're struggling deeply with some spiritual turmoil You ever find that uh for some strange reason you think this is crazy, but I'm feeling drowsy, I'm feeling distracted, I can't focus my prayer, you know, this is important, I need to be praying about this. Lord, why is it so hard to concentrate? Ever had that kind of experience? I I have. I I I must tell you, I've had that a number of times praying about the sermon I'm going to preach to you. Saturday night, Sunday morning particularly, I will I will determine to pray that God would use it, maybe thinking of Some individuals and praying that God will speak to your hearts, particularly in this and you know, and I'm feeling drowsy and I'm feeling distracted and I can't focus That's a spiritual warfare. And so Jesus is being attacked like the disciples. He'll not be able to focus. Another thing to notice here is that you read a little bit later that Peter and some others are warming themselves by a fire. It's a chilly night. And yet, what does Luke tell us about Jesus in Gethsemane? Remember, it says his sweat was like great drops of blood. I don't think that means that his sweat was mixed with blood. I don't think it means it was bloody sweat or blood. I think it means exactly what Luke says, his sweat. was like great drops of blood. In other words, he wasn't just damp. He was ringing wet. The sweat was pouring off him because of the agony, the struggle With Satan and the demons. Now, what was the nature of that struggle? What was the nature of the temptations? We're not told. But as I've thought about that through the years There are three things that I think could have been involved in that. I may be wrong, I may be right, maybe other things involved, but I wouldn't be surprised if at least it involved these three and they at least illustrate the point. I think that one of the first things that Satan would have been tempting him to do was simply to abandon his course by saying You know you're never going to be able to go through with this. Look how alarmed you're feeling now. Look how right now you're feeling sorrow to the point of death. You know you have to go to the cross. You've understood that. What you don't know Is what you're going to suffer in that process. When you feel the crushing weight of all of the father's wrath upon you And you are given over to me and my demonic host to do with you what we have wanted to do with you ever since You had cast us out of heaven. We will have our way with you. You better turn back while you have the chance, for you will not be able to endure it And the visions of hell that would have been before Jesus' eyes would have been more than you and I could have stood to see. When that failed, perhaps he pulled another card and said, Why are you doing this? It's out of obedience to the Father. Is that it? You fool. Don't you see that this whole thing is a trick? Don't you understand? That the Father and the Spirit are simply doing this to get rid of you so that they can rule without you? They asked you to become flesh so that you're vulnerable. And now you're going to be cursed. Let me tell you, you're not going to rise from the dead, you're going to be destroyed. You will be obliterated. And you trusted him. You better turn back while you still have the chance. And when that fails, there's at least one more card. And Satan says, Who are you doing this for Those puny creatures that you love so much? Look at them over there. What are they doing? They're sleeping. That's how much they care for you. And you're going to give your life and suffer hell for them? They're simply not worth it. And at this point, as you and I watch the scene, we have the greatest cause for our own alarm. Because we know that he's right. Lord Jesus, why would you give yourself for me Why would you exchange your precious life for mine? There is no answer that makes sense. Why would you do it? Were you to watch that, and I were to watch that, we would tremble, wouldn't we? That Satan has played the card that will win. But we see him continue undeterred Going on, Father, not my will, but yours What strength. What love. Think of that. The next time you this week Are tempted to disobey your Lord Jesus and to dishonor him By turning to some other lover, an idol that you think will satisfy you more than he can. Think of the gravity. Think of the allurements of your own temptations in the light of what Jesus was tempted for at Gethsemane. But he says the hour has come. And he goes out. With his heart set to drink the cup of God's wrath for you. And so we come to the third and final point. The worst of all, Jesus is alienated from God. Alienated from God. This is, of course, the heaviest blow of all, the drinking of the full cup of God's wrath, utterly alone See how that's communicated? Again, look at verse 33. Takes Peter, James, and John, begins to be deeply distressed and troubled. That word troubled Is a word which is related to a word for homesickness, the feeling of desertion, desolation. And of course, he takes Peter and James and John along for support and for company. And they miserably fail him. They fall asleep in his darkest hour. He appeals to them three times, but it's useless. It's interesting that Luke tells us at this point that an angel came and strengthened him. And you think, well, he wasn't entirely alone. The father had pity on him and sent an angel to strengthen him. There's only one problem with that. The problem is if you look in the marginal reference in your Bible, you'll see probably that says that the oldest manuscripts don't include that. There's real textual problems with that. It probably is not in the original. Perhaps some scribe couldn't bear the aloneness of Jesus and inserted that. I believe that Jesus was utterly alone See how now he is beginning to feel the terrible separation from his father, with whom he had shared everything from eternity. You can I cannot begin to fathom. It was He and the Father who fought off the universe, who together hurled the galaxies into space and delighted to watch the angels clap their hands and sing for joy at the sight. It was he who with the father thought up earth and its plants and animals and man and woman and watched in delight as creation was formed at the word of their power. And all that he had shared with the father is now at an end. The father is turning his back on his son. Notice again verse thirty-five. He prays, crushed to the ground, that if possible the hour might pass. Abba still uses pathetically that endearing childish term, daddy. Father, he says, everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. No answer. Yet. Not what I will, but what you will do. Three times, no answer, and three times the affirmation of obedience. What does that cup in verse 36 refer to? We don't have to guess. We're told, for instance, in Isaiah chapter 51, in verse 17. Isaiah speaking to Jerusalem says, Awake, awake, rise up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the Lord the cup of his wrath. You who have drained to its dregs the goblet that makes men stagger. The cup of God's wrath here is simply a prefigurement in what's going to happen to Jerusalem. A prefigurement of the cup of God's wrath at the end time. And so Revelation uses that phrase a number of times, for instance, in chapter 14. In verse 9, a third angel followed them and said in a loud voice, if anyone worships the beast and his image And receives his mark on the forehead or on the hand, he too will drink of the wine of God's fury, which has been poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. He will be tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment rises forever and ever. There is no rest, day or night, for those who worship the beast and his image, or for anyone who receives the mark of his name. He said, Well, I don't worship the beast and I don't have his mark. You read the context there and you see it's absolutely clear. There is no middle ground. Either you have the mark of the baptism of Jesus upon you, or you have the mark of the beast. It is one or the other. And you say, but how can it be that bad for someone who simply doesn't worship or follow Jesus? Let me remind you that God is the one who initiated the concept of justice. Your notion of justice is derived from him. And in his judgment, everything will be precisely just. And that torture, the torment That rises forever and ever of those who have the mark of the beast because they do not worship the Lamb is entirely just It is the cup of his wrath. And the only alternative for you or for anyone of drinking that cup. Is for Jesus to drink that cup in your place. It's the only way. And so Jesus is now about to take that cup that you deserve. He takes it with a shudder. He causes even him to stagger and to fall. But he drinks it to the very dregs. And he goes to the cross and he cries out from Psalm twenty-two, My God, my God. Why have you forsaken me? Utterly abandoned Your fathers, can you imagine agreeing with your sons that they will suffer torment at your hands? And perish, promising them that you will neither spare them nor pity, no matter how much they cry for mercy. In order that you might save someone who isn't even asking you to do it. Many years ago When our son Dean was maybe four or five years old, I had a dream one night. The Dean was being tormented And he was suffering anguish, and he cried out to me, Daddy, save me! And I was unable to help him. And I watched him perish. Let me tell you, when I woke up and realized that was only a dream, I was more overwhelmed with the sorrow of it than I was with the relief. And for two or three days I walked around with heaviness just at the thought of my son or any of my children perishing like that. But that's what the father did to the son. And the son fully agreed, so that you would not have to drink that cup. A number of us saw Sunday night the video taken of the fireman on 9-11 And if you saw that, you remember seeing the fireman in the lobby of Tower One and thinking as you're watching that, that's Going to be crushed in just a few minutes. It will not exist like that. And you see all those people in there, and you hear the sound of the bodies. You see the expressions of the firemen. You hear the ones say, what must it be like up there that they prefer that to staying? And then there is the sound of the roar as the entire tower begins to collapse. And you see them running, and you see the cameram with a camera running, jerking, and gradually you see the darkness come until everything is obliterated. I've heard of other accounts of those who were there that morning, and they're all the same. There was total blackness. And the sense of being entirely alone, crushed, and abandoned But that's nothing to the Gethsemane that crushed your Lord Jesus. The darkness and the aloneness that he experienced in drinking the cup of God's wrath for you. Jesus felt an aloneness that we can never understand. It would have been like feeling the coils of a python restricting and constricting around him till it suffocated and crushed the life from him. Why did he do it? Simply so that you would not have to drink that cup. And so Isaiah chapter 51 goes on. After the verse that I read, he says in verse 22. This is what your sovereign Lord says, your God who defends his people. See, I have taken out of your hand the cup that made you stagger. From that cup, the goblet of my wrath, you will never drink again. First Corinthians chapter 15, Paul speaks of that cup. And he says, that's the cup that you and I have, and we celebrate it every first Sunday evening of the month. It has become for us the cup of blessing. For at that Passover the Lord Jesus took that cup, and when he drank it, he instituted a new cup. And so Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10, 16. Is not the cup of blessing or thanksgiving for which we give thanks, a participation in the blood of Christ. It is not the bread that we bake, a participation in the body of Christ. Paul is saying that when Jesus drank that cup That God saw if your faith and trust is placed in Christ and you admit, God, I deserve to drink that cup of your wrath But I place my faith and trust in Jesus, that He is sufficient and necessary, that He took my place and drank it for me, and therefore I have life in Him. That you participate in his sacrifice through that. And so he hands to you the couple blessing. He says, here, drink this. And know that you will never drink the cup of that wrath. And so you remember, if you saw that video That through the hours of that day, as various firemen found one another, there was the exuberance, I'm alive, and you're alive And if you saw it, you remember that very moving scene where the two cameramen who were brothers, and each was pretty much convinced that the other was dead. Come in that afternoon to discover each other alive. And there is that long embrace. They just go on and on, clutching and weeping. I'm alive and you're alive. And do you see that's what we do every first Sunday evening of the month? We take that cup and we say, I'm alive, and you're alive, and we'll never die, because Jesus has borne it for us. And so, Lord, take me to be a living sacrifice for you. Do you see it? Do you understand what Jesus has done for you? How can you not want to live for Him? And to be a living sacrifice for him this week because of his great, great love. Let's pray Oh Lord Jesus, open our eyes. Open our eyes that we might see what we deserved. That you, Lord Jesus, took We weren't worth it. Lord Jesus, if we were ever to have seen that scene and and wondered, would you go through that for us, Lord? How we would have trembled to think, Lord, why would you go on? But you did. You drank that cup to his dregs. You were alienated and cursed and crushed and pressed. You were utterly alone in darkness. Not for anything you've done, but only for what we have done. Lord Jesus, at this moment, receive us As living sacrifices, who are to renounce the temptations that we play with, the bondage that we think we can't escape because we delight to hold on to it. And we want to give ourselves to you afresh. To serve you this week and to love you and to thank you for what you have done. Receive us now in Jesus' name.