Well, happy Father's Day to you dads. Somebody told me after the first service that means that today you get the remote. Let me quote from an article from Don Bosley that um that actually prompted some thoughts that led to my preparing this sermon. He says, today we will be exploring the complex world of one of the most fascinating societal beasts, the dysfunctional family. We will focus on everyday family dysfunction and a few of the extremes. We will not at any juncture be talking about my family or yours. but about other families that actually have dysfunction, unlike mine or yours, which you know don't. First. The word dysfunction actually originates from the Greek roots dis, which means to brazenly insult or humiliate Funk, which means to spin yourself into a mood so dark that even storm clouds won't hang out with you, and shun, which means to treat someone as though he doesn't exist. Dysfunction. All three of these characteristics are evident in the typical dysfunctional family where rampant dissing and shunning have led to many funks which spawn even bigger disses and shuns, which give birth to woolly mammoth-sized funks and so on and so forth. Now, let me tell you about one dysfunctional family that may actually make you think that yours is not so bad. Family of a fellow that I'll call Jake. Jake grew up in a family like Lotts that I have heard about, where the parents not only have favorite children, but they Are not reticent to make that known. Very painful to know you'll never measure up In Jake's case, it was his brother that was his father's favorite. His brother was more rugged, more into sports, hunting, outdoor stuff. Jake, on the other hand, hung around the house with his controlling and smothering mom, who of course favored him. And that tension did not help the marriage. Once at his mother's insistence, Jake lied to his father and had his will changed so that Jake got everything that was supposed to go to his brother. When his brother found out, he literally wanted to kill him. So Jake skipped town to save his skin. Finally ending up at his uncle's and working for him in a family business. Worked for him for several years. During that time, he was seduced by a woman that he did not love, married her. It was not a happy marriage, and they had several children. Jake then married another woman whom he did love, who was then insanely jealous of the first wife, especially since she was unable to have children. What a mess. In fact, Jake wound up having at least thirteen kids from four different women and tried to get them to get along in some sort of a blended family. Well that was pretty hopeless. Besides all that, Jake's uncle was cheating him in business. So he decided to cheat him back. In fact, they cheated each other shamelessly for twenty years. That uh alienated the uncle's sons, who turned against Jake, became bitter Against him and the family business was so full of tension it's a wonder that they ever made any money. And this, besides all the tension in Jake's home So John finally, Jake decided to quit the business, take his rather large family back to his home and risk Seeing if he could make things up with his brother. But before they left, without telling the uncle, his second wife secretly stole some valuable property of her father's So that when the father found out they had gone, he lit out after them, and he was pretty angry at their leaving and their taking his stuff. But he couldn't find the stolen goods, and since Jake didn't know that she had stolen anything, he was really ticked off at his uncle for false accusations. The result of that was one of those knockdown, drag out family fights where you bring up every offense from the last 20 years. you know, the kind of declarations where the neighbors turn down their TVs so that they can catch better reception of the reality show going on next door. It was a terrible scene. Jake accused his uncle of crummy working conditions and meager pay, long hours, no appreciation Whenever any were any damages it was taken out of Jake's wages, whether he was guilty or not, and on and on and on it went And finally they parted. The greedy uncle realized he'd probably never see his daughters or his grandchildren again. And he didn't Jake went home , made up with his brother, who after 20 years had decided to forgive him. I remember in my own family, my mother and her sister had a falling out at their mother's funeral. My mother didn't speak to her sister for twenty-five years. They had used to be get together every day. For twenty five years no communication. Finally, after twenty five years, she decided to make contact and to talk to her again. Had two visits with her before my mother died. Back to our father figure, Jacob. As his kids grew, he didn't seem to learn from the pain of his own family, and he too had a favorite. Of his children, his youngest son was his favorite. That was quite apparent, and so it stirred up all the hostility of his brothers Who treated him miserably. It also happened that this younger, youngest son was the religious, spiritual one who did love God. And the brothers resented that, despised him, and made life even worse for him. Finally, they were the means of his going off into a foreign country and working as a slave And there he was seduced by his boss's wife, but he refused her. So in a rage she accused him of trying to rape her. And as a result, he was thrown into prison. There he had two choices. The first is that he could say, Oh, woe is me. Look at my dysfunctional family. What a mess they are. What a mess I am. I'm thrown on the ash heap here. God can never use me. I'm just a victim of all this mess, doomed to be a failure. Or, his second choice was to trust that God was bigger than the dysfunction of his family That God had a purpose for him that actually incorporated that dysfunction to his own glory. And that his choice was simply to trust and obey at that moment, not locked into the bondage. Of all the dysfunction of his family. Fortunately, he made the second choice And he saw God deliver him out of that prison to rise up to become the Prime Minister of Egypt at the height of her glory. Hundreds of years later, one of his descendants became king. And though he was described as a man after God's own heart, he was not a very good father. In fact, on one occasion, had to flee for his life from one of his own sons, who was trying to kill him and take his throne. A thousand years after him came one who was called the Son of God, and that was his heritage. That was the family background of Jesus Christ. For in case you haven't figured it out, I have been recounting to you the story of Isaac and Jacob and Joseph. I told you this because of a number of lessons that I think are very appropriate to us on Father's Day. You see them there in your bulletin. Now you know why I didn't give you the scripture. First lesson that I think we can glean from this on this day is that your dysfunctional family background Does not keep you from being great in the kingdom of God and to be very useful to Him. Maybe you feel on a day like this that you have not felt very attached to your Father. For some of you, maybe your father took off when you were young. And you feel that you bear the scars of that. And you do. But you have a choice. You can see yourself as hopelessly in bondage to that, and that you will never be able to overcome those things. Where you can decide that God calls you in the present to trust him, to obey him. And to see that he is bigger than your family background, and in fact intends to use that background as part of glorifying himself in your life. That's what Joseph did, and you, by the grace of Jesus Christ, every one of you. are able to see him use you. Your family background does not limit your usefulness in the kingdom. It may limit certain things that you're able to do But it does not limit you from being great in his kingdom. Secondly, particularly to you dads Do not be discouraged as you see your family as less than perfect. A family that is not what you had hoped for when you wanted to have kids If you're like me, you feel very unprepared for that task. I do not come from a Christian background. I feel at times very weak, very ill prepared. Sometimes you may feel like a little boy who's Trying to look like a man, but afraid that people are going to find out what you really are. An imposter. I have those feelings at times Feeling very small, feeling very unreal, particularly in being a leader of a congregation Lord, I don't know how to love a woman, anything like Christ, love the church. I don't know how to cherish her. I don't know how to protect her. I don't know how to cause her to thrive in the way that you would want me to do. When I have those kind of feelings, I get depressed. And when I get depressed, I tend to want to withdraw from the Lord, withdraw into myself and avoid him. But there are times when I have thought about that that God has graciously broken through. As if he's saying to me, Alan, you have finally understood on a heart level why you need a savior. For I can say that I need a Savior as you can say it, but it's only when you actually see your weakness and your failure. That on a heart level you treasure grace. You see, the first benefit of this A is that it shows you your need of a Savior. When you realize how far short you have come in leading your family, then you find hope in Jesus. And remember that God called himself the God of Jacob. Sometimes, dozens of times in the Bible, he calls himself the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Isaac and Jacob, particularly, we've looked at a couple of guys that didn't do a very good job of being fathers. And yet, when God established his covenant people, they were called the children of Israel, because that's quite literally what they were. The children of Israel. Jacob. Israel. You remember that when Jacob was going back on his way home to meet his brother. He wrestled with an angel. During the night, determined to protect his family and to defeat this intruder with all his manly might And when he saw that he was wrestling with more than a man, but God himself, as every one of us men must realize at some point My real demons, the things I struggle with, are not ultimately my boss The members of my family, an older brother, younger brother, father, someone that I feel is the cause of so much misery in my life My real wrestling is with God. My real wrestling is coming to terms with Him in my life. And when Jacob saw that he was wrestling with God, you remember he cried out , I will not let you go until you bless me. And at that point, God, in human manifestation, changed his name Up till now your name has been Jacob, the heel, or the literally the heel grabber. But I'm changing your name to Israel, Struggler with God. For you have struggled, wrestled with God, and prevailed. And how did he prevail? Do you remember at that point, God put his hip out of joint, dislocated it. So for the rest of his life, Jake walked with a limp And that limp reminded him that it was in his weakness, that it was in his struggle. of his failings, of that night coming to terms with the fact that all I've tried to do is to cheat and deceive and get ahead by getting ahead of my brother and cheating my uncle and Being a terrible husband and father, and on and on and on. But he came. I mean his weakness. He came in his emptiness and his need. I will not let you go till you bless me. I must have your blessing. I have no claim on it. And God calls himself the God of Jacob. Brothers, what a hope that you and I have on this day. And for you women, for those of you who are single, for all of us here, it's the same story. In your weakness, in your recognition of your failings, you lay hold of Jesus Christ and you realize that it's your sense of need that drives you to him, not any claim that you have on him to owe you. Just this week. I was out and God was bringing to my mind ways that I'm not gracious. As I was repenting of that and I was realizing those ways I Was sorting out why it is that I'm like that. And the Lord showed me, I'm like that because I don't see his grace in my life. And why don't I see his grace in my life? Because I'm still in denial of my need. And so, as you see that your heart is like that of Isaac and Jacob. As you see that your only claim to the God of Jacob is that he created even in the line of redemption a group of sinners for whom Jesus died. That you have hope. That hope is in the God who identifies with sinners. Amen. We saw in the middle hour an example of overwhelming need People on the screen who had autistic children were overwhelmed. What could they do? You noticed fathers absent from those interviews. We have each of us things in our lives that make us overwhelmed with need. It could be things that are the result of sin. It could be disabilities, such as autistic children, that are not to do with sin, except in the fall. But we all have those things that this morning, if we're honestly willing to face them, bring us to a recognition of our need. Of Jesus Christ. Some of you men are still trying to be tough and self-sufficient, as men, as dads, fathers. But if you're honest with yourself, you'll see that your only hope is a God who rescues weak men who fail. You need to be in community with other men to remind you of the hope that there is in the gospel Well things that they're learning about God and lessons that they've learned in life. We need that community, our men's fellowship, the groups that we have. But on the deepest level, what you need is God's word to you personally, that you see in Titus chapter 3. What we read before and you see up here again. In Titus chapter 3 Where Paul says, At one time we too, you and I, were foolish. Disobedient, deceived, enslaved by all kinds of passions and pleasures, enslaved by those things that we've inherited, the way to cope with life The way to bring a a balm so that we can get through. We lived in malice and envy Like Isaac , Jacob being hated and hating one another. But A great but verse 4. But when the kindness and the love of God, our Savior, appear His love and his kindness. He saved us, not because of the righteous things that we had done. Not because we had mastered skills of family dynamics, but because of his mercy. He saved us, you, me, through the washing of rebirth and the renewal by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us generously. Not begrudgingly, not in small measure, but generously through Jesus Christ, our Savior. The Savior is a deliverer to get you out of a spot you can't get out of yourself. I understand it in the show that a lot of people watch Man vs Wild there was a episode on quicksand. What do you do if you're caught in quicksand? You better hope that there's somebody to pull you out Now they might have given you some tips, but I'll tell you, if you're going down and you're up to your neck, you need a savior. You don't need to remember five steps from some reality show. You need one who comes to pull you out, to rescue you. Who he poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ, our Savior, the one who came to deliver you, to forgive you to give you new life, so that having been justified by his grace, given a new record, a record of a life that is pleasing and sufficient to God By his grace unmerited, ungained, by your own effort, we might become heirs, having the hope of eternal life. That's your hope this day. That's my hope. It's the hope for everybody in this room. That's God's word to you. The second benefit of recognizing that your family is far from perfect is that unbelievers will see a family that they can relate to. As they see you repenting and leaning hard on Jesus. We tend to think that our imperfect families discredit us That it undermines our witness. Let me ask you something. Do you think if your family was perfect That your friends, family, neighbors would all be drawn to come to Christ through that? It wouldn't relate to you. What they need to see is a family who doesn't glory in its dysfunction, but simply honestly says, this is where we are. And in seeing that, see us repenting, leaning hard on Jesus, and say, He is sufficient. If he's sufficient for even you guys, he is for us. I remember one time being out in the front yard of our house and I don't even remember which daughter it was, but they did something, and I don't remember it was that put me over the edge. I mean you know or you know you have lost it. And I started yelling and screaming. And the thing that stopped me wasn't repenting that I had lost my temper, it was that I'm sure the neighbors were hearing it And I'm sure that the neighbors were thinking, and that guy calls himself a pastor, and he yells and screams at little kids. I remember a time that our two daughters were yelling at each other so loud. I was outside the house and I wasn't even up next to the house and I heard them. I thought one of them was gonna throw the other one through the upstairs bedroom window. Just at that moment, their Sunday school teacher drove up from CPC. My wife was there with me and she said Well, I guess you can tell the girls are home. And she graciously said, ah yes, sometimes our daughters talk to each other like that too. It wasn't the way they were talking to each other. I thought one of them was going to come through the window. But what was my concern again? My image What will you think of me as a father? But it's in our repenting. It's in our leaning hard on Jesus, even in times like that. That people see a Savior that is for them too. This is not to minimize sin, it is simply to magnify grace. So you see that statement in your outline there that I think is very important. A family living by the gospel, not their perfection. is the great apologetic in our culture of broken families, loneliness, and cynicism. An apologetic is a defense of the gospel, a presentation of its truth in a way that's plausible. In a way that's compelling. When people see that you and I, who are from dysfunctional backgrounds and whose families are far from perfect Lean hard on a gracious, sufficient Savior who is changing us and who is making us different, but is continued to be needed by us day after day. There's a God of Jacob, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The people want to listen. So we go on to the third point. I'm not saying to just remain clinging to grace and somehow glorying In all the ways that you and I screw up. Do continue to learn how to lovingly lead your family better. For God will bless that. He blesses obedience and walking in his ways. But the focus is on knowing Jesus. Not mastering techniques. Was so glad that Steve kept coming back to that in the middle hour. This is about knowing Jesus. It's not about our starting some ministry that we master all the techniques of how you deal. with autistic syndrome children, disordered children, and master somehow through enough guilt that we pull together something It's about knowing Jesus, letting him display himself through us. That's what drives me to know him, my sense of my need. For then I marvel at how different he is, and how I need his grace. And as I see his grace, I become more gracious. And so this father say, Dads, cheer up. Get your eyes off of yourself and on to Jesus, a big savior for broken families. Recently I came across a little poem by Victor Hugo. It's simply a six-line poem, written last century. It goes like this. Be like the bird who halting in his flight, one limb too slight, feels it give way beneath him, yet sings, knowing he hath wings. Isn't that cute? That was kinda nice, I like it. But it's not Christian. As I thought about it, I thought about its appeal, you know, it's nice and sort of inspiring But it's not Christian, even if you say, well, you know, God gave them the wings. No, no, no. So I thought, well, how would I make it Christian? And I thought if I changed just one line, then it's gospel. So let me read it with the one line that I changed. Be like the bird who halting in his flight, one limb too slight, feels it give way beneath him, yet sings, because he clings to Jesus. And when you look at your family and you feel like that limb's given way, you're not going to sing because you got wings. You're going to sing only because you're clinging to Jesus, a sufficient savior for broken families. And the amazing thing is that he welcomes you into his family. And one day, when he comes back, that family will be perfect. And you, if you know Jesus, will be in it. Do you know him? Do you know him in your own brokenness and weakness? Let's come in our weakness to Him now. Let's pray. Lord our God, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob How we thank you that you condescend to identify, to call yourself. You didn't raise up and and look for someone Who we could see as a model and say, there is what a father should be. That's what I ought to aspire to. But you called yourself the god of a couple of guys who didn't seem to have much of a clue about how to love their wives and their children And Lord, even in all that brokenness, you met the heel grabber one night As he wrestled with you and then saw his only hope was his weakness. Lord, give us. Some of us now who perhaps for the first time come to realize it is only in my weakness that I can cry out, I will not let you go till you bless me. Some of us are still trying to be tough and self-sufficient. And we ask you, Lord, break into our hearts now. Humble us. Show us there is only one who is sufficient. And he's not just sufficient for himself, he's sufficient to forgive me. To rescue me from the quicksand of all my dysfunction. To give me new life New hope. Place me in a new family. Place me in a community of men who are together seeking to discover what that Savior has to show us and teach us. A community of women, couples, families, singles, who together seek to find a large Savior For great sinners. And so we come in our weakness. We come with the hope that you who call yourself the God of Jacob are willing to call yourself our God. If we confess our sin and see the finished work of Christ on the cross, so that, as Titus says , You have poured him out generously as a Savior, giving us his righteousness by grace. Lord, what a hope! We come to cling to that now, and I pray, Lord, that you would bring that hope into the heart of every man and woman and child here this morning at this time. Because that is our only hope, and it's how you are glorified In Jesus' name, who taught us to call you Father. Amen.