Well, each February at Columbia Presbyterian, we invite speakers from around the world to come and to open God's Word. so that we see his larger global purpose, and then to also open our eyes to see how God is fulfilling that purpose through ordinary people like you and like me. It's a fascinating story. And this year all of our speakers are familiar to you. They're all backed by popular demand We're going to start off with Sam Fulta, who ministers in Red China to Russians, to Chinese, to North Koreans, and is hoping to enter into North Korea. Exciting story you'll hear more about. And then we'll have Richard Sharp. He's the guy that wears the world map on his jacket, you know, out of the box, Richard. Who's ministered with Operation Mobilization in 70 different countries? Then we will go to Tito and Tim, Tim Padilla Tito and Kim ministered in Spain for about 12 years, now labor in El Paso, Texas. uh in connection with Juarez Mexico and a ministry called Beam Border Evangelism and Mercy Ministries. We partner with that effort every summer. Then we'll have Craig and Ree Colburn, also part of our congregation, who in 1994 went out to Japan, east of Tokyo. And uh at that time in 1984 when we first entered that area with Dan Iverson, who was an intern here, there was not one single worshiping congregation in the entire area. Now there is a Presbytery of four churches and a number of other preaching points, and Craig is training so that He will be able to go back with his family in 2010, hopefully, to plant another church there. And we will finish with the banquet and Linda Posthuma who works with our Foreign Missions Committee will give us an overview of Orthodox Presbyterian ministries around the world, some really exciting things that have been happening in the last year. as well as continued persecution and we'll get an update on what's happening in Eritrea. So there's a lot here and I ask you, challenge you like myself to come with an open heart to be available. Lord, what is it that you want to say to me, your servant, in my participation in this great global effort Now my job is to introduce that, and I'm going to take two weeks to open up two familiar passages that I see connected. And you heard Rick read them from Acts chapter one and then John chapter four. These are Familiar passages, but I continue to be more and more fascinated with the person of Jesus and his thoughts and the way he acts with people. So I want for you to, along with me, be fascinated and challenged and encouraged in some things that We want to look at him do and say this week and next week, particularly in John chapter 4, that will be helpful to us in application through this next month. I'm going to challenge you with some specific things to pray about and to do in these next few weeks. So Acts chapter one, familiar missions passage. In that uh you remember it's just after the resurrections, forty days after, just before Jesus is to ascend and go back to his father. The disciples are saying, So Lord, now is this the time you're going to bring the kingdom and Israel's going to have its dominance and glory. And Jesus' response is in verse 7: it is not for you to know the times and the dates the Father has sent by his own authority But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. And it all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. Now you see in that familiar verse, many of you are aware of this, both The outline of the book of Acts and Jesus' strategy for world missions. You see there those four highlighted Arias, he begins, you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. That's your family, your neighbors, the people that you're close to that are very much like you. you begin to share your faith with those who are in your natural connections. That's chapters 1 to 7 of Acts. He then moves on to Judea. People a little further away, but they're still people who are like you, with whom culturally, ethnically you're very much connected to be like people in the Frederick area where we planted our first daughter church, just planted its ridiculous going there, but a church that we were have been connected to Then thirdly he says, Samaria. Those are people who are near us, but in some ways unlike us. You have to cross certain barriers to reach these people. They may be ethnic barriers, cultural barriers, linguistic barriers, but there's something you need to cross. This takes an intentional effort to do it. It's not just going to happen naturally. Then there is the fourth, the ends of the earth, which we consider um basic foreign missions Now, I want you to see that number one and two we call evangelism, quite familiar with that. Number four we call foreign missions. We're quite familiar with what that means. Number three is the one that doesn't quite fit, because it's not foreign missions, but it's not simply evangelism It is the link between local evangelism with people that we're naturally comfortable with and foreign missions, which is crossing several major barriers. But Samaria is the critical link in any church between evangelism and missions, especially in a place like Howard County. And it is this link that determines in many ways how effective the church will be in foreign missions. Jesus calls us to this as a step in the process. Fortunately, he doesn't simply tell us to do it. He models it for us. So if you take from Acts chapter 1, verse 8, some Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria. The ends of the earth. Then go back to John chapter 4, you see Jesus in Samaria. That's what I want to focus on this week and then next week. So if you have your Bibles, turn to John chapter 4, and there will be some of the verses up on the screen to help you also. But if you look at John chapter 4 In verse 4, we read , that now he had to go through Samaria. Jesus is in Jerusalem. He is going to head back to Capernaum, around Lake Galilee, that area. And John says he had to go through Samaria. Well, he really didn't have to go through Samaria. In fact, most Jews that would have been going from Jerusalem back up to Galilee would not have gone through Samaria. Take a look here. at the map and uh nobody can find a laser pointer. So right now we'll see a finger. And that finger shows you there is Jerusalem down in that area. Okay And you see from Jerusalem a road, the dotted line, that goes up through Samaria all the way into Galilee. Now that's the direct route, which very few Jews would have taken. What they would have done is probably to go east from Jerusalem up to Jericho. From Jericho finally crosses over the Jordan, goes up along the east of the Jordan, then back toward Nain, plain of Israelin, on up to Galilee and of Capernaum over there toward the lake. It could have gone the west route, but that was a little further out of the way. This was not too far out. But Jews did not want to have contact with Samaritans. Samaritans were people that were mostly invisible to the Jews. They were people who shared a lot of uh things in common. They had a common Jewish history, God's people. They shared some of the scriptures in common. They shared a lot of ideas about God in common. But there were also some notable differences, and these differences produced hostility. And in that hostility, the Jews looked down particularly on the Samaritans, and the Samaritans would return the insult. But these were people that the Jews would have generally avoided. So when John says now he had to go through Samaria, he is talking about a heart compulsion. Jesus couldn't do the usual thing and avoid Samaritans. Jesus, because of his heart For people of all cultures and ethnicities had to go through Samaria. He couldn't avoid it. It was an intentional thing. Now, this is a moment of history as we approach our inauguration with the first African-American president taking office in the United States. So my wife said, we have to go see Barack Obama in Baltimore, because this is a historic moment. So yesterday for a four o'clock talk, we left at nine o'clock in the morning. It never got out of the teens. It was so cold by the end of that meeting we didn't feel our toes anymore. 25 or thousand or more people packed into the plaza, and I was quite surprised that it was 85 to 90 percent African American Now Baltimore is not eighty-five to ninety percent African American. But there were very few other white people there. There were some Asians, but I'd say eighty-five to ninety percent African American And so it was putting ourselves into another culture. When I tell you another culture, I'll tell you it was night and day between yesterday and Tuesday. Because yesterday, a secular political rally began with the Morgan State choir singing praise to Jesus. I mean it was we praise you for who you are The bishop came out, prayed in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Mayor Martin O'Malley was booed, the poor guy was reading the poem and everybody is yelling, Obama, and they are booing him down. And it was an experience. But the thing that really caught me Was the moment of history of hope? I mean, it was like Obama was Moses, bringing us out of captivity. There was a sense of hope, connection, possibilities of cross-cultural connectedness. I mean there were no white people around us, but we were having a great time with the people They were praising and listening and commenting on everything that was going on. It was a wonderful experience. But it was not the kind of thing, in fact, to be really honest with you, I probably wouldn't have done it if it wasn't for my wife. But she wants to get into those kinds of things Because we need that to grow as people. Jesus was intentional to place himself there, but Secondly, even more important, he crossed difficult barriers very intentionally. You look at verse 7, and it says When the Samaritan woman, when a Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, Will you give me a drink? His disciples had gone into town to buy food. In doing so, Jesus was consciously crossing, he wasn't naive, he was consciously crossing a number of barriers, a gender barrier. A man talking to a woman. He was crossing cultural barriers, racial barriers, ethnic barriers. He was crossing shame barriers. He was purposely reaching out to this woman in a way that's difficult for us to really fully appreciate. Now, I don't want to offend anybody, but let me give you the only cultural counterpart that I can think of. It would be something like a white male from Columbia going into Sandtown where we do our Habitat for Humanity ministries, African American neighborhood largely in Baltimore. On a hot day going up to an older, has been African American prostitute who's drinking a long cool iced tea and saying, Man, I'm really thirsty. Could you give me a drink? See, that's the visceral impact. You say, that's not gonna happen. And everybody said, nah, that's not gonna happen. And that's what happened You see, Jesus reached out to this woman to show her that he had living water. That she needed. Samaritans were to Jews the N-word. Jesus was placing himself here in a conversation That was outside of all cultural understanding and boundaries, violated everything. But that's what his heart compelled him to do In fact, his love not only overcame the things that would put a person off in that But she sees him pursuing her heart, and as he pursues her heart, when her shame is exposed, he continues to pursue her heart and show her that he has and is the living water. That she needs. That he is the promised Messiah who can give her life. And he can give that to you too. And Jesus will cross every boundary, any boundary, to reach those he loves. Now it's interesting that at the point where he says that he is the Messiah, she says, I know when Messiah comes, he'll reveal all things to us. We're going to go into the conversation more next week. But right now I just want to point out a couple of things about it. And Jesus says at that point, I who speak to you am He, and it's at that point that the disciples come back with lunch. And John makes the point. Read it over yourself this afternoon and also help you for next week. John makes the point. There was an awkward moment there. They says he they didn't ask him what he was doing. Yeah, but you can imagine the scene, you know, they all come up and there's Jesus and they say, Oh, Lord, you're um talking to a woman. Mm-hmm Um she's a Samaritan woman, yeah. Um she doesn't look very spiritual. No, but she's thirsty. And then they say, Would you excuse us? We need to have lunch here And John says that she left her jar. She just left it and ran into town and said, Let me tell you, I have met a man that has told me everything about me. And what John doesn't say in there is, and he's still pursuing me. Jesus Crosses barriers to show sinners that he is their life. And he calls his disciples to follow him in that same pattern. That leads us to the third and the final point. The third lesson from this simple passage is to show Christ as Savior of the world. Crossing barriers shows that Jesus is the Savior of the world. Now, as I said, we'll look at it in a little more detail next week But the story is that Jesus talks to the disciples about the harvest. She goes in, witnesses to the people in Sikara. The result is that Jesus stays there two days, teaches them, and then in verse 42 of John 4, we read the conclusion. They said to the woman, We no longer believe just because of what you said. Now we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this man really is the Savior of the world. He's not just the savior of the Jews. He's not the savior of a particular tribe or ethnicity or cultural group. He is the savior of the world. That is a really significant issue in the twenty first century in America. Where our culture would very much like to relegate Jesus to a relic of bygone Western civilization. He's not a savior for us. He's a savior of dead white males and other people of that bygone Western civilization that we have now grown beyond. And you see, the problem is that we as Christians become intimidated by that kind of message to keep Jesus to ourselves. And so we'll keep Jesus for those with whom we can relate and those that we think may culturally be open. But he's probably not going to be seen as having credibility to people of that culture, and I can't relate to them in order to display that he is the savior of the world. But you see, the thing that you and I need to regain as a conviction, deep heart conviction. Is to really believe that our family, our neighbors, our co-workers Need absolutely nothing in this life more than Jesus Christ That there is no greater favor that we can do for them than to introduce them to the living water, Jesus. And not be intimidated to keep that for people who are just like us To see that all people wrestle with suffering And that whatever the philosophical answers, whatever people talk about, and how to cope with that, whatever they hear from Oprah or whatever they read, whatever they see, that the cross Is the only ultimate final heart satisfying answer to suffering Because in the cross we don't have the answers to all of the wise that we can't understand. We simply have a message that the God who made you Entered into human history in the form of a person, a Jew, who lived and suffered and died in your place. Don't tell me God doesn't understand suffering. And you see at the cross the most satisfying sense of he understands I don't understand, but if he has done that, he has come to meet me more deeply than anyone who could even take away the feeling of pain right now. We need to see the cross as central to the needs of the people that we interact with. And when we talk about things like the Mideast crisis, Gaza, Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, we look at all those things, we need to see that Jesus is ultimately the radical solution to international conflict. And you say that sounds kind of simplistic. You know, there was a movie that was made a few years ago, 2003 I believe There's a movie called To End All Wars. Has anybody seen it? Only one person, because the same person 's here, so a couple people. Get two votes. Very interesting movie about a Scottish regiment that uh is taken prisoner in World War II to the Japanese in Thailand and go through terrible, terrible, brutal treatment. In fact, you could never show that movie in any church context. It's too violent. It's R-rated just because of the violence. Brutal graphic violence. But the brutal graphic violence is to show you how do you cope with such suffering, with such hatred, with such animosity And so one guy, just to survive, starts a secret class on Plato. Philosophy. Let's talk about justice, let's talk about ideas to escape the pain. Another guy quotes poetry and he tries to get lift up their thoughts through quoting Shakespeare in beautiful language to just lift them up out of the mire and the trash and the blood. Another guy says the answer is simply self-protection. I'm going to bribe whoever it takes and I'm going to get through this thing. I'll show them. And then there's a Christian. A Christian shares the little bit he has to eat with a fellow that's dying One of the leaders, in terms of his rank, tries to organize an escape. He's determined if they have to die, they'll at least die trying to escape. By the way, this was based, I could tell you if we get into discussions, based on basic elements of a true story. And because the people who are with a Christian or any of the others are stalling the escape attempt, he betrays them. He reveals them, puts them in great jeopardy so that they will be punished because they're not supporting his cause. He says that's justice. But it backfires, and he and four of his comrades are caught trying to escape. So they're brought to the open space to be shot as a public display. Four of them are executed. The fifth one, who was the leader, the one who betrayed the Christian and the others. Is about to be shot when the Christian steps forward and speaks to a Japanese Gordon. You don't know what he's saying, but as a result, they take the Christian into captivity and they free the betrayer. The Guard had looked at the Christian's Bible when he confiscated it. And in that Bible he saw a full-plate color picture of Jesus on the cross. And that appealed to him as a rather ingenious form of torture. And so they take the Christian and they publicly crucify him. The Christian giving his life for his betrayer has a profound impact on the camp. In fact, the fellow who had the philosophy class became a Christian, and for twenty years was the chaplain at Princeton University. Met his Japanese guard 55 years later, and embraced him. What's the point of the movie? The only end to war is forgiveness. The only way you will reach forgiveness is through the substitution of one who will die for his enemy. Christ died for us who are his enemies. That we would be forgiven. That is a transcultural message That is a message that deals with the deepest issues of our heart. Sin. Guilt. Death. My next door neighbor, Dave, is a great guy. We enjoy each other. We banter around Got a great sense of humor. He loves Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins and wonders why in the world I, as a thinking person, can follow Jesus. And we have a lot of intense discussions that are usually mixed with a fair amount of humor. One evening as we were talking about this , I asked him, Dave, do you ever think about what's going to happen to you after you die? Now, this fellow was an Orthodox Jew preparing to be a rabbi. He's now a committed atheist. He stopped dead serious. And he said, Al, nobody doesn't think about what will happen to them when they die. Nobody The first time he was dead serious. See, that gets to the heart It gets to the heart once we are willing to cross the barriers that can keep us apart. And I believe that culturally we are at a moment of history of unique opportunity in that. In an openness to be able to come together, big rally in DC today, a lot of things that are going on that enable us to begin to talk to one another across cultural barriers and lines. To show that Jesus is the Savior of the world. It's very interesting that when you look in the New Testament church, go to Acts chapter 13 You have the church at Antioch, where the Christians were first called Christians. The church in Antioch, there were prophets and teachers, and then it lists some of the names of the leaders. These are the prophets and teachers. So these are the leaders. Barnabas and Simeon, those are both Jewish names, Hebrew names. Simon called Niger, means dark, black. Might have been dark complexioned, don't know, but he was probably a Jew, Barnabas and Simeon. Then you got this guy, Lucius of Cyrene. Now Lucius is a Latin name, so he's a Roman, Gentile. Then you've got Menaeon who had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch. That means he was the foster brother of Herod Antipas. How did he get in the Bible study? And then you got Saul, who became Paul. You read the next two verses in this diverse motley crew, they're all worshiping together, worshiping the Lord and fasting. The Holy Spirit said to them: Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. So after they had fasted and prayed, they placed their hands on them and sent them off as the first missionaries of the New Testament church. The church that crosses cultural barriers in its community is more likely to be a mission-minded church. Than one that associates simply with people like themselves. And so as we go into this month of missions It is not something to consider analytically, objectively from a distance. Because the question I want to put before you is not whether God is calling you to be a foreign missionary like Craig and Ree and their family sitting right there. The question really that you need to deal with is: am I willing to cross certain barriers? That will be a little uncomfortable because I simply want to follow Jesus to Samaria And so you don't weasel out of that with, yeah, I'll think and pray about that. I give you ten suggestions in a little box there. Alright? Now I don't have time to read them. Just look at them. I ask you to consider them, to pray for them. The fifth one that you see, befriend a coworker from another culture My wife has done this. She works with three Central Americans, a Japanese American. She teaches the Central Americans English, they teach her Spanish, and neither learns a whole lot, but they have a lot of fun doing it. She's particularly befriended the Japanese American who was here as an exchange student. And so because of the relationship that they built, simply getting to know each other, sharing things. A week from this Saturday, we, Kathy invited Tomoko and her husband and her boys over for dinner, and they said, yes. Sure. And then Kathy, thinking, what are we going to talk about, invited Craig and Ree and their family over for the same evening so that we'll all get together and see where God takes it Now some of you may remember my wife sharing about another guy that works there, Scott, and saying, I've been inviting him, you know, I invite him a dozen times or so to come to church, and he keeps saying, yeah, maybe yeah, yeah, maybe no. Scott was so intrigued with this dinner party, he said, Can I come and bring my girlfriend? So we'll see who shows up and what happens That may happen to you one out of every ten times. But my challenge to you is to take that list and pray about doing one or two of those things before the end of the missions conference. I'm going to try one of these things, two of these things, and I'm going to see where God takes it before the end of February. Then maybe we'll be able to share some of that at the March Lord Supper. Let's pray. Father, we want to follow Jesus. He is exciting to follow. And we are at a moment of history where this is so pertinent. Because racial relations, ethnicity, and all of these things are very big topics right now And we do not want to be people who are intimidated by the larger American culture that says that you guys ought to just keep your Jesus to yourselves. And we don't want to take Jesus simply to the people of Jerusalem and Judea. We want to grow in our understanding of the world, that world that you loved and died for, the world that you uniquely are living water. for, and we want to see what you will do through us as we cross intentional barriers in order to bring that Jesus with us. So Lord, make us available right now. Make us available to say, yes, Lord, I I will take one or two of these ideas and I will seek to pray and apply them Even not sometime, but before the end of February. Because your promise to us in Acts is when the Holy Spirit comes, we will receive power power to witness in Samaria. And we need your power, but you are there promising it for us. And so we want to experience it and grow in our faith through this. And we ask that you will do that. Even through ordinary, timid, fearful disciples like us. In Jesus' name. Amen.