Well, our daughter Julie had uh just come home with uh from a Thanksgiving dinner with about thirty people. And And Thanksgiving night, her water broke. And the next morning, little Noah came along with the flood. And we now have a third grandchild, Noah Clark. And we are very, very grateful, thankful to God for that. So we'll be headed out to Colorado a week from Tuesday. So uh I will continue, and this is the second in the series on Ezekiel. The year is about eighteen hundred and fifty BC. And Jacob, who's been renamed Israel, has just been reunited with his son Joseph, who he had long thought was dead. In fact, he is with his twelve sons and their families, now resettled in Egypt, where Joseph is the prime minister. After 17 years there, it's time for Jacob to die. So he gathers all his sons around them, and he is about to pronounce the blessing, which is a prophecy of what is going to happen in each of their cases. And uh we fully expect that the chief blessing is going to be set upon Joseph, who is not only Jacob's chief delight, but is certainly by far the most godly. of the twelve brothers. But no. In fact the blessing comes upon Judah. Judah, who had impregnated his daughter-in-law and was anything but a godly fellow, rather a hypocrite. In fact, you remember that that prophecy came in Genesis chapter 49, verse 10, which if you look back in the archive. We looked at in 1982 on our messianic prophecies. And the prophecy in its heart was this: the scepter will not depart from Judah, nor the ruler staff from between his feet. Until he comes to whom it belongs, and the obedience of the nations is his So Judah is to be the line of kings. But instead of having kings in a generation or two, they're made slaves in Egypt. Not a very auspicious beginning to the fulfillment of that prophecy. But God then delivers them, brings them out of Egypt, brings them into the land that He's promised after forty years wandering in the wilderness. And then after a short while he begins to set up kings. He sets up David. He makes a special covenant with David and says, David, you who particularly from the line of Judah. are reigning, it is from you that will come the line of kings, this Messiah, that is the one until he comes, to whom the rule belongs. But instead of a valiant line of believing kings, his line deteriorates over the next 400 years. Until finally, after all the warnings and the pleadings, God's patience is utterly exhausted and he brings Babylon to bring an end to that line. And so we saw last week that in chapter 17 of Ezekiel, God says, I'm going to cut down this mighty cedar of the Davidic house. And I'm going to bring rather a A ruler , from a sprig, a little sprout, an insignificant beginning, who will become a majestic cedar And you and I, as little birds, will find refuge, shelter in his branches. You think of that when you set up your Christmas tree This season, God's majestic cedar for shelter for those who believe in Him. And in chapter 21 of Ezekiel God describes his anger that is about to be poured out on Judah in the vivid image of a flashing sword. It's a sword, a supernatural sword. There's no hand, it's just The sword that is flashing back and forth, hacking and cutting vengeance upon the people. Verse 14, so then, son of man, prophesy, strike their hands together, three times, because three times I'm going to strike Jerusalem with the sword, three deportations of my people into Babylon. It's a sword for slaughter, a sword for great slaughter, closing in on them from every side so that hearts may melt. And the fallen be many. What a vivid image that their hearts will melt. Have you ever experienced that? It's it's a graphic image. Have you ever felt like your heart melted? You ever seen or heard something so terrifying you feel a chill in your chest and all your strength just vanishes, and it's as if your heart melted. I still remember the time I told you that I was standing a few feet from a large Siberian tiger who fortunately was on the other side of some bars But he all of a sudden from a reclined position leaped up and roared. And I was absolutely trans Fixed, fixed, rooted to my spot. I couldn't move. Heart melts within you. And this is what God says. This is what you're going to do when I come in my vengeance. You will not be able to move. You will be transfixed. You will be transfixed with horror at the sword that is coming upon you. And then he brings the climax of this judgment in verses 25 to 27. That's what we're considering this morning. And in that passage what you see is that Zedekiah is absolutely doomed. Notice three things about this man in verse 25 and 26. You remember that Jechaniah or Jehoiakim Was carried away, the last king of the line of David, to Babylon. His uncle Zedekiah was put in his place as a puppet ruler under Nebuchadnezzar. And Zedekiah was a pathetic ruler. He wasn't so much evil as simply weak, weak spine, no convictions except what was for his own good and his own benefit. And so God says to this one , your time has come. Zedekiah had declared, do you remember from chapter 17 , an oath of allegiance to Nebuchadnezzar? He had sworn in the name of Yahweh that he would be faithful But his quote advisors pressured him to form an alliance with Egypt and to take advantage of a weak moment in Babylon In order to rise up against them and to throw off their yoke. It didn't work, and Nebuchadnezzar came back with a terrible vengeance in the final Siege and destruction of Jerusalem. Now, Ezekiel is prophesying just before that And what he says here about this man, notice first his character, that's A, his character in verse 25. He says, profane and wicked prince of Israel, whose day has come. whose time of punishment has reached its climax. You notice he's described in his character as profane and wicked. Uh you notice he's called a prince, not called a king. Ezekiel never refers to him as king. He really isn't a king. Just you're a puppet ruler. The word prince there that's used in the Hebrew means uh it's Nassau, it means to raise up. And so uh you were raised up by Nebuchadnezzar, you were raised up by the Lord, but you profaned your office. You refuse to serve Nebuchadnezzar and you refuse to serve the Lord. You haven't taken seriously the vow that you've made You're a wicked man. You're weak and you're unable to cope with the stress, the pressures that are around you. You're just not up to the situation that history's placed you in. You're despicable. We can easily despise Zedekiah. But you know, what would you have done? What would I do? The kind of pressure that he was placed under. I thought of Zedekiah this week and all the fur about Michael Richards, better known as Kramer. His uh meltdown at the comedy club out in Los Angeles. Remember there were a couple black guys there that were talking during his s his uh act and perhaps a little bit of heckling, but Kramer just suddenly melted down. I saw the video twice and it's shameful. It's it's hatred. I mean it It is absolutely inexcusable. And as I looked at that, you know, and I just you know, there's just a a re a repulsion as you see it and a distancing. Boy, I'd never do anything like that You know, and then I thought, take some time that your buttons were pushed and you let loose, maybe it was on a member of your family Family, your husband, your wife, your kids. And somebody caught it on video. And they show it right up here on the screen I mean, you know, that's the thing about today, you know, when they when they hear about this thing with Kramer, for the next twenty-four hours you can go onto a website and just watch the thing over and over and you just watch this, you know, and I don't know about you, but if it was me, if it was some of the times that I've had my meltdowns and I've said things that I was ashamed of, I would think I'd never want to come back to CPC They want to hide and be so humiliated. My point is, are we really that different in our hearts? From Kramer, from Zedekiah. God is showing in the reaction of either Zedekiah in history, Kramer. Contemporary, what our hearts are really like, what we're capable of, if pressed, under stress and pressure. That doesn't in any way justify his racial outbursts. But all of us have hatred. our hearts. And so he says, your time has come. The second thing there is is judgment. Profane, wicked prince, whose day has come, whose time of punishment has reached its climax. The time of warning and pleading is over. The day of reckoning Zedekiah is here. That's it. Your punishment's reached its climax. And as Zedekiah seeks to escape and runs away from Jerusalem with a few soldiers and his family. And then is captured by Nebuchadnezzar as he watches his sons hacked to pieces, and then his eyes are gouged out so that that's the land thing imprinted on his brain to replay over and over and over. I imagine he thought, this is far worse than I deserve. But he hasn't reckoned with the consequences of blowing off the God who has made him. The God who sustains his every breath, who sustains his mind and his body. And he lives as if that God doesn't matter. For him, for every leader, every political leader For every one of us. The day will come, the day of reckoning. When you stand before that God who has made you and has sustained you every day and every hour And what will it be like? What will be your hope at that time? That day is coming And Ezekiel says to Zedekiah, the destruction of Jerusalem is simply a foretaste of that. That's his judgment. For him it's climaxed in his dethronement. That's the third thing. See He says in verse 26, take off the turban, remove the crown. The word turban is translated crown in Psalm 26. 21, both signs of royalty. Take off his diadem, take off his crown. It will not be as it was Everything is going to be changed. There's going to be a radical disruption in this cataclysm that is to come The total reversal of power we see uh as we look at DC after the elections and all the idealistic rhetoric about cleaning up Washington and the first thing on everybody's mind is how can I get my place of power? How can I get my chairmanship? How can I get my cronies in? How can I get my place of security and power for operation? Ezekiel says, days come when all that's going to be reversed. All those in power are going to be out of power. And the ruin is going to be complete. Look how he states that. Verse 27 After he says, the lowly are going to be exalted, the exalted are going to be brought low. A ruin! A ruin! I will make it a ruin! Now I've said before many times when Hebrew has something three times, that's saying this is the ultimate extreme. This is a ruin of Jerusalem that will be like Washington, D. C. after a nuclear attack from terrorists. I remember some while back, Kathy and I standing at ground zero of Hiroshima, where the atomic bomb dropped. And of course now it's all built up, except for this one little part that's left as it was. And you can go to the models and you can see all the pictures of Hiroshima before the bomb and Hiroshima after the bomb. And it's an absolute devastation, flat out, just a couple of little bits of building as far as the eye can see. A ruin, a desolation. And he says, it will not be restored. It's over. You've had your chance. I've warned you again and again by my servants, the prophets, and you haven't listened And so it's going to be a ruin. And it will not be restored. Only hell lies ahead. But thank God that the sentence doesn't You see what he says? It will not be restored until thank God for the un Until he comes. Now notice until he comes To whom it rightfully belongs. Sound familiar? That's Genesis 49. 10. It's the Hebrew. It's the same. It will not be restored until he comes to whom the scepter rightfully belongs. To him I will give it. Now, let me suggest to you that that is an absolutely amazing prophecy. Don't miss the unlikeliness, the counterintuitiveness of it. How amazing is this prophecy? For instance , Jeremiah and Ezekiel were by far the minority report at that time. Most of the preachers at that time were saying God is going to deliver Jerusalem. Because he has set his name there. He is the covenant God. It doesn't matter what we've done. He must remain faithful. So he will rescue Jerusalem. Jeremiah 28, Hananiah, one of the preachers. And he says, in two years, Jehoiakim is going to be brought back with all the vessels were taken from the temple. Jerusalem is going to be safe, restored, Babylon is going to be crushed. And then Jeremiah himself says, Amen, let it be. And then he says, You liar, you know that's not going to happen. Do you know today we still have television preachers that are saying what people want to hear? God exists to serve you. A religion without repentance, a God who simply exists to make your life pleasant and doesn't intrude on your plans. Let me tell you about him. And everybody cheers and packs it out Jeremiah says as Ezekiel says, no. No. I hate to tell you. God's not going to save Jerusalem. It's going to be a ruin. It's going to be an absolute wasteland. It's going to be a devastation. Okay, well, if that's the case, then you would expect it would never be rebuilt. I mean, where are the cities of the Amorites? Or the Ammonites, or the Hittites, or the Moabites, or the Edomites, or the Philistines? Where are they today? Absolute ruins. Where is Nineveh? Where is mighty Assyria? Where is Babylonia? Babylon still a ruin. Why little Jerusalem? Why is that going to be uniquely restored? Nobody could guess. Yet 70 years later, it begins to be rebuilt. Now even if that happens, as unlikely as all those things are, okay, but then you would expect that when it's rebuilt There's going to be a whole new civilization. It's going to be a new monarchy. It's going to be a different group. You know, the people that come in and take leadership at that time, they're going to be the ones that will establish the new rule Nehemiah, Ezra. They're not on the line of Judah. And so where is this Fulfillment of Genesis 49, 10 that Ezekiel claims here, until he comes, the one that's promised from the line of Judah. He's the one I'm going to give it to. He only has a rubble from the line of David. And he doesn't continue on from anything. And then after four hundred years you have or about three hundred years A little more than that. You have the mighty uh uh Maccabean household, those heroes, heroes that overthrow Antiochus Epiphanes. But then very quickly their house degenerates into debauchery so that by around 5 BC it's back to hopelessness. And there's nothing on the scene about the Lion of Judah. No evidence that anybody from the Line of Judah is going to amount to anything. And then in a little town in Galilee, despised Galilee, the town of Nazareth, where the Romans have placed a garrison just to show that they're the ones in control. That Palestine is subjected to Roman rule. The angel Gabriel comes to a Judean peasant. And in Luke chapter 1, take a look at it. This is what he says. The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with child and will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. He will be great. And he will be called the Son of the Most High. Now get this. The Lord God will give him the throne Of his father, David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will never end. Do you see the reference to Ezekiel 21? The Lord is going to give to him the rightful rule of his father David. Ezekiel had said, The lowly will be exalted, the exalted will be brought low. It will be a ruin, it will not be restored until he comes to whom it rightfully belongs, to him I will give it. And to a Galilean peasant, the angel Gabriel Says, the time 's come, I'm going to give it. And so Jesus is born in a stable. How low can you get? Like being born in a garage. He grows up and he has the audacity to declare, the kingdom's come, because I'm here. And he heals. And he teaches, like the Sermon on the Mount. And he says, Hope has come. Because I've come to bring the kingdom. And so you see, you and I, when we read this prophecy, see that in verse 25 and 26, our God is a God of justice and judgment. But in verse 27, he's also the God of hope. You see, the gospel is essentially about hope. No matter how hopeless your situation may seem, no matter how bad it is, God is the God of hope The gospel is about who. Have you ever imagined what it would have been like for Ezekiel as a young man? At the time when he was taken out of Jerusalem, he was 27 years old, and he was in training for the priesthood to serve at the temple. When he would go to the temple, what would he see? He would see a group of women in the fall mourning the death of the Babylonian god Tamos, the god of fertility. And they would weep and they would mourn and then they would conduct immoral acts in the temple, prostitution, in order to ensure fertility for the springtime ahead He would see a group of men standing with their back to the temple wall facing east to worship the Babylonian god of the sun. He would see child sacrifice to the god Moloch. And what's God doing about it? Nothing. In fact, it says he departs. Nothing. So then he's taken captive and he's deported to a refugee settlement On the Tibur River in Babylonia. And given some freedom, he no doubt travels through the capital, Babylon. And what does he see there? He sees the world-famous, one of the great wonders of the ancient world, the hanging gardens of Babylon, in all their glory and beauty. He sees the great wall of Babylon, like a six-lane highway, so wide it was. He sees the magnificent Ishtar gate. He sees the ziggurats and all the idols built to the Babylonian gods in their splendor. And it's all about Babylon, and it's all about Babylon's gods. And Yahweh is nowhere to be seen. Seems quite insignificant, quite small, quite unimportant now. You think he didn't ask himself sometime? Is it really true? Is God's word really true or has he disappeared from the scene? But the word of God came to him until until he comes The gospel is a gospel of hope. And the word comes, He's coming. His rule will be good in contrast to Zedekiah. His rule will be unlikely, for I will exalt the lowly. And his rule will be inevitable. Nothing will be able to stand against it. Only a fool would resist it. And his rule has begun, but it's not yet completed. It's established, but it's not yet consummated. And so you and I still live in that time, and we read a passage like Romans chapter 8, and we see the same longing, the same living in hope. That Ezekiel was called to. Still living in a time when all the splendor seems to be for the secularists, and all the all the ideologies seem to marginalize. The God of Scripture and Jesus Christ. But what do you read in Romans 8? Paul says, I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. The creation waits in eager expectation for the sons of God to be revealed. For the creation was subjected to frustration, not by its own choice, but by the curse. by the will of the one who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be liberated from its bondage to decay and brought into the glorious freedom of the children of God. That's our hope. So it goes on. We know that the whole creation has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time. Not only so, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption as sons of the redemption of our bodies. For it is in this hope that we were saved. But hope that's seen is not hope at all. Who hopes for what he already has? But if we hope for what we do not yet have, we wait for it patiently. Brothers and sisters, you and I are waiting in that hope. The author of these words ultimately is the same author as Ezekiel 21. And they are brought together in the same message. It's a ruin until he comes and restores it. To him I will give the rightful rule that I promised. And so your faith, these are the next blanks now, your faith is based on the past. It's based on what God has done. The fact that He has fulfilled His promise to send the Messiah. And when those at Ezekiel's time heard until he comes, it they would have known six hundred years you would have to wait. You say, well, yeah, 600 years, but you know it's 2600 years since Ezekiel spoke those words. And we're waiting still, but on a different level. Your faith is based on what he's done in the past. God has fulfilled all that he said. Messiah has come. Messiah lived a perfect life. Messiah died a death on the cross as a substitutionary sacrifice for your sin, for my sin, for everyone's sin who trust him, not our sin. For the forgiveness that He offers to you and to me to give you a hope. And he established it by rising again So he's proven that he's faithful to his word. The gospel is established. Your faith is based on the past. The gospel has been going to the ends of the earth. All that he has said is being accomplished, so it must issue in hope for the future It must issue in hope for the future. Because you see you've seen his faithfulness in the past, you can depend on him for your future. Everything that he has said will come true. As Michael Card says in his Christmas song, the dreams of the prophet were simply not wild enough. Now I ask you a personal question. Do you have hope this morning? You say, yeah, I have faith in Jesus I believe I'm going to heaven. But do you have hope? Are you living in hope this morning? Are you living in hope about your marriage, about your kids, about your job, about your health, about your future, about your Purpose. Do you have hope about your purpose in life? Do you have hope about God's promises that they will be fulfilled, that He will continue to be faithful to everything that He has said? Would you somehow feel like his faithfulness continued to now, but I'm not really so sure about what's going on now and what's going to happen in the future? You see, your faith in the past establishes your hope for the future. Without hope, there is no joy. And without faith, there is no hope. That's the chain of the gospel. Until he comes. That's the message. You see, the point of Ezekiel is to expand our view of God. From the confinements that we live in, he expands it. And what Ezekiel does is that he dashes and destroys all hope that you have in this world World and in this life. He says, you're hoping in a person, Zedekiah. He'll save you. Somehow he'll come through. You know what? Zedekiah's gone. He is done. He is history. Don't place your hope in Zedekiah Oh, but my hope is in Jerusalem. It's my home and God will certainly keep my home. He'll keep our country. He'll keep our culture. He'll keep the things the way they are. That's what he'll do and that guy's Ezekiel. Says, don't count on it. He could make it a ruin. He could make it a threefold, triple ruin beyond belief. Don't trust in a person, don't trust in a place. Don't trust in anything here. It won't be restored until He comes. Until he brings with him the new heavens and the new earth. Until the deliverer comes with the final deliverance, and that deliverer brings you home, the deliverer who can never fail you. to deliver in whom your hope is secure, to fulfill every promise that he has given. I can't tell you how I'll do it. But his character is sure, and his promises are faithful, and therefore your hope is secure. Until He comes, He alone is your hope. So, brothers and sisters, I call you to hope this morning I call you to Jesus Christ, who is your hope. And as your purposes are aligned with him, your hope. Is sure. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we place our hope in such Unstable things. We're disappointed. We're crushed. We think, where are you? Lord, fix our hope on that precious phrase until He comes. To see that there is the deliverer who has been born and who died and who's risen again, who is our hope And that that hope is sure, it's a certainty, it is fixed. And so, Lord, we pray that this week you will cause us to live in hope. That we will see that all those particular problems and disturbances and upheavals in our lives are within the grasp of a loving God who is our host. Of a Savior who is our sure deliverer, who holds us and will bring us home Lord, if anybody here does not have that hope, make clear to them the hopelessness of their situation without Christ. And make us, Lord, to rest, to triumph, and to live this week out of the hope that is sure. Even you, precious Lord Jesus.