My name is Bob Bierkus. I'm the pastor here, and it is a uh it's wonderful to see you all here this morning. This morning we are going to be looking, as Joel mentioned, at a text It is not often considered when we study the life of Jesus. It's a text in which Jesus rebukes the crowd that follows him And if there's one thing that in all the church growth manuals I've had a chance to look at in 30-some years of ministry, it's that when crowds gather, don't immediately tell them they're all evil. And yet that's exactly what Jesus does. Please pray with me as we look at this text, which shows us some of the Heart of Jesus, when it comes to telling people difficult things about people like us. Almighty God, we ask your blessing on your word. Father, we thank you that it is a word that is true And that so great is your love for us that you tell us the truth, even about us. And Father, we pray that you would help us to hear it. Lord, it's always so difficult to hear things about ourselves that Lord, are not flattering. But Lord, we know that you are God who hates flattering lips and deceiving tongues. And you don't have such things. You speak truth in love always. Father, bless the reading of your word to us. And in as much as the preaching that follows is faithful to who you are and what you've done, Lord, we ask that you would bless the preaching as well. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 10. Now that's not right. Luke chapter 11. That was on the wrong page. Luke chapter 11, beginning with verse 29, the word of God. When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, this generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it, except the sign of Jonah. For as Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation The Queen of the South will rise up into judgment with the men of this generation, and condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, something greater than Solomon is here. The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it. For they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, I want you to think about that very first sentence in verse 29. When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, This generation is an evil generation. And before we dive into the four points of this sermon that you see in your outlines, I want you to think about A couple things that this sentence tells us. First, as the crowds start to increase, we've been following the ministry of Jesus as it's described for us in the Gospel of Luke, and we've seen several key moments. where he seems to really be building up ahead of steam. Jesus is getting a lot of traction. People are starting to come from near and far. People have already at different times in his ministry come from uh Tyre uh in and sidon uh The coastal cities to the northwest of the traditional area of Galilee. People from all the way down south in Jerusalem and Judea have been coming. And here we have another one of these moments where people are really starting to gather. Crowds plural, not just one big crowd, crowds plural are beginning to gather. And Jesus began. To say. This isn't just a one-off. This isn't something where Jesus was having a day when he was, as a preacher, feeling a little bit punchy. Jesus began to say this. This becomes a theme in his preaching as the crowds grow. This generation is an evil generation. We have a lot of popular presentations of the ministry, the heart, the life, the character of Jesus of Nazareth, our Lord and Savior. And it is often the case that we don't know how to accommodate this Jesus. The Jesus who, as a matter of course, as a fixed feature of his ministry talks about sin. And doesn't just talk about sin. He talks about us as sinners, specifically calling us evil. I want you to sit with that for a minute. Would you be a real fan of my ministry if Every time you came, or as a regular feature of my ministry, I said, Hey, all you evil people Probably not. And we can think about how, well, you know, we're the redeemed. We're in Christ. We view each other in Christ. But when it comes to dealing with that very difficult truth Martin Luther captured when his opponents in the fifteen twenties tried to corner him and say, So are you a saint or a sinner? And his great answer was Yes and no. Uh there's a sense in which we're both at once And when we lose sight of the nature of sin and the way that it affects us all the time We begin to lose both our humility and our gratitude. We begin to lose our humility before God because we forget what He loves us in spite of. And we lose our gratitude because the less conscious we are of how sinful we are The less amazing grace becomes Jesus understands something about the human heart, because he is, after all, the creator and the sustainer of the universe, and that includes you and me. But he understands that there is a very real sense in which we have to have a ministry to us from him in which we are constantly presented. With truth that edifies. And sometimes truth that edifies or builds us up, strengthens us, is a truth that is very uncomfortable. A verse that my dear friend Tarek Ergin, I coached with him for 16 years, one of our favorite verses from Galatians. It's from Galatians chapter 4, where the Apostle Paul says to the church in Galatia, What? Have I now become your enemy for telling you the truth? We've all experienced that at one point or other. Maybe we've had to say something about our kids that they really didn't want to hear. Maybe it's something that had to be said to us that we really didn't want to hear John Calvin, a great influence in my life and a father in the faith I look forward to meeting someday, he put it this way. If you show someone their faults, they will show you their teeth. Well, Jesus shows people their faults for all the right reasons. And as we go through this gospel and we study the Bible together, We have to really embrace the fact that the Bible shows us our faults, even as the redeemed, even as the generation of the covenant people that we are. And I want us to wrestle this morning with what is it about the generation of God's people that merits the descriptor evil? And to what extent might it be true that that word applies even to our sin? Well, Jesus gives two great analogies or examples that are juxtaposed with the generation he's speaking to. On the one hand, he's got his generation that he says is an evil generation, the crowds who have gathered. And on the other hand, you have Nineveh and the men of Nineveh and the Queen of Sheba. and all that she represents. Now the Queen of Sheba would date to the time of Solomon The men of Nineveh would date generations later, 8th century BC , the time of the prophet Jonah. And I want to say a couple things about the Ninevehes and the Queen of Sheba to help us understand exactly what Jesus is getting at. He writes here that Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation. Skipping down, the men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah. Now, when we think of Nineveh, what do we think of? Now, some of us, I suspect, are thinking about the VeggieTales special where People are slapping people with fish. How many? Honestly, how many? Yeah, I see a lot of hands. And we have tended to that for the sake of our children's consciences and their tender worldviews We have made the Ninevites look just like people who are sort of mean to each other and hit each other with fish. Well, put on your big boy pants. The Ninevites were a bloodthirsty, vicious, cruel people. Ancient historians tell us that if we had approached Nineveh, the capital of the Assyrian Empire at that time, you would have approached it and felt like you were entering into some Aztec type world where there are pyramids of human skulls outside the city before you can enter in Nineveh was calculated to terrify you if you were an outsider of that culture, and it was brutal if you were a participant in it. Slaves there did not have the rights that slaves had in Israel or the protections. They were not accorded human dignity. There is a brutality to life in Nineveh that would be horrifying to our consciences today. The living God cared not only about the Ninevehes, but about the animals that lived in Nineveh. And so he sends Jonah. And Jonah arrives begrudgingly, having done everything he could to not go there. And we don't read about a single sign or wonder that Jonah performed. If you think about Jonah and his ministry, it's captured very simply in Jonah chapter 3, where he goes to Nineveh and he simply preaches this. Forty more days, and Nineveh will be overturned. That's it As a prophet, he foretells the coming judgment of a just God who's going to pour out his wrath on a wicked culture. And the Ninevehites, beginning with the ruler of that city, fall down in repentance and put on sackcloth. repenting for perhaps the Lord will have mercy. No miracles were performed A message was preached that exposed their wickedness and the eternal hazard that they had brought to their own hearts. And that was enough to prick their conscience so deeply that they fell down, casting themselves entirely upon the mercy of a God who was not theirs. They believed. And their faith was demonstrated with a repentance. And it was rewarded with life. They lived because they responded to an unlikely message that basically said, you are evil and you're about to get yours. And an entire city was one that day for the living God The Ninevites demonstrated faith. The Queen of Sheba. Sheba is a location that is debated. by Bible scholars. We suspect that it is located on the southern end of the Arabian Peninsula. The basic consensus is that Sheba, which at this time, at the time of Solomon, was was led by a queen had a uh uh an iron grip on the trade routes. It would have gone from the east coast of Africa over to India. It would have been wealthy. It would have had access to different cultural flavors and influences. It would have had its own form of wisdom. The Queen of Sheba hears news about a very wise king to the north in a small, smaller country. And she resolves to go with what sounds like a large trade delegation and is overwhelmed with the truth that this king of Israel is wise beyond all expectation And she marvels at the goodness of God who has given such a king to his covenant people. And she blesses the Lord because of this king and his wisdom. Now what about the Nineveh? What about the Israelites? Were they like the Ninevehes? Were they like the Queen of Sheba? You'll see there's two statements that are pretty much the same. Something greater than Jonah has come. Something greater than the Queen of Sheba has come. Now, I want you to notice something unusual. It doesn't say someone greater than Jonah or someone greater than the Queen of Sheba. Did you notice that? It says something. That's because it's referring not just to the person, but to the person and their work. He's referring to the totality of the effect of the prophet and his message, or the king and his wisdom. This thing that has arrived in the person of Jesus, this thing of God's visitation and self-revelation of Himself through His message and His wisdom, is something that has no equal. It is greater. Even in Jonah, even than Solomon. And yet God's people didn't respond. Remember, the preaching of Jesus is summarized by either one or two words summarized by the Holy Spirit in the Gospels. The preaching of Jesus is summarized most simply in the As almost precisely what the message of Jonah was. And Jesus began to preach, repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Or repent and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Repentance and faith are the things that Jesus is coming to call people to. That message was not accepted. by the people who heard it in Jesus' own day. Instead the crowds over and over again asked for a sign. The Ninevehes hadn't needed a sign. Yet they repented. And isn't that something that the Ninevites, to put it simply, Did far more with far less. They had a lesser prophet with a less clear message. That prophet simply said, 40 more days, and in a sense, God's kingdom is going to arrive and you're not going to like it Jesus comes with more of a crystal call to action, repent. For the kingdom of God is coming. It is at hand. And what of the Queen of Sheba? The Queen of Sheba sees that God has blessed his people with a king. king who is full of wisdom such that his people can flourish, and she praises the God of Israel. The Israelites behold their king. And they resist his wisdom. They try to trap him and trick him and test him. And they want him to perform more and more signs, despite the fact that now they've seen how many exorcisms, how many healings, how many miracles, how many feedings. It's never enough. And they do not see the king who has come, inheriting the mantle and all of the promises made to David the king. They see him come in the flesh, and he's not enough, and they do not give thanks and praise to the God of Israel for giving them the king. They do not have the faith of the Queen of Sheba. They do not have the faith of the Ninevites. And Jesus calls them out. It says, this is an evil generation. And on that day of the great judgment, the people of Nineveh and the Queen of Sheba herself, they're going to rise up And they're going to justly join in the condemnation of those who have been given so much more and have chosen not to believe at all. What exactly is the sign of Jonah? Jesus says, no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah. And I want you to think carefully about the sign of Jonah because the sign of Jonah is not a sign that the Ninevites would have themselves seen Because in Matthew chapter 12, Jesus refers to the sign of Jonah, and he's told that we are told there, and Jesus tells his listeners there that the sign of Jonah is that just as Jonah was three days in the belly of the fish. So will Jesus be buried and on the third day restored. Jesus later in Matthew chapter 16 again tells Pharisees in a different conversation that they will receive no sign but the sign of Jonah. This appears to have been a part of Jesus' ministry where he talked about the sign of Jonah such that it would be understood by those who heard it. And Jesus is in a sense saying that the sign we are going to receive as God's people, listening to him preach in his earthly ministry, is that Jesus Christ will die and be raised again. And that sign Is the only sign that ultimately will matter. The sign of the resurrection of the Son of God who took on flesh. The absolute vindication of his authority and of his heavenly divine commission to be the Savior. The affirmation that God has accepted the sacrifice made on our behalf. That is the sign Not just head and shoulders above all others, but that is the sign that makes all other signs we could ever dream of having. Fade away to mundane if not irrelevant. I do not need God to cure me of my eye disease. You do not need God to give you job security. We might want things like that What we need is for the Lamb of God to have been raised from the dead, and his ultimate payment for the wages of our sins to be accepted to have the wrath of a holy God utterly propitiated, and to be completely reconciled to our Maker through union with Christ who loved us. And the sign of the resurrection of Jesus from the death is a sign that to you and to me who hear the witness and the testimony of it, who see the effects of it and the transformed lives of people all around us throughout history is sufficient. It is in fact the only sign we need. Jesus lives, and so shall I. It is a definitive vindication of the divine mission and authority of Jesus, and it points to his return. The prophets in the Old Testament and the Apostles in the New Testament look forward, and they saw kind of like if you or I are driving Say we're having to dry it drive to Ohio, which I understand is a is just an awesome destination state, if the young kids are to be believed And you're driving and you're heading towards the Appalachians and you see what appear to be a jagged row of teeth, and those are the Appalachian Mountains. And you get the sense that that range is just all one continuous line of ridges and hills. But then as you get closer, you begin to realize, oh, there's a lot of depth there. That mountain that looked like it was right next to this one is actually a much bigger mountain that's miles behind it. And as we draw closer Our binocular vision is able to exercise more of its depth perception and determine that, oh, these things that I thought were on a plane are actually Separated. You see, the coming of Jesus, the Messiah, the king descended from David. who would have more wisdom than Solomon, who would have more truth and authority than Jonah When the Old Testament prophets looked forward to the coming of this king, they saw both his first and his second coming compressed as if it's all one event. But as we see the coming of Jesus, we realize that some of those things of his coming, his great enthronement, will be for the consummation. not the incarnation. And so whenever we find reference to the definitive saving work of Jesus Christ in accomplishing atonement for us, It can't be separated from his return when all that he accomplished will be consummated and the kingdom will in its fullness be experienced by God's people. And do you think, Kristen, that all of your skepticism, doubts, and fears about the Credibility of your God can be and ought to be laid to rest at the feet of this Jesus who says, I died for you and I was raised and I am coming. All of God's promises are made, yes, in my life and work, 2 Corinthians, and I will never leave you or forsake you. The fact that Jesus has come, said what he said, and did what he did, and promised to be ever faithful Is the only sign that I need to be able to stand on the side of Nineveh and Sheba on that great day. What about me as an individual, practically, not just theoretically? Isn't it true that Bob Birkis sometimes struggles with doubt and unbelief? And sometimes at my weaker moments, I say, Lord, give me a sign. Well, those things are all true. And that's the main reason why I don't preach myself. You would be in a lot of trouble if you followed me. Follow Jesus. And join me in following him to be like him. Listen to his promises. There are times in your life, just as there are times in my life, where I struggle with believing, where I want a sign, where I want God to meet me. Maybe in my terms, according to my needs at the moment. There are times in my life when my flesh rebels, and it's not enough that Jesus has accomplished everything in redemptive history that is needful for me for eternity. I say that to my shame. But I want to add this to encourage you and me alike. In Mark chapter 9, verse 34, we read a remarkable statement that we should all have memorized. Jesus has just come down from the Mount of Transfiguration, and his disciples have been unable to heal a young boy whose father desperately wanted that child to be freed from the uh possession of a demon And Jesus, true to his form here, rebukes his disciples. He laments the wickedness of the generation at that occasion. And he invites the boy to come forward. The father says, if you are able, God calls him out on his, if I'm able. And the father of that boy says, this is what you should memorize. I believe. Help me in my unbelief. Those words are so familiar to me. When I find that I, like the Israelites in Jesus' day, like God's people throughout history Find my faith flagging. I can come to my living God. I can come to my Savior. I can come pleading the comforts of the Holy Spirit and say, I believe. Help me in my unbelief. And that's where God meets us. But what I will not do is test the Lord my God. By insisting upon some sign, or petulantly withholding my obedience. Because I feel that there's some subpoint of a contract he hasn't made good on. Isn't that a wicked thought That I might demand a sign from the living God, despite all that he's done and proven. And isn't it far preferable for me to say, Lord Jesus, I believe. Help me in my unbelief. Romans chapter one gives a sad indictment of a wicked generation. And it's a wicked generation that really begins. In Genesis 3, and will carry on till the very return of Christ. And that is that there are those among us, and perhaps we ourselves, who will suppress truth and unrighteousness. That means that we are morally culpable. We are guilty of taking things we know and pushing them down and making them irrelevant We are not taking what we do know and acting upon it as we should , should being a moral term. None of us can say, I've never heard of the wisdom of Jesus. I've never heard the summons to repent Because our consciences condemn us if we try to say otherwise. And your exposure to gospel ministry is proof as well. For those of us who are deciding that we're going to let the jury stay out on the question of Jesus, I would urge you Listen to this text. Be like the Ninevehites. And be like the Queen of Sheba. Don't sit back and say, well, I will not believe yet. Exercise what faith you have. Come to him and ask you to meet you in your skepticism or fear. But do not say, you need to prove yourself to me over and again. And that's a good word for pastors like me and Christians like you and seekers like the world. That's a good word for us that invites us to come to repent and believe in Jesus who offers forgiveness. Whether we have a large faith or a small faith, a strong faith or a weak faith. Because if there's one thing that the Bible is crystal clear on, Is that a large and a strong faith receives a large and a strong Savior, and a small and a weak faith. also receives a large and a strong Savior. Put your faith in Jesus Christ Repent, believe, marvel at his wisdom, and give thanks to the God who has blessed you with such a faithful king. And brother and shepherd as Jesus, the Son of David. Amen. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your wisdom Lord, we thank you that you are not some caricature who bends over backwards to only say nice things to us that make us feel comfortable, but you give us uncomfortable truths. that confront us with things and words and descriptors that we would rather not hear, let alone own. Father, help us to appreciate just how evil sin is and just how much it affects us in every way. Truly and properly, all the motions of our soul can be lumped into that category. And it is only because we are united by grace through faith to Jesus Christ, and we and our works are looked at by you, O Father, in Him that we can stand. Lord, help us to humbly lay hold of those truths, with heart and mind alike, and help us then to labor by grace. To put to death the sins of our flesh, to lay aside evil thoughts and inclinations, to say no to ungodly desires, to be transformed not only in our minds But in our actions and our affections. Help us to seek you because you've called. And whether we have a little faith or a lot, a mighty faith or a frail faith. Meet us and grow us. We pray these things in Jesus' precious name. And all God's people said.