And now if you have your Bibles, turn to Isaiah chapter nine. While you're turning there, I I commented on how Presbyterians love to preach on joy. And I did get a couple of chuckles. You know, sometimes Hollywood gets it right. I have never seen Hollywood get the Jonathan Edwards moment right Jonathan Edwards did not scream hellfire and brimstone when he preached sinners in the hands of an angry God. He It was early in his ministry where he wasn't preaching from Crib notes, he read the manuscript with hands trembling and he wept. However, when you see the movie The River Runs Through It. And you see that Dower Presbyterian minister, that pretty much captures. I recall once talking with my THM mentor, Dr. Frank A. James III. Two PhDs, not one. And commenting on this, and he said, Well, I'm not so sure that's exactly accurate. And I showed him I had a uh directory of public worship From the American Presbyterians dated in the late 19th century. And I took it out and I showed him where it instructed ministers to teach their congregations that upon entering the sanctuary they were to abstain from smiling and other indecent behavior. Literally. He was so flabbergasted he asked if he could keep that book, and foolishly I gave it to him. So I no longer have that book to prove it. And I continue to look in old bookstores for a, you know, 1865 or whatever it was, Presbyterian Directory, but I'll find another one Isaiah chapter 9 is about joy. And I think that joy touches our hearts. And changes our thoughts and shapes our worship far too little. We celebrate the Lord's Supper. We gather to recount his love. And the overwhelming note in the middle of the reverence and awe of worship should be the joy of the redeemed. Please pray with me before I read these verses. Almighty God, we come before you Eager to see what you have for us in your word, we thank you for its truth and for its beauty. Remind us that even as Isaiah states elsewhere, your word does not return to you void. But it accomplishes the purpose for which you've sent it, that your people be led forth in joy and with peace. Forgive us for not considering joy so important. A part of our life together. A part of our life, singly, apart, alone. You have called us to be men and women of joy. Indeed, it is a fruit of the Spirit Not to be separated from things like love and peace and patience. And yet, Lord, we confess that the harder we try to create joy, the more difficult it is to experience. Lord, may your word be like a bright and shining light from a god of brightness beamed down to a world of darkness that we might truly rejoice. Bless this reading and the preaching that follows, O God. We humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Isaiah chapter nine, verses one through seven. But there will be no gloom For her who was in anguish. In the former time, he brought into contempt the land of Zebulon and the land of Naphtali. But in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness on them has light shone. You have multiplied the nation, you have increased its joy. They rejoice before you, as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. For the yoke of his burden and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as on the day of Midian. For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult And every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. This ends the reading of God's Word. As many of you know, Carrie and I bought a fixer upper house, and it has been painstakingly renovated and restored to habitability by any number of you dearly, humbly, expertly crafty people who have come alongside me and Carrie and you haven't worked alongside us. You have said, Bob, you're not competent for this job. Let me do it. We have been overwhelmed with your love and your grace. And later today, for those interested in fellowshipping over boxes and having pizza provided by me and Carrie. you'll get a chance to see this just gem of a home restored from uh boy, I don't even know how to describe it. Very rickety And uh and now it is just so to lovely and delightful. There's one place in the living room when you see the east wall That I envision having built in bookcases. And so I did like my wife does, and I went on the internet and I did an Amazon search um built in bookcases around a window. And then I clicked images. All of a sudden I got all of these wonderful pictures, all these great ideas people have. And I'm looking at them and I'm thinking, Lord, what Which how how do I decide which one is best? I mean, aesthetics has never been my strong suit. And uh I was looking at him, I said, wait a minute. So I clicked on one and you know when you click on one and it pops up and then looking at it, I think maybe, then I click, you can look at it in its original site where you can blow it up. I said, yes, there on the top right-hand shelf is Alec Motter's commentary on Isaiah. This is the one we're going with. This is the bookcase. And I call out Alec Motyer because if there are three commentaries on Isaiah I would not part with lightly, his is one of them, and this morning I want to give him full credit for the in a sense the rough outline. See, Alec Motyer is one of the scholars who insists that verse 1 goes with verses 2 through 7, whereas many Bible scholars and translators really think that verse 1 should go with chapter 8. And Alex Mottier is the scholar, not only whose uh uh whose uh literary imbibers design great bookcases, but who recognizes that verses one through three are really about a description of the joy of the redeemed And verses four through seven are an explanation of that joy. Now Mayor takes it even further, but I frankly I don't have time for that. uh not in uh in a half hour sermon. But I do want to say that that's where this division comes from. So thank you, Alec Motyer. I've pointed out to several people who have from time to time complimented uh uh you know the the the study that goes into my sermons. And I always tell them what y you know, if I said something bright or illuminating, I probably read it in a book. So thank the author of the book, in this case Alec Motyer Well, what is it about the description of this joy? What is it about this joy that was so important to God that he gave it to Isaiah to say to a people struggling in the realities of Assyrian domination of the northern tribes? The tribes of Israel. What is it about this joy that should lift up their hearts, even in a time of popular dismay? Spiritual compromise and betrayal by the priestly class, the beginnings of oppression and conquest from the Assyrian overlords What is it about this joy that could speak to us today? Because I've often found the commands to rejoice, I will say it again, rejoice, to be counterproductive in my life I can recall as a young boy my dad saying, son, cheer up. Now, how many times out of a hundred do you think That made me go, Oh yeah. Oh perfect. That's what I needed to hear. Now I'm happy. And God bless him. Uh yeah, my dad's the best dad I ever met, but uh th that didn't work And when I look at a Bible text like in Philippians, it says, rejoice always. I will say it again, rejoice. It's easy for us. To understand joy as being the feeling that we respond To great things with. The joy of Christmas. We are joyful because the tree looks so beautiful, decorated as it is. With all of the red ornaments in one area, all of the blue ones in another, the ducks over here, the tractors over there, and then Carrie rearranges it all the next morning. That's my son Timmy and my inside joke. We've been doing that for twenty years now, but the joy of your favorite cookies. Being baked, smelling them, seeing them in the jar, the joy of family visiting. Our response is we rejoice because of stimuli that we experience. And so when we say, Rejoice, I'll say it again, rejoice, we seem to want to wait upon the stimuli to give us joy. And we might look at our life and think the cookie jar's empty. The family's far away. Spatially or emotionally. Maybe they're in heaven. And we look for the stimuli and say, well, how how can we rejoice? Well, I want you to think about Isaiah's congregation. And Isaiah had an incredibly long ministry. Isaiah's ministry covered the reign of three kings. And it overlapped with the Assyrian conquest on the one hand in the 730s and the Babylonian conquest on the other. Now, Isaiah calls his people to joy when the cookie jar is empty. When the family is far away, even abducted into a foreign land, and the political power is non-existent. You are a conquered, subjugated, enslaved people. Isaiah called people to joy right now in terrible circumstances because of who God is and what He has promised. So when we think about this joy, there's three things that if we understand it in these Isaiah terms, well, that came out wrong. We can really have a much better shot at living in conformity with the Scripture and actually being a joyful people So there are three things about this text in the beginning that I want to point out about the description of joy. One is that it's undeserved, two is that it's transcendent, and three is that it's comprehensive. So let's talk about it being undeserved. And here's something that I gleaned not only from Motyr, he just has hints of it, but more particularly from Joseph Alexander, who was a 19th-century old Princeton seminary professor, who's uh He was one of the leading Hebrew scholars in his day worldwide, and he was at Princeton teaching Old Testament. In his commentary, he notices the importance of Zebulun and Naphtali. How many times have you read that text and thought, Zebulun and Naphtali? Yeah, whatever. Let's move along here. What's going on? Way of the Jordan, Galilee, Way of the Sea, and it's almost as if all of that stuff sort of becomes filler for the next nugget you're looking for that you can put on the fridge. I'll unpack this for you. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulon and the land of Naphtali. By the time Isaiah began his public ministry , Zebuon and Naphthalite were the first tribes to fall to the Assyrian occupation in the 730s BC. If you were to look at a map, Zebulun and Naphtali are the northernmost tribes. That are right above and to the west of the Sea of Galilee. And if you remember from your middle school history classes, they talked about the Fertile Crescent That started over here in Babylon, and I'm going to do this oriented towards you, so this is east. And there was that fertile crescent that ran over to the area of Turkey and the Caucasus, and then it came down along the Western coast of the Mediterranean Sea, and it came right through Zebulon and Asher. So Zebulon Asher and Naphtali are those three tribes that were the highway of people invading the promised land. It was think of it as the Frontier, the most dangerous place, the place that was most susceptible to the kind of syncretism or watering down of religion that trade and commerce and invasion All of these things with their compromising influences. And Zebulon and Aphtali were the first to fall. They were the first. To be carried off into captivity, the first to have its citizens uprooted And be replaced with foreigners, the first to have the Levitical presence diminished to nothing. They were the first to go. And so what does it mean that this promise of a child to be born invokes the worst and the most fragile and the weakest and the most culpable of the tribes? saying, in the past these lands were treated with contempt, but in the latter time he, the Lord, God, has honored or made glorious, and this is what's amazing to me. The way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, and Galilee of the nations, those are what the Assyrians began to call the regions of Zebulon, Asher, and Naphtali. Those are the pagan words for the regions of God's original people. And God is saying, in the future. That which was weakest and guiltiest, that which was the quickest to betray and to be judged In their betrayed and judged state, I am going to meet with them, and from there I am going to bring a mighty deliverance. And is it not the fact that though Jesus was born in Bethlehem, he was the man from Galilee? Is it not the fact that he raised his army as in the days of Midian from Zebulun and Naphtali? Look back at the book of Judges, that's where that army came from that Gideon used to defeat the Midianites. And just as that army was pared down to a mere 300, Jesus, the great delivering, redeeming general, the light from the northern tribes , He came down with a mere twelfth. None of it deserved by Zebulun and Naphtali. None of it deserved by Galilee of the Gentiles. But what a place where the Son of Man, the child given, would spend his teenage years and be equipped by God to be a bright light for a people in a dark land. Undeserved. And for those of you who have kids that were quick to fall, quick to compromise, quick to wander off. Know this, by whatever name they're going by, God knows his covenant people, and never despair that God cannot honor and do glorious things. even through Zebulon's anaphtalies. The joy is undeserved, and it's also transcendent. And I think this is the most important point for Bob Björkus, your preacher, to remember. The people who walk in darkness or walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of deep darkness on them has light shone. Now, I'll give you a little inside note about deep darkness. If you have a very old translation of the Bible, it might say the shadow of death. That's literally what it means. And if you have, if you're not averse to writing in your Bible, I'm sure that St. Peter wouldn't mind if you took a pen and wrote Deep Darkness and put a note. Put a note that says Psalm 23 verse 4. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Exact same words as deep darkness in the Hebrew. Exact same. This is a picture of those who are living through an experience that is as low and as bad as it can get. And the text rightly tells us that we who are walking in darkness, we have seen a great light. It doesn't say the darkness went away. It says, We who dwell in a land of deep darkness, the shadow of death, on them light has shown. Just like Psalm twenty-three says this, it says, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Me. And the point Isaiah is making to these people who are living pre-advent, centuries before Jesus Christ would be born, he's saying to them, There is a light. It is the light of God's promise. Now there's something the Hebrew prophets did. They call it a prophetic past tense, where they would talk about things happening that would happen in the future as if they had already occurred using a past tense. That's why we find these past tenses walked, dwelt, on them light has shown It's as if to say that these things that are going to happen centuries from now are as good as history And we do things similar to this in the way we play with tenses in the American language. Let's suppose that I wanted to talk to you about a a particularly great day when I was coaching a middle school across team back in California and the year the before I took the team over they were literally winless. And the year that I coached them we were we had one loss. scrappy bunch of guys from Calabasas and we were meeting Calabasas in the tournament game uh for first place. Something the guys never never dreamed they could do. And if I were to describe to you the moment that I knew we won that game and all got our little plastic medals we could hang around our necks. Um Graham the goalie, he picks up and he takes the ball on a shot that bounced off the left pipe and he scoops through it. He gets his hands free. And he throws the ball, and he throws it, and Troy White, one of the smallest guys on the team, we used to call him Red Meat because he was not aggressive at all. He catches the ball and It's like a 50-yard pass. It's a dime. That ball goes through the air, and that ball lands exactly in Troy White's stick. Troy White just turns and burns. Next thing you know, we get an assisted layup. Did you notice I talked about something that happened twelve years ago all in the present tense? It's called the plu-perfect. We still do things like this where when things are important or immediate or amazing We manipulate the tense to create excitement. Well, the Hebrew prophets did that all the time. They just did it differently. They talked about things in the future as if they were as good as in the books. And nowhere do they do this with more consistency than when they talk about the coming of the Messiah. It is as good as done. And therefore it should evoke feelings in us as if it has already happened. And so I want you to think about what I mean by transcendence of joy. We want joy to be our response to imminent things, the smell of the cookies. The sound of the gift when we shake it, the presence of our children whom we miss so much The source of our joy, of our Advent joy, is in the transcendent truth that God has come and is coming. And we who live between the first and second coming of Christ are invited by this text to enter into the joy of the redeemed in light of the fact that he is as good as come. to wipe away every one of our tears, which he has kept in his scroll and in his bottle, that he is as good as come, he who will resolve all of our diseases whether they are uh arthritis in a finger or whether it's retinitis pigmentosa in your eyes or whatever you have because believe it or not every one of you has something badly the matter with you and if you don't know what it is yet just go to a doctor They'll tell you. All of this is as good as already addressed by your God who has come in Christ and is coming again. And that light, though we're living in a valley of the shadow of death, that spotlight of the love of God which is ours in Christ is beaming directly down on us, that we who walked in darkness Now nowhere to put our feet, we can walk even in this valley because the Savior was born. What a thought. We who go by names like Zebulun and Naphtali, we are given an assurance and the grounds for joy that cuts straight through all the pain of our past and the difficulty of our present. And it directs us to this heavenly reality. It enables us to live on a whole different register. And that's why I can rejoice even in suffering, as the Bible tells me. Because even through my tears, even through the physical pain, I know that Jesus has already addressed this. And he who is and was and is to come has already got me in his hands. I'm just waiting to see how it all played out in eternity. cultivating the ability to live a transcendent life in which heavenly realities make the currencies of this world like so much monopoly money is basic to the life of the child of God who lives in light of the gospel. What is heavenly is real. What is worldly is passing. I didn't say unimportant. I didn't say trivial. I said it's passing. And just like the lessons you teach your kids on a family game day over a game of Monopoly are important. The currency itself is not portable beyond the confines of the hour you play that game. And so many of the things that rob us of our joy right here and right now. Those are things that are not going to have any relevance to you for all of eternity. And that which has relevance for you not only for all of eternity but for right now. is the grounds of great joy that Satan would love for you to be distracted from. And God has loved to appoint preachers, even Presbyterians, to say rejoice. Yes, things are tough, but God is good and He has done it. And it's a comprehensive joy. It's a joy that can and I want you to again notice this verse 3. You, the Lord, has multiplied the nation, the nation that had already started to shrink. Already Zebulun and Naphtali are gone. Asher 's already pretty much done. 'Cause now it's cut off in a backwater. Already Manasseh and the Trans Jordan region is already uh not defensible by the king of the northern tribes. And all of a sudden we're saying, well, God has multiplied the nation, increased its joy, they rejoice before you. And there's two things it said. As with the joy at the harvest as they are glad when they defied the spoil. The two great pictures of uh of corporate rejoicing in the ancient world winning a battle and being able to divide up all of the resources that the army that lost left behind It could be a huge windfall for any ancient civilization, and bringing in the harvest, which means that the weather cooperated, uh geopolitical um Diplomacy cooperated, you weren't invaded during harvest time, you were able to bring it in. These are things that brought great joy to communities, not just individuals. And the point that the Prophet is making here is that your joy will be as if these things had happened. It's a joy that covers peacetime and wartime alike. It's a joy that any joy you could imagine finds its Finds itself a bit overwhelmed and in the shadow of this larger comprehensive joy, the greatness and the expanse of which kind of subsumes all other joys. It's as if any joy you could imagine is simply a way marker pointing you to something else. Like the old song from the 80s. It says there must be a higher love. Indeed there is. There is a higher joy as well for those of you who are living purely in the imminence of today's life, looking for joy in the newspaper. Or in your social media feed. There is the joy of the redeemed that God has come and done a work in Zebulun and Naphtali. That he has come and his promises are so real that we can act and respond as if that's money in the bank, that it is a joy that is bigger and more expansive than any we could imagine. Well, how do we have this joy? If that's a description, you might think, well, sign me up, Pastor. That sounds like a good deal. And while you're at it, I'd like a copy of Mautyer's commentary. This description or explanation of the Advent joy that follows the description gives us three things to think about. First, that we're delivered. Second, that we're safe. And third, because the Messiah has come. The first that we're delivered. We are delivered from the effects of being the whipping boys of the universe and whipping girls. I'm an equal opportunity preacher You are all whipped on by the world in this fallen state. You all equally suffer the deprivations and the animosities of the fall. We all deal with disease, conflict, betrayal. We deal with temptation. We deal with our own sinful fleshly natures. We deal with our own weaknesses. All of these things It says here that the reason for our rejoicing is that the yoke of his burden, whose burden? The nation's burden. Verse 3, you have multiplied the nation. They are full of joy, because the yoke of his burden, the staff for his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor has been broken as on the day of Midian. God has delivered us from oppression, as in the day at Midian. And remember Go back and take a look at the book of Judges, the day that Midian oppressed the people before kings were appointed to them. And God raised up Gideon. And in that day Gideon sent messengers, called out to people to follow him, and he sent messengers to Asher, Zebulon, and Naphtali. And they went up to meet them. And it was the backwater fringe frontier frontier region that came to the rescue. It's the people that you typically think need the cavalry to show up for them. who become the cavalry and save the breadbasket of Israel in the day of Midian. And it is from the place of the perceived weakness of the people that God raises the champions who come to the rescue. And just as in the day of Midian, God brought an army from the Galilean regions, the most compromised, most disdained by the true Israelites, the weakest socio -politically, the most Childish in terms of the standards of education in the world of that day, it's from there that Jesus and his band of would-be preachers comes down and turns the world upside down. It's from there that Jesus of Galilee comes and once and for all breaks the burden. Breaks the staff and breaks the rod. And you are set free from the power and the stain and the guilt of sin. All of those things which would hold you down and render you joyless and miserable, God has broken those things in Christ. And in my quieter moments, I sometimes wonder if my refusal to rejoice before the Lord is not an indictment of my spiritual maturity. And at least with a smaller place, case O, an offense against the love of God. Imagine if my wife had made me some Amazing bookcase. Just like that one that had Motyer's book on it. And I just didn't appreciate it. And I thought to myself, well, that would be fine, but um You didn't include with it a hot, fresh plate of your apple crisp. So therefore, eh What would you say to a man like that? What would a preacher say to a man like himself sitting in his desk in his office thinking about all the things that are bringing him down and making him unhappy. When he's got a library full of books that talk about the supreme of Christ, the supremacy of Christ and the the glories of his accomplishments. The fullness of his grace, the eternity of his love. And still tended to morose, melancholy Surely those things have their place. The Psalms describe them and show us their role in the Christian life. But the fruit of the Spirit is joy. And the spirit of the Advent must be joy as well. Because Jesus has come And not only did he deliver me, but I am now safe. It would be one thing if you delivered me from my enemies. But it is another thing if more enemies might come tomorrow. Verse Five points to not my deliverance but my safety. Every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult, every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. Christ in his coming has defeated conflict itself. I need no longer live in fear of the great spiritual struggle. Jesus won. He utterly vanquished the foe. I need never fear a tragic outcome on a battlefield again. Because the Messiah has come. And this is the last of our points, describing, explaining The joy described in verses 1 through 3. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given. And the four names given that child point us to four truths about that child that should for each of us be a source of constant daily joy. The first is that he's perfectly suited to govern your life because he's a wonderful counselor. That word wonder in your Bible doesn't mean just good. It's in almost every usage in the Old Testament that that word occurs. It's equated with God Himself. His is not simply the worldly wisdom of Solomon, who was a good counselor. He's the divine heavenly counselor. He knows the right thing to do at the right time in the right manner regarding everything. And he is ready, ready to guide us by his word and spirit. He is a wonderful counselor, perfectly fit to rule. And as far as his person and his authority, he is mighty God. There is no one who can second guess him or correct him. He is utterly authoritative in his being. And to him in time will all power and authority be entrusted. It is good as done. Not only is he perfectly fit for rule, and not only is he perfectly suited to back up his rule with his person. He bears such a tender relationship to those who are his subjects. He is everlasting Father. You might think it's strange to refer to the Son, Jesus, as everlasting Father. But he is as tender and as careful with us as a father with his children everlastingly. There is not one thing that Jesus does in his earthly ministry or his conduct for us as the intercessor in his heavenly ministry to us even now, in which he does not have a heart full of a Father's love. So great is his love for us. And he's the Prince of Peace. He is perfectly suited. To give his counsel such that all of his people can live in a state of social harmony driven by spiritual unity, guided by truth. There is nothing about the coming of the Messiah that leaves any room for us to think that we can be in a state of conflict, that we can be in a state of fear, that we can be in a state of Abandonment, that we can be in a state of, yeah, you mean well, but you can't follow through. Everything about this Messiah is designed to forestall any grounds for doubt. That he is and was able to utterly vanquish sin and Satan himself, make a safer eternity And have fellowship with us forever. The good news The joy is that all of these things that explain how this joy can be possible. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. It's not your job to manufacture joy. It's your job to simply recognize by the grace of God what He has accomplished for us. And I know that many of us are in dark shadows in deep valleys right now. But I also know this. Jesus came and he's coming. And if for a Sunday we are able to be reminded of this preeminent, transcendent, all-glorious truth, that when Jesus Cried out, it is finished. He finished everything needful for your eternal security. And that story starts. That story starts when an angel named Gabriel visited a teenager named Mary. And told her that the Messiah would be born. That story starts with the prophecies of Malachi and Isaiah, the promise of another Moses in Deuteronomy 18. That promise starts in Genesis I want to encourage myself and you this Advent season to think about joy. Don't we have a good God? Hasn't He done everything for us? Aren't we safe? Aren't we loved? God is good. My prayer for you is that you know his goodness That each one of us recognize that our joy in Christmas isn't the fact that we get to move into a new house, although I'm pretty happy about that. It's that I have another house. And whether I'm living in my in-laws basement or under an overpass on 29 , That other house is absolutely guaranteed, paid in full. Amen. Lord Jesus, we pray that you would make us a joyful people. Lord, I pray for every one of us here on this third Sunday of Advent. that you would remind us of the fact that you call us to a joy that is so much bigger and deeper and more permanent and unassailable A joy of the redeemed that starts in heaven and flows out of our heart. A joy in the coming of the Messiah, who changes history, not just for all, but changes our histories. It causes us, whatever we have made of our lives, to become sources of triumph as we use your gifts and your truths to bless others. Father, draw us to yourself. Humble us and give us the grace to say, Lord Jesus Christ, you are a savior and I'm a sinner. Forgive me of my sins and be my Savior. And here I will follow you, I will serve you, and rejoice before you all the days of my life. All God's people said. Sweet with