Well good morning, CPC. I'm Edru Duiz. If you are new here, never been here, thank you so much for worshiping with us today. I'm the Pastoral Intern. And as Wayne Koch said, our elder, we're in a sermon series called Christ Church. Today is part four of that series called the work of the particular church. And our text today will be Matthew 28, 19 and 20. So if you have your Bible, please feel free to open up there. It'll also be displayed on the screen. I'll read the text for us. I'll pray and then we'll dive into our sermon. Hear the word of God. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And I am and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. This is the reading of God's Word. Let's pray Gracious Father, thank you for your word that's living and active and true and has authority over our lives. Yet we need your spirit to help us understand it. So would you be with us this morning as we come under it and subject our lives to it and our faith? Help us to believe it, help us to hear it and understand it, and help us to obey it, we ask. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So my wife and I, Tiffany, are in our second year of planting a cucumber and a tomato garden in the backyard. And as I was thinking about the work of the particular church, It's not too unlike planting a garden. You have to plant the seeds, water it, tend the soil, you have to prune over time, you have to protect from vines and other rodents and whatnot. But after weeks of patient care and tending, you get a fruit, you get harvest, you get whatever you're trying to grow. In this case, two conversions tomatoes. Now, in the strictest sense, with all this labor that we're doing in the backyard, I'm not making, or we're not making the tomatoes grow. Okay? God makes those tomatoes grow. I find that really quite fascinating, really. Take a speck of a seed and you get to eat all sorts of things from it. But it's really quite miraculous. But God is the one who does that. In real time. And you get to see this if you're planting for yourself. And maybe that idea of planting and watering, but God makes the growth, maybe that sounds familiar to you in the in the church context. Paul was actually dealing with that with the Corinthians People were bickering, who follows who? I planted, Paul says, but Apollos watered, but what? God gave the growth. The work of the of the particular church, which we're going to talk about today, is discipleship, our seminal text of Matthew 28. Discipleship, Christ-likeness, growing into Christ-likeness, is entirely a work of God. We do not do that. I can't make somebody become like Christ. But on the other hand It's my absolute responsibility. It's my call to go and make disciples. So how do these things come together exactly? So we're that's what today's going to be about. And the call of discipleship, the call to make disciples, is not just for missionaries. Since abroad, it's not for pastors, it's not just for the elders that are in our churches, it's for everybody, whatever season, whatever stage of life you're in, whether you're married, whether you're single, whether you're a child. And discipleship is also, I was, you know, between Acts 1. 8 and Matthew 28, which one did I really want to focus on? Acts 1. 8 is another way to think about this. discipleship and what it is to be a disciple or the journey of our discipleship, it's being witnesses to the world. And you're familiar with Acts 1. 8 perhaps? When Jesus is about to ascend, he says, You will be my witnesses in Judea. Samaria into the ends of the earth. So this concentric circle effect where we are starting right where we're at, and we're spreading out the gospel, being witnesses of Jesus Christ. William Larkin is a PCA minister who is now with the Lord, but he says this about the Great Commission. He says, the Great Commission is the primary task that Christ left for the church. The church must always be a missionary church. The Christian must always be a world Christian. And within our Reformed Presbyterian tradition, too, we think of ourselves as what's called a confessional church. And what we mean by that is we hold to the standards of the Westminster Confession and the larger and shorter catechism. And if you're not familiar with those are, they're just systemized ways of organizing what we believe the Bible teaches. And would you know it, we actually have a confession that addresses what we think about the church's particular work. In chapter 25, I'll quickly read it. It says, Unto this Catholic visible church, Christ has given the ministry, the oracles. and the ordinances of God for the gathering and the perfecting of the saints to the end of the world. Our job, discipleship, is to go amongst the world and to gather the elected of God, that is making disciples, going out, being a witness, and to perfect them. Discipleship, that is part of what discipleship is. Unto the end of the world, until Christ returns. Now, the call of discipleship, the go and make disciples, we really should answer these two questions. What is a disciple exactly? And what is discipleship? I'm going to use some more biblical imagery here in Psalm 1. Blessed is the man who. Walks not in the counsel of the wicked, or stand in the way of sinners, or sit in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields his fruit and season. A disciple is like that tree We are rooted in Christ, finding our nourishment, our soul nourishment, our spiritual nourishment from the Spirit, from His Word. And we grow up and we produce fruit with our lives to God's glory. And Jesus, I think, also builds a little bit using similar imagery, more intimate imagery, perhaps, in John 15. He says, I am the vine, and you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. A disciple Discipleship is a person and it is a life ever clinging to Christ, ever found in Christ. drawing our life and our sustenance from Christ through prayer, obedience, through the study of his word, through being a witness to the world. And so the heart of discipleship, the heart of a disciple, is simply one who loves and adores our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And when we're looking at this passage, Matthew 28, to go and make disciples, the call is pretty simple and straightforward. Go and do this. But there's a problem that we face. There's a problem and a promise. If you read in verse 17, just prior to this call, there's a gathering of the disciples. And then it says, not just in a small note, some of them doubt it. Believe it or not. Okay? They see a risen Lord right there, and some of them doubt it. Believe it or not I think that's going to be even our principal problem when we are seeking to obey this command. We will doubt something really important here, which is the promise. At the end of this commission, what's the promise? Go and make disciples, and surely I am with you. That's the promise. So as we're talking about this morning, as we unpack the text, and you'll see in your bulletin there's some concentric circles about the different domains, different areas of our life when we're Seeking to obey this call, making disciples, how does the promise of his presence mix in with our struggles that we will have in these different domains of our lives? So hopefully this comes together and makes sense. But So where does discipleship begin? So we all hear the call, and we all want to do it. So where do we begin? I'm going to contend for you this morning, brother and sister. We start at home. Discipleship begins where God has placed us with those closest to us. The home is the primary arena for the nurturing and the modeling of obedience to Christ and cultivating lives that cling to Him. Now, because this is a topical sermon, I'm going to proof text a couple of different texts throughout. So if you want to pull, if you want to look it up or just write it down, Deuteronomy 6. 67 will be a text that I draw this principle out a little bit more. Of where discipleship or why discipleship, I believe, begins at home, and why I think the Bible teaches us. So Deuteronomy 6, 6 through 7 says this, and these words I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children. You shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. So very simply, Moses is exhorting Israel to internalize God's commands and pass them on to their children. That's the instruction there. And so discipleship, as we think about it, is not a New Testament idea. Family worship is not a New Testament idea It's literally thousands of years old. It's entirely part of, you might say, our covenant tradition as God's people. Discipleship begins in the home. And so, and these words I command you today shall be on your heart. I'm going to talk about that in a moment. Teach them diligently. I'll talk about that. And then when you walk and talk, rise and uh lie down. I'll talk about that. This idea of on your heart Is the emphasis is to think about it as something that you really, really believe. You're absolutely convicted and convinced of the truthfulness of the thing And so as a result of this deeply held belief, it automatically shapes the way you see the world, everything you do and every and every way that you live and have your being. That's the idea that's emphasized there on your heart. And teaching them diligently is similar to that idea of sharpening ironing, sharpening iron, sharpening a sword. And then teaching them, uh excuse me, uh the call to teach when you sit and when you walk, when you lie and when you rise down. That's the idea of The culture of the home, you might say, or the aroma of the home, the ebb and flow, the life breath in the home is one we where we integrate the truth of God, the word of God. our life as a Christian at every area and every domain of our home life altogether. And and so Paul, or excuse me, Moses is addressing parents and other leaders. And you're familiar with this idea if you're a parent. That you don't get a day off for being a mom or a dad, right? Well, if I may be so bold as to let's up the ante just one little head bit. We don't get a day off from discipling our children. That's the emphasis I think Moses gets at there in a way. So if you're like me, you're going to struggle with doubt and discouragement. Is the Lord really present? I mean, what Moses is asking us to do here is quite daunting. If you're like me, you might wonder whether you have what it takes to disciple your children. And to cultivate a home where this is what we're doing, where we're thinking about God, thinking about his ways, thinking about how he would want us to live and have our being But I want to encourage you, if this is something that maybe you're thinking about, do you have what it takes? You have something actually that no teacher can give you. You can't derive from any book. You have the Holy Spirit living in you. And so I recognize the myriad of other different challenges that we face. We face Busyness, the temptation to just give in to busyness, the temptation to f uh give into the pressures of our culture We have struggles, and we're just in our own familial struggles and dynamics, and those things can get in the way of family worship and family discipleship. But again, the Holy Spirit lives in you. And so Moses is saying, these words I command you shall shall be that I command you today shall be on your heart. Here's the question for us. What's on your heart? When Jesus says you're familiar with that line, wherever your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Well, whatever is on your heart There your home will be. That's what your home will be like. Now, for what it's worth, I want to encourage you, I don't mean to sound doom and gloom, because Especially for all the families who have children that have come to children's worship. I can at least speak for those parents today because I'm part of the children's ministry, and it's a great privilege, by the way. But I am witnessing firsthand the fruit of your faithful labor and pouring in and discipling your children and doing it in a way that honors God, pleases God, and glorifies him. So praise God for that. I'm seeing that. So how does the next sphere work? We're discipling our children in home, or we have a f we incorporate family worship. The next sphere of where we go and make disciples, I will contend for you this morning, is at the church. So we start at the home and we cultivate in the church. The local church trains and sends and supports believers for worldwide discipleship, equipping them to bear fruit and unity mission from their communities all the way to the ends of the earth. And again, a proof text I have to proof text and pull together a couple passages. We're going to look at Ephesians 4, 11 through 14, if you want to write it down, but I'll just read it for us. And he, Jesus, he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, the teachers to equip. the saints for the work of ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God. So Paul is describing how Christ Himself gave the leaders to the church for a very specific purpose: to equip them. And um if you're that word equip, if you're in real estate, you might appreciate this. The idea is really to completely furnish and to make ready. So if you're showing a house, for instance, it wouldn't you wouldn't think of showing a house with dirty dishes in the sink or Johnny socks on the bedroom floor like that just wouldn't occur to you. You would make sure the home is set up in such a way, equipped and furnished such that you want the person who's looking at it to buy it and move right in. It needs to be move in ready, as they say And what is the work that we're doing? Or what is it that we are equipping them for? What are the leaders of the church being equipped equipping you for? But actually let me also back up a moment here and tell you who are the leaders, by the way. We don't have apostles anymore, but we do have elders and we do have deacons and we do have teachers. And we do have heads of home. These are your leaders that God has given. And so this is where the important merging of things come into play because just one practical application wherever mom and dad might be struggling with discipleship. Where do mom and dad learn how to get equipped for family home discipleship from your leaders? That's the idea But where else does the church do this when the church is working out discipleship, making discipleship, and equipping the people of God for works of ministry? I mean there there are many different ones because we all have different gifts, but just a couple of examples would include the way that we conduct our Sunday school hour, the way that we conduct our community groups, the way that we do, for instance, we just had BBS outreach last week. That whole week was an intense week of discipleship of those little children. And that's the work of service. And why are we doing this? What is all this for? This is for the building up of the body of Christ. Now, how does doubt of the presence of Christ show itself up in this effort within the local church? Now maybe I'll present the doubt by way of question. Is church optional? Is the corporate gathering of God's people is that optional? You know, Bob, I think it was last week or maybe the very first sermon, I don't remember which one, but he was talking about Church membership being described as a commitment. That's absolutely right. I think of I think of regular church attendance as a spiritual discipline as well. It's something that we have to do deliberately, thoughtfully. So if there's you know any part of us that grows this, let the seed grow, that church is optional. We don't really need to do it to grow in our discipleship. We don't need to go really to be equipped by the leaders of the local church. There's, as you might imagine, there's just a cascade of all sorts of disorder and dysfunction. I think it breeds ends up breeding a resistance to godly leadership. It ends up causing uh opportunity uh long-term neglect of just corporate worship altogether, which is one of the reasons why I wanted um Our elder Wayne to read that text. Do not give up meeting together. That's Hebrews 10, 24, and 25. Now I will say, by the way, for what it's worth, CPC, in my view, is very much a missionary church We are very much seeking to equip and build up the Saints for works of service. I mean we send out missionaries, we support tons of local missionaries And we just had last week, as I said, BBS. I mean, I don't know how many people volunteered to help make that work, but our church here, CPC, in my estimation. very much believes in the equipping of the saints for works of ministry. And it was very, very encouraging, all the work that was done just last week. But then when we go, we do go into the world. Where's the third, maybe third spectrum of this idea? Work and community, as you'll see there in your bulletin. Making disciples starts at home, it's cultivated in the church, and then we're sent out into the world. But not everybody's a missionary, right? So How what does everybody else do? Well, the third domain really is to make disciples in our community. Where we're witnesses to our neighbors, we're witnesses to our co-workers So, our workplaces, I'm going to focus on workplaces and neighborhoods. These are intentional mission fields. We're disciples of Christ, you and I, we are living out our faith with integrity. glorifying God and opening doors for gospel witness. Now, there's lots of different aspects of this that I could kind of focus on, but I am going to focus specifically on work and our vocations, okay, for just one second. We have to remember one of the ways that we think about when Moses said and what we'll even hear what Paul says about having these commands on our hearts and how that shapes our thinking. We have to remember that these words of God, these commands of God, they are on our heart, they need to be such on our heart that we don't really see ourselves primarily as building a career Inasmuch as building God's kingdom. Building God's kingdom is the primary, and God uses our career, He uses our vocations, He uses the skill sets that He's given us as a means to work out and build His kingdom. And so Colossians 3. 23, I think, might maybe help support this notion a little bit. Whatever you do, work heartily as for the Lord and not for men. So very simply, Paul's instructing believers, whatever you do in your workspace, whatever tasks that he's called you to do, whether they seem mundane or whether they seem significant, if you're taking up the trash. Or if you're working for the president, or if you are the president, whatever you're doing, work heartily as for the Lord. And this is, by the way, for a little factoid , That's the same Greek word that's used there in Colossians as it's used in the LXX, there in the Deuteronomy text. So the idea is that we are doing this with an absolute conviction and an absolute belief that the Lord is present. that he's called us to do this and that he's equipped us to do the very thing that we're doing. Again, whether you're taking out the trash or whether you're doing open heart surgery, whatever it is that you're doing. And so when you mix in this idea Of absolute conviction that the Lord is near and He's equipped you, He's called you, and this is where you are, and you mix that with: why are you doing this? Paul says, do it for the Lord. This is why you're doing it. When you have these two come together, really what you have is a calling. And you have an extension of worship. This is what it is to as an extension of our worship when we do our vocations and we do our jobs unto the Lord. It becomes an extension of our worship. Now, so how does this play out? Because we're we we we're thinking discipleship, make disciple. At my workspace. Like, I can't, I can't, I'm not going to host Bible study. Maybe you can't do that. And so, as we're Acts 1. 8, are you a witness of Christ? And I think we wait eagerly for opportunities. And so maybe here's maybe one way we sort of tease this out and flesh this out. When we see our workspaces as opportunities for gospel witness, how do we live out our discipleship there? Well, maybe the way that you handle conflicts, the way that you handle insubordination, the way that you handle the opportunity when people want to slander your boss Those are opportunities where you are serving as a faithful witness and opening a door and opportunity for discipleship, whatever that might look like in witnessing to an individual. There was a um um uh in in my time in the army when um it was a group of soldiers w just sitting around doing whatever And um the the ECO came in, or the first sergeant came in. And immediately we all just stand up to attention or parade rest until he gave us the command to be at ease. The idea that I want to try to convey a little bit is the the urgency of being completely believing the Lord is with you, that He is present with you, in the same manner and the same tenor as that soldier who stands at attention. When his commanding officer comes in. The Lord is with you, and you are serving him. You are not doing your labor and your workforce, whatever that is, alone Now, as we round third base here, there are times when you're discouraged. And again, we we struggle to believe that our Lord Jesus Christ is with us Making disciples, starting at home, cultivating it in the church and sending it out to the world, that's not easy. We give way, we are we are weak, we struggle, we give way to busyness, we give way to fear, we give way to conformity, we give in to self-reliance. So the question is, as we end our time here this morning, is What is the particular work of the church? It's to make disciples. We're starting at home, we're building at the church, and we're sending out into the world. So I'll just pray. Gracious Father, thank you for this great and grand call that is beyond our ability to understand, beyond our ability to follow and obey. But because your spirit lives in us, and because you promise your presence with us wherever we go, in our homes, in our churches, and in our communities. Father, we can obey this by your grace. So we ask that you would be with us. Help us to walk faithfully. Help us to be faithful disciples of Christ. And to be always ready to give an answer for the reason of our hope in Christ. We pray all these things in his name and for his glory. Amen.