Philippians chapter 1, verses 12-26. Now I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel. As a result, it has become clear throughout the whole palace guard and to everyone else that I am in chains for Christ. Because of my chains, most of the brothers in the Lord have been encouraged to speak the word of God more courageously, fearlessly. It is true that some preach Christ out of envy and rivalry, but others out of good will. The latter do so in love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel. For under preach Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing that they can stir up trouble for me while I am in chains. What does it matter? The important thing is that in every way, whether from false motives or true, Christ is preached. Because of this I rejoice. Yes, and I will continue to rejoice, for I know that through your prayers, the help given by the Spirit of Jesus Christ, what has happened to me will turn out for my deliverance. I equally expect and hope that I will in no way be ashamed, but I have sufficient courage so that now as always Christ will be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is game. If I am to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labor for me. Yet what shall I choose? I do not know. I'm torn between the two. I desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is better by far. But it is more necessary for you that I remain in the body. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain, and I will continue with all of you for your progress in joy and the faith. So that through my being with you again, your joy in Christ Jesus will overflow on account of me. So far, God's word. Let's consider now, focus our attention on verse 21. For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. That's certainly a powerful verse. And tonight, as I said before, we'll be sharing verses that some of us have chosen for our verses for 1984 and God's Work in Us. This was my verse back in 1961. Some of you maybe say you're kids and weren't even thinking of verses back then. At that time I had been a Christian for maybe two years, and that was my verse back in 1961, and I've thought of it often since that time. Why offer it to you as a suggestion if you haven't chosen one and one possibility for this year. And I would like to offer to you some thoughts that I've had on that verse since I adopted it back in 1961 The verse breaks down into three parts, quite simply. For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain. When I examine each of those phrases First of all, notice the central phrase. To live is Christ. That's the first phrase. What does that mean? But I think there are at least two things that we can see that he's talking about here. First of all, Paul is saying, for me to live is Christ, meaning that he is my justification. Notice in chapter 3, in verse 8 and 9, Paul said, There, what is more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, from good works. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith This is the most basic meaning of that simple phrase to live is Christ. It simply means that there is no life apart from Christ. You start to think of it, you realize that that conviction sets us apart from everyone else in the world. The Christian uniquely believes that there is no life apart from Christ. Why is that? Because the Christian recognizes that you and I have been under a death penalty. You and I are under a death penalty because God has made us for Himself and He's told us how to live. And we've renounced that way. But we lived our own way. And because God is absolutely just, He must carry out that penalty for our disobedience. And that penalty is nothing less than death. It can't be anything less, for we've assaulted his very own majesty. And because of his justice, there can be no escape. Absolutely no escape. There's no loopholes to this law. But there is a principle within the law. That is the principle of substitution. The principle that God Himself erected in the establishment of that law. by which he said an innocent victim can be substituted in behalf of the guilty victim. But where are we going to find an innocent one who has kept the law, who will love us enough To substitute his own life force. And God looked around at all of the universe. There was none to be found save his own son. And so the Father and the Son covenanted together that the Son would come and he kept that law. And Jesus Christ loved us enough that he became that substitute. Jesus became the innocent lamb man who came and gave his life. He kept that law perfectly, and therefore he was justified. He suffered the curse of the law in our place, and therefore you are justified in Jesus Christ. You are quitted. The law's demands have been kept. And therefore, your life is Christ. Do you see that? My life is Christ It is not what I have done, but only what he has done totally outside of me, on my behalf, that gives me life instead of death. To live is Christ, because my life is his justification. It is his righteousness, not mine, not what I have done, only his For me. That's the most basic meaning. And yet that doesn't exhaust what Paul has in mind here. But when he says to live is Christ, he's not speaking only of his justification, but he's speaking of Christ as his joy. Christ is my joy, to live is Christ. He's saying about that my heart's desire is to know Him, it's to love Him, it's to serve Him, to live is Christ. There is no life to me. Living outside of Jesus Christ. You notice again what he says in chapter 3, beginning there in verse 7: Whatever was to my profit, I consider now lost for the sake of Christ. Much more I consider everything a loss compared with surpassing graveness of knowing Christ. Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. The righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, becoming like him and like his attitude in his death. And so somehow to attain to the resurrection of the dead. My heart's desire is to know him. I want to serve. I want to understand him and to love him. He's not only my devotion, he's also my example. You notice that he says again and again in this short epistle. But Jesus is my example. Chapter 2, verse 5, your attitude should be the same as that of Christ. Chapter 3, what we just read in verse 10, he says, I want to know the Conform to his attitude in death. That's my example for my mindset, for my attitude, my living But he's also my strength. Says that in chapter 4 and verse 13. He says I have learned the secret of being content in every situation, whether it's raw, bad, or hungry, living, plenty or what, I can do everything. Who give? Who gives me strength? Jesus Christ is my strength. Jesus Christ is my joy. It's an epistle full of joy. Chapter 3, verse 1. Notice what he says, brothers, my brothers, rejoice. But he didn't just say rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord. Come as Christ. Rejoice in Christ. Chapter 4, verse 4. Rejoice in the Lord always. You see, if you're going to rejoice, it's going to be in the Lord for the live is Christ. He's the source of your joy. Now remember where Paul wrote this. Well, this will a prison. You read in Acts chapter 28 that Paul was put into the room that he got to rent and roam. But he was there for two years. But the evidence seems to be that after that two years, things got a little more difficult. But after that time, Paul was chained to a Roman guard. And there hung over his head the threat of death, imminent death, so that he says in chapter one here, I don't know whether I'm going to live or not. You're praying for my deliverance. And I might be killed at any time. Chained to a Roman guard in some sort of a prison situation with death hanging over his head any day, Paul writes, The me to live is Christ. And to die is gain. If living is Christ's use of old statement, he goes on to say that to die is gain. The word gain there is a Greek word which means a profit that you would get if you cashed in your bonds. It's a profit, a gain, used in many of the papyrias transcripts of monetary transactions. It's gain for me. I gain, I cash in. When I die. What does he mean when he says that? Well, again, this is two things. And my justification upon my death becomes my glorification. My justification gains because at that point my union to Jesus Christ will be more fully realized. Those things which I hold now only by faith. Will become my experience. You right now have the holiness of Jesus Christ in your life, but you say, I don't look at the I don't see an awful lot of it. All I see is a struggle with sin. Paul says, to live is Christ and have that holiness. But to die is to have that holiness in my experience. To have his righteousness in my experience. Notice what he says there in chapter uh 3, verse 20 and 21. Our citizenship is in heaven. We eagerly obeyed the Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control will transform our lowly bodies so that we will be like his glorious body. My justification will be fulfilled in all of it. It is a first fruit, so damn pain enough for me. I will be like Jesus. That's gain. He also says it's a gain of his joy, because his joy there will be fulfilled. If I have a joy now in knowing Christ Imagine the joy that I will have then, when that joy will be fulfilled and I will see him face to face Imagine what that means. And I think of all that I'm only anticipating now to become realization at that point Well, again, I remind you of the context. Paul's writing this chain to a Roman guard. It's a Roman guard standing right at his elbow as he's trying to pen these words, either penning them or dictating them. And that fellow's watching everything that he does. And Paul's writing there as he says in verse 12, you know, this has really turned out to an advancing gospel. And these guys think they're learning the gospel. Little do they know how great our God is. First of all, he says I get to witness to all these guards, you know. These guys got to listen to me all the time. I tell them about Christ. Besides that, he said the brothers have been encouraged, they're strengthened, and they're bolder now in preaching Christ because they see me and my testimony. Then he goes on to verse 19. He says, well, I may live or I may die, but that's okay. In either case, I'm delivered. Either I'm delivered from the prison to come back and be busy again. Well, I'll be delivered from every suffering in this life. In either case, I can't lose. Because to live is Christ, and to die is simply to gain more of Christ. You see? That's the blood of his flesh. It's not something to stick up on a plaque on a wall in isolation. It's also something, I believe, that we really can't enter into fully. unless we've experienced some suffering. Because I think for us, when we say the live is Christ, we say it and we are so tempted to say it glibly But you notice the beginning of that verse says, for me, to live is Christ. It's not something just to stick up on a plaque as a slogan in your kitchen wall. I don't mind if you do that. You know, if you did it, don't say I don't like it, you know, and feel embarrassed if I come into your house and I see the needle in his cries and die as doing anything. But it's so easy to simply have it there and forget that the first part of that is saying, that's my slavery. That's the banner over my life But our lives are so distracted, aren't they? They're so distracted that it's so difficult for us to honestly say for me to live is Christ. To me, whether I am delivered from that situation or the Lord simply takes me, that's okay. In fact, he goes on the same verses 22 to 26 as a conflict. He said, I'd rather go to be with Christ. But he says, since I find that you have certain needs, and that the Lord seems to have put me in the place of meeting those, he says, my guess is he's going to deliver me and I'm going to be back to you again. But he says it's a conflict for me. I think very often we don't find that conflict. Then why should I leave? These are pretty good here. There's so many things that I'm enjoying now that we need to live. Is Christ plus a string of many, many other things? Nothing at all. Light should be full. And God has given us things to enjoy. No problem with that whatsoever. When they become distractions, to the point that I saw I couldn't give these things up, to the point where like Robert Robinson We're so distracted. And we say, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to follow after my idols. But I can't honestly say to Liv is Christ. It's church talk. But tomorrow morning when I get up and as I work through the day, that's not real to me. It's not a part of my life or my being. It's at that point that I think God has to take those distractions from us. And the Lord, in this gracious way , will prove us so that we are able honestly to say, to live is Christ. I think of a Christian woman, Mrs. Wang, a highly educated Chinese woman, was head of the language department in a large university in China. Mrs. Wang was a professing Christian who loved Jesus Christ. And she was removed by the communists because of her profession of Jesus Christ from that position. And in order to purify her thoughts, she was placed on a garbage truck. And she was made a garbage collector, a frail woman, to lift and collect garbage. For 16 years. Finally, she grew so weak that she could no longer haul the garbage. And so they put her in the camp to spread the garbage around so that it could be burned. Mrs. Wang has been restored to her position as head of the language department in China. But she said of those years when she was collecting garbage. But as I did that, I did it, I did the garbage collection to the honor of Jesus, because he was with me. And he gave me the strength, the patience, the peace, and the joy. I was free regardless of my circumstances, for Christ was with me. But God doesn't have to bring persecution into our lives for us to be able to say, for me to live is grace. But as we look at our lives, there are so many distractions, aren't there? And what is it at the beginning of this year that you find competes for your affections and attention so much? Did you find it difficult to honestly say for me, for me personally, to live is Christ? Could it be your comfort? You know, I just want to relax. And for me, the best thing in life is to just be able to compone and sit and listen to an album or to read a book. Hopefully tempting, I find that. Boy, that becomes such a highlight that you begin to idolize relaxation and comfort. For me to live is to relax. Or maybe it's some sort of a hobby. I play racquetball and uh I'm lucky I can get in once a week. Every time I'm down there I see these drops down there, these guys, you know, they they play every couple days. And certainly, you know, no matter when you get out, you'll see them there, man. They're hanging on to that racket. one guy bashed his racket against the wall and said, that's just a racket I've worked on. I've never bashed a racket, huh? I don't know what kind of a game this guy plays here. It gets around bashing rackets against the wall. He starts eating sleep and drink racquetball. And you sort of get the impression I gotta get to my I can earn some money to keep things going, so I can get back here to the Ragged Bell thing. And then I live as Ragged Bell or some other family. What is it? Something that consumes my interest. That's what I live with. You know, and maybe it's your home For me to live is for my next project for my house. The next thing I want to do to improve it, to bring it up to all that I would like it to be. To fulfill my daydreams and I find that I'm constantly daydreaming about what I want to do on it, in it, with it. The need to live are my dreams of the things I'm building. Maybe what competes with you is so. Security. For me to live is to really feel secure. I've got enough investments and enough insurance and enough load away that I can be secure with what's going to happen the rest of my life. For me to live. Is security. Live with self-fulfillment. The me to live is to fulfill all of my potential and to be recognized in doing that. That's what our culture says today. To live is to be self-fulfilled. And we find as Christians that each of us Hear these things and there's certain things that we smile to ourselves about and we talk when we think, yeah, I identify with that God doesn't have to strip us from those things if we turn our hearts to Him. But He loves us too much to let other things continue to compete for our affection to Jesus. Oh, but we would come and willingly say, Lord, these things are competing. How will I lay them before you? Beginning of this year. At the beginning of this new year, I want to put these things down. Maybe I began to think about them last week as we talked about three things that you could do. In order to make your life more profitable for Jesus Christ this year. And God 's continued to speak to you. And so now you want to crystallize that a little more. And you want to say, Lord, I really want to say this year a little more than I said at the beginning of 1984. I want to be able to say more at the end. I won't be able to say totally. But I want to say a little more than that kind of attitude that Paul had for me to live is Christ. Can we say that? I think the simplest test of whether you can say it or not is to ask yourself this question. What would my friends say, if they were to fill in the end of the sentence, for Alan Harris to live is? You see, if you substitute Christ there, through the word TV, sports, eating, you know, something like that. Then you can very readily see how it works out. You know, somebody says, Oh, you know, Charlie man, for him to live is TV, that's all the guy talks about, is the programs and all the things he's watching, and you know, for her to live is the soap office, you know. Some people dare not call him. Between one and three, you know, because they just take the phone off the hook, don't let the circle off his anymore. But for him to live is the split That's all that talks about, you know, what happened on the Monday Night Football. You know. You can see it. How do you see it? Because it fills his mind, his focus, his attention, his talk. But there may be anyone that you work with that you know who would say, boy, grandma for her to live is Christ. Some persons used to think about. See, if that's like a devotion to that Jesus Christ, that's that person's life. During the great persecution by the Japanese. There was one fellow, went around, was a Korean, was a pastor, all he talked about was Jesus Christ. In fact, to him to live with Christ was so much a part of his life that when they threw him in jail He converted so many of the guards by talking about Christ incessantly, they threw him back out of the jail because he was converting the whole jail. It's a good way to put this guy back on the street before he converts the prison guards and the war than everyone else That's what the guy talks about the Hindu where this Christ. Did you or I ever be accused of that kind of an obsession? I'm not saying to us that we should say, I should feel guilty if I don't talk about anything but Jesus. No, I'm not saying that. What I am saying is, are you embarrassed if you do talk about Jesus? Well that's a test of whether to live is Christ. I'd love to talk about what my life is wrapped up in. Paul says for me to live is Christ. And to die is gained. But we find it so difficult with our perspectives, don't we? I was meditating on this verse back in January of 1982. And I spent a week simply thinking about this verse at that time. And on January 27 , 1982, I had a dream. It was so vivid that to this day I can still clearly remember it. Because after I spent a week thinking about this verse and asking that God would give to me some understanding of what Paul meant. In that dream, I was under a death sentence. I don't know what for, but I was under a death sentence, and it was just like Paul's. It was by beheading. And I remember clearly coming up to the block. I remember clearly seeing the axe come, and I could remember clearly even in my dream feeling the axe come and sever my head, and for an instant feeling it, and then my head rolled off And I remember just before that, reviewing all my life, where it had gone, what it had amounted to, thinking that death was imminent, that there was no escape from it, I had only a couple more minutes to live. And the feelings that came in that, very, very vivid in my dream. And then following that moment, there was simply the impression Of an unimaginable glory. An unimaginable glory that all of a sudden I was ushered into, and there were just two small fields. One that was my whole attention, was captured by Jesus Christ. And the second was that I'm home at last. The vividness of that dream after I woke up was so real to me. But it enabled me to ask the question, which is more real to me? The day-by-day world that I live in now, which makes that world and that glory that I anticipate to seem so foreign and unreal. Or is that so real to me, in my thinking and my thirsting and my longing, that sometimes this world seems unreal? Oh, that God would give us grace to meditate. Upon Jesus, to meditate upon him in such a way that his reality and our justification in him and the fulfillment of that is we go to be with him. are so sweet and so real that those things that so compete for our attention will recede in the light of his glory in grace. Let's pray. All Lord our God. How we want to, as your people say, the mean to live is Christ. And to die is to anticipate so much more gain of my chief devotion, the Lord Jesus. Lord help us, as we think of what competes in our own devotion and affections for our being able to say that. There may be some here this morning who say to themselves, honestly, I can't say that at all. My life is so wrapped up in other things. That Jesus Christ really has no part in it. Oh Lord, we pray that you would enable that person to see. The riches of Jesus Christ and his justification. His substitution for their sin So vividly by the power of your Spirit that you would awaken their hearts to that need and bring them to yourself. Father, we pray for us. You can say that the Lord Jesus is the center of my life. But sometimes he's crowded by other affections. That you would enable us honestly to base up those things that compete. And this year, Lord Set before you holy goals for you to work in our lives, that you would strip from us those competing affections. May we see our lives as living sacrifices. And may this year, Lord, by your grace we find significant progress. The only man to save with the apostle for me to live is Christ And if you ask my friends or my family , they'll tell you the same thing. And to die. Let's say now a hint that is