CPC has a uh softball team. I don't know if you knew that. We have a men's softball team. This past Wednesday night we were engaged in The battle on the softball field under dark and foreboding skies. And I think one of the members of the opposite team that we were playing thought better of himself than he should. and decided to take extra. After he rounded third, he headed for home. And a laser shot from the outfield, which we experience often. Came and our catcher caught it. Blocking the plate. The runner stops. And I come from the mound and yell, pickle! Which, if you're familiar at all with baseball, you know that that's the right term to say right there. Because we are gonna put him in what is now officially known as a rundown. But it's known as a pickle And it's named Pickle because the defensive players stack up on either side of that poor lone base runner and squeeze him out. Throwing the ball back and forth tighter and tighter until he has no other option but to be tagged out. He's in a very troubling, pickling situation. So the rundown has been known as a pickle for s I guess a century at least. And everybody looked at me weird like I'm yelling pickle, like I'm hungry. Outnumbered by himself, standing before the Sanhedrin, the high council of all things Jewish. Stands Stephen. And from the human perspective, we would say, Stephen, the first deacon. He's in a pickle. Because he's been violently dragged in to give an account, to answer accusations that have been raised against him. We're in the midst of this sermon series where Pastor Randy and myself, for these four weeks, are taking a look at one speech by a deacon named Stephen in the first century. Two weeks ago, as we saw Stephen dragged before the council, Pastor Randy uh showed us that first part of the speech where Stephen wants to make sure that they know That God fulfills his promise through Abraham. He gives a promise and he fulfills it. And then last week Pastor Randy showed us that Stephen's speech moved from Abraham to the patriarchs to Joseph. The son of Jacob, the son of Israel. And Joseph's story was elaborated on last week. Here's Stephen, Ordinary citizen, up until this point in time, a regular Jew And now he finds himself in a real pickle. From the human point of view, Stephen's in a pickle. Apparently He'd been sharing the message of Christ. How did Stephen get into this place Luke records for us in Acts chapter 6 that Stephen had been sharing the message that Jesus gave to his disciples in Luke 24. That Peter picked up in the first and second chapters of Acts that we've looked at to this point. Stephen was preaching the message of repentance and forgiveness in the name of Jesus Christ alone. And Luke records in chapter 6 and verse 9 that some in those synagogues where Stephen was proclaiming the truth of Christ, the Messiah. Some rose up. In verse 9, it says they rose up and they disputed with Stephen. They opposed him and his message. Of repentance and forgiveness of sins in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. They were even more frustrated with Stephen, in that according to Acts six, verse ten, they could not withstand, Luke says, the wisdom with which he was speaking, and the spirit with which he spoke those words. So these men did what men in every age are prone to do when their pride is confronted and their grip of power is challenged. Luke records in verse 11 that they secretly instigated men who said, We've heard him speak blasphemous things against God and against Moses. What they were doing was stirring up some charges. Stephen's Lord had experienced that just months prior. Where our sinless Savior who walked the earth without any blame or wrinkle or spot or blemish was accused of all manner of evil. And this is what's happening to Stephen, a follower of Christ. They spread false rumors He speaks against Moses. Moses is the Jewish superstar. He is the one that they appeal to. And so if they want to get him on something, they'll say he blasphemes God and he blasphemes Moses. And this Jesus teaching is going to dismantle, Luke says. They said that he would dismantle the customs that Moses has given to us. And he wants this temple to no longer be the place of God's worship. To get a flavor for the type of tension that this was caused, imagine the reverse. Imagine a veteran of foreign wars convention. Those men who have served and fought and died. And someone comes into that convention hall and they strike a match and burn the American flag. That's the kind of tension present here between the sole standing Stephen before the Jewish High Council. These accusations, the high priest Caiaphas says, are these things so? That's the context where we find ourselves Stephen is, from the human perspective, of course, in a pickle Well, who is Stephen? Not too many months prior to this point, he's a Greek-speaking Jew in good standing with this high council Until he placed his trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. What happened in Stephen is Stephen heard the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He heard that Jesus Christ, this man from Nazareth. Is the Messiah. And he had seen the signs and the wonders. He'd heard them talked about. And something happened within Stephen that caused him to believe. He believed that if he placed his trust in Jesus Christ alone, that Christ's righteousness would become Stephen's righteousness. that robe of righteousness that would be pleasing to a holy God in the day of judgment. And Stephen also believed and trusted that the forgiveness That was purchased through the blood that was shed by this same Jesus on the cross would cover Stephen's sins, past, present, future, thought, word, deed, completely So Stephen believed that Jesus Christ was the Savior sent from God. That's the difference. He believed and he rejoiced and he exalted in Jesus Christ as the one true and only Savior sent from God. Stephen believed in Jesus. And so here he stands. He's been accused of all manner of bad stuff. They were capital offenses. Blaspheming God? Blaspheming Moses? They were ready. A couple of chapters earlier we see Peter and James brought before the council And they were brought in kind of a quiet way because the council, it says, feared the people. Not so much now. They violently seized Stephen and they brought him before the council. Caiaphas asked the question, are these things so what we've heard? These accusations? So before we get into the content of Stephen's speech, let me uh elaborate, if I could, three steps that I believe Stephen probably went through. This is me speculating with the rest of Scripture as support and me also knowing what God does in and through us when accusations come our way. Three steps, if you will , when accusations come our way. What does a follower of Christ do when accused? The first step, carefully evaluate the accusations. Carefully evaluate the accusations to see if there's anything to repent of. Carefully evaluate the accusations to see if there's anything to repent of. This has got to do with the content of the accusations. Don't just dismiss the accusations. Don't just flat out deny the accusations. Don't ignore the accusations. Don't begin to mount up the defense against the accusations. carefully evaluate the accusations to see if there's anything to repent of. Is there any truth in what's being said here? I think Stephen probably went through that exercise, some form or another of that exercise. And then once you get past the first step, the second step follows. Cautiously examine your heart to see if there's anything to repent of. What's a believer do when accused of something? Cautiously examine your heart. To see if there's anything to repent of. This has got to do not with the content of the accusation, but with the character of our heart. We're. All big balls of flesh. And pride rears up. And fear of man rears up. And discouragement and doubt. And we start to doubt the message possibly that we've cling tightly to. So cautiously examine our heart to see if there's anything to repent of. And then repent. If there's something to repent of in the accusations, repent. Trust God to repent. Give you that gift. And there's there's anything in the heart after cautious examination, repent. And then once those two steps have been followed, I believe the third step that we see in Peter, I mean in Stephen here. Is to confidently continue to extend the message of repentance and forgiveness of sins in the name of Jesus Christ to the glory of God alone. Because that's what Stephen does. Stephen, when accused, didn't do anything other than take what he had been saying in the synagogues in Sicilia and the synagogue of the freedmen and all these other places that uh That Luke mentions, and he simply took that message and he delivered it in a different setting before a different crowd, but it's the same message. He confidently continued to extend the message that is given to every believer in every age. There is a call to repentance. And there is forgiveness for your sins in the name of Jesus Christ. That's our message. It's Stephen's message. It was Peter's message before him, and it originated with the Savior who purchased the power to forgive through his shed blood. Amen. Amen. So we saw two weeks ago how Randy highlighted Stephen drawing the attention of the Jewish council to the story of Abraham. And then last week, how Stephen drew the attention of the Jewish council to the story of Joseph. And midst of suffering and all manner of adversity, God fulfills his promise. I'm going to read in just a moment from Acts chapter 7 and verse 17 to 37. Because Stephen is still speaking. This lone man before the Jewish High Council speaking, and he's taking them through his speech, and now he's at the point where this blasphemous charge against his Is the accusation of blasphemy against Moses. He wants to directly answer. So with that in mind, let's hear God's word. Imagine the scene. This is Stephen. He's speaking to the high council, Caiaphas. And others who are gathered there, and possibly some of these men from the synagogues who have been stirred up to bring these accusations. They've all gathered in to see what the answer might be from this Man who's been performing signs and wonders among the people. God's word But as the time of the promise drew near, which God had granted to Abraham The people increased and multiplied in Egypt until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph. He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants so that they would not be kept alive. At this time Moses was born And he was beautiful in God's sight. And he was brought up for three months in his father's house. And when he was exposed. Pharaoh 's daughter adopted him and brought him up as her own son. And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and Moses was mighty in his words and his deeds. When he was 40 years old, he came into his it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel. And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian. He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not understand. And on the following day he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them, saying, Men, you are brothers! Why do you wrong each other? But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? At this retort, Moses fled and became an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons. Now when forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame of fire in a bush When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight, and he drew near to look, and there came the voice of the Lord. I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob And Moses trembled, did not dare to look. And then the Lord said to him, Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground. I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their groaning, and have come down to deliver them, and now come, I will send you. to Egypt. This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge? This man God sent as both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in Egypt and at the Red Sea and in the wilderness for 40 years. This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. God's word for us today. You see the picture? You see Stephen accused of blaspheming Moses, and all he does is highlight Moses. He highlights Moses. He exalts Moses. He says, Moses Beautiful in God's sight. Moses, performer of mighty deeds and wonders. Moses, particularly chosen and sent by God. Stephen's not blaspheming Moses. He's presenting the Moses of the Jewish history so that he can point the counsel to the greater Moses, Christ. That's what he's doing. And it is beautiful. There's three points I'd like to make from this section of Stephen's sermon that God would work in us this message that he has for us. I think there's some practical stuff here. It's God's word, it's timeless truth, and we are here in the presence of his Spirit that He might work in and through us. These truths. The first thing I'd like to show from this passage is that God providentially fulfills whatever He promises. God powerfully and providentially superintends his promise so that all his holy will is accomplished And God also shows us through the life of Moses that God protects his people, even and in spite of sometimes the choices that his people make. And then the third thing that Stephen, I think, is drawing his hearers and us in turn is that God provides a greater Moses. Moses is a type. Moses was a real man in a real historical setting, but Moses pointed forward to the only hope of salvation that all creation has. Jesus Christ, the greater Moses. He delivers the captives and he fulfills completely the holy law of God So Moses ' story is, first, a wonderful picture of how God providentially fulfills all that he promises. In verse 17, Stephen highlights the history of God's people in Egypt. Remember last week, as Pastor Randy was leaving, the story of Joseph and he said, I'm not going to preach this verse, but look at that. And then at this time Moses was born. That's what Stephen is trying to, he's following the lineage of the Jewish people. And he says that following the time of Joseph in Egypt. And we read about in Exodus chapter 1, the people of Israel had multiplied in number, and there arose in Egypt a king who wasn't familiar with Joseph. Who didn't care about Joseph or protecting Joseph's descendants? In fact, Luke records Stephen's words and we see the story played out in the book of Exodus is that this new king, this new pharaoh, uh dealt Shrewdly with the people of Israel. That's a nice way to say that he abused them horribly. He treated them as chattel. They were slaves. They were meant to serve him and nothing more. And then it gets even worse, this situation. The history of the book of Exodus reveals that this king had no fondness for the Israelite people, but also wanted to keep the Israelite people down. And so he sent forth an edict that the male children, infant children, would be exposed to the elements. That's another nice way, if you will, for infanticide. A brand new baby, vulnerable to everything, exposed to the elements so that eventually that baby dies. somehow in the Pharaoh's head thinking, this is how I keep these people under thumb. In the midst of that horrific circumstance God providentially, powerfully provides to fulfill the promise that He makes. Stephen knows that the council knows Jewish history. So he says, in that time of Egypt when the Pharaoh dealt shrewdly with our fathers and caused our children to be exposed to the elements. Our sovereign God was at work even in through those circumstances, and Moses was born, and he was beautiful in God's sight. And he God protected him. In the midst of this brutal time frame, here's Moses, the little baby. And then Stephen goes on. He says, And when the time came for Moses to be exposed to the elements, Stephen points out to the council, don't miss the irony here. It wasn't that Moses was somehow found in the bull rushes and raised in some backwater town and then 40 years later decided to take it upon himself in some megalomania complex and go rescue his people from that evil tyrant in Egypt. No, God had Pharaoh's daughter pluck Moses from the Nile. And Moses, Stephen reminds the council, was raised in the Pharaoh's house. He was raised in Egypt. He was a prince. But he never forgot that he was a Hebrew. You see what Stephen's doing? He's just allowing the council to see his great admiration for Moses. And his greater admiration admiration for the sovereign God of Moses. That's what Stephen is doing in this message. Moses was beautiful in God's sight, he says. Moses was powerful in word and in deed. God is more powerful. God provided that power. God powerfully and providentially fulfills his promise. Let's see, this is the first point in Stephen's message for us today. It's too rich to pass over. Where are we? What adversity, what circumstance seems just absolutely impossible for God to work in and through Situation like Egypt, where the promise can be cut off like that because all male children were exposed to the element. God says that's nothing for me. He's the king on the throne who laughs at the plans of the kings of the earth. That's a word for us today. We have to take that from Stephen's message before the High Council. Whatever we are in, whatever midst of circumstance and adversity, whatever the odds look like. God providentially fulfills the promises He makes. What has He told you in His Word that He's going to do? He who began a good work in you is faithful to complete it until the day of Christ Jesus. Wherever you are, whatever's going on, that promise will be fulfilled in Christ Jesus. That's the lesson I think we can take from this first point The trials of living in a fallen world, the throes of the effects of sin in and through us, our sin and the sins of others committed against us. God uses all of those things to fulfill his promise. Do we believe that? I was talking with someone this week, someone very close to me, and they were having difficulty. Crankiness was showing up and disgruntledness was showing up. And I said, you know, just a simple text, you know, man, I'm really sorry for the cranky stuff That's a theologian way to say, I don't know what else to say, but sorry you're having a tough time. Sorry for the cranky stuff. And they almost immediately shot back and said, that's okay I think God is just wanting to expose my heart so that I can see what's in there and trust Christ deeper. Now that's the gospel. That's why we go ahead and speak. Let the words flow. No, no. Don't do that. If you do, then you get to see what the fullness of the heart is all about Let it out. Sort through it, right? And then let the gospel speak to it. Because that's where forgiveness of sins is made real, right? That's where repentance actually takes on legs and we forsake our sin. And we see what we're capable of. So God does that. He providentially and powerfully. He's working out his promise in and through people like us. Ordinary men and women. With an extraordinary God and unbelievable gift of faith that He's given to us to believe who Jesus is. Which brings us to the second point. God protects his people in spite of sometimes the choices that they make. Here's Stephen before the High Council. They know the history of Moses And what he's trying to say is, I'm not blaspheming Moses, but I want to present to you Moses and all of his humanity. After 40 years, Stephen says, Moses it came into his heart to go to his people. With the very best of intentions, Moses wants to let his kinsmen know of his great care and love for them He sees a fellow Israelite being wronged by an Egyptian. And Moses rises up and avenges his brother Hebrew and slays the Egyptian. This is Stephen's speech. He's presenting the true Moses, the real Moses, the type before us. And the Israelites in the dispute, Moses comes upon them the next day, and they're there now quarreling among themselves. And Moses says to them, Why are you doing this? You guys are brothers. And they reject Moses' intervention. And they sarcastically respond, Who made you the ruler and the judge over us? Are you going to kill us like you did that Egyptian now because we're not listening to you? And Moses self-exiles to Midian. Stephen wants the council to know that I understand Moses ' history. I appreciate the heritage that I have as a Jewish believer in the Messiah. I think that's what Stephen's gentleness and respect in verse 2 is all about. He says, brothers and fathers. Hear me. And he's presenting to them the true Moses So Moses, we hear, eventually, 40 years later, is now particularly called by God Himself. And Stephen recounts that story for the council. We're going to get into a little bit more of this next week because the another accusation that Stephen is addressing is that he's going to dismant this Christianity thing is going to dismantle the temple. And what Stephen is trying to present here is that wherever God is is holy ground. He doesn't dwell in a temple made by hands. We'll get into that next week, Lord willing. So he points out this particular call of God on Moses, that God sends a deliverer and a redeemer. And he sends him in his way, in his timing, and according to his plan. That's how God works. Because he's God. So he has every right to do it his way. And then we, in humble reliance on his grace, trust him to work things out according to his time schedule. So I would say here in verse 37 we have the point that Stephen has been building to. In this present presentation of Moses. He quotes from Deuteronomy 18, 15. He's not dissing the law and the prophets. He's not abandoning the Old Testament. What Stephen is saying is, I'm presenting to you the fulfillment of the Old Testament. And so he quotes Moses from Deuteronomy 18, where Moses actually said these words. God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers, so that when the crowd saw Jesus feed the 5,000 John six fourteen records, When the people saw this sign that he had done, they said, This indeed is the prophet who is coming to the world. When they confronted Jesus, they said, Are you Elijah or the Prophet? They were always spoken of in that way, Elisha and Moses. On the Mount of Transfiguration, Elisha was present. Moses was present. And so this prophet that is being discussed here is Moses. The people that God gave eyes to see recognize that Jesus was the greater Moses. And that's the third point. That's where Stephen has taken his hearers today. I present to you the greater Moses. But the Jewish leaders could not see Jesus as Messiah. They could not see that the coming of the kingdom of God would come through a humble Man who was crucified on a cross. This council was probably familiar with the derogatory phrase that many would offer. Can anything good come from Nazareth? You know, can anything good come out of Glen Burney? We've heard it. Dozens of times. They were familiar with who Jesus was. They could not in their pride believe that that's how God would save Israel. They couldn't see the parallels which were striking. Moses rejected by his Jewish brethren. Jesus. was sent to his own, but his own received him not. In Hebrews 11, Moses left the glory of Pharaoh's palace, choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God According to Philippians 2, Jesus left the glory of heaven, choosing to take on the form of a servant, become obedient to death, even death on a cross. Moses served as a shepherd for 40 years in the land of Midian, a foreign land. Jesus describes himself as the one who goes to the foreign place And he's the good shepherd who lays down his life for his sheep. Moses redeemed his people from the bondage of Egypt and delivered them with great signs and great wonders. Jesus redeems his people from the bondage of sin and death. And he does so with the greatest sign ever given, the Lamb of God crucified for the sins of the world And we sit here and 2,000 years later and we say, well, no duh. Look at the parallels. They're so striking. How could they miss it? Were their heads filled with concrete? And yet they did miss it. Such a clear connection between Moses and Jesus. Such a clear connection that Steve is explicitly making That Christ alone is the only hope for salvation for sinners. So I mentioned earlier that Stephen, from the human perspective, was in a pickle The odds were stacked against him. But Stephen wasn't in a pickle. You and I both know. That the people in that setting that were in a pickle between a rock and a very, very hard place, were the Sanhedrin. Were the Jewish council. They were in a very troubling place because they had given everything they had to make sure that Jesus was not exalted as Messiah. And now this truth that just keeps coming up time and time again before them is that Jesus is the true Messiah. They were in a pickle. And today, in this setting right here, we're in a pickle. We're in that place where it may be for you that you've never heard The gospel of Jesus Christ. You've never heard that Jesus Christ is your only hope. And He freely offers His righteous record to you. Just receive it by faith, He says. Trust me. I've done everything that God requires of you. I've fulfilled completely the law of God that is required of you to obey completely. And I offer you my record. And Jesus says to you also, the sins that you've committed, past, present, future, thought, word, deed, everything. I have shed my precious blood to forgive you your debt completely. Blot it out. Never Ever brought up again. No condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus secure. Maybe today you're brand new, first time hearing that. Well, you're in a pickle. Because you have to make a choice. We have to decide to believe and to follow him. What was preventing This Sanhedrin from deciding and following him. Well, everything in the human realm says they Because of their pride would not follow. But we know, those of us who follow Christ now, that we were in the same pickle. And the Holy Spirit of God works in us belief. Every time Pastor Randy prepares a message. And every time I prepare a message and anyone else who fills a pulpit where God's word is preached, we pray that the Holy Spirit of God will attend to the preaching of his word. And we believe that he's doing that today. We believe he did it 12 hours earlier for Pastor Randy in Japan. We believe he's doing it in this moment in Columbia Presbyterian Church. Believe. Trust him. Follow him. For those of us who have walked with Christ for maybe a week or a month or years or decades, we're in the same pickle. Because we still live in this present age where our the truth that we believe is confronted all the time when we sin The discouragement of war are of seeing our failings again is ever before us. Will we believe that his righteousness is our righteousness? received by faith and secure because of Christ. Will we believe in that time of falling, in that time of accusation? in that time of unsettled heart, will we believe that we are forgiven completely? See, it's the same pickle. It's the battlefield of truth for us. We 've sung this morning that the free offer of Christ is given by the one who knows you best, not given by me. I just represent Christ today. He says, come to me, weary, heavy laden, from trying to make atonement for your sins yourself. Come to me. Trying to live this Christian life in your own strength. You can't do it. When Jesus was asked why he was eating with uh Sinners, while he fellowshipped with those who were disreputable in the viewpoint of the Jewish Council, he said, those who are well have no need of a physician. But those who are sick, that's who I've come for. I have not come to call the righteous to repentance, but sinners to repentance And we sang this morning, come ye weary, heavy laden, bruised and broken by the fall, the effects of sin in your life. And in this world, if you tarry till you're better, you will never come at all. You'll not be good enough to come to Christ on your own. Not the righteous, not the righteous, but sinners. Jesus came to call. So he's calling you, he's calling me to trust him, to believe, to follow. He wants that and he provides all that is necessary for us to respond. Let me pray for us and ask for that now. Gracious God, we um come to this point where we trust that you're at work. Lord Jesus, please show us the beauty of who you are. Knowing that you would be rejected, you came anyway. And you came and you willingly laid down your life on behalf of us. Lord, your description as a shepherd is so precious because we are sheep and we have all gone astray. All in our own way, Lord, attempt to live life. And you call us. Lord, help us to hear your voice even today and respond and follow. Lord, you're the one that delivers. You're the one that sets the captive free. I pray for my brothers and sisters and all here, Lord, all of us in this room who have this struggle with sin. Lord, I pray that you would remind us of the freedom that has been purchased in full on the cross, where you nailed our sin. You took the punishment. You despise the shame on our behalf, and you have won the victory. But help us to sing the victory and look forward to that day when you come to claim us as your bride. spotless and without blemish. In the name of Jesus we ask. Amen.