Let's do that again. He is risen. Well, that's good. Amen. Now we as Christians believe that we celebrate the resurrection every Sunday, right? And so therefore, in a sense you could say that every Sunday is Easter, right? So therefore I've decided to preach on Daniel and the Lion's Den this Sunday. I wondered what you'd do if I actually did that. I actually do want to start my Easter message by referring to Daniel in the Lion's Day. Something that happened about five hundred and thirty to five hundred and thirty five years before Jesus You remember Daniel was a prisoner of war from Judea, been brought to Babylon, was very successful, very skilled, and so when Darius the Mead came and took over, he made Daniel one of his three top officials in his cabinet. intended for him to be Prime Minister, which roused a bit of jealousy from the other administrators. And so they got a hold of the ACLU to get him in trouble because his religion was so public and it worked. And so Daniel was sentenced to be thrown into the den of lions. Darius didn't want to do that. He admired Daniel, saw Daniel as a friend, but he had no choice. The lion's den was intended to be Daniel's tomb, and the Bible says that it was covered with a stone and a seal. Sound familiar? So Daniel 6. 17 says, the stone was brought and placed over the mouth of the den. The king sealed it with his own signet ring. And with the rings of his nobles, so that Daniel's situation might not be changed. The seal was the authority of the king saying this was going to be irrevocable. This is where Daniel was going to be. This is where he's going to die. This was his tomb. Now, fast forward over 500 years to the time of Jesus. Next week we're going to resume our study of Matthew. Long awaited, right? And one of the things you're going to see in that study is that Matthew makes a big deal about authority. Matthew makes a big deal about the unique authority of Jesus. For instance, you have these in your outline. You can look at them later, but in chapter seven, Matthew contrasts Jesus' authority with that of the rabbis, who were always quoting other rabbis. But Jesus said, But I say to you Had his own authority. And chapter 8 talks about the centurion who understood authority and therefore said, Jesus, you can just speak the word, and my servant will be healed. Chapter 9. The Son of Man has authority to forgive sins. And the people were amazed. Chapter 10. Jesus gave his disciples authority over the evil spirits. Chapter 12, the Son of Man has authority over the Sabbath. He is Lord of the Sabbath. Chapter 20, he contrasts His kind of authority with the world. His authority is to serve rather than to domineer. Chapter 21. They ask him, by what authority do you do these things that you do? So when you get to chapter 27 of Matthew, you notice that Matthew uniquely includes a little incident in Jesus' burial that the other gospel writers don't speak of. You heard Tom read it, but let me read that section again, Matthew 27, 62 to 66, to see the connection with authority and the story of Daniel. The next day, the one after the preparation day, that is preparation day is preparation for the Sabbath, Friday, this is Saturday, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate. Sir, they said we remember that while he was still alive, that deceiver said, After three days I will rise again. So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day, otherwise his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead. This last deception Will be worse than the first. Last deception that he can rise from the dead, worse than the first, that he's Messiah. Take a guard, Pilate answered. Go make the tomb as secure as you know how. And so they went and they made the tomb secure by putting a seal on the stone and posting the guard. And when I was a became a Christian, those people were still reading the King James Bible. The King James Bible said, they went and made the sepulchre secure, sealing the stone. So when I was a new Christian, I thought that meant that they caulked the tomb. that they kind of sealed it all around that way nothing could get in or out, you know. But of course it doesn't mean that. It means they put a seal on the tomb. Now, thanks to Robin Barnes, our persistent image tracker downer, we have a picture brought from the deep uh holes of antiquity here. This is not the actual tombstone, don't get all excited. But she found one that actually shows you what it probably looked like And you see that the stone that is set over the mouth of the tomb has a rope, a cord across the front. And on the two sides, there is clay that is daubed on there, and on the clay, on the two sides, and perhaps the center, was the seal of the Roman government. That seal was made while the soldiers were standing there in place to authenticate that kind of like no trespassing by order of the Roman government. Now, ironically, what they intended to discredit Jesus so that people wouldn't say that he rose from the dead actually historically became a strong authentication. of Jesus' resurrection. Because if they hadn't sealed the tomb, then when Jesus' body was gone, people would have said, well, you know, who knows what tomb it was? Maybe it was this tomb, it was that tomb. He got the wrong tomb. But the Roman government said that's the tomb where Jesus' body is. We have sealed it. We have put our mark of authority on that tomb. Perhaps three marks. Three seals, right, center, and left. And what we celebrate, brothers and sisters, this morning is the fact that Jesus broke those seals Now picture with me those three seals representing the three seals that Jesus broke. He broke the seal on the left, which was the seal of death. The seal of the grave. Jesus, you remember, had said in John chapter 10, I have authority to lay down my life, and I have authority to take it up again And that's exactly what Jesus did. Because you see, the power of death is sin. Because Jesus had fully paid for your sin and my sin in his death, death could no longer hold him. So he had authority to take up his life again. That's why we sang at the beginning of this service. I hope you were here to sing it. Vein the stone, the watch, the seal. Hallelujah. Christ has burst the gates of hell. You sing, you say, hallelujah. Death in vain forbids us rise. Christ has opened paradise. You see, vain the stone, the watch, the seal Jesus has broken the seal of death. And that's why you read in Revelation chapter 1 and verse 18 that Jesus says, I have the keys of death and of hell. Jesus has authority over death and over hell because he broke the seal in his resurrection. When you come to Jesus Christ, you're coming to someone who has authority over death. Now, some of you have lost loved ones in this last year. One of the great comforts to the Christian. Is that death is a passing experience from this life to eternal life? Because Jesus holds the keys, has the authority over death. If you've lost one that does not belong to Jesus, there is great longing in your heart as there was in mine and continues for my parents. Because They're not with Jesus. Jesus holds to the authority, the keys, to death and to hell. That's the first seal that he broke. The middle seal we call the seal of the state. Jesus broke the seal of Rome. Now it's interesting that Rome thought that in their authority they were able to keep Jesus in the grave. They were thinking from robbers who would try to Steal the body and say that he had risen from the dead. It didn't occur to them that they were also saying that he couldn't get out, but of course Jesus did. Interesting that the Bible does not record the actual resurrection of Jesus. There's no gospel account that describes him coming out of the tomb. uh which is part of the um the validity of uh the biblical accounts. Any other accounts written during that time would have made a big deal about how he came out and terrified the guard and did this The Bible simply speaks of his removing the stone so that people could get in and see that he was gone. And you have that in Matthew chapter 28. Again, look how he did it. After the Sabbath at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. There was, probably better translated, there had been a violent earthquake. For an angel of the Lord came down from heaven, going to the tomb, rolled back the stone. In the act of rolling back the stone, he broke the seals. At least the two on the two ends broke the seals and he sat on it with authority, you see His appearance was like lightning, his clothes were as white as snow. The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men. He broke the seal, the seal of Rome. The seal, Rome thought that they had authority to control Jesus, that they could execute him, that they could keep him in the tomb. But four centuries later, Rome was a crumbling empire, and soon it was called the Holy Roman Empire. Acknowledging that Jesus is Lord of the Roman Empire. Western civilization from that time was deeply influenced by Christianity. We live in a time when that influence appears to be waning in many ways in Western civilization. The American Civil Liberties Union would like to wipe away any vestige of civilization. Of public discourse in which Christianity plays a part. Just last year, in a trial in the state of Colorado, Uh testimony was presented from the Bible concerning the convictions in the defense. And the court of Colorado Dismissed the evidence from Scripture as extraneous material having no relevance. That's the direction that many things are headed now. But you know what? The state cannot control Christianity because the state can't control Jesus. He's broken the seal of Rome and he's broken the seal of the state to control his kingdom. So Jesus, whether it's intelligent design or abortion or public displays of biblical truth, Jesus, always remember, has broken the seal of the state. He is the ruler over the state The state cannot control him. Whatever this current status of the conflict as it's going waxing or waning, Jesus has broken the seal once for all of Rome and of all state authority. And thirdly, the seal on the right represents to us that Jesus has broken the seal of religion. Jesus has broken the seal of religion. For religion is based on law and what man does, moralism, in order to be right with God. The authority of religion is the authority to control, often by fear, by rules. Very interesting parable in Fyodor Dostoevsky's book, The Brothers Karamasov. The parable of the Grand Inquisitor, sometimes published separately, because it's so powerful, it's a story, it's a parable of Jesus coming back to earth briefly during the time of the Spanish Inquisition. He comes to Seville, Spain, and there he is popular, but uh the Grand Inquisitor has him arrested tells him that uh the next day he is going to burn him at the stake as a heretic. Get the irony. Jesus is going to be burned to the stake Why is Jesus going to be burned at the stake as a heretic? Because the Inquisitor says You have sought to free people from religion and the authority of the church. People cannot bear such freedom. They want to live under rules. They want to be told what to do. You were misguided in freeing people from that, and so you must perish. You see, that's a powerful statement. Because Acts chapter 2 and verses 32 and 33, Peter In his sermon on the day of Pentecost, he said, When Jesus rose from the dead, he received the Spirit who he poured out on you and me. To change our hearts so that we no longer live under rules, no longer seek to establish our own righteousness, but that we come in Jesus Christ with the Spirit to change our hearts. to live as free men and women. Jesus broke the seal of religion when he rose from the grave He broke that seal so that you and I could be free by the Spirit to be in relationship of love, to seek to please him, to follow him, and to obey him. So Jesus, having broken those seals, John, in the book of Revelation Goes on to tell us how Jesus has come and he uses this idea of seals as a center focus for Jesus' continued rule to this day. Do you remember in Revelation chapter 5, John depicts a scene in heaven? Let me read to you part of that John says, Then I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll with writing on both sides, and sealed with seven seals. The same idea, you see, that symbol of authority. And here is this scroll with writing, and it's got seals, and so the seal is the authority that keeps this scroll Sealed up, keeps it closed. And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming in a loud voice, who is worthy to break the seals and open the scroll? But no one in heaven or earth or under the earth could open the scroll or even look inside. But I wept and wept Because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or look inside. The scroll has to do with history. Is there anybody in charge? What's going to happen? And then one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. See, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has triumphed. He triumphed where? In his resurrection. He triumphed because he broke the seals. He triumphed. He is able to open the scroll and its seven seals. Then I saw a lamb looking as if it had been slain, standing in the center of the throne, encircled by the four living creatures and the elders. He had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent into all the earth. He came and he took the scroll from the right hand of him who sat on the throne. And when he had taken it, the four living creatures, the twenty-four elders, fell down before the Lamb. Each one had a harp, and they were holding golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song. You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals Because you were slain, and with your blood you purchased men for God from every tribe and language and people and nation You have made them to be kingdom and priests to serve our God and they will reign on the earth. He comes who has triumphed, and therefore he breaks the seals, and the seven seals depict what God is going to do throughout history. History which is under his control, both for good and for bad. Jesus, therefore, is ruler over history. That's the message. Because he broke the seals, Jesus rules history Part of that rule, Revelation 20, verse 3 tells us is that he sealed Satan in the pit Now again, it doesn't mean that he threw him in a pit and then put caulk around a stone over it. It means that his authority is over Satan. Therefore, Satan is limited, the verse goes on to say, in his ability to deceive the nations Because Jesus intends that his kingdom will spread through weakness, through your words and my words to people who are lost and without hope. Because Jesus has determined that word will go forth in power, because he's broken the seals and he rules over history. Now that's important for you and for me every time we read the news or listen to the news today. Because even as Christians There can be that temptation to think that everything is out of control. Let me give you two examples. A lot being written today on global warming. And so you read, in fact, Time Magazine had an article that had the cover. of the magazine a couple weeks ago said, you should be worried. You should be very worried. You know, it sells a lot of magazines, you know. And so you look inside and there's all this terrible stuff, you know, because of global warming, the oceans are gonna rise, weather is gonna play havoc, we're gonna have storms and tornadoes and there's gonna be to be death and you know I mean it's like out of the book of Revelation, kind of funny thing, you know, it's like one of the seals there. But you know, you do you see all these pictures, these terrible things? And And then everybody talked about, well now is that just natural cycles of nature? Is it uh you know greenhouse gases that we've been emitting and we're just suffering consequences of our own You know, and who can tell? It's probably a combination of both these things, who knows in what proportion. But here's my point. You can read those kind of things, and you think, oh. God, what's gonna happen? God, uh you know, what what are we in for in the next five, ten, fifteen years? And we forget, Jesus broke the seals. He holds the earth in the palm of his hand. And the earth will accomplish exactly his purpose. purpose as long as he has it until he comes to destroy it and remake it. And it'll be okay till then. That doesn't mean that we won't have some severe storms and hurricanes, tornadoes and but you know what Jesus is in control of all that because he broke the seals. Now that's good to know when you read the news. To read it as you read the news to then stop and say, but Jesus I'm so glad you're in control of this. Doesn't mean that we as Christians should ignore that. We as Christians, I believe, should be involved in environmental concerns. We should do what we can. To limit greenhouse gas emissions and the things like this that may be contributing to some of that, the more research, the more we should be involved. We should never look and just say, well, who cares? It's up to God. That's irresponsible. But we should never be anxious to say, what can we do? Who knows what'll happen? It's all out of control. Jesus broke the seals. Therefore, Jesus holds the seals of history. Another example. Like being written in the news now about Iran's nuclear ambitions. We are now faced with something that is without precedent. A nation that would not be deterred by the usual concerns for self-protection having nuclear capabilities. We're talking now about a nation of which many in that nation actually glory and romanticize the idea of martyrdom. In which it said that the President believes that there are only two or three years left till the end of history, and that the West deserves to die because of its insults to Allah. Give such a nation nuclear potential to be able to wreak havoc upon millions of people, and I dare say that something might keep you up at night. Until you get a bigger picture. You understand that that's not all that's going on. You understand that in 1978, Ayatollah Khamenei, after 40 years in exile, returned as a hero to Tehran, capital of Iran. He immediately set up a Shiite um revolution to establish Islam through whatever means throughout the whole world. It was a violent and extremely harsh regime ruling by Sharia Muslim law which oppressed many of the people. That's why the United States at that time sided with Saddam Hussein, because that was a secular government to counterbalance Iran. The two countries, of course, went to a bloody war over a period of eight years in which tens of thousands of Iranian soldiers died. Tens of thousands of other Iranians were murdered by Khomeini's government. So that when he died, he was hated by many of the people of Iran. What happened? The result of that was that many were more open to the message of Christianity than they had ever been. Hundreds of thousands of Iranians fled out of Iran, many to the West, and heard the gospel. You've heard Tat Stewart come here and talk about the remarkable, amazing openness of Iranians to the gospel, remember? Some of the stories that he's, and he's talked about, if you want to talk about a committed Christian, somebody who is radically sold out to Jesus Christ, look at an Iranian Christian. Do you know that since Khomeini came into power in 1978, the number of Iranian Christians Has multiplied well over 20 times what it was back in 1978, estimated now to be over 140,000 Iranian Christians. So when you read about what's happening in the news Iran, you've got to get a bigger picture. Jesus is on the march. Jesus is doing something with the authority of history in his hand. That you and I can't guess at. What's gonna happen? I don't know about you, but it says, pray, pray, brothers and sisters, pray for Iran, pray for Jesus in what he is doing as the Lord of history, the one who has risen from the dead. Because he's not sitting on the sidelines watching to see what will happen till he comes. He is intimately involved in the affairs of history. Day by day, life by life, your life, my life, the lives of political rulers, the lives of nations. Jesus is in control Jesus broke the seals, and therefore Jesus walks the universe to rule in his control. But the last thing, which is of most personal importance to you and to me, is that Jesus has sealed us. He has sealed us. The idea of a seal is not simply authority. It also has the idea of ownership. I remember back in the 1970s, the police were encouraging people to engrave their driver's license on their valuables. And so I got one of those engraving tools and I decided I'd just engrave everything. You know, if it didn't move, I engraved it. Uh if it moved, I figured I'd let it go. But my wife still smiles over the fact that she was ironing with an iron that had our driver's license engraved along the side of it, you know, everything. Now what was I saying? That was a seal that said, this stuff is mine. Don't touch it. He can't take it. I own it. Now Ephesians 1 says that's what Jesus has done to you and to me. In Ephesians 1, you see that uh up here? Yeah, thank you. Paul says, you were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having believed, you were marked in him with a seal. In authentication, the promised Holy Spirit is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance. He can never lose you until the redemption of those who are God's possession. It's a sign of his ownership. We belong to him, to the praise of his glory. Jesus has sealed you. And therefore, you belong to him and are safe. That's the first thing. A blank. You are safe. Revelation chapter 7, go back to the seals. You look in Revelation 7, don't do it now, but you'll notice in verses 2 to 4, before the destruction comes upon the earth. John says that those who had the seal of the lamb on their foreheads were safe. They were not to be destroyed. You see, it's a picture of this same idea. In 2 Timothy 2 and verse 19, the foundation of the Lord stands sure. The Lord knows who are his. And it says that we are sealed in him. So God has placed his seal on you and on me. Ephesians 4. 30. We have been sealed for the day of redemption. We celebrate Easter because it says not only has Jesus risen, we are safe in that Jesus. Because he who broke the seals has placed his seal on you and on me. Nothing can take you. Satan may molest you this week. Satan may seek to discourage you, but he cannot uproot you. He cannot take you away from Jesus if you belong to him. You were safe. But that's only if you belong to Jesus. Let me ask you, are you sure that you are safe? That you have the seal of Jesus upon your life? It's a very personal question. There's always the danger to to come at Easter time and think it's nice to just hear a positive message, Easter's sort of uplifting and stuff. spring and it's beautiful and just kind of seems like a nice thing to do. But are you safe? He has the authority over death And hell. Let me make a very practical, simple suggestion to you. If you're here this morning and you're saying, you know, I don't know a whole lot about the Bible. I don't really know what it teaches, and I don't know a whole lot about this person, Jesus, and so you can't just talk to me about giving my life to Jesus. I don't really understand a lot about this. Would you be interested in getting together with a group of people over the next four Sundays, right between our two services? And each week, just read one gospel. Doesn't take that long. Read it at your own pace. Skim through it. Read it carefully. Read Matthew for next week, Mark for the week after, Luke for the week after, John for the week after We have three elders. It has said that they'll facilitate the discussion. You come, read, ten o'clock, go over to the potter's house, the lounge over there. It's a nice little spot to sit, and just talk about who is this Jesus? What did Matthew say? What did you notice? What how did you respond to what you read? Have questions? Let's just talk about it, discuss it. If that would be helpful to you. We offer that for you to take advantage of over these next four weeks. There's nothing more important on Easter morning than for you to be able to not simply enjoy the music. And to be able to enjoy the flowers, the display, but to say, this Jesus broke the seal of death. He has the authority. And I need to be safe in him. Finally, the last thing is that Jesus not only has made you safe, but the last blank is. If you are sealed by Jesus, you are spirit-empowered. Spirit empowered. Not only just with power, but with his resurrection power. Chapter 1 of Ephesians, which says that you have been marked with the Spirit, goes on to say, I pray that you will know That he will give you wisdom that you might know him better and that you might know his hope, your hope, which is the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and his incomparably great power. That power is at work in you which raised Jesus from the dead. That's what he says in Ephesians 1. 19. So, if you belong to Jesus this morning, if you're sealed in him, you're not simply safe in him, as wonderful as all that is, it means that when you walk out of here this morning And Satan wants to get you scrapping with your husband or your wife. There's somebody that you're bitter against. You look at Ephesians 4. 30 and it says You have been sealed with the Spirit, therefore put away malice, bitterness, anger, because the Spirit is in you to give you that power If you have the seal of Jesus, you have the Spirit of Jesus. And that Spirit is in you, not only to keep you safe, to preserve you. but also to give you power to overcome temptations, very practical thing, to enable you to live out of the bondage. Free from the bondage of the temptations that have enslaved you and dragged your life down. Because Jesus broke the seals. And he wants to show you that power. His power over the nations. His power to keep you safe. His power. To enable you to resist temptation and to live for Him. Jesus broke the seals. We celebrate that this morning. Let's come to Him in prayer. Lord Jesus, we come to you to acknowledge you alone conquered death. You broke the seals, the seal of death, the seal of the state, the seal of religion. To set us free. No one but you, Lord Jesus, can do that. We can look everywhere else we want. We can look to self-help. We can look to any religion. You alone can set us free. Because you are alive from the dead. So, Lord, if there's any here that are not sure of that I pray that you would prompt them this week to read the Gospel of Matthew and to come next week to just talk about what does that mean? What does it show me about this Jesus? How can I know him better? What does it mean to know him and to be safe in him Lord, we pray for those of us when we read the news and are anxious about world events, give us, Lord, a bigger picture of what's going on, that Jesus rules over history. Help us to participate in doing good, to change things in history, to not be passive, but not to be anxious in those things that we do. And Lord, we pray, help us most of all as we go out of here to worship you, who alone are Lord. Who walk the universe in triumph because you have broken the seals and we are safe in you. Deeply impress that in our hearts, Lord Jesus. Do, Lord, what I cannot do, and show yourself in fullness to each of us now. In Jesus' name. Amen