I am so delighted to have Dan I haven't seen Carol. I is she you really? There you are. You're right. She always looks the same. I am delighted to have Dan and Carol Iverson here. For those of you who don't know, Dan was an intern here 1984 to 1986. And when he was here as an intern, God placed on his heart and Carol's heart Japan, sort of like the Apostle Paul, want to go where the gospel has not been preached. So they gathered a small group of the team of people to go there in 1986, east of Tokyo. And they, by God's mercy and his blessing, were able to not only plant a church that has now become, by God's mercy and blessing, a church of about a hundred and eighty attenders in Japan. That's a mega church. but also to be the team leader for that team and the director of the mission work in Japan. And uh you said that you'd have about 330 worshipers there. In the middle hour you talked about more worshippers that are part of that area now. It's just amazing what God has done. Just God has powerfully blessed their work. When they started that work, we as a church determined we would partner with them that while we would be involved in mission works around the world There was a particular partnership we had with this Japanese team. Linda Carner from our congregation has gone with them. The Colburns have gone with them, and I think maybe Ree's also here today. I don't know if anybody else is But we have been particularly interested in that. We have sent teams there, short-term teams. We have not done that recently. Dan presented in middle hour a challenge. Let's get involved in that again But I don't want to take any more of his time. I just want you to know God blessed that message from Matthew 8 that you're preaching richly to my heart and a challenge. I I really esteemed this brother. I wish you could get to know him. We were supposed to get together for two hours one Friday morning. We we talked for four hours and I still didn't want to let him go So this is a rich privilege. We are delighted to have you here to open God's word to us, Dan. Come on. Go, brother. Thank you very much. So wonderful to be here with you all. Please turn back to Matthew 8. We'll be looking at verse 11, just one verse. I say to you that many will come from the east and the west and will take their places at the feast with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. Let's pray. Lord, we pray you would send your spirit. We hate to be weak, but we are weak. We need your spirit. Would you show us the feast? Show us Christ. Show us this great mission you've given us. uh this morning in a new way, a fresh way, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. What happened in fourteen ninety two? Everybody know? Right? 1492, important year. Well for us there's a more important year that no one knows. I say I ask all the time. What happened in 1792? And nobody knows hardly. There would happen in seventeen seventeen ninety two. What happened in fourteen ninety two was pretty important for one out of many, many countries in history called the United States of America But what happened in 1792 for us as those that care about the kingdom, Christ and his kingdom, when this guy, William Carey, the the father of uh modern missions And he was re as he read the Bible, he wrote paper. Why do we not care about the nations? Every tongue, every tribe, it's all here, it's here throughout the Bible. It seems that the Protestant Reformation, we we neg we've neglected this. uh all these other weighty issues for sure. And at their they're meeting kinda like a Presbyterian England there. And he was a mild mannered person, but he stood up We're not going to do anything again about the nations? How long will we wait? He said, I'll go And he said, we'll go. And his buddy Andrew Fuller, it's in your bulletin outline, William Carey and Andrew Fuller. And uh William Carey said, We'll go to India. We'll go over the side into the pit. You hold the ropes. And uh and that's where that expression came from. And William Carey went to India and the modern missions movement was born 1792. And this last 200 years has just been incredible as the church, the sending church, and those going into the world, it's just what a what a two hundred years this has been Well, in nineteen eighty-six another partnership was formed, not William Carey and and Andrew Fuller. I'm not in the same class with with uh with uh William Carey at all But you guys, we said we'll go to Japan. We didn't really wanna go. You know, we committed to twelve years. We've been there twenty three and a half now. We know what we're gonna do when we grow up, it seems And uh and and you guys said, We'll hold the ropes. You go. And you sent us. And then Linda and the Colburns. And you know, that was a long that was almost a quarter of a century ago You know, I was watching the worship team and a young lady named Julie uh named Julie showed up at worship and Peter Iwascu that I was praying and meeting with, he says Yeah, I kinda like her, you know. And uh like to get to know her. We're praying about Julia. See her daughter helping plenty w worship today, you know, and and uh a young man named Tom Brode, young businessman named Tom Brode showed up at worship and Al said, Why don't you get to know him? You know, and uh and he became an elder. What a couple years that was for us here, and we were coming out here to this land and praying. for this land that we would be able to buy it. That was uh when we were there. Then you sent us off to Japan. Kind of held the ropes. Thank you for holding the ropes. It's been hard, difficult. Wanted to quit many times. And some churches we feel like people are, yeah, you go, we'll hold the ropes and they They go, you know, they let go of the ropes, you know. Thank you. You guys have maybe you let go some th I'm thankful we got a lot of people holding the ropes. A lot of ropes, you know. And thank you for for being a part of that. Holding the ropes. We are so Grateful. You said us we look like this, the Iverson family when we went. Uh now we uh look like this. Uh just a quick shot. That's us All the kids and grandbabies and spouses came to Japan a couple years ago. So we're very grateful for being your representatives in the needy land of Japan. Okay, take that down. Please. We want to look at this passage. This is just a great passage. It's all here in this text. What a gr I always wanted to preach on this text. Matthew 811. Would you read this with me? Let's read it together. This text overview here. I say to you, out loud, read it with me, would you? I say to you that many will come from the east and the west and will take their places at the feast with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. The wider context here is it's a Gentile, a centurion, not a Jew. The Jews were so ingrom. God is for us. But the message of the Bible, it's an outward-focused message for the Gentiles. The Old Testament is full of it as we'll see today. And Jesus always talked this way. And here we see Jesus with a Gentile centurion. And then he comes down to this in this one verse though, he he he bores down deeper with lots of tons of of of truth from the Old Testament that we want to do an overview of today. The feast. And that many will come to this feast. And that they're from East and the West, and he says, This will happen. It's the Lord Jesus. who says this is gonna happen. It can't not happen. Let's think about uh the feast, this this feast first today. Tell you a tale of two young boys in Japan, one seventeen year old boy, the mother pulled up to our church building. uh with in a Mercedes and she dragged her son up. He looked like a sad, cowering Animal. I I don't know how else to he was just so sad and he was dark and he he hovered in the corner and she said, I don't know what happened to him. From the time he was in kindergarten we sent him to the best the best kindergartens in in Tokyo. We sent him to the best elementary schools. You know, he was number one in his class. He w we sent him to the best junior high, was number one in his class, sent him to the best high school in Tokyo. You know, we're in the suburbs, that was a ways. Uh he was a he was number one in his class and then his junior year he was number two in his class and then all of a sudden this year he shut down emotionally. He won't even go out of his room. It was my first meeting of what is an epidemic in Japan. Only country in the world, Hikikomori, pulling back under the cloud And this poor young boy and his mother said, I don't know, we've given him everything. I don't know what he won't even leave his room. We gotta take the food into his room I don't know, what's wrong with him? What happened? Well I knew what happened to him. You know, boy, this it was so sad. This pressure cooker Buying into the feast of the world, education and wealth and all these things, it was obvious. It's not the true feast But another young man, that's an it's an epidemic in Japan. Now, that problem with kids. It is only country in the world, mil a million, some say two million, like that. So sad the wrong feast. The food that doesn't really satisfy, doesn't touch the heart. There's another young man, Seyma at seventeen He came to faith, believed in Christ. Remember him asking me, Don San, should I be baptized? My father forbids me to be baptized. Then shall I be baptized against my father's wishes and obey God or obey my father? The Bible tells me obey my father also. We'll set that problem aside, what to do about that, he came to Christ, was baptized later, later, instead of becoming a lawyer as his father wanted him, he be came to work for low pay with our team. He's Married, Christian family, four beautiful little children, church planter in our Tokyo City Center. Uh Tokyo church plant now. And it's, you know, it is so exciting to see this young man. who tasted the real feast and how God has just uh is pouring his blessing out on him, the blessing of this feast. You know, in John 6 thirty-five we see Jesus declared, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry. He who believes in me will never be thirsty. And in six twenty seven of John Jesus said, Do not work for the food which spoils, but for the food that endures to eternal life, as we think, point two on your outline about the feast. Jesus here saying, this is true bread on your outline. True bread. And it's a lavish feast. That I'm in a country that because it's no gospel, hardly so few Christians that that trying to eat of the false feasts, false bread of money and wealth and education and all of these things with no clue about the real bread. But it's here too. This is a universal problem, isn't it? In it our tendency to look in the wrong places to eat of these other things that don't really satisfy. You know, I was reading uh trout being back on on the States, reading magazines and airports, I read People magazine. I haven't Done that in years and years. It was so sad reading about all these famous, rich, good-looking They seem to have everything people. I I went back and did a s a search online for how many are just so sad and how few And marriage and, you know, in family, it is so sad. Jesus says You know, he's the true feast, he's the true bread. Tim Keller uh wrote a great book. I highly recommend Counterfeit Gods. It's really done good exegesis on my heart, Counterfeit Gods by Tim Keller, and he shows how We tend to think the feast is, you know, money and he really exegetes that well because we're all with so many people that have so much. we tend to that becomes our standard and we think this is what I need and what's gonna make me happy and he really shows the failure of this feast, this bread, that just doesn't work. And I know I come back to America and in Japan our house is about This far? Is that about right guys? About this far from the road and and but our but everyone else is like that, so it doesn't bother us very much, you know. We come back to America Boy, I find myself coveting, you know? And boy, we boy, sure it would be nice to have a little more space and a a little more, and then we would really be happy, right? Like everyone in Colombia You know, it's a false feast. Sex, power, achievement, Tim Keller, exeges all those so well. My country, Japan, is so proof. So much proof of this, as I said in the middle hour, it's achieved so many of these things we say we want to achieve. It's safe. Little our kids can ride the train. Little kids can ride the train anywhere. Longest life expectancy in the world. virtually no poor people. It's incredible just how they what they've done. Good care for everyone. It's it's amazing, but you have all these other things. Number one in suicide in the world among industrialized countries. The Hiki Kommodi problem I told you about. There's not even a good word for it in other languages, but every fifth grader in Japan knows that word because it's epidemic, you know? It it's you know, all they have everything and they have nothing. without the true feast, just like Columbia, right? You and me. And we have that tendency. My testimony It's the same, I have to say, that as I read Tim Keller's book, I uh I thought I was reading it to help other people, and I realized as he talked about achievement Said, boy, that's my idol. Boy, I I just I have this this if if there's not a little more achievement, a little more of this, and I'm doing it for God, you know, so it's holy, right But how easily it becomes just this this achievement counterfeit God of more production. Always need a little more and and the uh and the idol of family. I just see Th th the feasts I go after. How about you? And one of the points today, you know, is before we talk about giving the feast out to everyone else, that the Lord Jesus Christ laid down his life for this costly feast. You know, Isaiah 25, 6, uh the the promise here that God is gonna He's gonna give this lavish feast for all peoples. There's that missions connection. It's a great passage Remember the first time I noticed it was here when I was an intern and Glenn Mitzel read this passage as we talked about missions, this feast for all the peoples of the world And in Isaiah 55, we see this feast is free. You know? This question, Isaiah 55, 1 to 2, why do you spend money for what is not bread? It's not true bread. Why? It's good. Hear that question? Why do you spend money for what is not bread? What is not true bread? Why? Because I'm stupid and I'm sinful and I'm selfish, and I think these other feasts are gonna satisfy my heart when it's only Christ. that will. And I've learned that a thousand times and keep learning it. And a ch Japan, those hard years at the those hard years at the beginning were so good for me 'cause I'm such an achievement kind of person. learning to be satisfied more in Jesus. Whether anyone comes to Christ or a church's story, you know. I'd like to say I've learned it, you know. But uh I'm learning it that it's only Christ. Right? You believe that? It's only Christ. You know? And the feast in heaven someday, the merit supper of the Lamb, then the food will be perfect. You know. We have worship today. We meet Christ, sing that last song today. Yes, Lord. And yet we're longing for a little more. And that's and that's good in a sense. Because in this earth in this life until we go to be with the Lord. We'll never ever fully be satisfied in him. But we as we eat of Christ, he promises that he is true bread. This costly feast. He laid down his life for us. It's a free feast, and yet it's a f it costs the blood of the eternal Son of God. Point three on your outline. Many will come from the East and the West. Friend of mine in Japan is part of a very small denomination. I mean they're really small. All the churches are small. And he has on the bottom of his email A quote from D. Martin Lloyd Jones that says, we don't care about numbers. Kind of like He's uh giving an apologetic for you know, why we're small, you know. Um that we must really be holy. And he's a very good guy. And I wrote him a letter back and I kinda did a study from Genesis Genesis you know, I shouldn't have reacted so much to his email, but I did a study from Genesis to Revelation and it's in this verse today. Jesus doesn't say a few are going to come to this feast He says many are going to come to this feast. Now, if I only preach this from that one word, this wouldn't be a good biblical sermon. But you know, from the beginning in Genesis, In Genesis twenty-two, sixteen and seventeen there we see and and Genesis fifteen, if we go back even further, did I make a slide of that? Yeah, Genesis fifteen Five and six. Look at this is a great verse. That God takes Abraham outside and he says, Look up at the heavens and count the stars. Abraham, look at the stars. Count the stars, Abraham. If indeed you can count them, can you? Can you? No, you can't count him. Can you count them? Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be Abram believed the Lord and he credited him his righteousness. What a great picture. And God repeats this over and over again. We see it again in Genesis 22. You know, later on he talks about Abraham, your your seed, they're going to be like the dust. You know, you your outline there, the stars, like the sand, like the dust. And then we see this promise. We see it's you know that that the few in number is a negative thing in the Old Testament, in Deuteronomy, passage I gave you there. So it's not a good thing. And we see in the book of Acts. you know, the the promise from Jesus and John, you know, you're gonna do greater works. Then we see twelve become seventy, become three thousand, become five thousand, and all through the book of Acts we see this this recording by the Holy Spirit of numbers. It looks like God does care about numbers. Now they have to do a caveat. We know David, what happened when David counted the people? What happened? Remember he got there was discipline from God. Why? Pride was at the root of it. Is that a great danger? Yes. I just confess that a few for any pastor, right? Isn't that one of the things we and all of us, you know? But a proper God's glory The many will come to the feast as we think about the gathering of the church around the world, what an age we live in. Never have we seen an age like this. We see it ending in Revelation 7, 9, the end of the Bible, after I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that what does it say? No one could count. Multitudes and multitudes. What a day we live in, friend. This is happening all around the world. You know a PCA. elder in Houston, Texas online, he got connected to this uh Indian, uneducated Indian pastor in India. And they started emailing. He started the guy wanted to study the Bible more deeply. He sent him uh Westminster standards. They were he was discipling him online, this elder in Houston. And I didn't mention in the first service, in the middle of all this, he called my boss in Atlanta. Asia director for MTO said, You need to meet this guy. He's got all these pastors want to go deeper of the Bible. The Holy Spirit's working in this part of India and their people group. And uh my boss went there and that elder went to heaven. He's, I guess, maybe, who knows, watching this from heaven, you know. This has turned into a people movement. They have a presbytery now My brother went to help train these pastors. My son is going as a missionary to India to work with these people where people are falling into the church. And you know we're seeing that happen around the world. The many is becoming a reality all around the world. It's hard for us to believe sometimes. One of these verses helps us, this verse and lots of of these help us to remember. Yes. This is a big thing that God is about in the world. Many will come from the East and the West and China. You know, we thought Sixty years ago the church is so small the missionaries are thrown out. Now biggest church in the world, the House Church movement. People say fifty million, maybe seventy million, maybe more Christians in America now. I met a girl from India uh at Reform Seminary a few weeks ago Chinese girl from the House Church movement, she said, Oh, I think many of us think there are a hundred million Christians in China. Isn't that isn't that incredible Those of us that are older, we remember thinking about China, yeah, India, all around the world, lots of places, many will come. From the east and the west. What an exciting age we live in. But this this number four, they're gonna come where are they gonna come from? From the east and the west, the many will come. I think uh uh we sing some songs. There's a song we've sung in a couple of the churches I've been in while we've been back here. I think it's from this passage, Isaiah 43, uh five to seven Uh you see this uh it's a great passage. I think Jesus must be thinking of this Isaiah passage. It seems that Jesus is often quoting Of course the Old Testament, but Isaiah especially. Do not be afraid, for I am with you, Isaiah 43, 5. I will bring your children from the east. and gather you from the west, I will say to the north, give them up and to the south, do not hold them back. Bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the ends of the earth, everyone who is called by my name. So this is a a picture of mission. This promise they're coming from. Do you all ever sing the song that comes from this here? There's a great mission song that comes out of this passage of of of God calling them from the east and the west. But the Bible uses lots of other terms. Isaiah 11, 9 through 11 talks about the whole earth being filled. This idea of the whole earth, the whole world. It uses that term, Acts 1. 8. You'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the uttermost parts of the earth Uh other terms that are used, Romans 15, Paul uses the term the Gentiles are going to come, uh like the centurion in this passage. Those with no news of him, that's like where we are, no news of him. We're in an area 120 Thousand people, suburb of Tokyo, thirty-four million people Tokyo, one million people Chiba City, you never even heard of it. It's a million people, you know And then our part of Chiva City, 120,000 people. Alan told me Columbia is now over a hundred thousand people. There were six or seven churches when when uh you know years ago when we started now he said there's a hundred to a hundred and fifty churches, you know. Where we are in Japan, people have no news of him. We moved in there, you sent us 120,000 people, we're the first church for about a hundred thousand of those people, and until a year or two ago, the still the only church, you know, of any stripe. No news of him. Jesus says, many will come from the east and the west, and the promise in the Bible is that Those who have no news of him will hear. And we're engaged in this. The Great Commission uses the word all nations, all peoples. There's a blank in your bullets in there. There was supposed to be a little blank. I didn't make that clear. So you can put an S in there. The word peoples, I I confess, I was a missing S Christian most of my life. I so now miss this. That the heart of God is for all peoples. I love people, wanted to take the gospel to people, but that the heart of God is the east and west, north and south, all the ends of the earth, all nations. All people groups around the world. I have a friend, pastor of a church, where they made a mistake on the cornerstone. They wanted to have a mission, missions emphasis. Inside the church building. It has their church mission statement, which ends with, for the joy of all peoples, with a yes. They wanted to keep it prominent. And on the on the cornerstone outside, they have for the joy of all people, singular. I don't think I know what happened. The builder said, that's bad English, that people, you know. And he just wrote people. Great sermon illustrations, you know. Isn't that the way we are? That's the way I was and still tend to be I forget the nations. I'm a missionary in Japan and I'm not missional. I get caught up in what I'm doing. Anyone else have that problem? Get caught up in what you're doing? God's heart For the feast going to the east and the west, to the north and the south, to every tongue and tribe. And Revelation ends with this promise. They're going to be worshiping. Where will they be from? Every nation, all tribes, peoples, and language. If you look at this slide here, why are the Gentiles feasting with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in this passage? I I never really thought about it before until preparing for this, but But, you know, Jesus wants to make sure the disciples get it. And they didn't get it until later. Because he made this promise and he repeated it. He made it to Abraham. In these passages, Abraham, your seed are going to be a blessing to all nations, all the peoples. He repeated the promise to Isaac. And he repeated the promise to Jacob. And yet the disciples didn't get it. How could those dull, slow disciples miss this? How could they do that? Same way I did. And the same way I tend to do, and maybe you that we tend to focus on our people group. Those that are that are close to us. We tend to miss it. Psalm 67 we read this morning. Look at this. You know, we can we can know theological. Oh, yeah, yeah, I believe in missions, every tongue and tribe. But just the way Simon the Pharisee, he was a Pharisee, he knew he was a sinner, but as Jesus Critique Simon. He knew theologically he was a sinner, but it was the woman washing his feet, the sinful woman, that knew she was a sinner in need of Christ. It's the same way with this thing. We can know about it. And but our heart might not be engaged in the heart of Jesus, the heart of God, for every tongue in front, that the feast would go. to not just to Colombia, yes to Colombia and through Colombia to the to the ends of the earth. This Psalm 67, 5 through 7. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. This is a Psalm about the nations. The earth has yielded its produce. Oh, where did that come from? All of a sudden it's about our money, about our stuff. The earth has yielded its produce. God our God blesses us. God, would you read that last line with me God bless from verse seven. Ready? God blesses us that the ends of the earth may fear him. You know? Now that's NASB picks that nuance up very clearly, which the whole text is obviously a mess about God's glory among all peoples. Even our wealth, there's no country has more stuff. You know, this this the blood the the produce blessings. There's no country in the history of the world is even close to what we have. Why are the blessings of children and family and gospel depth given? that the ends of the earth would fear him. Think about raising our kids with this view that our that our our money, our stuff. There's a there's a McClellan Foundation uh down south. And they have this idea, you know, we have so much money. They are a very, very wealthy family. The wealth is so dangerous. If it's dangerous for adults, Jesus warmed, how much more dangerous for children, you know. And they and as a family they want to give it away. And generation to generation, a number of generations now, they have this very intentional family plan of giving this away for their Jerusalem and for the ends of the earth. Well my son Joel, our third kid, Dolly Dolly was his teacher when he was a little kid here at CPC, a quarter of a century ago. Joel, as he grew up, he said, Dad, you know, I see some of these really rich people That's what I want to be. I want to be like that. Said, I want to be rich so I can give a lot away for God and for the world. Said, Joel, this is really dangerous, you know? The you know the warnings about the camel in the eye of a needle, you know, bis har Dangerous, right? Everybody agree? It's very dangerous prayer. He said, Oh no, just dad, I mean it. You know, I want to be really rich, so I can give it away. He had a little knack for making money Joel when he was about uh uh oh ten years old, he had grandma bring blow pops to Japan. He said these will sell in Japan. He bought them for four cents apiece, he sold them for forty cents apiece that the d mercy and justice people must really be against that. He's exploiting Japanese people or so. He made a ton of money, you know. And then he he br he says to string a tennis racket. They charge, I forget, fifty or a hundred dollars. I can buy this tennis racket stringing machine and and dad I can make all this money. And sure enough he started doing it when he was about thirteen or fourteen He said, Dad, they charge a hundred dollars to pierce ears in Japan. He said, uh, look at this machine, I can order it from America and I can pierce ears. No, Joel, you're not gonna do that, you know? Well, Joel Joel grew up, he got older, became a businessman. He says, uh, he said, Dad. Sarah, Beth, and Eric are going to Bangladesh, Jonathan's going to India, Danny's in the inner city of Newark. You're missionaries in Japan forever. It looks like. Boy, one of us better make a bunch of money. uh give it away, you know? That's he and his wife have that they should be radical senders. And most of us that's the that's the part we play in this, with our prayers and with our giving, that the ends of the earth would fear him. You know what it's something bigger to invest in with our kids to train our kids to do this, you know, for us than just the stuff or the comfort, something much bigger to be a part of. And the and The Lord guarantees that it won't lose twenty percent in two weeks, right? Or a few Fridays ago, what did it lose? Stock market lost some hype in just just one day. You know, last. And that leads into the last the certainty of this. When we invest in this, this promise Jesus says they will come. They will come. The certainty of the promised fulfillment. And I know there's only one word here, and it wouldn't be good to preach this just from this one word, also. But we see the whole Bible Speaks of this. Jesus, who says, I have all authority in heaven and on earth, is the one who is saying this will happen. The person who prayed earlier quoted his prayer was from Psalm two. And uh he didn't do that I don't think in the first service, but after hearing the message maybe, he prayed Psalm two, where there's that promise again that surely I will give the nations. to you. Genesis 22, 16. God swears by his own name that this will happen. I swear by myself, declares the Lord. Verse 16 I will surely bless you and make your descendants as numerous as the stars of the sky. It can't not happen. And it's easier for us to believe today, in 2010, than any time in church history. It really is. You know, William Carey believed it 200 years ago, but it was hardly happening around the world compared to today. Today all around the globe. You know, the I didn't say this in the first service, but my son, who's in seminary, uh my son-in-law, sent me a Walmart video online. Go to my website Dan, uh IversonJapan. com. You can see this. It's really cool. It shows the first Walmart in nineteen sixty something in in um in Arkansas and there's a little blue dot. Then three years later there's another dot. Then three years later there's another dot. Then there's dot dot Then there's dot dot dot dot. And then by the end of this three-minute video, there are these dots all over America. And now they're spreading out all over the world And sure enough, Walmart will take over the world and it will never fail, just like all the companies on the face of this earth and all the countries of the face of this earth. They always grow and keep growing and they never fail, right? Can you name one over 300 years old? Often what I tell, I met two men yesterday in the park in a parking lot here in Columbia, two Japanese men, not talking to them. And we kinda hidden it this as we talked about it. I didn't get to actually say it, I started to say it. I often introduce when I meet Japanese people and they say, What are you doing in Japan? I say, I'm a part Of the biggest spreading out hundreds of years successful group that is in every country in the world now. I don't say every nation, because we're not in every people group nation yet. And it just keeps growing and spreading. And one time one guy said, I think I told you before, IBM Modeska, are you part of IBM? you know? I said, No, no. Guy recently I used that, he said, Oil? You know, I said, that's a better guess, you know. We are what do you believe that? This is certain, friends. It cannot not fail. Jesus swears by himself. In fact, as we look around the world today And see India and Bangladesh and China and the spread of the kingdom like we've never I mean the last fifty years it's sped up As the feast goes out to the world, people eat, and they start taking it to others. It is so thrilling. In fact, think of who made this statement. This carpenter. Jesus makes this promise. Many will come from the east and the west and will feast with Abraham. This is in one sense, this the fact that it's happening is another apologetic for the truth of the gospel. It's happening as we sit here, as we participate, as we go, as we send, as we give, as we pray. And it's gonna happen. Jesus promised. All that the Father gives will come. And some of you say, but Dan, aren't we losing? It seems we're losing. Does it ever seem be honest, does it ever seem like we're losing to you? Come on, admit it. Doesn't it seem like that sometimes? Our first four years in Japan said, oh the promises can't be true. No, no, they've got to be true. Look at the Bible, look at church history. It's true. It's it's like my Uncle Dan, I'm named after, flew an airplane in the Battle of Midway. He was in the sixth waves. All the first waves got shot down, killed. Our pilots in the water, losing it look like. You know about the Battle of Midway, right? Turning point of the war, right? And he got up in the air, a zero came after him, they were faster than our planes at first in the part of the war And he ducked into a cloud, he came out of a cloud, there's an aircraft carrier there. Long story short, he he helped to sink this aircraft carrier. And his plane is and his Navy cross citation is in the uh air museum down in Pensacola. But I was thinking about that. He thought they were losing that battle and that war. All those guys in the water who had been shot at that, they thought they were losing. It was a great victory That's the way it is. You know, we have all these upset our struggles, our sickness, our problems, our sin. But Jesus, He has promised He will build His church. The gates of hell cannot prevail against it. You had the faith. to send us and the Colburn's and Linda to Japan, this hard place, dark country in so many ways. And no one came to Christ. It was so slow, it was so hard. And we got a picture here There's worship now. That's a worship a year or so ago. Lots of people. Kids being baptized, whole families being baptized, one whole family being baptized that day You know these the Colbert's slow, hard, discouraging. Would have been easy to think. Maybe the promises aren't true. Here the Col next picture. You know Now don't anyone complain about space, okay? This is the Colburn's uh uh their church plant. This is the third building. This is the biggest one now of the three places we've met. And this is just last month Just the the ordination of the first elders of a new church. Is that not exciting? And it was so slow and hard at first. But Jesus has promised, yes, there's a feast, it's the real feast. And they're going to come from east and west. It can't not happen And as I remember, this also I heard from Glenn Mitzell when I was here twenty-five years ago, twenty four twenty-five years ago. We prayed this way. It's a great way to pray That God, thank you. You have given us the privilege to participate with you. In this greatest endeavor, something like that. Right, Glenn? You remember that? You know? That's right. Here we are. We eat the feast. We need to eat deeply. We need to drink the true wine of the gospel that Jesus laid his life down for. We can't take it very well if we're not eating and drinking ourselves and we take it to we take it out to our this needy world around us with people just eating. Is this not a junk food world or what? And how much they need the true feast. I say to you that many will come from the east and the west and will take their places at the feast with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. I was at Um in Richmond a few weeks ago preaching, and Monday morning I heard Patrick Henry's, the place where he made his famous speech. What did he say? Give me Or give me, you know, I'm a Marine Captain. I love history. I went over early Monday morning, found the place, read the speech. You know? And I got thinking about it. Got thinking about this speech. What do you think about that speech? Is it a biblical speech? Are you glad he said he would give his life for this? Little selfish. Yeah, I never thought it's a little selfish, isn't it? Give me liberty or give me death. Now don't anyone say I'm against America, Patrick Henry, or anything. I'm not But I got thinking about this. I went back. It's Father's Day. Here's a Father's Day. I went back home and I got Micah and Seth. where we were staying in Richmond. And I brought them, they were groggy eyed. What are you doing, Dad? Okay, I know about Patrick Henry, you know, and I took them over there and I there's a lot of good history there, but I said Guys, we want to give our lives for something that is so much bigger than this Right? Yes or no? Is it bigger? Now this is hard. I love I am a I was a Marine. I'm a patriot, all those things. But you know, that's nothing compared to the kingdom. In fact it gets in the way sometime. Because I got thinking more about that. Much more biblical, and I'm not against that statement, he said, but much more biblical is John Knox. He said, give me Scotland or I die. I think, can I say, give us Chiva, Lord, where I die when I think about my money, my life, what I'm called to, as I eat of the feast and take it out of the world? And Jesus, who said, in a sense, give me my people and give me death. as he laid down his life and is the true blood true bread and we come to him and we eat and we say, Jesus, thank you for this costly feast that we celebrate at the Lord's Supper. And we say, Yes, Jesus, we want to take the feast to Columbia. We know It's the only feast. It's the only feast. And we take it to the world. Let's pray. Jesus, thank you that you are the feast. And we want to be able to say today Your kingdom come. We want to be able to say, Lord, help us to eat the feast, to drink the wine, to enjoy you. And Lord, thank you that you did say, give me my people and give me death. You died for us. You laid down your life for us that we could eat of the true bread. The true feast and Lord, we do want to take it to Columbia. We do want to take it to the ends of the earth. Lord, please work in our hearts. Thank you for this time today in Jesus' name. Amen.