Good morning. Can I say just what a privilege and a joy it has been for I and our family to be with you over these last weeks? We have thoroughly enjoyed it. We have found you a lovely, warm, welcoming fellowship and people who are truly of the Lord. And it's just been great to be in your lovely country and see around it and see so many of the special landmarks. It's also been a joy to have Alan and Cathy over in Drumbeau and Northern Ireland and from what we've been hearing the people there that they too have been truly appreciating their ministry and Alan Kathy has been telling it that it's been a great time. So we've been really blessed with our exchange together and just being in our different churches and meeting up with you folks and and hearing of your experiences. So as we as we come this morning to God's word, let us just again seek his face. Let's pray Father in heaven, as we come to your word this morning, we each need the aid and ministry of your Holy Spirit. Tear away from our lives. Anything that would hold back or distract. And we pray, Father, that you will come and, with the aid of your Holy Spirit, make your word clear and pray. That you'll remind us of all truths. That you'll teach us new ones. And here this morning, we will exalt the Lord Jesus and pray that a work of God will be done in each of our lives. In Jesus we ask. Amen. John chapter ten is a much loved and well-known chapter It's that chapter where Jesus tells us that he is the good shepherd, the good shepherd who gave us life for this sheep. And we find that that earlier section of the chapter is set within the context of the Feast of the Tabernacles. one of the main Jewish feasts, which was celebrated probably in the beginning of the month of October. We want to direct our attention this morning to verse twenty-two following, which is set within the context of the Feast of Dedication. If you know your Jewish feasts anyway well, that this feast here would have taken place probably about two and a half months later after the Feast of the Tabernacles. And therefore, a modern Jew would be wishing each other happy Hanukkah When you and I would be wishing each other Happy Christmas. And what this piece is about is the rededication of the tabernacle. The Syrian king Antonius Epiphanae had come into the temple, had offered all kinds of unclean sacrifices on the altar. And had ruined the Belzak. Then after the Jewish people came back from exile Justin Maccabees, the leader of the tribe of the Maccabees, overthrew the Syrian king And took the temple and rebuilt it and rededicated to the glory of God. And so here at verse 22 Jesus is in the temple for this celebration. He's walking up and down among the colonies. Because John tells us here that it's winter and it was probably cold and he was walking up and down to keep himself warm And the Jewish people gather around him. Not in a friendly fashion, but rather they're gathering around him and hackering him. And they're saying there in verse 24, look, if you are the Messiah, tell us plainly. Why are you keeping us in suspense? Tell us who you are You see, these Jews were looking for Messiah. And they were looking for Messiah in the form of Justin Maccabees. who had come and overthrew the Syrians and drove them out. And so they were looking for a Messiah who would come and drive out the Romans. And they will once again have control of their own city and their own nation. Now, can you see what these Jews were trying to do They were looking for a Messiah who would come and fulfill their bidding, would fit into their plans and purposes. And carry out what they wanted to do. Now, throughout the Old Testament and the New Testament, we find God speaking against this sort of thing. Remember, Jesus said, I have come not to do my will, but to do the will of him that sent me. And he was wretched the whole way through, but he came to walk right in the center of the Father's well. Yet we find these Jews. Their desire and purpose was what we want. Our plans, our ideas. Now, how easy it is for each one of us To be related to God in that kind of way. That we want to elicit God to come and help us to fulfill our plans. To fulfill the ambitions and the dreams that we have. And so they come and these Jews hackle Jesus Tell us who you are. And we find that Jesus comes and replies to them. And he says, But I have told you. I have plainly told you who I am. But he says, the reason that you're still in darkness is that you're not my sheep, that you do not belong to me Now, when did Jesus tell them that he was the Messiah? Well in John chapter four and Chapter 5 and chapter 7. And these miraculous miracles that Jesus was doing. He was showing that pointing that he was the Son of God, that he's Messiah. For example, in John chapter 9. When Jesus heals the blind man, and we're told that that's one of the marks of the Messiah. And Isaiah chapter 35, we're told that the Messiah will feed the multitude with few loaves of bread and declare that he is the bread of God. And that no one will find true life, true satisfaction except in him. And so all through Galilee, Jesus has been clarity, making no one That he is the Messiah, that he is the Son of God. And so he says there in verse 25 He says, but you do not believe because you're not my sheep. My sheep, listen to my voice. I know them, and they will follow me. And so we find here's the main area of teaching, where Jesus comes and sets down five or six marks. Of the true sheep of God, of those who are true Christians and those who are false And so here this morning, we want to come and look at five of these marks. Marks of the true sheep And I'm sure you like me want to be asking yourself, well, is this smart in my life As these marks become evident and plain, you've got them in the sheet in front of you, and we're going to put them up on the screen as well. We see that the first of these marks First of all, saving feet. Verses twenty-five and twenty-six Jesus answered, I tell you, but you do not believe the miracles I do. My Father's name speaketh me, but you do not believe because you are not my sheep. What is saving faith? I believe that there's no better definition what saving faith is than what we find in the shorter catechism. Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace whereby we receive and rest upon Christ for salvation, as He is offered to us from the Gospels. And throughout Galilee, Jesus has been going and speaking and saying, My sheep are those who believe who have saving faith. Remember the Philippian jailer in Acts chapter 17? When he came out of that prison and fell at Paul and Silas' knees and he cried out What must I do to be saved? Paul replied, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And thou shalt be saved. Coming with thy empty hand, nothing to offer except my sin. And receiving Christ as my Savior. Resting upon him for salvation. Now that's not just the language of our lips, but that's the language of our soul. Coming to Jesus in the sickness of my sin and seeing that He is the only physician that can heal me And give me eternal life. Coming to Jesus as the one who is bearing the judgment of God. And recognize that it's He alone can lift that load. And set me free. Coming to one who's defiled and polluted by sin. And recognizing it in the blood of Jesus All my sins can be washed away and I can be clean. Coming to God with no righteousness of my own to offer to him. Recognize that in Jesus there is perfect righteousness and perfect acceptance. The hymn writer put it, all my hope is built in nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust my sweetest remote, but whole I lean in Jesus' name But you see, the big question is, is not, well, did I twenty years ago, or did I two years ago Receive Christ as my Savior. But the question is: am I resting on Jesus today, on Jesus alone for salvation? If before I should get home, God should come and take me out of this world and I stand before what will be my plea? Will it be Jesus? Jesus is my salvation, is my hope. And I'm absolutely secure in him. And I have no doubts. That I'm a child and I'm assured heaven is a minute. Now some people have problems with such confidence and boldness And it will say, well, would it not be a little bit of humility to be helpful? And say, well look, I hope I'm a Christian I hope that one day I'll be in heaven. What a sad, sad position to be in Because you see, what Jesus is saying to us here is that we can have a solid guarantee and be absolutely confident Not because of what we are or doing or going to do, but because of what Jesus has done and is And I 'm totally relying upon him. The first mark of the truth, Christian, is saving faith. Second Mark is a hearing ear. Verse 27 , just the first phrase, we find my sheep Listen to my voice. Now would you have put that down as one of the first marks Of the true sheep of God, that they listen to my voice That they have an attentive ear, they long to hear the voice of the shepherd, they love the voice of the shepherd They cannot get enough of it. We find that the Lord Jesus tells us in that earlier section, John chapter 10. of the situation in the east, of how the sheep were so trained to listen to the shepherd's voice. Maybe you've got a well-trained dog Whenever you speak or give it a command, and immediately pricks up his ears. And Jesus, look, a stranger will be not listened to. But only the voice of the shepherd. Now it's not hard to grasp what Jesus is talking about. He's talking about listening to the voice of Jesus. And where do you hear the voice of Jesus? It's through your Bible. It's through the Word of God. And one of the marks of being born again As we hunger for the word of God. Just as when your spiritual, when your physical birth You have a physical hunger and an evidence of being alive, being being healthy. Is it your hungry? And one of the evidence of spiritual life If you've got a hunger for the Word of God, you love God 's Word. You love to read it. You love to hear God speaking through it. You can't get enough of it. The old French proverb, appetite comes with eating. And likewise as we read his word Hunger for his word grows. There's not much point of looking at the marks of the true sheep Without asking yourself, well, is this mark beginning to appear in my life? Is it the coming ever in abundant that there's a hunger in my heart and my life For the Word of God. Some time ago a person visiting Britain and observing what was happening in the churches there He says, I can't understand your attitude to the Word of God. It's very much lasit there that you can take it or leave it. He says, back in my country, where the scriptures are so hard to come by There's such a longing, there's such a hunger for the Word of God. How is it in the United States How is it among Christians and CPC? Is there a hunger for God's word to hear God speaking? First mark, saving feet. Second mark, hearing ear Third one, intimate relationship. Verse 27, just in the middle there, my sheep listen to my voice I know them. Now that's not just knowledge or information. But rather it speaks of an intimate relationship. We find the Greek word is the very same word, as used right back in the book of Genesis. When Adam knew and entered into that intimate relationship with her. But of course that doesn't just speak of a physical relationship, but also of a spiritual The Apostle Paul writes to the church at Philippi. And he says, I long to know Christ. It says, above every other ambition, above every other desire in life, but I long to know Jesus. And know him better and better. You see, what is one of the things that distinguishes a Christian from everyone else He has entered in to a very special and intimate relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And I consider it the great business of life to know God. That when we come to worship and some of these lovely pieces we're singing this morning. That you find your heart going out, that something within your spirit responds to him That great hem oh for a thousand tongues to say, my great Redeemer's praise. Such is your relationship with the Lord Jesus. Now, how easy it is for our relationship with the Lord Jesus to be so lethargic and dead. Now, I'm not talking about some sort of m emotional thing, but rather something that's a deep, intimate relationship That the Lord Jesus wants us to draw us in a distinguishing mark of the child of God. Are you grasping them? First of all, saving feet. Secondly, a hearing ear. Thirdly, an intimate relationship. And then fourthly, obedience to as well. Verse 27, the last phrase, I know them, and they will follow me. Obedience to the will and the command of the Lord Jesus. What's one of the chief reasons You read your Bible, that you sit under the ministry of God's word, that you want to know his well, that you believe that his well and his plans and his purpose are blessed. That's the number one place to be. You see, how different that is From trying to manipulate God and get God, as it were, to come on your side and help you to fulfill your dreams and ambitions and visions. Instead of longing to live in obedience to Him and know His will His plans and His purpose, Paul says, for me to live as Christ. To die is being. Jesus says that I may know them and they have eternal life. Some time ago at a student's conference and they were discussing that how we can know the will of God and be in the center of it. And one person said, Well look, I have come up with a method that I find to be infallible. How I can be in God's will. He says, Can I go any place or do anything? I asked him, well look, can I take Jesus here? Can I take Jesus with me to this place? But you see, where in the Bible do you find you and I taking Jesus anywhere? It's Jesus takes us. It's not us taking Jesus. Jesus says, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Then finally and lastly, eternal life and eternal security. Verse 28 , you always get far more from your Bibles than you'll get from me. I give them eternal life and shall never perish, and no one can snatch them out of my hand Physical birth, give physical life, spiritual birth gives spiritual life. Now of course this is a special quality of life John chapter 17 in the high priestly prayer. Jesus says, this is the eternal life, that you might know God and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. It's life of the maximum quality by the maximum length It's a life that begins the moment you receive Christ as your Savior. And it's a life that continues Right throughout the whole annals of eternity. It's a life that we can be absolutely secure of because we're resting in Jesus. For every child of God, the future is eternally secure The cause of who Christ is done. Tom Reese , former Director General of the BBC had been involved in uh outreach week and the east end of London. And at that time of outreach, a little boy had come to saving faith And at the end of the week he went to Tom Reese and said, Mr. Reese, you don't know where I come from. It says, there it will be so hard to be a Christian. It says, before I knew, I will have let go of Jesus. And all its heart will be finished. Tom Reese said to little boy , Hold out your hands But he held out his and he was a great big man, some six foot two, and big long, scraggy fingers. And he he told the little boy, take a hold of his fingers And he said to him, Have you got a good hold? Can you hold any tighter? And the little boy's knuckles were whitening as they held as tight as they could Then Tom Reese gave one pull and he was free. Now this time he says , little boy, I'll take hold of your hands. And the boy held them out. Tom Reese caught hold of the little boy. It said Pull a lie. The little boy told him says, Can you pull any harder? But the wrench couldn't be broken You see, what a silly story. But you see, you and I Need to see the difference between you and I holding on to God and God holding on to us. And the distinctive thing here is that it's Jesus holding on to us Hurry Ironside and maybe you have some of his commentaries tells of Preaching in Chicago. And they've been preaching in this verse here in John chapter 10 and verse 28. I give them eternal life and shall never perish And no one will snatch them out of my hand. The lady in the congregation asked her if she could see him afterwards And she came to Hari Ayon and said, Mr. Ironside, I don't agree with your interpretation of that verse. Well he said, I haven't interpreted it. I've just read it. I give them eternal life, and shall never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. She says, I don't agree with your interpretation of it. Well he said, if I said to you, Jesus says I give them twenty years And it shall never perish. Do you agree with that? He says, yes, I agree with that. He said, if I said Jesus said I give them forty years Shall never perish. Do you agree with that? She says, I do. When it says Jesus says, I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. And no one shall pluck them out of my hand. She says, I don't agree with your interpretation. Harry Ironside writes Some men convinced against their will are of the same opinion still, and some women are not much better than men. You see, it wouldn't be eternal life if we didn't have eternal security But because we have eternal security, we can be totally confident and sure. Do you see what the Lord Jesus is saying there in verse 29 My Father who gives them to me is greater than all. No one can take them out of my Father's hand. I and the Father are one, the whole Godhead Is giving us this eternal security, eternally confidence this morning, that the Son who has purchased us But the Father who is holding us, the Holy Spirit who has come and brought it to us. So here's five distinctive marks of the true child of God. Saving faith, hearing, ear, intimate relationship, obedience to his wealth, eternal life Eternal security. Tell me this morning as these marks maturing and appearing in your life Or could it be this morning that, well these marks are not there because you've never come to Christ That you have never really embraced them as your Savior and Lord, then I invite you this morning Come and receive them. Reach out the empty hand and embrace them as your Savior and Lord. And know this eternal security. Eternal life. Let's bow in prayer. Father, we bow before you You have been in this house of worship this morning. You have met with us here this morning Father, we cry that you'll fulfill your purpose and plans. Father, we ask and pray that if we are your child this morning That these marks will become manifest and evident that we are true sheep. And Father, if they're not manifest Draw us to Jesus savingly this morning. To know Him as our friend and our Savior. To find all that we have looked for in the wrong places in Jesus.