Three central elements in the Mosaic Covenant of the Old Testament were the sacrifice The priesthood and the tabernacle. These were the ways to God who dwelt in the midst of his people in covenant fidelity. Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of these three elements. Because Jesus Christ was the great high priest who offered himself as a sacrifice, and he is the true tabernacle, who is the very presence of God. Now, the church, the Bible tells us, is these three elements in Jesus Christ. In him we are the sacrifice, living sacrifices, as we'll look at in a couple of weeks. We are his priests. We are the priests in the church, in his service, and we Are the tabernacle, the presence of God. And the temptation of the church through the centuries has been to give up the freedom in Jesus Christ. And to return to the Old Testament elements, to reinstate them as institutions, to reinstate the sacrifice Through the Mass, for instance, as a sacrifice of Christ reenacted, or in Protestant good works, in order to earn God's favor. We reinstitute a professional priesthood in seeking to ordain a supersaint clergy which is somehow professional Christians separate From the rest of the body. Or we build physical tabernacles, cathedrals, monuments of church buildings that we call the church. Monuments to our greatness. It's this last item that I want to focus on this morning. This question of how the church should view church buildings. How should we as a church view church buildings? Are we here at the meeting house on a temporary basis until we can get our own building and then be a real church? Or should we be content to remain here indefinitely, never seeking any other kind of facility? There's a crunch for space if you're a Sunday school teacher or if you have anything to do with a Sunday school program here. You feel the crunch. That we are experiencing for space the real need to expand and have greater facilities. And there's an offer that has been made to us by two other congregations, the Longreach Church of God and the Baptist, to go in with them and build a Longreach Interfaith Center, the third interfaith center. Third building, religious building in Colombia. A one million dollar facility. Should we do it? How do we make such a decision? How do we decide what God would have us to do in such a situation? There's many practical considerations in such a question, but what does the Bible have to say about how we would decide this? What does the Bible have to say about church buildings? After all, doesn't the Bible say that the church is the house of God in which we meet? Doesn't the Bible speak of the building which is his house, that it should be the best, as the temple was the best? Let's be clear on this and let's examine Scripture. And I want to tell you from my own heart, this is something absolutely vital for us to examine the Scripture on. Because I've heard it said, and I have seen it borne out in my own experience wherever I have gone, that there are two things that divide a congregation more than anything else. The two things that will divide a congregation more than anything else are not doctrinal controversies, are not what the gospel is about. are not what the mission of the church is about. You know what the two things that divide more congregations than any other things are? The building and the choir. The building and the choir. And I've I've mentioned that to a number of pastors as I've traveled around. I just did this a couple weeks ago to another pastor we were talking about this Fellow from New York and I said, well, you know, the two things that divide a church more than anything else are the building and the choir. And both of these pastors gave me example after example in their own experience Of how these two items had divided churches. So it's absolutely vital that you and I bend our minds to what the Scripture has to say about this important topic of church buildings. Now we've been looking at 1 Peter chapter 2 and understanding what the church is. Let's look again at 1 Peter chapter 2 and take a look at just verses 4 to the beginning of verse 7. Peter there says, as you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him, you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house. To be a holy priesthood offering spiritual sacrifice is acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in scripture it says, See I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe this stone is precious. Along with that, that statement at verse 4 and 5 that you and I are living stones. Being built into a spiritual house unto Jesus Christ, we compare Ephesians chapter 2, the text for this morning. Paul develops the same idea a little further. In Ephesians chapter two, in verses twenty to twenty two. That's what we'll be considering. To set the thing in context, let's pick up his argument from verse eleven, talking about the unity that believers have in Jesus Christ. Christ. Paul says in Ephesians chapter two, beginning with verse eleven, therefore remember that formerly you who were Gentiles by birth and called uncircumcised by those who call themselves the circumcision, that done in the Bible. By the hands of men, remember that at that time you were separate from Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel, and foreigners to the covenants of the promise, without hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far away have been brought near through the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace. He was made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and its regulations His purpose was to create in himself one new man out of the two, thus making peace, and in this one body to reconcile both of them to God through the cross by which he put to death their hostility. He came and preached peace to you who were forgiven. Far away and peace to those who are near. But through him we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. Consequently, we are no longer foreigners and aliens But fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus Himself as the chief cornerstone. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him, you too are being built together. To become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit. So far, this is God's word. May He give us understanding. And what this is saying to us as his people. You notice in verse 19, he says that we are fellow citizens now with God's people. Fellow citizens with God's people, and further not only fellow citizens of a nation, but also part of God's household We're part of God's family. And then notice how he begins verse 20. He said, we are part of God's household, his family built. On a foundation. Then he says in verse 21, in him the whole building is joined together. Now he's just talked about us being fellow citizens, he's talked about being household. Then he moves right into this idea of our being a building. What is the building that he's talking about? That he says that we are. Well, it's quite clear. The building is the temple. That's what he says in verse 21. We're becoming the temple of the Lord. We are becoming his dwelling. Let's take a look at this with a little more care to see, in fact what Paul is talking about here. He's talking about a growing building. You ever see a growing building? And maybe sometimes you wish that your house was a growing building as you see the family growing and growing and you say, Oh, I wish we lived in a growing house Uh but I don't know about you, but I have never seen a house that grew. They seem to rather shrink as you keep putting all the stuff into them, and it seems like year by year it gets smaller rather than bigger. But this is talking about a growing building. A building that is growing up. What does he mean? What is he trying to communicate to us? First of all, notice the foundation of this building. The cornerstone is Jesus Christ. He says there in verse 20 that this building is built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus Himself as the cornerstone. Now, first of all, notice that Jesus Christ here is not spoken of as the foundation, but the cornerstone. Other scriptures do speak of Jesus as the foundation, for instance, in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Verse 10 and 11, Paul says that by the grace God has given me I laid a foundation as an expert builder, and someone else is building on it. But each one should be careful how he builds, for no one can lay any foundation other than the one already laid, which is Jesus Christ. He's the foundation. However, in this case, he's speaking about the apostles and the prophets being the foundation, with Christ as the cornerstone. It's important for us to remember, first of all, then, that Jesus Christ is spoken of as the foundation of the building, in general in Scripture. It's appropriate for us to speak in those terms. It's appropriate for you and for me to examine our foundations. It's important, you know, to remember foundations. The foundation of this nation is the Constitution of the United States, to the degree that that foundation erodes To the degree that the Constitution is no longer the foundation, the nation drifts. And we find that we're in big trouble. It's important to recall what our foundation is. The foundation of the church is Jesus Christ. And if we don't continually remind ourselves of the fact that He and He alone Not simply a set of precepts, not simply a set of rules, a statement of our purpose, but him as a person is our foundation Then the foundation will erode and the church begins to drift from its moorings. And that will only be true if Jesus Christ is in fact the foundation of your own life Is Jesus Christ clearly and consciously the foundation of your life? Why is it that he must be the foundation? The reason, of course, is because Jesus Christ Himself bought the church. It's through the sacrifice of his body Through his blood in taking the payment, in making the payment for the curse that you and I deserved for breaking God's law, for breaking his covenant For going our own way. It's because Jesus Christ made that payment that he in fact purchased the church. It's his church. And because it's his church, he's the foundation of it But Paul here is focusing on something in his emphasis a slight bit different. He's saying that the foundation is the apostles and the prophets, with Christ as the cornerstone. Why does he say that? What was the main function of the apostles and the prophets? The main function, of course, was to give revelation. The main function was for them to reveal God and to give revelation of who God is, what his ways were, and his direction for the church. It was the apostles and the prophets who wrote the New Testament. That's the revelation, which is the foundation of the church. And that's what Paul's getting at here. We build the church on the foundation of the revelation given to us by the apostles and the prophets. Now there's no more than one foundation in any building. You know, you don't build a house, lay down the foundation, and then you get up to the second story and you say This looks like it's a little bit unsteady. I think I need to add another foundation. And so you prop up a few things, get a couple jacks up there, and then you build another foundation up on a a story above You say, well now that's good for a couple more stories. I think I can get a couple more on top of that. And then you move along and you sort of decide on the way how many foundations you need. There's only one foundation possible. Once it's laid, there's no more adding to the foundation. And that's Paul's point. We are built on the foundation of the revelation given in the New Testament. Therefore, there's no more revelation Therefore, we don't add to the New Testament. We don't have people today who are saying, Thus says the Lord, the infallible word of God is coming to you. And I submit to you and that while the New Testament does not tell us in any list, these are the twenty-seven books given And while the New Testament doesn't say there will be never again, after the book of Revelation has been added to the canon, anyone else who says this is the Word of God and adds Revelation. This is why we believe as Christians that there is no more revelation until Jesus comes again. Because the revelation is the foundation. And that has been laid. Therefore, somebody says to you now, I have a word of God, or I went to a meeting in which we heard God speak through prophets. You say, well I believe that God can speak his insights through his people, and I believe that God can direct us. But as far as an infallible word, a new revelation being given, that's the foundation of the church, and there's no more addition to that. Now, where does Jesus Christ fit into this? You notice that he is the cornerstone. This word cornerstone is interpreted in different ways. Seem to be sort of roughly divided, uh commentators I've seen, uh you got weighty people on both sides. Some think that this is a cornerstone of the foundation, others think that this is the capstone What Paul's doing is contrasting. He's saying the foundations, the apostles, and prophets, Jesus Christ is the capstone. He's the head of the corner, as Psalm 118 tells us. He's the finishing stone on it. I believe myself that in fact this is referring to him being the foundation stone. I won't go into all my arguments for but for two reasons. At least one is that this is talking about A building that is still being built, therefore it's not finished. He can't have the capstone on it yet. And secondly, because he says that we are built on this foundation of which he is the cornerstone Therefore, the implication is that he is part of this foundation. Now, why is he called the cornerstone? Well, suppose you're deciding to build a house. You look at the land and you uh survey all the various views you could have from the different windows, different times of the day, and you want to decide just where you're gonna put this dream home of yours right there on the cliff looking out on this beautiful vista Now you may decide and talk and speculate all about where you want that house to be, and it's all up for grabs until you lay the cornerstone. Once you put down the cornerstone, the basic direction of that house has been set. Because everything else now must fit in its direction in relationship to that cornerstone. You've already set what the direction of those two walls going out will be, and probably what the other walls, the direction that they'll take in their relationship to that. So the cornerstone is that which gives direction to everything else. The cornerstone is that on which everything rests, and everything is related ultimately to it. Every Christian related to every other Christian is ultimately related to Jesus Christ. And all the stones that are related together and joined together ultimately are related to that cornerstone. As you and I are related to the Lord Jesus. But you notice he goes on, having stated about the foundation and the cornerstone, about the building itself. Notice what he says. Verses 21 and 22 are parallel verses. And notice how these two parallel verses fit together because it helps you to understand what he's getting at. You notice that both of these verses, I've put this in the bulletin in parallel lines so that you can see how they relate You notice that they both start with in whom, and that's talking about Jesus Christ, in him or in whom, that it's in him that this building is being constructed Secondly, you see that he says in verse 21, the whole building in verse 22, you. A clear identification of who this building is The building is you. You are the building he's talking about. You, the people of God. You're the building that's being constructed. And then he says, in verse 21, this building is being fitted together and it's growing up. In verse 22, he says it's being built together. That's a very interesting comparison. You see, the idea in verse 21 is that this is alive. It's a living building. The word they're fitted together is an interesting word. It's used again in chapter 4 in verse 16. You notice there where Paul's talking about the body, he says, From him the whole body joined and held together, same word, fitted together, by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. It is a word which is naturally applied to the body. It relates to ligaments and joints being fitted together. Now you picture the image here. You see you've got a building that's got ligaments and joints that are being fitted together. And because of that, it's a growing building. It's alive You see what Paul is saying? He's saying, on the one hand, the church is a growing building, Ephesians chapter 2, verse 21 and 22. Then in Ephesians 4, he says the church is a body which is being built. That's what he talks about in four sixteen. So Paul is purposely all mixed up. You know, you say, Paul, wait a minute, Paul, you build buildings and you grow bodies. You don't grow buildings and build bodies. Even if you're wonderbred, you still do it by the means of growing the body, you see. Now, Paul is mixing these two for a very particular reason. He wants us to understand that you cannot separate in the church its structure from its life. That the church must always be combining both its organization And it's organism. The church is both organization and organism. It is both structure and life. And if you have the structure without the life, you don't have the church. If you have the life without the structure, you don't have the church. And Paul is saying, I'm not just saying the church is a building and it's also a body. He said these two things are so inseparable that it's a growing body and it's a growing building and it's a built constructed body And that's what he's trying to get across to us. Both are necessary. It's because of this that the church, you see, becomes a holy temple. Verse 22, the dwelling of God. In verse 21, it's done in the Lord, done in Christ. In verse 22, it's done in the Spirit by the Holy Spirit. These things are all inseparable And by comparing those two verses, you see what Paul's linking together. Now let's focus just for a couple more minutes on what he's doing in these pictures. Take a look at this idea of a building. Why did Paul call the church a building? What was he thinking of? We think of a number of things when you think of a building. First of all, a building has structure. You see, the building has a location in time and space. You can see it. It has structure. It's visible. There it is. That's the building. You're talking about the people of God. It's an organization, an identifiable group of people. The church is not some phantom that you can never put your finger on The church is not some group of people that are amorphous that you can never see and locate. Paul says there they are. That's the church. Look at the organization. You look at that group of people who have identified themselves together, and that is the church. It's God's people. Now are you part of that? Are you part of that building? Are you part of that identifiable structure that Paul says is the church, the growing building Or do you say, well I like that growing part, but I don't like the building part. I love to talk about organism. I love to talk about the life of the church, but the structure is deadening. Paul says, no, both are absolutely necessary. The church has structure, it has location, it has identity. And I'm not talking about here when I say identity, but when we look at the church we say, there's the church on 4th and Main, First Baptist. There it is, a building. You know, I'm uneasy when I have to put in the bulletin for directions, like for the dinner last night, that we're going to meet down at Covenant Church. Uh strictly speaking, you see, what I have in mind is we have to meet in the assembly building of Covenant Church on Route 198. Those who came to that wonderful dinner last night, we did not meet in Covenant Church. We met in a building. Which is the building of meeting for the covenant church, which are the people. And so if you see that in the bulletin, though there's kind of an ellipsis. It's sort of saying, well, that's the church, it's where they meet, and I'm not going to put in the bulletin it the assembly building of the covenant church. Covenant church down there or wherever else we happen to be meeting, but you understand what we mean, you see. And it's important because our words determine our thoughts If we speak slopily, we begin to think in the terms. If we begin to speak of buildings as being churches, we begin to think of buildings being churches. When we begin to reorient our priorities and we miss what God is saying here, it's the people who are the building. The building also rests on a foundation. This we've talked about before. And the building is only as strong as the foundation. Jesus talked about the man who built the house on the sand. And it collapsed because it had no foundation. A building must have a foundation. Paul's trying to get that across too. A building also has unity. You see, he's talking about individual stones here. We saw in 1 Peter 2, 4 and 5. That you are living stones, particular stones. In this building. You're all joined together to produce one building. There's a corporate solidarity of the individual stones, each in a particular relationship to that building. And so you have here a very amazing image. Because we talked last week, you remember, about the fact that each one of us are the temple of God. And so you have here an amazing thing. You have temples being built into the temple. Each stone is a temple. And that temple, each one embodying the presence of God, is constructed into a building which is itself the presence of God And what that's telling us, you see, is that whereas each of us embodies the presence of God individually, on a whole different dimension, on a whole different level, the church come together is the presence of God. God's presence is with us as a corporate group of his people in a different way from with us as individuals. Because of the way he has knit together the living stones, the parts of the body, that in a unique and particular way, God resides in the church corporate. And it's important with our stress upon individualism for us to realize that this is in fact a relatively modern stress. The founding fathers in the United States who came over here to build the Church of Jesus Christ had no such conception of the church existing as a bunch of individuals, but the church was a group of people closely related together. We need to understand that's the emphasis of Scripture. A building also has a resident. The resident is God Himself, the way that we just spoke about. in a particular way in the group of his people. But this building is also a growing building. It's a growing building. You see The amazing thing is you look at this building and you say, There it is. Majestic, it's rising up. You go away and you come back a week later and you say, Well, there's a wing on there that wasn't there before. There's part of another story going up there. I haven't seen anybody working on it, but there it is. You come back a couple weeks later and the wings finished and the second story has been added. There's nobody working on it. What's going on here? You go back and say, this is a strange building. I never see anybody work on it, but it just keeps adding and adding and adding They gotta take a look at this. So you go up a little closer to the building and you say, I don't believe it. Those stones are alive. The way this building is growing is by cell division The stones divide in this building and they just keep multiplying and they add on each one in a particular relationship. And when it needs a window, it builds a window And when it needs a door, it builds a door. And all these things get added. And and the new stones that are added to it. uh are built and take on the character of the old stones, who have the graciousness that only comes through age. So this building is being built together in a way that nobody could ever design With the freshness of newness, with the character of age. And it's all being built together without anyone coming upon it to do the work. The building is growing up From that cornerstone, Jesus Christ. I see Paul's telling us in this. That's how God's building the church. He's building it by the multiplication, by the increase of the church among itself. Now let's apply this in some particular ways As we see the nature of God's church, first of all, we see from this that the only church building in the Bible is the people of God. The only church building in the Bible, the application on the back of your outline, the only church building in the Bible is the people of God. There is not a word in all the New Testament about buildings to meet in In the first two centuries, the Church of Jesus Christ met in homes and in public places. They had no church buildings. And if there's any Uh, if anybody would ever argue that the church can't grow without buildings, the church of the first two centuries is a denial of that fact. The church has never grown since to the degree it grew in those first two centuries without buildings. You see, the New Testament tells us that there are no holy places. There's only a holy people. It's the holy people who are the building of God. And so the question, first of all, to you this morning is, are you part of this building? Are you part of God's holy people? Are you one of the living stones placed in this temple, in the particular relationship to the other stones that Jesus Christ intends for you? You only come to be part of this building as your life rests on the foundation of Jesus Christ. As you come to realize that you personally have broken his law. You personally are guilty. For your own going your own way, running your life as if he didn't matter. And that Jesus Christ must be the foundation in his sacrifice. And it is taking your life to remake it, to rule it. As you become part of this body, Then the rest of these things make sense. But if you haven't made that first decision, that's the most important one for you today Because there are no holy places and only a holy people, let's make sure that we watch ourselves in our language. We should never speak about this place, the meeting house, or any other church building, as being God's house. I'm just amazed at how sloppy even some of our hymns that talk about this, as if we're meeting here in God's house and God blesses us in some special way because of where we are. Uh that's garbage. We are God blesses us and calls us together because we are his temple as his people. Meet in a fire station, a garage, anywhere you want. We're still his people. It's because of who we are constituted together. That God's particular blessing comes upon us. So let's be careful that we never speak about a place as being especially holy or as being God's house. Secondly, let's realize that there is no theological reason in all the world for ever having a church building. No theological reason for ever having a church building. Now Let me say, on the other hand, that there's no theological reason that requires we don't have a church building. The Bible doesn't speak to this. What we need to realize, you see, my point in this is that if we ever do Have a building that will not in the slightest make us more of a church. And if you think that, if you think to yourself, we'd be more of a church if we had a building, that thinking is from the world The world which says that what you it's what you possess that makes you something. The Bible says that's not true. It's your own identity in Jesus Christ. But the Bible doesn't say church buildings are wrong. The Bible simply doesn't speak to it. And therefore the question has to be answered on another basis, namely on the practical considerations of kingdom priorities and kingdom needs. Whether we in fact ever have a building or not is determined by here's what God's calling us to do. What do we need to do the job? If we cannot have it in any other way than to build, then we build. But we need to let the facilities be determined by the call, and not vice versa. Thirdly Having said that, I want you to know that I am not totally neutral about buildings. I think that there are certain problems with buildings. Now let me say to you that it may come where I myself will vote to have a building. Alright, so I'm not saying I'd never vote to have a building. However I want you to know from my understanding of scripture what I see are certain problems with buildings that we need to have our eyes open to. First of all, a problem of inflexibility You see, God commanded for there to be a tabernacle. When God commanded the ark to be built, it was to have rings in for poles to carry it. God commanded the tabernacle a mobile structure for the people of God to be wayfarers and pilgrims. It was men's idea to have the temple, not God's. David was the one who said, I've built me a house, now I think I'll build God a house. God said to David, Did I ever command you to build me a house? And Solomon back then built the house, but it was not of God's command. God did not deny it, but God's institution was the tabernacle. What am I getting at? I'm getting at the fact that we as human beings have a propensity to find security in permanence, which we can see We like to have something that we can put our hand on and can say, that makes me feel secure because I can see it. Like Israel wanted a king so they could see who their leader was. And there's a danger in our having a building so that we can see it and find our security in it, but in doing that, we lock ourselves into one option. Whatever that building was like, where it was built, what kind of facilities it has, is what determines what our facilities will be. We've locked ourselves into a long-term commitment in that one facility. If we're going to spend three or four hundred thousand dollars You don't just say after a couple of years, well, you know, it really wasn't the best place to locate and our needs have really changed quite a bit. Well, you know, we'll just put this thing up for sale and move on. Uh you know, there's not a whole great market for people who want to buy churches. Church buildings. See, I almost caught myself. But the problem is that then the building begins to determine the program. The building begins to determine the program rather than vice versa. Begin to say, well, here's the building. Now how are we going to use it? Rather than what's God calling us to do? Now what facilities will meet that need? And a certain inflexibility sets in in what God's calling us to do. It's determined by the building and where it is and what our mortgage is and all the rest of that stuff. Second thing is that a building tends away from fellowship. I think it's rather counterproductive to fellowship. I remember in a Sunday school class that I was teaching. I was talking about a very personal topic and something that was uh very meaningful, and one fellow in the class said, Why we really couldn't discuss that here? And I said, why not? He says, because we're in church. I said, well where would you discuss it? Well I discuss it at home or I discuss it in the student union or anywhere else. I don't feel right discussing it here. Now you may say that he had hangups, but the point is But isn't it true that in our homes we are more content, more relaxed to talk about those things that relate more to our daily life? In our homes, we limit by the very size of the home, the the size of the fellowship. And the fellowship becomes more intimate, more personal, more natural. Thirdly, there's a certain intolerance Because of churches. The church building, you see, reflects a certain kind of style and the kind of people we want to attract. We quote from Howard Snyder's book, The Problem of Wineskins, concerning this The early church was composed of rich and poor, Jew and Greek, black and white, ignorant and uneducated. But our modern church buildings advertise to the world that this is not true today. A sociologist can take a casual look at ten church buildings and their denominational brand names, then predict with high accuracy the education, income, occupations, and social position of the majority of their respective members. In the light of the New Testament, this ought not to be. But in a less sophisticated way, the new family coming into the community does the same thing as the sociologist. The family goes for a drive and looks over the neighborhood church buildings. They choose the one that looks like their kind of building. The one that will contain the people of approximately the same income, education, politics, and color as themselves. In most cases, a careful look at the building is enough to tell them whether they'll feel at home there. Of course, occasionally they'll be fooled by a lower-class church that's moving up in the world and has just completed a building program. But isn't it true that our buildings will reflect one thing? Yeah, you come to the meeting house here and nobody knows what we're like. All they know is what the meeting house is like. It doesn't reflect on who we are. And there's a certain freedom in that. Fourthly, there's a problem of priorities. It's a classic problem, you see, of the tail wagging the dog. Let me illustrate this by a meeting I was in once, some years ago. We're discussing ministry. We're discussing some people in supervisory position in a Christian organization. The organization talked about this person's job description being ministering, discipling, building up people in Jesus Christ. And I also had on their and also to meet the budget. One of the astute men in that group said to the person leading the meeting, if I don't make budget, what happens? Without any pause, the response was, you'll lose your job. He said, now you've just told me what my number one priority is. Now isn't it true in the same way in the church that we talk about all the things God's calling us to do? But you sink $400,000 into a building. You've just told yourself what your number one priority is for the next couple years. Money tends to dictate our priorities. And where we invest is in fact where our time commitments and where our heart's going to be. I'm not saying that the time doesn't come when we have to sink a great deal of money into facilities What I'm saying is that we have to be very careful that the priorities are set for this facility rather than the facility determining the priorities. Because when you begin to talk about that kind of commitment, it's very easy for us to then downplay missions, diaconal work, more people who we can send into ministry because we've got to support the building. The session and the trustees begin to talk about building needs. And all of a sudden the building that was supposed to serve the congregation finds now the congregation serving the building in trying to maintain it and keep it going. Finally, there's the problem of pride and idolatry. Problem of pride and idolatry. When we talk about building a building, we talk about good stewardship. And we talk about a building that's going to attract people naturally. Therefore, we're going to talk about things that will last a long time and be quality. I'm an advocate myself of buying quality, so it lasts. When we talk about that in terms of hundreds of thousands of dollars, however, we find that a subtle thing can begin to enter in. We find that the church is not simply a facility that will meet certain needs, but it begins to reflect our status. It seems to reflect who we are. And so we want to identify with that. That's our building. And it shows something about the kind of people that we are. And it's a very subtle step from that to building a Tower of Babel in which we make a name for ourselves. How many church buildings I've known from congregations that have in so very subtle ways among a very spiritual people become idols? The church becomes then that which determines the ministry, and we serve the church, become program-oriented rather than ministry-oriented. Divisions begin to appear in the congregation over what the church should be like and what should be done with it, and the building and its use. Fourthly, then, let me come to the conclusion. What about the long reach interfaith centered decision? Two weeks ago the session met to discuss this, and we came to a unanimous decision, no We will not be building with the Long Reach Church of God and the Baptist at this time in a Third Interfaith Center in Columbia. We have felt unanimously that we are not ready for that kind of commitment, a million-dollar building of which we would have one-third of the responsibility. Million dollars for building land, parking lot, and all the rest of it The disadvantages seem to greatly outweigh the advantages that cast us on the Lord to seek for a facility. Right now, the way we are, we are very limited by the facilities that we have here at the meeting house. Do we go to alternative times, different times of meeting, different kinds of programs, different kinds of Sunday school training? What do we do? We're not sure where the Lord is leading us now. Seek with us in this. Pray with us about this. But we've made this decision and invite your feedback on that. But the decision has been made to right now not pursue long reach as a builder. Finally, fifthly, last week also, the week before, the trustees established a fund that you see in the bulletin. It's called the Facility Fund. This will provide for a way to see what the Lord wants to do in raising up Any particular funds for alternative facilities. This will be used at the discretion of the trustees. It does not commit us to anything It simply is a fund that you can give to if you want to say, I see a need for uh having some various options and having some ready cash For us to be able to move on something that the Lord would provide. Maybe building it as part of another building somewhere else, who knows? But we simply want you to be aware of that so that you know how it can be used and what its purpose is. And in all of this, to keep clearly in mind that you and I, as living stones, are part of the building. We are the building of God. We're his temple. And so let's claim for him the growth that he has promised as this building grows up into a temple of his dwelling, a place where his very presence resides, so that he can bless us and show his presence among us. Let's pray. Lord our God We consider before you a number of weighty matters. Father, we have brought before you today our need. And Father, um, we give you first of all great thanks that you have called us to be your building, in whom you reside. We praise you for that, Father. We give you thanks. We stand in wonder that the living God, Creator of heavens and earth, has called us to be his dwelling. The corporate body of your people. Father, we pray then that you would help us to understand what this means and help each one of us As we consider our needs for facilities, to submit our mind to you, to your word, to purify our motives and our thoughts. Father, that we might long after those things that you long for, and that we might see you work in providing for our growth Providing all that we need, providing it in the way that you want to provide it through Jesus Christ. Amen. Give an opportunity now before we move on. And just for anybody who'd like to respond, share any word of praise or testimony or exhortation. Just another couple seconds. I'm not sure whether this morning that is because you don't have anything you could say or whether it is in fact forbearance for what you'd like to say. So I will uh simply let it lay. And let's move on in worship. Okay. Yes, one thing. I can say it's real. Okay, yes. Um maybe we could talk about that more afterwards. This is part of a long series That deals with the church and we're touching on those various aspects. And maybe if I got particularly more of what your questions were, I could speak more directly to them. Appreciate that. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, what we want to do now is I'd like for us to feel something of what it means We've just been talking about, to be living stones joined together with one another, as the temple or the dwelling of God. So, what I'm going to ask you to do in just a moment is to stand up I'd like you to join hands with the person in your row, on the right and on the left. And as you join hands, to understand that this is what God has done. He has joined us together. As living stones in his building. Then we're going to do two things with our hands joined together. We're going to first of all pray the Lord's Prayer as His people joined together. And then we're going to pray a declaration. of Ephesians chapter 2 verses 19 to 22. Let's all stand together now and join hands with the person on your right and on your left, just within your row. It would be difficult to do it all around. So just do it with the person in your row. Having done that now, let us bow and pray together the prayer that the Lord Jesus taught us. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debtors, as we forgive our debtors.