We turn to Acts chapter two. Acts chapter food This past Friday I was reading in my Bible in the morning and read Psalm nineteen. And uh you know we I've read that so many times. We sang it before. In the verse where the Lord promises and he tells us The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. Sang it before, it really spoke to me that morning how good it is to be a people that has the law of the Lord. And we can turn to it and he does work on the He revives our soul as we gather around his word together as we do it during the week that the word really works in our heart. You know, that's nothing new, but the Lord really s made me appreciate the book more that morning, how he says revive our souls as we turn to his word. And then that night, Friday night we went to the Amy Grant concert. How many of you got to do Amy Grant? Okay, a bunch of us did. And she sang a song which I hadn't heard before. But I wrote it from Psalm eleven nineteen, Psalm nineteen and one nineteen. Both about the word. Thy word is a lamp to my feet and a light unto my path. And you have to know to get that out of my mind. I've been singing that over and over again the lamp. Thy word is a lamp to my feet and a light to to thy path. And how that's how God We're not only revisit on the inside, Psalm nineteen. But on the outside it's a lamp to our feet and a light to our path if we walk. So isn't it uh I wasn't I was thinking about singing that to you all this morning. Carol told me I'd better not do that. The attendance is low enough. in the summer. But as we as God's people read the word, let's remember that this is the word that revives our soul And it is the word which is a lamp to our feet and a light to our town. We'll be reading from Acts chapter two. Uh oh, one other thing. For the children, as we uh a lot of people say they like that one we say something for the kids to think about. Here's a question for parents. How do we tell people about Jesus without using our voices? You know, we've been first Sunday in this series we had a globe up here and we talked about how the gospel and the kingdom of Christ has been advanced around the whole Well, we talked about you know, usually we think about being witnesses with our mouth, but how are we witnesses without using our mouths for the kids? And your parents might use the story I tell at the end about Alexander the Great kind of as a rubric for discussing this message today. Acts chapter 2, beginning with verse 31. Hear now God's word. Those who accepted his message were baptized And about three thousand were added to their number that day. This is right after the Holy Spirit had come. Peter preached his first message. And now we see about the fellowship, verse 42. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching until the Fellowship, to the breaking of bread into prayer. Everyone was filled with awe, and many wonders and miraculous signs were done by the apostles. All the believers were together and had everything in common, selling their possessions and goods. They gave to anyone as he had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They gave bread in their homes. They ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to the to their number daily those who were being saved. And now we see a similar model in Acts chapter 4. If you turn over there, verse 20, I'm sorry, verse 32. Acts chapter 4, 32. All the believers were one heart. One heart and mind. No one claimed that any of his possessions was his own, but they shared everything they had. With great power the apostles continued to Testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and much grace was upon them all. There were no needy Christians among them. For from time to time those who owned lands or houses sold them, brought the money from the sales. And put it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to anyone as he had need. Joseph, the Levite from Cyprus, whom the apostles called Barnabas, which means son of encouragement, sold a field. he owned and brought the money and put it at the apostles' feet. Let's pray together. Our Lord, we do thank you for your word, that it revives our soul as your spirit applies it to our hearts. Lord we pray you do that this morning inside us. And Lord we thank you that your word is a light, a lamps our feet and a light to our path as we walk as your church in this dark world. How we pray that you'll teach us things that we can apply. outside of our hearts today also, as we live together with each other and in our communities at work and all that we do. We pray listen in Jesus' name. Amen. We lived in Mississippi for three years. And there was something that made me angry a whole time. There's a couple that lived down the street from us and he played basketball with me a few times and we invited him and his wife Patrick uh Walter and Faith Patrick and they came over to to dinner and we got to know him a little bit and we got talking about spiritual things and they were very interested. They were newly married and they uh said, Yes, we'd like to get together and study the Bible. and learn more about what it means to be a Christian. And they thought they were getting to heaven by being given up like most people do. And as we studied the book of Romans together about the fourth or fifth week, it was exciting to see them embrace Jesus Christ. And the trust in him. was their only hope that he could take away their sin and by his grace be saved. It was beautiful to see them. But there was something that wasn't so beautiful because they were a little afraid to come to our church. They were very hesitant. And not only that, there were people in our church, but what we wanted them to come to our church. Because Walker and Fay were got and there are a lot of people in our church there in Mississippi, to my great chagrin, it didn't want any blacks to come to the church. A little something a little bit later when I was there and I met another fellow. I was out. I met this guy and we got talking about the Lord. He was a young black man that was uh going to school, working as raised in school from another town, not the big city Jackson where I was from, another little town. And he had been uh one of the first blacks to go to a white school in his town. Mississippi. These w this is what he told me as we talked about Christ in the church. He said that he believed, and many blacks in Mississippi believed, that the purpose of the church was a place for white people to get together and to have and to figure how we're gonna keep blacks in the place. Now that may seem very foreign to you, but it was very real to me as I talked to people and as I lived there for three years. years. That brought great dishonor to the name of Jesus Christ. It does. It's amazing how our lives reflect to the world the truthfulness of the gospel. My whole effort to share the gospel with this fellow, the second So was stunning because of what he had seen. I got together with him again, but it was so powerful. What he had seen. Little Mississippi County. But it affected him greatly. Oh, we may say, Oh, but that's the visible. Church. It's the invisible church that really counts. We talked about the invisible. We in the Apostles' Creed, which we used last week or the week before, we talked about the Holy Catholic Church. We're talking about the invisible church. The Catholic means universal, the true church. People in the visible church that aren't really Christians, which we know from the scripture. But the problem with that both of those things, they couldn't see the invisible church, it's invisible. But they can see the visible church. And how important it is that we as Gods people are witnesses for him by our lives. You know, as we talk to people about Christ, that is the number one objection that we find as we talk to people. I'm so tired of hearing about hypocrisy in the church. told the story, guy that works on the same hall we do up here. His son, you know, the one who ran the car through the dam and and destroyed. Twenty thousand dollars worth of damage just out of pure meanness and anger. That fellow, he He's the Lord so badly Jan and I get to talk to him a lot now. You know what his number one reason is for not wanting anything to do with Christianity? Is the hypocrisy that he has seen. And we tell him, Oh, our church is different. But he's seen so much of it. we need to see Christians to really live together in unity and show the love of Jesus Christ. Now it's a practical truth, we may not like it, but we see it from experience that the quality of our Christian lives, individually and corporately as a body, Does reflect the truthfulness of the gospel to the world. It really does. You know, look right here in Acts. In verse 31 of chapter 2, we started the series with this theme. 3,000 people were added in verse 41. And we get, look at the end of the passage we read there. Verse 47. They were having favor with all the people. And the Lord was adding to their number. day by day those who were being saved. On both sides of this passage we see people being added to the faith. And in the middle, what I read, we see the description of the love and fellowship and communities that the body of Christ had there. It really has an effect. In Acts 5. 13, we see the same thing. It says the people held them in high esteem. They saw something different about these people. Tertillion was one of the great. Christian leaders in 200 AD, he said this about the he wrote this about the pagans, what the pagans said. Pagans say if Christians, see how they love one another, how ready they are to die for one another. That's commitment. And that has an effect. effect upon the world. McLaren, a great preacher, he said with his booming voice, he can preach for thirty minutes a week. But it's a small whistle compared to the other six days that his congregation lives. And that's so true. The world says I'd rather see a sermon. Than heal one any day. And that really is true. You may go to Tom Bowes and Josh McDowell's apologetics course, but that apologetics is not nearly as strong as what we see in Acts. Christians living together in love and union, demonstrating whole. showing by their walk that they really do know Jesus Christ. It it's supernatural. There's something different about it. Is that biblical? Yes it is. Ale uh St. Francis of the City said he said, Don't follow the Don't judge the sign, Jesus, by those who follow the sign. But that's not what Jesus said. Jesus said in John thirteen thirty five , Yes, all men will know that you are my disciples, if you have sound doctrine. No, that's not what he said. If your apologetics are good, or if he said, if you love one another. That's how people will know that you and my dislike. If you love one another. What is the mark of a Christian? My little EE pin here, two questions on it. Mark of a Christian is not the pins we love , little Holy Spirit, little bumper stickers on our cards. The mark of a Christian is the love that we show, observable love to each other. And other things, but especially that. Francis Schaefer says, Jesus Christ gives the world the right to judge, to know whether or not we are his disciples, by whether we love each other. And that verse thirteen thirty five of John, it's really true. And how did the disciples show this love? They really had an authenticity to the faith. It was the stamp of authenticity. People said each they may not have joined it, but they said they're different. There's something about these folks. And we see several things. The word agathe isn't used here in this passage in Acts chapter two, but agape, love, Christ's love is written all over in the way we see them react with each other. Notice in verse forty-two of chapter two that we're continually debated to different things. teaching and to fellowship. That word is quantumia. Comes from the word we use for common, together, fellowship. Not just coffee drinking after the service, oh that's wonderful. just playing and singing together, you know, some groups you sway back and forth. That's nice to hold hands. But that's not the kind of fellowship we see talked about here very much. What we see is a fellowship with a sacrificial, a fellowship committed to each other. Even to the point of sacrifice. It's radical. It's different. Look at verse 45. Let me read it again, 44 and 45. All those who had believed, notice two of the ones, to those who had believed were together and had all things in common. And they began selling their property and possessions and were sharing them with all as anyone might have need. Now that's commitment. That is radical Christianity. Jesus Christ was Lord of their possessions. He had given, He gave them everything they had. Who were they to hold back from a brethren that was in need? Now some people say, Oh, this is communism. It's not communism. There's two things markedly different by it. And you see it especially in the chapter four passage that I read, it was voluntary. It wasn't something that someone they even do it by communism. They did it. It flowed from their heartfelt love for Christ and their love for each other as we sang this morning. And besides being voluntary, it wasn't all the time. It says in chapter four that as there is need, as the need Now some people say, you know, you know, I mentioned last week, are the thing in Acts prescriptive or descriptive? Does this prescribe what we're supposed to do? Okay, everybody can bring all your checkbooks up here. Bring no, you know, this That's not necessarily true. In fact, some people argue that the reason that church and act had economic problems later on and other places had to send the money was because maybe they didn't manage just so well. I'm not going to get into that. But the point and what is prescriptive is the sacrificial commitment to each other. That's prescriptive elsewhere in the Bible. Do good to all men, especially the household of faith. We see it Old Testament and New Testament to take care of the body of Christ. Yes, all men. But especially God's people. a commitment to each other, a commitment to the point of sacrifice. The world sees that and can't understand it. And you know that's so different from our Christianity nowadays. This article by Gordon MacDonald, listen to what he says. I saw a very interesting statement from a man who was not speaking from a Christian perspective, but was attempting to describe the born-again movement from a marketing angle. He said the born-again movement has an interesting vocabulary, but beneath the surface it has all the materialistic aspirations. And lifestyle orientation of those who are not born again. That's not Jared MacDonald. He's quoting someone observing the Christian community. Christ called us, now this is Jared MacDonald. Christ called us to a lifestyle which is more akin to people. Jesus calls us to a transitory lifestyle Follow me. We're in motion. The instinct of human beings is not to want to be in motion. We want to be permanent, stabilized. We have to repent the gospel in this generation and ask if it calls people to a great enough commitment to break. Have their imagination and so make them come and die. Because the present gospel doesn't come and die. Think of break me and what we talked about last week in Lordship The present God will ask people to give a little money, a little bit of time, and ask them to join an organization. But it doesn't ask them to come and die. We see the apostles over here in their community. They came and died to themselves and gave everything We also see their hospitality here as part of their fellowship. Not just Sunday at nine thirty, that wasn't quite enough. We see them meeting in their homes, not just in Solomon's portico. I'm sure Solomon's the temple there was probably much nicer than the stone house, or although I understand it's gonna get a little nicer, we have some banners coming soon, which will may make it a little nicer. But we see not only did they meet there, remember they're there three thousand and five thousand, we see the meeting in their homes. Hospitality. Opening up their homes, breaking bread together, taking meals together. Daily, it says, you notice In verse 46. It was a regular occurrence. It's not enough to come and gather once in a while. We need more time together to be God's people, to have this kind of community that they have here. Hospitality. You know, it's one of the qualifications for an elder in 1 Timothy 3. It says that elders are to be given the hospitality. But it's not only for elders. Romans 12 prescribes and tells all Christians to practice hospitality. appreciate my parents' example in that. Uh my mom always didn't like it, but that seemed like there was always somebody in the house. You know, I I know that my dad is a minister. He there is more of an impact I think on people's lives than our home than in church. A home, there's something about a home. As you gather together, as you break real together, and you have that fellowship that really can affect people's lives. My dad used to say hospitality is between hospice and hospital in the dictionary. Hospice, a place where there is shelter for the hurting and the needy. Hospital, a place where there is healing. And that we in our congregation would have hospitality, and that our homes would be places of shelter for people. that are hurting and have need. A place where there can be healing for those that need healing. Where there can be fellowship and joy and want together. Those who have many just starting out their marriages and families here. But that would be something from the beginning that they think about, like they did in But homes would be open. I recommend the book, Open Open Heart, Open Home. It really speaks to that. You see another great thing though in their fellowship here, and it's kind of like their fellowship, but it's their unity together. One churchman said, Well, I Love God. It's His children I can't get along with. And don't we see that dog? If we really love God, how will we get along with His children? You know, I was thinking over here. I didn't have it in my notes, but as we sang, our God reigns. He is our king. Unity in a land where the king is strong. I haven't thought about that before. It's when the government of the king is weak, often that there's disunity and disorder. In Acts we see over and over again unity, not organizational unity like with a Pope or a pastor and good lines and so we see a unity of the heart, a unity of them being together. We do see two aspects. Physically they're united together. Verse 44. Those who believe we're together. I mentioned this two weeks ago when we talked about prayer. But we see much more than the physical unity. That's that's wonderful. You know, and that is so important. You know, and I was gone for 29 days. I understand Doug McElroy was out in California too for a couple weeks. Doug? But I'm sure he'd agree there is nothing like being home and being together. But uh there's you just can't have that unity apart in the fullness of God wants it to be. And we see them in Acts gather together. So just like between a man and a woman, if there's only physical unity and there's not that bond of marriage and commitment, something deeper. Physical unity is it's not only not good, it's destructive. And same with the body of Christ, like a man and a woman. There has to be that spiritual union. And that's what we see in Acts. Verse 26 Uh the thirty-six of Acts two. Day by day continuing with one mind, the new American standard says. And that really is a better translation than the NIV which says they were together. But together only picks up the physical, but the the word there is a word which uh I mentioned it word we talked about in prayer being of one mind two weeks ago. They had that kind of oneness. Picture that better. Turn over to 432. We see it Paul uses a different word and the NIV does pick this up. And the congregation of those who believe were of one mind. Heart and soul. They had unity, a commitment to each other, a strong unity. And you notice that unity was even in diversity. We won't look at it, but in chapter eleven, verse twenty of Acts. We see it Antioch. Not only did the Jews reach out to Jews, they reach out to the Greeks. And if you look at Acts 13 verse 1 and we see the list of the leaders in the Church of Antioch Well I won't be able to go into why we think this, but the names of those people show their backgrounds and that they were from a diverse group. One of them was called Niger. Which speaks that he was following God. The church in Antioch. Jews, Greeks, Black, Africans, Syrians, all different kinds of people. And yet we see a unity, a oneness. It's supernatural. It doesn't happen naturally. It happens because of the King, Jesus Christ. Christ who brings his people together, even in diversity. You know, it's exciting in our church to see more and more diversity, cultural, economic, different ways. Old, young, what a beautiful picture of how God wants it to be. Paul, in first Corinthians. It says we are all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greek, slaves are free, we have all been made to drink of one spirit. It's the Spirit we spoke of last week that brings that unity inside us and works us together. We are one in the Spirit. Does that kind of unity help advance the kingdom? Does it? Yes, it does. Turn back with me. We won't turn too much on it. Why don't you turn back a few chapters? A few weeks earlier. To John seventeen. And here's Jesus' high priestly prayer. And look what he says in John chapter seventeen. Does unity advance the kingdom, which is what we've been looking at in this series thing? Jesus says beginning of verse twenty one of chapter seventeen, he's praying to the Father just a few weeks before Acts chapter two, okay? That they may all be one, even as thou, Father, art in me and I in thee, that they also may be in us. And look at this. the world may what? Believe that thou didst send me. The unity, the oneness of the body, is a testimony the world may believe that, based on our unity together. He says it again a different way in verse 23. I am them, thou in me, that they may be perfected in unity, that the world may know. Up in 21, it used to believe. Now Jesus says that the world may know that thou didst send me and didst love them. even is now just looking at you can go back to Acts two. Shaker calls this the bottom line apologetic. All the others can go by the way. I mean they're great and I believe in 'em. But the unity of the body of Christ is so supernatural that it really is what shows the world that they that they can believe that Jesus did come from the Father. They can know that Jesus did come from the Father. It's the final apology. How are we doing in C P C on our unity? How do you think we're doing it? I tell this is the most united church I've ever seen. The session doesn't make any decisions except where there's unan unanimity. Stay screens would have heard her say one time. I've never been in a congregation that has so many congregational meetings and all the votes are unanimous. But you know the test isn't when the voice are unanimous. The test of real unity is when they're not unanimous, when there are differences. It's hard to have differences. I know Al and I, we just about agree on everything. It's almost scary. About a month ago we discussed disagreed about something. And uh, you know, we had we'd met for several hours together working on some things, long range and and we got to something that I really felt strongly about and we disagreed about. And uh and I could just feel, you know, the a little bit of tension come in. as we started talking back and forth about this. And I thought to myself, it's ridiculous. You know how? I guess it's too easy for me to go back into my Marine Corps mode, you know, or like my company commander first told me when we you know we were tennis for disagreement. Well okay we're compromised, we'll do it You know, that's all I want to do. Because I'm always right, you know the best call. But you know, we we end the we we talked and we prayed about it. We came to a unanimous decision. It's a test of how our unity is wonderful. disagree. I've really seen this this year. It's so easy for the issue to be what causes agreement rather than the relationship. And we can disagree about lots of issues. But it's just the relationship that's important. The problem is we start disagree about issues and things, what happens? The relationship is tense. Rather than that oneness that the Spirit wants us to have as a people. You know, Satan hates the unity that we have. I am sure he hates it because of what Jesus said in John 17. Said by our unity it shows the world something is different. Jesus really did did come. And we have a lot of things this year that he could use to really mess up our unity. Think of a facility, you know that? That's one that really hurts congratulations. Should be on the east side, the west side, the south side, the north side, two stories, one story. You know, there are all kinds of things people have strong opinions about. Are they going to affect our unity? We have people in the congregation that believe in homeschooling, some that don't believe in homeschooling. Are these things? gonna affect our energy. Oh Satan wants to take little things with aren't a substance and drive a ledge between us to keep us. What am I supposed to meet today at ten twenty one? My watch just went off. Satan wants to drive a ledge between us. And to keep us from having that sort of unity that we see in the Bible so clearly. Sunday school changes, children's worship, there's another one. You should have seen their opinions how different they were when having children's worship during uh the sermon time. Is that gonna be something that Satan could use to to hurt us a host of things? We must guard against it. We must be tired of each other in our different sets of issues because we're one in relationship. We serve the same king. The Lord Jesus Christ. He's our Father. Jesus Christ, He's the one that came and died for us and bought us with His life. And we need to keep that unity. We need to guard against it so carefully. So another part of our corporate worship or corporate worship. life we see here that it really speaks to the world as their joyful praise and thanks. I just want to mention these last two briefly. But we see in verse 46 of chapter 2. Verse 46 and 47 , the end of the verse, how they came together with gladness sincerity of heart praising the Lord. You know, you did have a sense of expectancy and joy and praise as you read the book of Acts here and as the church came together. You know the world is so full of complainers. You know, I I just get so tired of it and You don't matter where you're at. I'm sure you see it in the work you do and church. People are constantly complaining. It's refreshing when people come and see a group of people instead of focusing on the people. On themselves and their complaints, praising the Lord together, lifting their voices and praising God. It's attractive, it's powerful. When we come and gather our worship, not only from the heart, let's not fake it. We need to be prepared, and as we come to worship, let our cup overflow. But when we come and gather, we're not going to be able to do that. Together. That we praise the Lord together. It has an effect if the peop if people see that. These people praising God together, focusing on the Lord, not only on their problems or on each other. Look at the last thing. We'll say a couple more minutes. We really see it in the in the book of Acts. A holiness of life. Holiness of life. My father called me my third week. I can't settle him. He was very distraught. He told me of a Presbyterian minister that we know well. believes the Bible. He had uh his wife had called my dad a couple of days before. My dad knew him very well. I I know of him pretty well. Rent of church, seemed to be a godly man. He his wife called him said he is uh he's having he's burning out or something. She called my dad on a Monday morning. Monday morning he found out he had he had told him, Go ahead and go out, I'm gonna clean the roads, the carcass in the house. She came back, he was gone, all the stuff was gone. He had run off with another woman. Dad called me this and he said we need holiness in the Church of Jesus Christ. There's nobody that is not the simple people capable of that. Now we need to be holy people what's in that girl to the call of the world. Jesus Christ. You know, our holiness speaks pretty badly, but unholiness shouts to the world. How Satan wants to take lives and make them unholy and show the world how these Christians are no different. They shrug their shoulders. shoulders and turn away. The Lord Jesus Christ, Satan laughs. When they see things like that happen. In Acts we we don't see it explicitly. It's just kind of there, they're lives, they're different. But in Acts five we see it negatively. We see an easy and Safira. They lie to God. And you read that story in the first part of Acts chapter five, and you see, you know, the Bible doesn't give volume of tone when we read it. But boy, I bet Peter, I bet his eyes were fiery and that his voice was on when he said, You have lied to the Holy Spirit because they knew that their testimony to the world was so important. Here, these two, who were part of the congregation, part of the visible church, had acted this way. It was a serious thing. Holiness has an effect on the world world and unholiness really shouts for the world. How we need to be a holy people. It's not only dangerous to the ones that aren't, but it is damaging to the kingdom so much when we're not. Satan would love to take people that call themselves Christians and let them get into pornography or sex apart from what God intends it to be, lying or idolatry of the jaws, idolatry of material material possessions of the house. Satan loves that sort of thing. That's what he really wants to do. Oh, but how we can turn to the power of the Holy Spirit we spoke of last week and yield to him that he might really guard us from that sort of thing. Our liars speak rarely to the world, especially their corporate witness, by our holiness, by the way that we praise the Lord, by our unity and by our fellowship. We're sort of like glimmering little bits of charcoal. from afar. And they may not be too bright by themselves, but when they're raped together they burst into light. And they're on a on a dark hill somewhere, they light that hill up to this dark world. And that's what God wants his church to be. Our liars point people to him. And we also dishonor him or honor him by how we live individually and together. You know that in the book of Acts is the first place we got our names. Christians. Christ ones. We think they took it from those who followed Augustus. They called or uh Caesar Augustus. They called him Augustus, they called him Augustus because they were devoted to the king. He was the king over them and they served him with all that they had. They were Augustines. We call ourselves Christians, those who are devoted to Him as King, our Lord, the one who came and died for us, and because and took our sin. We want to serve him because of who he is, the Lord Jesus Christ, what he has done for us. Christian. You may have heard the story. I heard James Kennedy tell it about Alexander the Great. They brought a young man to him, eighteen or so years old. They caught him hiding during battle. And Alexander, they brought him in, the room was filled with people. There was a tension there because Alexander was one who hated cowardice. And the young boy stood before Alexander the King, the Emperor. First then, what is your name? And the room was filled with filled with tension. And the young boy kind of whispered, The young man, Alexander. And one kind of breathed the size of Relief is that Alexander stepped back to this, maybe because the boy had his same name. Maybe he might be more lenient on it. But Alexander raised his voice and he said, What is your name? And the young fellow, now a little more afraid. They said, Alexander. And he came up to him and he grabbed him and he said, What is your name? And he said, Alexander. And he said, Change your name or change your conduct. What is our name? Our name is Christian. The Lord says to us that He wants us to reflect Him. We bring honor to Him by how He acts. as well as pointing people to him that he is the one sent from the Father. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we praise you this morning. the unity and the love which you have worked in this church. Lord, we praise you for how you show it in so many different ways. Lord, we thank you for your Holy Spirit, who we spoke of last week, who has given us the power to be witnesses. In Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and Columbia, even to the ends of the earth. And Lord, that that witness is with our lives, as well as with our mouth. So we do have a good church and we're grateful for that. Lord, we know that Satan hates that. And we pray, O God, we say with you together as a people right now, that you will guard us from disunity, that you will keep our fellowship sacrificial. But you will give us a oneness, Lord, that the world will say there's something different about those people. Lord, we pray that we would have holy lives, that would bring honor to you. And as we gather each week and sing your praises, Lord, as we do it in a few Amen. We pray that we would sink as people that know you and that testify to the world of our gladness of heart because of what you have done for us. We praise your name this morning, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen.