Thank you both so much, Nathaniel Espia, Melody Barger. That's a piece, if I'm understanding correctly, is from a uh an opera, and that piece is called Meditation. And it occurs in the in the uh opera after the monk has challenged this uh courtesan. I'll let you guys look that up when you get home. To forsake the ways of the world and to follow the ways of the Lord. And that piece occurs as she's meditating on this challenge. and comes to resolve and follows the monk into the um actually into the ascetic lifestyle. believe. So check me out if I'm check check out Wikipedia somewhere in this afternoon. But not right now. Put those devices. Actually, if you have a device, go ahead and activate it to Acts chapter seven. We're in the uh The fourth part of Stephen's speech before the Sanhedrin. One of the first deacons in the first century church, Stephen, has been called before the Jewish High Council. And as we get into this week's message, I want to, in honor of the high school graduates, take you back into one more class, if you will, a Sanctified Sociology 101. Sanctified sociology. If you just stop and take a look at all of the fellow humans that we share the planet with. You're struck almost immediately with one topic. Randy and Robbie can probably attest to this: diversity. So many diverse cultures, diverse languages, uh eating habits. sleeping styles, all the things to do with culture, right? So much diversity. However, upon closer examination in our sanctified sociology 101, If we look through the grid of Scripture, we don't see the diversity as much as we see God funneling us into a concept that there are just a few common threads that we all share. Regardless of ethnicity and age, whether you were raised in privilege or in squalor, The scriptures are pretty clear that although God's glory was revealed to us as humans, His divine power, his divine nature, and his eternal power, his invisible attributes, as Paul puts it in Romans 1, we see this one thing in common. That although we know God, we do not honor Him as God, nor do we give thanks to Him. And that's all we we come by that naturally. You and me, and whoever you and me meet this week, wherever you travel this week, if you are off to Japan, if you're off to Brazil, if you're off to England, if you're off to Glen Burney, whoever you meet has that same common core deficiency that although we know God We neither honor him as God, nor do we give thanks. The scriptures go on in Romans 3 to say these words: For there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. The purpose for which we were created is to bring glory to our Creator, and all of us fall short of that purpose. Because of sin. So the only difference between Stephen and the Jewish High Council, the Sanhedrin, that he's been dragged before to give an account, the only difference is the grace of God at work. Nothing more, nothing less, but it is a marvelously significant grace that is at work in Stephen. The High Council and Stephen, they knew the same scriptures, they knew the same law and the prophets, they knew the same history of the Jewish people, they knew their heritage, they knew Moses, they knew Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. They knew the twelve tribes of Israel, of Jacob. But the difference is that Stephen now had come to know Jesus of Nazareth. This one that has been preached, this one that has been proclaimed now for these past months in the first century there. Stephen had come to know Jesus of Nazareth was in fact God's only begotten Son, the Holy One, the eternal God, taken flesh. who had left the glories of heaven in order to live as one of his creatures, in order to fulfill the law of righteousness and to offer his life. as a sacrificial lamb, shedding his blood to cover the sins of God's people. Stephen was described in Acts 6, we saw, as a man full of grace and power, full of faith and the Holy Spirit. He performed many signs and wonders and miracles among the people. He had been teaching in the synagogues, proclaiming the truth, the truth that had set Stephen free. That was the difference. The difference is that Jesus had come to Stephen, and Stephen received his Lord. Stephen might well have said what the Apostle Paul would go to later write to the church in Corinth. In 2 Corinthians 4, verses 5 to 7, we hear these words. I think this was probably Stephen's life motto, except that He didn't know these words yet. They hadn't been inscriptated. Paul said these words, For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants. For Jesus' sake. For God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus. Jesus Christ. The glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And Paul goes on, but we have this treasure now in jars of clay, these earthen vessels. To show that the surpassing power that belongs to God and not to us. That's Stephen's life purpose. To show forth the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And every believer, every follower of Jesus Christ for the last 2,000 years. That's our purpose. It's simple and yet profound. And takes all the days that the Lord appoints to us in order to fathom the depths. of what that is as it's worked out in us. Stephen was simply doing what followers of Jesus Christ do. He was deeply experiencing the lavish grace of God by faith, and he was dutifully extending that same grace to any and all who had ears to hear it. He was revealing the glory of God in the person and work of Jesus Christ as Lord. That's all he was doing. Now, warning, believer, warning, beloved. For that, Stephen had been violently dragged before the Jewish High Council. He had had false accusations hurled at him. He was brought before the council to answer the accusations that he was blaspheming God, blaspheming Moses. Those are both capital offenses And that in Acts chapter 6, verse 13, the accusers who set up the false witnesses, if you can believe such a thing would happen in that day and age. The accuser set up false witnesses who said these words This man never ceases to speak words against this holy place and the law. For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and will change the customs that Moses has delivered to us. Just inciting the tension and the riotous uh seething anger within for any who heard those charges against him. So we pick up the fourth part of Stephen's speech. Now we've we've been in this series for several weeks now. And we see here that Stephen is bringing his thoughts to a close as he addresses the last two accusations. That he's speaking against the temple, and he's speaking against the law. Let's pick up the reading in Acts chapter 7, then, and in verse 35, we'll begin. This Moses, this is Stephen, remember, before the High Council, this Moses, whom they rejected, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge? This man God sent as both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in Egypt and at the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years. This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. This is the one Who was in the congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him at Mount Sinai and with our fathers? He received living oracles to give to us. Our fathers refused to obey him, but thrust him aside, and in their hearts they turned to Egypt, saying to Aaron, Make for us gods who will go before us. As for this Moses who led us out from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. And they made a calf in those days, and they offered a sacrifice to the idol, and were rejoicing in the works of their hands. But God turned away and gave them over to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets Did you bring me did you bring to me slain beasts and sacrifices during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? You took up the tent of Moloch and the star of your God Raphan, the images that you made to worship. And I will send you into exile beyond Babylon. Our fathers had the tent of witness in the wilderness just as he who spoke to Moses directed him to make it according to the pattern that he had seen. Our fathers in turn brought it with Joshua, brought it in with Joshua when they dispossessed the nations that God drove out before our fathers. So it was until the days of David who found favor in the sight of God and asked to find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob. But it was Solomon who built a house for him. And yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says. Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me? says the Lord, or what is this, the place of my rest? Did not my hand make all these things? You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit as your fathers did, so do you Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one whom you have now betrayed and murdered, you who received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it. You can almost hear the passion within Stephen as he is making his case before the Jewish High Council. He's answering the accusations. The accusations that he's speaking against the temple, that he's speaking against the law, that he's blaspheming God, that he's blaspheming Moses He's answering the accusations. But while he's answering those accusations, I believe he's showing us that he's doing two things simultaneously. The first thing he's doing is he's revealing the glory of God in the face of Christ. That's why he is speaking so boldly. It's the glory of God in the face of Christ that he wants to reveal. And the second thing I think he's doing is, I think Stephen is allowing room for the Holy Spirit of God to use God's truth. to bring hopefully conviction of sin and hopefully seeing repentance of heart take place in those men that have dragged him violently to give an answer. That's what's going on. Stephen is conveying the glory of God, that God's glory is revealed through his deliverer. And it's revealed in the way in which that deliverance takes place. God's glory is made manifest in the the deliverance of those in captive. That God's glory produces worship. True worship when we see God's glory revealed. That God's glory is wherever God is. That he's not confined to a place, to a building, to a temple. God's glory is wherever God is. And Stephen is conveying that God's glory is ultimately the reason why we exist. We're made to bring him glory, to reflect him. So Stephen, with respect, before the Sanhedrin, fathers and brothers hear me, he says. God's glory is revealed through his deliverer and through in the and through the way in which God delivers. He brings their attention to Moses. We talked about Moses a lot last week, that portion of the speech where rather than blaspheming Moses, Stephen is saying, I esteem Moses. I hold Moses in high regard. Moses is the hero of our people. I'm not dissing Moses when I go out there and speech. Make my speeches in the synagogues. What I'm saying about Moses is what I say to you, Jewish High Council, that that Moses pointed to the greater Moses, the prophet. Who was to come. In the New Testament and the Gospels, we hear a lot of times the Jewish High Council, they're always wondering if this one is the prophet. Is he Elijah? Are you the prophet? They asked John the Baptist. They are on the edge of their seats waiting for the greater Moses to arrive. And Stephen says, he is here. He's come. He's come and he's done what he was supposed to do. He's crucified, buried, raised on the third day, and he has ascended to the right hand of God the Father, and there he intercedes for his people. That's what this greater Moses has accomplished. Stephen highlighted Moses' ministry only to point them to Christ He quotes Deuteronomy 18, 15, just like Peter did in Acts chapter 3. God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brothers. That connection is not lost on the Sanhedrin. They know what Stephen is talking about. They know of whom he speaks. And he doesn't back down, even though they probably are stirring restlessly in their seats before him. Moses, he says, is the one through whom God brought the law on Mount Sinai. Stephen says, I'm not disrespecting the law. I'm not throwing the law away. I'm holding the law in high esteem as well. Moses brought the law. It was delivered to him on Mount Sinai. There was a Jewish tradition that it came through angels. That's why Stephen has that thing about angel in there. But God spoke to Moses and gave to him the law, the law that reveals the glory of God and establishes the need that we feel for deliverance from the penalty for breaking the law. See, Stephen knows that they know all of this stuff. The glory of God is revealed in the law. God is truth. God is faithful. God is holy. God is the benevolent provider. God is our satisfaction. God is our loving. Heavenly Father, and the law reveals all those things about God, and then the law issues forth commands accordingly. God is truth. Therefore, thou shalt not lie. God is faithful, therefore thou shalt not commit adultery God is the faithful bridegroom. He sets his attention on a people, and he never wavers in that devotion to that people for all eternity. Therefore, husbands, don't commit adultery. Because that's what reflects his glory, the best. God is faithful. God is the benevolent provider. Therefore, thou shalt not steal. What's the purpose in stealing? God will provide. God is our satisfaction. The deepest part of our soul can find rest in God. Therefore thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's stuff. You see how the glory of God is revealed in the law, and that's what Stephen is showing the Sanhedrin. The law was revealed through Moses, through the deliverer, but that law pointed us not to the way that we can have life, because the law can't produce life. Life comes when we place our faith in the one who has kept the law perfectly. That's the role of the deliverer, the glory of God. The glory of God. God's glory is revealed through his deliverer and the way in which God delivers. Sorry. Blow out the speakers. Jesus delivered his people by becoming sin for them, so that in him we might become the righteousness. Of God. In Christ we might become people who obey the law. You see how that works? It's simple. And yet, it is the lifetime of working that out. And although we know God, we do not honor Him as God, nor do we give thanks to Him. That's the common core deficiency that we're always pushing back against. That's what's going on in here. That's what's in your heart and mine. to the fact that this incident in their history, their heritage as Jews, that they probably want to put behind them and not think about, he brings right to the forefront. Showing them your heart, my heart. Very vulnerable. God's glory is supposed to produce true worship. And when we turn from God's deliverer, when we reject God's way and God's will, idolatry follows very closely in the wake. Stephen says, our fathers refused to obey Moses. They thrust Moses aside. In their hearts they turned back to Egypt. Oh, I long for the days in Egypt. You remember those good days? Who would ever where we were forced to make brick without straw? And anybody anywhere could beat us for no reason whatsoever. Oh, if we could just go back I miss Egypt. It doesn't make sense to our brains. And yet, Stephen wants us to hear that that is the heart that beats within us. As Christ delivers us from the bondage of sin and death, all the muck and the mire and the pollution and the guilt, and we say, Oh, oh, I've miss those days. Those days of sinning, those days of bondage, those days of captivity, those days of misery and horror, those days of debauchery and destruction that I wrought upon my family. Even as I say it, it's just ludicrous. Yet that's the heart of man. That's what we share with all humanity. Stephen points that out. As quickly as Moses disappeared from their sight, they said, Let's fashion a golden calf. Let's worship here. And God gave them over to that. Stephen quotes from Amos. They would have been very familiar with the prophet Amos. Did you bring to me slain beasts and sacrifices during the forty years in the wilderness of the house of Israel? No. You took up the tent of Moloch, you took up the star of your god Raphan, the images of Venus and Saturn. They worship the created things rather than the Creator who is to be forever praised. It's common demand. That's 4,000 years ago, and we still do the same thing. That's the idolatry in our hearts. I think the the filmmakers of the latest Star Trek movie got this right. They're always tapping into our humanity. Star Trek Into Darkness, you know the one with Benedict Cumberbatch? That's how my girls describe it. In the very opening scene, you got Captain Kirk and McCoy, and they're running away from this native tribe of aliens on this distant planet. And Kirk throws this sacred scroll the sacred scroll up on a tree and they all stop their pursuit and they stop and they kind of give homage to the scroll so Kirk and McCoy can jump into the ocean. where the USS Enterprise has been hiding because they don't want to violate the prime directive and have this native tribe be interfered with. But Spock's in the middle of a volcano and he's about to be roasted and Kirk is Spock's friend forever, you know, all this stuff, and they go The Enterprise rises up out of the ocean, floats over top of the native tribe, worshipping at the scroll, rescues Spock, and they're heading off into the stars on their five-year voyage eventually. And Spock and Kirk are arguing. And Kirk utters that really great lie, man, it we were only there for a second, man. No nothing's gonna come of that And J. J. Abrams has the scene flashed very quickly to the group. The scroll is on the ground or it's torn up or something. It's not you know and there's a send outline of the USS Enterprise on the ground And all of those natives are bowing in homage and worship to this new God that they found. Man, that's us When we reject the one true deliverer, God's way, God's will, when we turn our back on that, we'll worship anything. I think it was attributed to John Calvin. He said, our hearts are idle factories, and they're constantly churning out new things to worship. That's what we push back against. That although we we know God, we neither honor Him as God nor do we give thanks to Him. So take this point away from the second point in Stephen's message here. That idolatry is within our hearts as well. But they've also accused Stephen of speaking words against this holy place, meaning the temple that they've dragged him into. Stephen traces the history of the temple in order to show the High Council that The glory of God is wherever God is. Glory of God cannot be confined to a place, to a building, to a location. No structure made by human hands, Stephen says. He says, our fathers had the tent of witness in the wilderness, just as The one who spoke to Moses directed him to make it. The the glory of God's presence was there in the tabernacle, and it followed the Israelites during their wandering. And, Stephen says, it entered into the land where The dispossessed Gentiles were forced out when Joshua led our people in. Our fathers, our fathers went in with that. And so it was until the days of David. And David longed to build a more permanent structure for the presence of God, the temple. But David's hand had shed blood, and God said it would not Occur through David, but through Solomon, Stephen reminds his brethren, the Jewish High Council, through Solomon, who built the house for him. And then Stephen does something, I think, particularly shrewd. He quotes from Isaiah And he references Solomon at the dedication of the temple, and he says, Yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says. He quotes Isaiah 66, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of a house will you build for me, says the Lord? Or what is this place of my rest? Did not my hand make all these things? The creator of all things is not bound up in a temple or a tabernacle. He shows them that. And the temple that they were sitting in wasn't even Solomon's temple. That had been destroyed. The Babylonians destroyed that. We see that in Ezra 5. And in Ezra 5, we also see that the temple was rebuilt by Zerubabel. And then that temple was destroyed. And the one that they were sitting in was one that was built by the non-Jew Herod. It just keeps changing and these guys are wanting to cling to this thing. And Stephen's saying the glory of God God is not contained in something made by human hands. Now that's where I think Stephen, in the power of the Spirit, as he gives him that speech. is using a phrase that is very commonplace to the Jewish tradition of idolatry. Stephen is possibly hinting that the Sanhedrin could have made the temple into an idolatrous thing in their hearts They've not focused on the true and living God, but they've made this trappings of religion their religion. You don't see that happening in modern day. Right? Sure. Sure we do. All the time. All the time the focus gets off of the true and living God. And Stephen is saying, the Most High does not dwell in houses made by human hands. What's incredible is what Stephen doesn't say here, but we hear in the rest of the New Testament, the Most High comes to dwell in our hearts. That is incredible. Wherever two or three are gathered in my name, I am there in their midst. You know, Stephen, the council was probably familiar with all these house churches. The glory of God is showing up at all of these house churches. All of the worship that's taking place, the glory of God is preceding all of those times in the marketplace when people who are hostile to Jesus of Nazareth as Messiah all of a sudden get a switch turned in their heart. And they love Jesus and they give their entire life to serving and following Jesus. That's the glory of God. That's the Holy Spirit of God at work. And Stephen is making that point. I'm not the one that says that this temple does not contain God. God is the one who has said that already. I'm just reminding you of it, High Counsel. I believe that's Stephen's position. So he's answering his accusers. And he's seeking to reveal the glory of God in the face of Christ, and I believe he also wants to allow room for the Holy Spirit to use God's truth to, if possible, bring about repentance. of heart in those Jewish high councils. The glory of God is revealed, he says, in the deliverer and the type of deliverance that he provides. The glory of God is rightly understood in that deliverance that produces true worship. Not false worship, not idolatry. And God's glory cannot be confined to one place. It is wherever God is. So here we have it, the final little part, the final little piece in Stephen's speech. On that morning Stephen probably woke up like many other days. Woke up, probably prayed, Lord, give me grace, give me strength for the day ahead. And then he went to his appointed duties, wherever they were. And at some point during that day, he was violently dragged into the presence of the Jewish High Council. He was falsely accused of blaspheming God, blaspheming Moses, and speaking against the temple and the law and trying to subvert the customs of Moses. And then What Stephen did was he proceeded to respectfully give an answer. I think it's at this point, verse 51, where all of a sudden we we forget all of that. We forget that Stephen was full of grace in the Holy Spirit. We forget that he was full of faith. And we think we want to picture in our mind Stephen going in there with both guns blazing, somehow kicking the door down. You stiff-necked Jews. Uncircumcide a heart and ear. You ain't got it. I got the truth, and you ain't. That's not Stephen. That is not what's going on here. I want to suggest respectfully that what's happening here is Stephen has finally gotten to the point in his speech where his heart is so burdened. for the eternal souls of those men who had sit in judgment over him, that he can't contain himself. And what he says is language that they are very intimate with. You stiff-necked people. He's referring, quoting uh Exodus 32, Exodus 33. Moses used that of Israel. They showed themselves to be covenant breakers as they rejected the covenant God. You stiff-necked people You uncircumcised of heart, uncircumcised of ear, you're rejecting the only way that you can have life forever I think Stephen is so burdened by the fact that this is their possibly last chance. To turn. That's what's going on here. Stephen doesn't produce this. Is not arrogance. This is not a haughty view of he's got the truth. They don't have it. He feels for their soul, and he wants them to embrace Jesus of Nazareth as Messiah. By my count to this point, he's used the term our fathers eleven times, our fathers or our race. He's identifying with them. He wants them to know that he understands where they've come from as Jews. But in this section, he flips that and he says, your fathers. Your fathers, you've persecuted everyone who's brought you the good news of God. Your fathers Persecuted the one who spoke of the righteous one and you killed the Messiah I think he wants that to ring in their ears, to have the weight of that settle on their hearts, because it's their sin that drove Christ to the cross. Stephen has recognized that his sin drove Christ to the cross. My appeal to you today, my hope for my own heart and for your heart as well, is that we realize that. Right? Stephen realized there is no Messiah to follow. There's nothing that comes after Christ. He's the fulfillment of everything. Everything finds its yes and amen in Christ. And Stephen doesn't want them to miss it. I don't want us to miss it. I don't want us to miss him. Right? If Stephen were doing that today Two days later, we'd hear his handlers trying to get him on Twit Twitter and Fox News producing an apology for his hate speech. It's not hate speech if you're trying to save someone from hell It's hate speech if you say hateful things. Can we just make sure we make that clear distinction? But when we call sin And when we point sinners to Christ, that's not hate speech. That's loving words of kindness. And next week we're going to see the reaction. And there's a reaction that some of us might, in fact, endure and experience. But for now, our prayer is that what God can and do in and through this word is make us aware of our need for Christ. I want to pray for us in that regard. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we come before you again in prayer. Lord, it's been refreshing today to be able to pray. uh so many times and to acknowledge that we are absolutely dependent on you for all things And Lord, the most dependence we have is in this moment where we plead with you by your Holy Spirit to open the eyes of our heart and cause us to see Jesus for who he really is. And to see the deliverance that He has provided completely through His shed blood, the forgiveness of our sins. And to see the righteousness, to see His fulfillment of the law on behalf of sinners. And Lord, then we pray, please draw us then into this true and living way and cause our hearts to worship you Not only the days that we have here on this planet, Lord, but also for all the days of eternity in your presence. We pray that you would do this in the name of Jesus. Thank you. Amen.