Well, we've had a number of messages recently to challenge your socks off, haven't we? Back in March, we had the month of missions and evangelism. In which you were challenged to tell and to go beyond your ability. In April we had the Vision 91 campaign in which you were challenged for stewardship and giving beyond your ability. And now we come to May. What's next? Well, it turns out that three weeks in today is Pentecost Sunday, the day in which the church celebrates the coming of the Holy Spirit to indwell us and to reorder our lives. And so I figured it was about time that we hear something about our resources in Jesus Christ for change rather than just more things that we need to change. I hope that's a relief to some of you. You may or may not have noticed, if you're sharp and have been around for a while, that at Pentecost time I have been for the last few years taking a look at the early chapters of Acts and the references to the Holy Spirit. And so this year I'm up to Acts chapter 2, verses 37 to 39. I'm not promising to continue that. That's just the way it's gone. But Acts chapter 2, verses 37 to 39, I'd like to take a look at that this year in three messages on the Holy Spirit to help us to see something of our resources that we have in Jesus Christ. Let's hear this sermon then, Peter's sermon on that day of Pentecost, realizing that this is the first Christian sermon ever preached. And so it's a particularly important sermon because when God gives something for the first time, he's going to be sure to lay the foundation and give the basics. So if you want something that covers the basics, it's right here. Acts chapter 2, beginning with verse 14, Peter's first Christian sermon. Let's hear God's word as he addresses us through this. Then Peter stood up with the eleven, raised his voice, and addressed the crowd. Fellow Jews and all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me explain this to you. Listen carefully to what I say. These men are not drunk, as you suppose, who have been speaking in other languages, you see. It's only nine in the morning. No, this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy I will show wonders in the heavens above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and billows of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood. Before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. This man was handed over to you by God said purpose and foreknowledge, and you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep hold on him. David said about him, I saw the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices, my body also will live in hope, because you will not abandon me to the grave. Nor will you let your holy one see decay. You have made known to me the paths of life. You will fill me with joy in your presence. Brothers, I can tell you confidently that the patriarch David died and was buried, and his tomb is here to this day. But he was a prophet and knew what God had promised him on oath. that he would place one of his descendants on the throne. Seeing what was ahead, he spoke of the resurrection of Christ. That he was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay God has raised this Jesus to life. We are all witnesses of this fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. When the people heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and to the other apostles, brothers, what shall we do? Peter replied, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The promise is for you and your children, and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. I want for you to notice verses 37 to 39 through these three weeks, three things about the Holy Spirit. The first thing that I want you to notice today is the spirit as a change agent. The spirit as a change agent. I believe that's very important to notice and to affirm in a day in which we are constantly being told to take charge of our lives. Whether in our support groups or by our counselors, the message again and again is you are responsible for your actions. Take charge of your life. You see something wrong, change it. Be responsible. And we need to realize that as Christians, we believe, as part of our understanding of following Christ, that we cannot change ourselves That in fact, while we can change superficial behavior, we cannot change our hearts. In order to effect deep heart change, we need to go to Jesus Christ. You see, if we could change ourselves by just recognizing a problem and saying, that's the problem, I'll deal with it. Then Jesus has died in vain. All he would have needed to do was to show us what we need to do. But we realize that our bondage is much more radical than that, don't we? And that in order to be freed from that bondage, nothing less than the death of the Son of God, by which we were crucified with Him and given new lives, raised up with Him, is going to affect a heart change. And so the tendency is that when you hear messages like the last couple of months, on evangelism, on missions, on giving, on going, and all these things. That when God makes you aware of an area, you may hear that area and then say, okay, that's an area of weakness in my life. I need to deal with that. And by that, what we often mean is I need to discipline my flesh a bit more rigorously. But you see, to do that is to make mockery of the gospel. Only the Holy Spirit can affect heart change. And so I want you to notice in this passage how we're taught that. First of all, notice the evidence of his changing work. That's the first thing. The evidence of the Spirit's changing work. Now think of the sermon that I just read to you. I don't know how well your attention was able to can to follow it, because it's always harder to follow a sermon that's read than one that's preached live. Extemporaneously or semi-extemporaneously. But particularly what I want you to notice about that sermon that you just heard was that there was nothing particularly flashy or clever about it, was there? There was no three points, they weren't alliterative, there was no poem, there were no heart-rending examples and moving experiences that were recounted. Now, I don't know that that was the whole sermon. It might actually have been a summary of the sermon. But my point is that it was simply a straightforward, simple presentation of the person and the work of Jesus Christ. That's really all there was to it. The power was not in the style, but in the substance. The power was in the fact that Peter was telling something that had happened. He was saying that this one Jesus whom you crucified, God raised from the dead. And we have seen that this man has raised from the dead And what's more, God has made him to be both Lord and Christ. This one is the Lord and the Christ, the Messiah of the universe. And so the people respond to the substance, not to the cleverness. Now what was the response? What was the result? Here's thousands of people gathered. We know that because at least 3,000 of them responded to him. So there must have been more listening. And what was the result? They say, ah, it's another one of those crank street preachers, you know, they're always up there railing about something. Let's just move on. Switch the channel. Find something more interesting. Or perhaps, you know, I don't need to listen to this abuse. I can move on. I don't have to take this, telling me how I'm guilty of crucifying this Jesus. Where, you know, if I listen to this guy too long, he might damage my self-image. I better not listen to him very long. He's not telling me I'm a good person. He's telling me, in fact, I'm wretched. That wasn't the result, was it? Look at verse 37. The Bible says that when the people heard this, they were cut to the heart. And they said to Peter and the other apostles, brothers, what shall we do? That Greek word cut is a word which means to pierce, to sting sharply, or to stun. It's used of horses' hooves denting the earth, putting marks in it. They were cut, they were pierced, they were stunned by Peter's words. And do you see what Luke is doing here? Luke is developing for you a picture of the work of the Holy Spirit. Because back in chapter 2, Peter had uh Luke had pictured the Holy Spirit, telling what had in fact happened. As coming pictured as tongues of fire. And then he begins to display why that is the most appropriate picture of the spirit Because immediately after that, the apostles begin to speak in other languages or other tongues, supernaturally learned. They didn't go to a language class to discover how to speak those languages, they instantaneously were given the ability to speak languages they had never spoken. And that is a sign, you see, of the new age, a sign of the fact that God is going to bring from all nations and tongues and people those who will come to praise Messiah Jesus. They're the first fruits. Right here, a people who will come and speak with power the praises of our God. Notice incidentally that their speaking in tongues was not for their own spiritual thrill. It was a sign of the new age to those who heard. And then the second thing that we have is now Peter stands up, and he speaks in a language he knew, his own native tongue, and he speaks to people, and he speaks with a tongue of fire. Peter, particularly, notice it was Peter, who had just a few weeks before, quaked before a servant girl and denied that he even knew Jesus. Now stands before thousands, and he declares with the greatest imaginable boldness, You people have crucified Jesus, and I have seen him rise from the dead. Peter's tongue is like an acetylene torch, piercing through the hearts and the iron walls guarding those people and their motives. And so do you see this is the spirit coming now in fire as a change agent? It's the spirit who is working in these people so that they're cut to the heart. And you see that message again and again in the Book of Acts, in chapter thirteen, in verse forty-eight, we read that, When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and honored the word of the Lord, and all who were appointed for eternal life believed. It wasn't of their own ability that they believed. It was the work of the Spirit appointing them for eternal life and working in their hearts, faith. For Acts chapter 16 and verse 14, we read of Lydia, the dire in Philippi, that the Lord opened her heart. to respond to Paul's message. Acts 16, verse 14. Acts chapter 18, verse 27, when Apollos goes to Greece. He goes to encourage the disciples, and who does he encourage? He's a great help to those who by grace had believed. And so again and again you see in the book of Acts and in other places of the New Testament, you and I can't even believe in Jesus. By our own power and our own strength. It's the Spirit who creates faith in us, who enables us to see Jesus Christ and to understand our need for Him. And so this is the work of the Spirit, who is the change agent. And I believe that this is a very major issue in the 90s in the church. Because the Church of Jesus Christ has come to realize that we've done a pretty decent job of reaching churched people, but that we haven't been doing a very good job of reaching unchurched people. People with totally secular mindsets who don't know whether the Gospel of John is in the Old Testament or the New Testament. And I let a study with somebody who, in fact, asked that question We're dealing with these kinds of people day in and day out. How do we reach them as a church? And so this is a question of strategy. And for many of us, it means let's hold services that are contemporary and reach the contemporary mindset with contemporary style and drama and music and other things. But there's a struggle. And the struggle is that if in fact the unbeliever sets the agenda so that all we do is to attract them on the basis of their felt needs. Pretty soon we'll lose the gospel. And we may attract people, but the people may be unchanged The gospel may be lost in the attraction because it's the Holy Spirit who changes, not our cleverness, not our relevancy Now there's no question here that Peter was relevant. The church has too long been rigid in speaking to ourselves. Very easy and comfortable to speak to church people, isn't it? They know the lingo and we're able to relate to them. It is a struggle for us to relate to secular people who could care less about our Jesus and our lifestyles, and to win a hearing among such people. Peter, you notice, spoke to these people who were unbelievers in language that they understood, in thought forms that they could comprehend. Now they were people with a scriptural background, and so that made it a lot easier. But the fact is, he was addressing them. And he was addressing them in ways that they could understand. But he addressed them in a way that they would only respond by the power of the Spirit. He did not address them in a way that when they heard the message they said, Oh, that's really neat. That's just like what I was reading in Reader's Digest last week. You know, it's the same kind of thing, you know, about getting a hold of your life and you know, faith helps and all this kind of thing. But there was a radical message that you and I are sinners who are utterly corrupt and we're very guilty before an angry God. And that God, unless he shows mercy upon us, will condemn us. Now, when people are cut to the heart by that kind of a message, the only thing that can account for it is the Holy Spirit. One of the saddest things, I believe, is that so much of what the work of the church is doing today can be accounted for by psychological principles rather than simply by the work of the Spirit. Now I'm not saying that we don't need to think through strategy and seek to be as appealing as we can and deal with people's felt needs. Do you understand the balance? The balance has to do with Wyatt Columbia Presbyterian, one of our basic strategies. Sometimes I'm afraid it's viewed as icing on the cake, but it's not. To us in leadership, it's a basic strategy that we have concerts of prayer throughout the week. Because it's the conscience of prayer that appealed to the Spirit as a change agent to work in the hearts of those who need Jesus, that you and I are in touch with every day It is why that we urge you to come a week from Thursday to the Howard County Concert of Prayer, the next of our county concerts of prayer. Where we'll be hearing from a Howard and Katie Williams who have been mightily used of God in Ohio to lead people in prayer, thousands, to come, to pray, to seek Jesus Christ. And we've invited them, and they're going to come. Because we believe they're a couple who know something of the power of the Spirit as a change agent, and we need to know, brothers and sisters, more about that. When all is said and done, we've done our homework in relating, we need to come again to the realization it's the Spirit who cuts people to the heart and makes them desire Jesus. Now, how is it that he does that? Well, the second thing then that I want you to notice is the nature of his changing work. The nature of his changing work There are two things that he changes that I particularly want to focus on. First of all, he changes our perceptions. That's A. He changes our perceptions. See again verse 37. When the people heard this, they were cut to the heart, and they said to Peter and the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? See, these are people who a few minutes before saw life altogether differently At that point, they felt no need for Jesus. There was no deep need for forgiveness, for a new life. And now all of a sudden it's the most important thing to them What causes them to see this? It's the Spirit of God at work in them. This past week I shared, as effectively as I could, with someone who I cared for, the gospel of Christ. Didn't make a dent. Person listened to me, went on to something else. I was deeply saddened by that. But I was reminded again of the fact that it's not my cleverness, it's not my persuasion, it's the Spirit of God who has got to work for a person to see spiritual realities. The Spirit works, and He's the one who changes your perceptions, perceptions of reality, so that you see that this universe is not an impersonal universe Rather that it's a universe and that was made by a personal God who rules it with his authority. That that God is in fact not a remote and irrelevant being except during weddings and funerals and Christmas time and Easter. But he is the most important being in your life with whom you have to do. He's the one who opens our eyes to see our need We look at the law of God as a list of restrictions. We like to think of them as outmoded, so that we don't have to live under their authority. The Spirit of God opens our eyes to see the law of God is in fact like the prescription of a doctor. That it comes to us to speak of what we need to take Even though we may not understand why that prescription is necessary and what good it will do for us, we take it on the faith of the doctor who prescribed it. Or faith in that doctor. We take it because we believe that by taking it it will do us good. And we see our need for it. It's like the labels on pesticides. We may not understand why they'll harm us if we put them on our fingers and then lick our fingers. Or if we take a sip to see if it really is as bad tasting as it is foul smelling. But we read the label and it says that it's poison, and so we avoid it. And the law of God says to avoid certain things on the authority of God. And the Spirit of God opens our eyes to see that that is not God who is trying to restrict our fun But he's warning us from deadly peril. The Spirit of God alone enables us to see our need then for forgiveness from this one Jesus whom we've offended and whom we have crucified by our sin. We see Jesus in a whole new light. He's not irrelevant, but rather he's the only hope for us to be right with God Because we see as verse 22 tells us that this Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God by miracles and wonders and signs which God did among us through him, as we've seen as we read the Gospels. This Jesus alone is able to save us and deliver us from the bondage of our sin and its guilt. The Spirit of God enables you to see that. Not my cleverness, not anything I can say. Even right now as I speak, it's the Spirit of God who works in your heart. That you hear those words and you say, you know, those are true. That really is true. I really do need Jesus. He really is the only hope of my life. And so Jesus, who is uniquely eligible to take our sin and is necessary and sufficient for our salvation, is seen. Because the Spirit has opened our eyes. And so they say, brothers, what do we do? Peter says, repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. His promises for you and for your children and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. So we see our need for Jesus. We see things in a new way. I remember hearing about a fellow who lived out in the woods and was overrun by mice. He had so many mice the traps wouldn't have been enough. The mice were keeping him awake at night, there were so many of them. And so he went out and he bought a few boxes of decon. And he put it all over the house and one of the boxes he put under his bed, and that night he went to bed and he couldn't believe what he heard. There was a feeding frenzy going on under his bed All the mice were eating out all the boxes and licking them clean. Got up the next morning, every box was licked good and clean. Went out and bought a bunch more boxes. Put them all over the house again, put them all under the bed again Next night heard the same thing. All the mice were going crazy, licking and consuming the poison. But after a couple of days, it did its work. Pretty soon there was no more noise and there were no more mice. Just because something's very popular doesn't mean that it's good for us. And you and I are hearing all kinds of things that people say will make us happy today. And just because everybody else is clamoring for them doesn't mean that it's good. But it's only the Spirit of God who can open your eyes to see the deception of the enticements of the images of our age and to seek for Jesus and to follow him But not only does he change our perception, secondly he also changes our motivations. That's the B. He changes our motivations. Motivations from serving ourselves to serving Jesus Christ. Jesus now is the center of your desire, not because you've decided that you would change your heart to make it that way, but because the Spirit of God has come into your heart. And he has reoriented your desires and your motives to please Jesus more than yourself. And so you see. What your desires are in a whole new life. You see, even what motivates you to please God in a new life. You've moved from law guilt motivation To grace gratitude motivation. I mentioned to you about a pastor who, a good friend of mine, was recently arrested for shoplifting A pastor who could be here at Columbia Presbyterian, a man as godly as I am, however godly that is, but certainly we're peers in our desires for the Lord This man on an impulse, shoplifted, resisted arrest, and was tackled and arrested and put in jail. When I talked to him shortly after that, I said to him, I guess you were surprised that you were really capable of doing that, weren't you? And he said, Oh boy, was I surprised. I never thought I could do such a thing. And I said, you probably felt that after you did that, that now you were really unworthy to be a pastor of an Orthodox Presbyterian church, right? He said, oh, boy, do I feel unworthy now. And I said, you probably felt also after that that you really were unable to change your heart in doing this, didn't you? He said, Oh man, do I realize I can't change this, I don't even know what to do, I don't know what came over me. How can I ever change my heart? And then I said, but you probably then, when you took it to the Lord, you felt a new kind of forgiveness and a grace that you hadn't known before, didn't you? He said, oh boy have I. He said, I feel like for the first time now I have really come to understand the gospel. And then I said, how is any of that different since you shoplifted from it was from what it was the day before you shoplifted? He said, you know, nothing is any different. I was just as capable. I was just as unworthy. I was just as unable to change my heart then as I am now. Only now I realize it. God's done a new work in that fellow. And I I really have rejoiced to see not only how our Presbytery has embraced him and restored him in his ministry, and it's still to be seen what will happen in his congregation. But to see the work of the grace of God in somebody who comes to understand my motives and my heart are radically evil. And God alone can change it. And I wondered as I met with that congregation, Elmer and I, with another member of our Presbytery met, what you would do if I had been arrested for shoplifting. Now I'm not planning to do something scandalous and startling to you, so don't think that this is a subconscious preparation. But I think it is a test of our understanding of grace when we are shocked at Christians being capable of doing evil. Now I'm not saying that that doesn't disqualify people. In certain cases, depending on the patterns and all the rest of that. But the fact is that you and I are capable of anything, aren't we? And it's the Spirit of God alone who changes our hearts and our motives so that we cleave to Jesus. And that he reorients us to turn away from sin, to guard our hearts, and to please Jesus more than ourselves. And so if you and I want to see new victory over those areas of our lives that we've been reminded of perhaps in the messages of the last weeks, last couple months, or other things we've been reading and hearing. Don't make a mockery of the gospel by trying to discipline your flesh a little more rigorously. Come to Jesus Christ. And come to see the work that the Spirit alone can do in your heart. What is it that you see? This is the so what on the back now. What is it that you see? Are you aware that you live in a spiritual world, not just a material world? A world that is in fact inhabited by angels and demons? A world in which there is a spiritual conflict going on, but it is ruled over by a risen Christ who has authority over all Do you see that? Do you live in an awareness of Satan as your foe and of Jesus as your friend and of the Spirit as your helper? Is that something you see? Then if that's dim to you, pray that the Spirit will open your eyes to see that. I've just been thinking about this in the last couple weeks in my own life, and one of the things the Lord showed me in just this past week was how I was beginning to slip into taking spiritual truth that I was reading and seeing. And kind of filing it, you know, saying for future reference, that's a good truth, that's good to be reminded of, you know, I've got to keep that in mind. Maybe I'm using a message sometime, maybe it'll come in handy in my own life, but not living in a moment by moment bidding of my Lord. You know the difference? Where when God speaks to you something, it's not a matter of put that thing on file, but what today does that mean for me, Lord? What is your impulse to me now? What do you want me to do in obedience to you now? And as I do that, by the power of your spirit, I begin to see spiritual reality open up to me. It's a moment-by-moment walk with Jesus. What is it that's motivating you? What is it this morning? Duty? Fear? Guilt? The Spirit of God is a change agent once he has cut your heart to see your sin. He moves you to Jesus. Verse 38, for the forgiveness of your sin. To come into your heart and to motivate you not by guilt and fear, but by gratitude and by love. For the Lord Jesus, who has died for you and has given to you that new life. Perhaps you fear what he'll do if you really let go. Turn yourself over to him unreservedly. You're not as happy as you'd like to be now, but at least you're acquainted with the level of unhappiness and you're used to living with it. But if you give yourself unreservedly to Jesus, you're never sure of what He's going to do with you. And there's a little bit of fear in that, isn't there? I call you now to come by the power of the Spirit to a Jesus who loves you. And it wants to change your lives and wants to enable you to do those things that He's been speaking to you about in the last days and weeks. In the power of his spirit. So by doing that, he will show his power in your life. Perhaps you're praying for someone else to change. May it occur to you this morning that it's the Spirit who can change that person's heart. Not your nagging or your harping or your suggestions or your criticism or your Whatever it is that you feel is your duty to do to make them aware of those things they need to change. Pray that the Spirit of God will change their heart. Because he's the one who takes a simple message like this, and 3,000 people are cut to the heart, and they come to Jesus. And who knows what that same spirit could do in Howard County, in your own family. In your own life, if you and I let him. Let's come to him now in prayer Lord, some of us are very convicted at this moment of the fact that we have been trying to discipline our flesh harder each time we become more aware of areas we need to grow in faith or obedience. And boy Lord, that is a burdensome thing. We are weary of that. And we want to come now and to remember Because of what your word tells us that your spirit in fact changes us. That's why Jesus died. And we come now to give to you those areas of our lives that we have been laboring to change. We come now to lay them at your feet and ask you, Holy Spirit, come and do your work. Take that area. Help us to see Jesus, to give it over to you.