In preaching, one is that after Thanksgiving, at the beginning of the Advent season, they preach on one of the messianic prophecies. As I have mentioned before, there are nearly fifty that I plan to cover eventually, Lord willing. And uh we are on the third one this year. Genesis twelve, verse three. And so we're going to consider the third of the generally recognized prophecies of the coming of Jesus Christ. You remember we began a couple of years ago with the first one from Genesis 3, 15, after the man and the woman had sinned and God's curse came upon them, there was also that foretaste of the host. In Genesis 3:15, I will put enmity between you and the woman, saying to the serpent, and between your offspring and hers, he will crush your head. And you will strikely heal. These are the words of God for the purpose. And then remember last year we moved on to Genesis 9, 25 to 27. knowest words of prophecy to his sons, where he said, Cursed be Canaan, the lowest of slaves will he be to his brothers. He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Chem. May Canaan be the slave of Chem. May God extend the territory of Japheth. May Japheth live in the tents of Chem. And they seen him be his slaves, speaking of the grace of God come with a line of ten Gentiles being rasted into them We move on to another stage of revelation as we come to Genesis chapter 12 now. We come to the beginning of the story of the patriarchs Abraham. God's calling out Abraham. And so we come to that prophecy that you see at the end of verse 3 of Genesis chapter 12 All peoples on earth will be blessed for you. Now this is a prophecy that is part of God's words to Abraham recorded in verses one to three. We see as he's calling him out to go into this land of Canaan. That prophecy involved three promises. God was promising to Abraham in these three verses, land, seeds, and blessings. And you see those three promises go through six particular promises as he states them in these three verses, and their climax. By our text, the prophecies of the Messiah to come. Notice these promises that God gives them, beginning in verse 2. I will make you into a great nation. That's the first thought. Secondly, I will bless you. Thirdly, I will make your name great. Fourthly, you will be a blessing. Fifthly, I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you, I will curse. Then sixthly, finally, the climax, and all people on our earth will be blessed through you. This promise was so important that the scripture repeats it three times. Two more times on significant occasions in Abram's life, God repeated that promise that all peoples on earth would be blessed through him. In chapter 18, verse 18. At the uh in the event of Abram about the pleas for Sodom and the protection of his nephew Lot. God is saying why he will reveal his ways to Abram gives this reason in Genesis 18, 18 Shall I hide from Abram what I'm about to do? Abram will surely become a great and powerful nation, and all nations on earth will be blessed through him. Then you remember a few years later, when Isaac was born to Abraham, and he went up to sacrifice him at God's bidding on Mount Moriah. After Abram, Abraham had shown himself faithful. and was ready to slay even his own son. But God says to him after he has provided a substitute in the lamb caught in the fifth in Genesis chapter twenty-two, beginning in verse fifteen. The angel of the Lord we read called to Abraham from heaven a second time and said, I swear by myself, declares the Lord. And because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son, I will surely bless you and make your descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and as the sand on the seashore. Your descendants will take possession of the cities of their enemies, and through your offspring, all nations on earth will be blessed Because you have obeyed me. I want for us to notice three things about this amazing promise. First of all, as you see in your bulletin outline, the outline listed there, notice the source of the blessings. Secondly, I want for us to notice the nature of the blessings, and then thirdly, the extent of the blessing. First of all then the source of the blessing. There's a great stress on blessing, as you may have noticed in reading these verses. In just two verses, you read the word blessed blessing four times. You notice in verse 2, I will bless you. You will be a blessing. Verse 3, I will bless those who bless you. All peoples on earth will be blessed through you. So you see again and again this emphasis on blessings. Now what's the source then of this blessing that God promises? He says through you or in you. In you, through you, Abraham. It's clear now that God means through the line of Abraham in this text. You notice in verse 2 he had already promised that he was going to make Abraham a great nation. And so he builds on that in verse 3, saying that I'm going to bless all people on earth through you. In chapter 18 and verse 18 that we just looked at. The nation. Um, we see um 1818 All nations on earth will be blessed through him, and then 22, 18 makes more clear, through your offspring, all nations on earth will be blessed because of a baby. So God has has in mind the blessing of Abraham through those who want to come after him. Do you remember Abraham? We got Isaac, Isaac the Gatchation. And then Jacob, uh we got Judah, and there is a separation. Those that God is continuing to work through, Ishmael is set aside. God works through Isaac, and then from Isaac the promise comes down to Jacob, whose name is changed to Israel. And Esau, who set up. And from Jacob who comes to the twelve sides of Israel, the twelve sons. And Judah is the one chosen for promise. And the other eleven are satisfied. Down through Judah comes his great-great-great-great grandson David. And the line is promised through him. Until finally you come to a woman, a maiden in the city of Nazareth. And you have uh at about uh six BC the angel Gabriel Coming, uh perhaps two thousand years after this promise to Abraham in Genesis twelve And the angel Gabriel in Luke chapter 1, verse 33, we read uh verse uh chapter 1 or verse 31. The angel Gabriel says to this maid Mary, You will be with child and give birth to a son, and you are to give to him the name Jesus. And he will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give to him the throne of his Father, David. He will reign over the house of Satan forever. And his kingdom will never end. Remember Mary's response to that, the Psalm, which we call the Magnificant, that she used to praise God, in that she says In response to this promise of Gabriel in chapter 1, verse 54 and 55, he has helped his servant Israel, remembering to be merciful to Abraham and his descendants forever. Even as he said to our father, Mary's saying, this is the fulfillment of that promise. That God was going to bless all the nations through Abraham, through him Paul, Peter, remember in Acts chapter 3, after the healing of the lame man, a preacher on this Jesus who has come. And he has in mind this same promise from Genesis twelve when we read in Acts chapter three and verse twenty-five. Peter looking around at all the Jews there says to them that you are heirs of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your fathers. He said to Abraham, through your offspring All peoples on earth will be blessed. So when God raised up his servants, not Abraham, not the Jewish nation as a whole, one person, Peter said, was the fulfillment of that promise. When God raised up his servant, he sent him first to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked race. Jesus says, this Jesus is telling us. He's the fulfillment of that blessing that God has promised to Abraham. The blessing that Abraham was to inherit was the person of Jesus, the source of blessings of all the families of the earth Paul has this in mind. When he writes in Galatians chapter three and turn to Galatians chapter three and keep your finger there because I've been trying to it a number of times. as we uh look at this. Galatians chapter 3, Paul no doubt had Galatians Genesis 2218, the promise that all nations of the earth would be blessed through you, Abraham. When Paul wrote in Galatians chapter 3, verse 16, a very strange thing that confuses many Christians Notice what he says there. He starts in verse 15. He says, Frothers, let me take an example from everyday life. Just as no one can satisfy it or add to a human covenant that has been duly established, so it is in this place. Yeah The promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seeds. The scripture doesn't say, and to seed, small, meaning many people But and to your seed, meaning one person, who is Christ. Now if you've ever looked into that verse or read anything about it You'll know that that's a highly contested verse because any student in basic Hebrew can tell you that the word there for C is a collective word. It has either singular or plural differentiation, kind of like our word fit. If you talk about a fish, you may mean one fish, you may mean a whole school of fish. But you uh don't have to use the word fishes to talk about lots of fish. And that's the same way it is with this Hebrew word, seed. When God said to Abraham, Through your seed, there's no way he would distinguish between one seed and many. Why then is Paul making a distinction where there is one that exists? Why does Paul say the promises were spoken to Abraham into a seed? Now it doesn't say he meaning many, but to your seed meaning one who is Christ. Didn't Paul know Hebrew? I thought Paul means Hebrew far better than anybody probably alive today. What did get him? What do you think Paul had in mind and what we started with two years ago? Paul thinking back to that original promise in Genesis 3. 16. And you remember if you look at that promise again, what that promise is actually saying God in his sovereign declaration of war upon Satan, the enemy of all mankind, says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between her seed. And between your seed and her. Now, you may have the word offspring or any other translation, but the word is the same word as Genesis 12, 3. And what is that seed? Well you see he goes right on to say it's saying he. He will crush your head and you will strike his ears So when Abraham hears this promise in Genesis twelve, three, where God says to all peoples on earth are going to be left through you, and then specifies more clearly further on in his life that through your seed all peoples of the earth are going to be blessed. Abraham realizes this isn't just something to come through a general population exclusion we've tried to be the beginning of. It's not something simply to come through an instance. It's something to come through that narrow in principle, setting aside So there's a decreasing remnant down through the line of David. On down through one person, Mary, the Nazareth, and her husband Joseph. So God is called out of that line. The Messiah is the seed to see. He's the one who's going to crush the circumstances. He's the one who's going to be the source. of the blessings to all people. And so Revelation chapter 12 pictures the ultimate conflict in terms of a combat between Sue, the seed of the woman and the dragon. And when you read in Revelation chapter 12, that cosmic conflict of the woman who bore a child, that child was taken up to God, and the dragon assaults the child and seeks to destroy it. We're not left in any doubt who that seed is that the woman has had, who is combating the dragon. But when that seed of the woman destroys the serpent, we read in Revelation chapter 12 in verse 10. Then there was a loud voice in heaven saying, Now has come the salvation and the power, and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Messiah. To the accuser of our brothers who accuses them before our God day and night has been hurled down. They overcame by the blood of the Lamb. And by the word of their testimony, they did not love their lives so much as to strengthen from death. Therefore, rejoice in heaven And you who dwell in them, the woe to the earth and the sea, because the devil has gone down to you, and he's filled with fury. Because he knows it's fine. The key, the woman, the source of blessings for all the nations, has struck the crushing blood to the face, and knows the high store. And so it brings it in your life, in my life, in society, in the world in general. Because the source of all blessings is about to bring in the spirit. You see, is the only source of money. There is no other whatever. Apart from Jesus, all there is is cursing. That's why Jesus says when he looks back and he talks about himself, the coming, the promise of God. But in John 8, 56, Abraham looked forward to my day. And when he re- and Abraham in seeing my days, rejoice to see me. Jesus says that Abraham realized that the that the promised blessing that God has made was not simply a nation a man. It is one person We're talking about Jesus. We're talking about Jesus as the source of all your life and mind one. Because you see, we all stand under a truth. In Galatians chapter 3 again. Just a few verses before he talks about the trees. Notice what he says in verse 10 Paul says, all who rely on observing the law are under a curse. For it's written Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. Who's this referring to? Everyone, all who rely on observing the law. What's required If you are going to rely on your own good works, if you're going to rely on how you live your life to make you acceptable before God. What's suspended if you could measure that by? Notice what he says. Cursed is everyone who does not continue To do everything written in the book of the law. Look, the God And to everyone that you need, without paws or slaves. That's just required. And maybe you're saying, well, you know, I'm not trying to keep the law I don't have any concern to keep all those regulations in the Bible. I'm just trying to live a good life. I'm simply trying to do the best that I can That's living according to the law. And you see, you're living according to the law that you've established, the law that God has written on your heart. But you're still under that curse of verse 10 because you're trying to make it on your own. The Bible's very clear. All who rely on observing the law are under a curse. Because we can't flip off in one point and be innocent. God saved it because of his very nature with perfection. Because of that, when you and I make ourselves a law to ourselves, we place ourselves in this place. That's a very sobering thought. It's either curse or blessing. And the Bible says there's only two ways. Either you seek to live on your own and you're under a curse. Or you live under Jesus. And he is the blessing of the family. And he was the only source of blessing. Why is that? Well because you have to understand the moot of the mantra. Second thing. To understand this, let's look at the moot of the mantra God says in this verse that all people on earth will be blessed through you How is that? To be blessed to see is to receive something that is enjoyed. It's to be in an enviable position. It's to be somebody who's fortunate. It's the opposite of being cursed. And if you're blessed, then you have to receive something which places you in a very enviable, fortunate kind of uh position. Now, the Bible doesn't leave us to guess what that means. The two references in the New Testament, Genesis 12. 3, both specify what is meant by this lesson. Take a look first at Galatians 3. 8. Again, just a couple of verses before the tenth verse we've been considering about the curse. God says in verse 8, Genesis 3:8, the scripture for Saul That God would justify the Gentiles by faith and announce the gospel in advance to Abraham. Quote, all nations will be blessed through you. Here it is again, Galicus 12, 3 Now, how did God bless the nations according to that verse? What do you see God doing there in that verse that is equated with his blessing the nations? It's very clear. That the scripture foresaw that God would justify the Gentiles. So you see, the essence of his blessing to us is his justifying us. So what does it mean to justify? Justify us is to acquit us. It's to declare us blameless It's for the judge of all the earth who is holy and righteous in all his ways to look at us, who are cursed, and say, is to look at you and I who are cursed by the law and to remove that curse. To look at us as those who are blameless and innocent in every possible way. For it's Henry Law with his comments in the Gospel in Genesis. If there be personal Wide and relentless, there is fleshing also in him, so extensive, so eternal. Jesus abolishes the curse. He clowns himself with swords, that he may clown his people. Jesus transacts this gracious work in the garden and on the cross, but how? Not by denying any claims of the Lord. Not by suing for mitigation, making excuses, not by pleading extenuations, not by asking for any clemency. No, he honors and magnifies the law to the utterment. He glorifies the command of just and righteous and good. He grants that the curse is fully merited, and that it must be fully born. And then let it all depend, he cried, but not on the poor sinner. I offer myself. To endure the whole and upon he the whole issue. He has made a curse for us The sword of vengeance to the very milk is seated in his death. The last drag of wrath is rained by him Not one drop remains for those whom he represents. And thus Jesus takes all the curse out of the hands of God And stand as the one blessing for all the world. There's no more purpose, no more anger. No more for you or for me. But I'll be back. Because it's Jesus has taken the curse. We see Galatians 3, 13 and 14 tells us that he became a curse for us So that, in order that the blessing given, promised to Abraham, Genesis 12, 3, might come to the Gentiles through Jesus Christ. So that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit. What was that promise, that blessing to Abraham? The promise of the Spirit It's the kingdom. Jesus born the kingdom. He do it on us. We have the blood. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3 tells us But praise be to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realm with every spiritual blessing in Jesus Christ. The blessings you need in the life of the Lord. peace of mind, God's direction in your life. For the recognition that you can rest your head tonight with a quiet confidence. With the assurance that if you were to die in your sleep, you'd wake up in heaven? Is it the recognition, the need to know that God is taking care of you and all that he needs to your family? All spiritual blessings are ours because Jesus in the current form. He justified us. He declared us innocent. He brought it to himself. The second thing If you find in Acts chapter three, remember again that we just looked at in Peter's note and how he describes the nature of the blessings that God promised in Genesis 12. 3 In Acts twenty in Acts 3. 25, Peter had said, that you are heirs of the prophets and of the covenant God made with your fathers, and he said to Abraham, Through your offspring, all the peoples on the earth will be blessed. When God raised up his servants, he sent him first to bless you by doing what? By turning into you from your wicked ways. Uh that's why you do not use us. When's the last time you called somebody to turn from their wicked ways? It's just something that that seems foreign to us. You know, I I had a fellow in my office recently and he was telling me how he had left his wife and two kids had begun living with a girlfriend. And the reason that he had to do this was because there was no choice left for him Things were too terrible at home, and for his own peace and happiness he had to do with. You know, we we can rationalize anything today In a society that says that our own joy and peace and happiness are uppermost in the values, then everything is consumed under. Anything can be justified as long as I'm not hurting somebody in my own estimation too bad to tell myself that it's right to do. The Bible doesn't use that language. The Bible says you go any way except God's way, except the people. The Bible says you go any way except the principles and the way that God has told you to go and how to treat people. Whether it's Mary, whether it's brothers and sisters. Whether it's your brother and sister in the Lord, God says you go any other way except the way I've specified in my word, not according to your private interpretation, but by my what my word says, that's wickedness. You are irrational. You know, don't call it wickedness. Call it a a mistake. I blew it. Uh I mean poor judgment. But when we say wickedness, that seems almost archaic, doesn't it? You know what God says here? The greatest blessing you and I can have is because of our own way. You and I tend to be a law to ourselves. You and I say, who knows better what is a blessing to me than me? I know what I want. I know what makes me happy. I'll live the way I want, and that's going to be the greatest good. And that's long okay. And time after time after time, I see people in my office with their lives saying that this is the way I thought that I should go. And it hasn't worked out. And for some people it's a continued string of excuse. If only this person hadn't been such a rat, if only I hadn't had these unfortunate circumstances, I'd be happy. God says, turn from your wicked ways. God says, stop running your own life. Stop doing things the way you think they ought to be done and take a look at what my word says. Follow the direction Hand to these looked at you will receive a blessing. You will receive the blessing of my direction by my spirit. Please reconciliate your What are some ways that the Lord is seeking to tell you this? Yes, he justified. You have peace with God through Jesus Christ But God is in the process of turning you and turning me from our wicked ways. Turning us from those ways that are centered on ourselves and our own private judgment of the way we ought to live in disregard. And what the Word of God says through the food. Turn is he's his blessing The promise he gave to Abraham was that he would turn us from those ways and make us to be like his own son, Jesus. I can't take it out. You'll have to rent it from me, Lord. Lord, use God's determines on that. And you'll do it. You take your words, you better watch out. You've been given to your president. God is in the past, a further people, from their wicked room. Praise for that blessing. The greatest blessing for you and for me to look back on our years of our walk with Jesus Christ. Say those things that I so cherished before I look back now and I heard of the blessing of knowing Jesus Christ in the whole thing. Curse and be clean. Finally, the last thing we see in the sense is the extent of the blast. The extent of the blast How expensive is it? All people on earth will be blessed through you. All people on earth are going to receive this blessing of justification and sanctification, being turned from our wicked ways. through the Messiah that's to come from you. God specifies a little more clearly as we come down into Isaiah what he means by that promise. But God speaking to the Messiah, his son, in Isaiah chapter 49. The verse 5 and 6, the Lord says, He's informed me in the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob. Jacob remembers Abraham. Grandson, to bring Jacob back to him, the people of God, Israel, and to gather Israel to himself. For I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and my God has been my strength. He says. Too small a thing. For you to be my servant to the sword of the sides of Jacob, to bring back those of Israel the last time. I will also make you a light for the Gentiles. That you may bring my salvation to the very end of the earth. Remember when Jesus was born, that's a heaven. Among the first who came to worship him for maglies. Wise men from Babylon from the east, not east, but the first fruits of all the families of the earth come to worship the king. And then Paul says in Galatians chapter 3, verse 14, that this blessing of Abraham was to come to the Gentiles. All the families of the earth that God would justify, so that you, you and I, might receive the promise of his truth and his kingdom. We had Thanksgiving a couple days ago. One of the things that God brought to my attention that is so easy to know was who discovered America? Did you ever stop to think who God sent to discover and to colonize the Western Hemisphere and the New World? It wasn't China. It wasn't the East in its mystical and Eastern religions. It was the Christianized Europe. the West, particularly the Puritans, that God sent to bring Jesus Christ in more or less a degree of purity, in some cases abominably corrupt. But in other cases, beautifully Christian. That was God's Christmas. It wasn't by accident. It was Christopher Columbus. From Spain. who got the permission uh in Portugal from Portugal to bring over three ships and settle and begin the colonization process in Western world. God's presence wasn't all of the earth would be received the blessing through Jesus Christ. But had it been for his work Paul going over from in his missionary journey and to Athens and to Corinth. into those various places on the basis of a vision and Europe receiving the gospel, and from that God using Europe to colonize the West. The gospel, naturally speaking, might have remained in a very small corner of the world. God. We worked in this promise given to Abraham nearly four thousand years ago. To bring about the capturation of the gospel in the civilized world. Because his purpose is to all family on the earth. How did you do this for the gospel? See in the bulletin that we're going to be having a slide show on January the third about the methods that God is using in our day. to evangelize the earth. When do you read that? What's your first response? Oh, well that's one week is pretty dispensable for me. That has nothing to do with me All I'm concerned about is just trying to keep with my job and take care of my home and keep things together. I I'm sort of just trying to maintain in my own small community my own sanity and progress of the gospel in any way I can. Don't talk to me about all the earth. I can't take it The people and I have in our worship of the Lord the kind of concern that Lord do not have You're the God of all the families of the European, and your concern is all concerned. Therefore, that's my concern. What do you do is to read up on other cultures and what God is doing and listening to them? But he suggested if you say, Well, I don't really have too much, at least start with that insert, church around the world. Hear it as a prayer of God. Begin to acquaint yourself with some parts of the world that you can pray for specifically. Acquaint yourself by reading up on those areas. Don't be an expert on the whole world. I don't even know that you maybe can do that. But take some part of the world to concern yourself with God's work there. Pray for a specific mission, a missionary family. May your family adopt some family so that your kids perhaps identify with their kids and you begin to get a bigger scope. God's blessing, through this, begin to see that it's all back of the earth that we can tell you blessing. You and I have been given the greatest blessings the world has ever known. Jesus Christ has taken our life. Returning from our wicked ways. He wants to use you and me in the process of calling all people to himself, beginning right where you are, declaring the doctor. Do you have that blessing in God with me? Or are you a foreigner? Do you have the blessing of knowing that you're saved and forgiveness? That Jesus Christ is guide for you personally, that his work was sufficient for you, and that your sins have been taken away It is in the process of turning you right now from your become like Jesus Christ. If you don't have that assurance this morning, I urge you, I please with you, I pray for you, don't go out. coming to Jesus Christ. Remember there's only two alternatives. Either you're under his curse or you're under his brother. And there is no little glance. Oh God. It's so easy to read these words if you spoke to Abraham so long ago. All families of the earth would be blessed through him And if you look at that society, we're not concerned with blessings. We're concerned for just being able to live a comfortable, secure life. And peaceful life. Lord, help us to see. Open our blind eyes to their life That your blessings are the most important thing in all the earth to us. Your peace. Your security. You're turning us from our wicked ways. You're turning us to Jesus, the only source of blessings We pray for anyone here this morning who has come in not sure about that or perhaps toying around with the gospel Seeing Jesus as good is not their only hope for salvation Father, only you can cause us to see our need for Him. We pray that you would do that. And we pray, Father, that you would bring into our hearts a rejoicing. Jesus is our blessing. Jesus is our justification. Jesus is turning us from our warp and our rotten ways. To become like him, loving, wise, obedient to him, trusting Lord, thank you for that blessing. Teach us to value it, cherish it. I pray that you would cause each one of us to recognize the areas of our life right now that we want to be in. And that you would give to us a bigger understanding of the God. And we would see that it doesn't relate simply to us and our family in our community. We relate to all the families in the earth. And that none of us are exempt from that interest But even as we worship you, we must either worship you as the God of all the earth, or we don't worship you as you are. Speak to the Father of your people, an increasing interest in the worldwide Church of Jesus Christ in our place in that Tell us Lord by prayer and our giving and various activities how we can be involved when you're reaching the earth with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We pray these things. In response to your word, that you have spoken to us this morning for Jesus. Amen.