If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter two. Gospel of Matthew chapter two, which we're going to be looking at this Advent season, we have four different Accounts or stories or narratives. And at the heart of each one of those accounts is a prophecy that's fulfilled. If you look at Matthew chapter 2, in the middle of the first such account, we read this. For so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. In the second passage In verse 15 we read that this was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet out of Egypt I called my son. In the third story, after the women of Bethlehem are weeping for the loss of their children, We read in verse 17, Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah. And at the very end, in the fourth passage , That describes when Jesus and his family return to the land of Israel. We read And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene. What's remarkable about these four texts, before we look at the first one, I want to set the stage for this Advent series. Is that Matthew in his account of the nativity or the advent is giving us these four different fulfilled prophecies that are relevant to the the really early childhood of Jesus of Nazareth born in Bethlehem. They begin when he's about two years old and might last until he's four or five. But the overarching concern that Matthew has as he's moved by the Holy Spirit to give us this account Of the significance of Christ's birth is that these prophecies were fulfilled. And they help us to understand something of Christmas that is very important to know. It's very important to know that these prophecies were fulfilled. It's important to understand what they tell us about the significance of Christ's birth. So today we're going to look at the first one. That's verses one. Through 12. Next Sunday we'll look at the second. The third Sunday of Advent the third. And the last Sunday of Advent we'll look at the fourth. Before I read for us Matthew chapter 2, verses 1 through 12, let's pray. Almighty God, we thank you for this day, and Lord, we ask that you bless it to us. We thank you for this text. We thank you for the scriptures. We thank you for the Bible you've given us. We ask that you would bless the reading of it to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, we ask your blessing on that as well. Lord, we pray that all of us, whether we are here because there's no children's church or whether we have sat through a thousand sermons, Lord, We pray that by your grace we might hear something that is of use to us in our walk with you. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew chapter 2, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born They told him, in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly, and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him Then opening their treasures they offered him gifts, gold and frankincense, and myrrh. And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. This ends the reading of God's Word. When you think about this text, lots of things come to mind. The fact that Jesus is living in a house now and not laying in a manger, that he's a tiny little boy, a toddler, not an infant. The fact that there were three gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh, and maybe there were three wise men. That's what church tradition tells us. Although the Bible doesn't specify, there might have been two, there might have been ten. The fact that Herod is a liar, and we know the story. He just wanted to find out where Jesus was, not to worship him, but to kill him. We think about the star and we wonder what exactly was it? Some astronomical phenomenon, a comet? We think about a lot of things. But I think in the midst of all of those things that are good and important and beautiful things to be thinking about, we sometimes forget about Really, the main thing that this text tells us in light of Matthew's concern in the entirety of the chapter, and that is the fulfillment of a specific prophecy. That despite all these other good and true and important things, each of which deserves a sermon series of its own, this account Set up as it is with all these wonderful deep details is really focused on the fulfillment of a prophecy. And the context helps to create the significance of that prophecy's fulfillment. And what is that prophecy? And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Now, as we look at this prophecy and its fulfillment, there are three things I want us to see this morning that I discovered myself in doing a deep dive in it as I prepared for this Advent series. The first is a reminder that we celebrate a Messiah who came from nowhere. He came from Bethlehem. I want you to think about places that are insignificant to you. And if you were to think of places that are insignificant to you, none of us would mention Bethlehem. And yet, if we had been alive at the time of Joseph and Mary, it might be the case that none of us would have mentioned Bethlehem because we hadn't even heard of it. Bethlehem Too little to be counted among the clans of Judah. Bethlehem, despite the perhaps notoriety it gained in being the scene geographically The Book of Ruth, Bethlehem was a tiny, insignificant village, noted only for having a collection of pastors and shepherds who tended the temple flocks. during the time of Jesus. A place that had fallen on such hard times that the generations born there had moved away. Remember, Joseph was by rights someone who had to go back and report for the census. To Bethlehem, but he wasn't living there. Imagine a small run -down town that had lost its economic vitality and the kids who grew up there moved far away. And it was an aging, fragile economy, shrinking year after year, of no significance, with nothing to brag about, just holding on That's Bethlehem. In the day of its economic health, it was too little to be considered among the clans of Judah. But now in the days of Herod, it's even less than that Jesus came and was born in Bethlehem. Nobody would expect anything good to come from Bethlehem. Nobody would expect that Bethlehem was going to produce a great hero of God's people. Nobody would expect that a place like Bethlehem could become a source of hope In fact, when Herod has to inquire about where this Messiah was going to be born, where this king was going to be born, he has to assemble everybody, all the chief priests, all the scribes. And they have to do a deep dive to recollect this scripture. There doesn't appear to have been any great anticipation that let's all keep our eyes on Bethlehem, folks. The Messiah is coming. Instead, it came unsought from a dwindling insignificant community. I want you to think about what that means for you and for me. Because Jesus came unsought from a place nobody would expect That gives me great courage to think that the God who comes like that is able to do things like that even today. And how often do you think that your life has become a dwindling backwater? Now, how often do you think that God might show up this very moment? And do something remarkable. You might think that opportunity has passed you by. You might think That nothing good can be expected. You might think that your glory days are behind you and the next generation has moved on. And God might yet do something incredible. You see, in the Advent, in Christmas as we celebrate it, in the life and the ministry and the finished work of Jesus, we see this great pattern of God. Coming and changing everything. And that pattern is even replicated in your life and mine, in your family's life, and my family's life, in our churches. Our communities. When we expect that nothing good could ever come or happen or be accomplished It might be that we are poised to experience a powerful work of God's grace more than ever before, because we celebrate a Messiah who came from nowhere. We also celebrate a Messiah who came into conflict. I want you to notice Matthew chapter 2, the entirety of it, you could almost argue that it's more about Herod than it is Jesus. Verse 1. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem and Judea in the days of Herod the king Verse three, when Herod the king heard this, they told him, Herod. Verse seven, then Herod summoned Then Herod told them to come back. Verse 12, and being warned in a dream not to return to Herod. Herod is about to search for the children to this the child to destroy in verse 13. I could go on. Herod is mentioned far more times than Jesus. Herod is the significant person in every one of these four stories. And yet Jesus is described in each of these four stories contained in Matthew chapter 2 as the one who's born. Under that dark umbrella of his wicked rule, and who breaks through Herod was not a particularly good man, and he was troubled. We see first that he was troubled before we get a glimmer of the fact in Matthew chapter 2 that he's really a terrible person. We see that when Herod the king heard this in verse 3, he was troubled in all Jerusalem with him. And you might say, well, why was he troubled? Why was he troubled? Well, he was troubled, partly, perhaps entirely, because these wise men showed up in verse 2 and they said, Where is he who has been born the king of the Jews? Now that particular title, King of the Jews, has only in history been used to refer to one person. That title, King of the Jews, was not used to refer to King David. The title Jews wasn't in use at the time. It wasn't used to describe Solomon. It wasn't used to describe Hezekiah. That title wasn't used to describe John Hyrcanus, one of the great leaders of royal dignity that rose up in the intertestamental era. That title, King of the Jews, in history, is only known to have ever been used for King Herod himself, and it was given him in Rome. You see, in 40 A. D. Herod, whose father was a man named Antipater, Antipater was a Jewish Royalty, who under John Hercanus had been appointed to oversee the area of Edom Not part of the promised land, the forced conversion of the Edomites to Judaism. They didn't want to be considered Jews. They were forced to be considered Jews. The other Jewish people didn't consider them Jews. And Antipater married for political reasons, and Edomite women. He had two sons. Herod was one of them. Herod means son of a hero. Herod in 40 B. C. goes to Rome, and as his father dies, and as John Hyrcanus passes away, he arranges politically to be appointed King of the Jews. And he reigns for almost forty years. And his reign is one that is marked by great industry and building and power and deep insecurity. He is not considered a true Jew by nearly anyone that matters because his mother was an Edomite. He appoints people politically to be high priest rather than having any respect for the Levitical traditions. He kowtows to Rome in every way he can. And he is terrified that his own family will supplant him. In the last third of his life, he kills one of his wives because she gets too popular with the people, and he executes two of his sons because they're too popular with the people. And this Herod hears that someone was born king of the Jews, and he is troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. The people in Jerusalem don't need this kind of political fallout. They don't need this turmoil. They don't need the trouble that will befall them. And Jesus was born into this. Jesus was born under this. Jesus was born King of the Jews. at a time when the worst character known in biblical history to have governance over the people was in play. At one point Herod the Great was concerned about some Jewish people who had been agitating against the Hellenistic incursions into Jewish and Israelite culture, and he had them all gather in a Colosseum. And he had his soldiers lock the doors, and he slaughtered 7,000 of his fellow countrymen in one afternoon. This is who Herod was. He was a killer. Jesus was born during his reign. What does it mean to you that we celebrate a Messiah who came into conflict? When you think about the world in which you live the realities that push in on who you are, the things that constrain you, that make you feel like you can't and you aren't. When you think about the injustices that you see all around you, do you also think that because of Christmas I have great hope that God is able, with the play of just one card, completely change the outcome of this game. Are you aware that God is not in any way limited by powerful people in your life who might truly be opposed to you or holding you down? Do you believe that God is not in any way, shape, or form influenced or impacted in the least? by the socio-political realities of this world? And that if he comes with an intent to save and to work and to shine light and to bring goodness and peace, He can do it on your darkest day or your brightest day or in a nation's darkest or brightest day. It matters not to the God of heaven. And we celebrate a Messiah who comes and is born in the middle of the night. Not simply in terms of the day and the hour of his birth But poetically and metaphorically, it is the eclipse of the people of God. Their king is not of the Davidic line He is not for the temple, even though he built it to appease the people who didn't like him. He is not for the worship of the covenant God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And Jesus was born. Everything changed. We celebrate a Messiah who came from nowhere into conflict. And he came to shepherd his people. This is the most beautiful statement in this whole passage that I've read for us. And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Herod was many things. He was not a shepherd. Jesus was many things, preeminently a shepherd. How easy it would have been for the true king to be born and to concern himself with taking residency in the palace. Nothing could be further than the mind and the heart of Jesus. He came to care for his people, to lead his people, to shepherd his people. He came in the midst of this terrible circumstance. Coming from nowhere into a context of nothing but conflict with one objective. He was going to take care of the people. What a thought. What a thought that this Jesus, this ruler who would come Would not be concerned with solidifying his rule, executing his agenda. He would come simply with the goal Of doing what would be redeeming for the people, you, me And not just us. Not just us. We read in this prophecy that He will shepherd my people, Israel. Isaiah 45, 22 and 49, 5-7 make it clear that this is just the beginning of his work. It is too small a thing, those texts tell us, for my servant, says the living God through Isaiah the prophet. To come just for this people. But even the islands will come. And even in this text, we see that Jesus comes to attract even the people from the far, far east. Kings, nations come to his glory, and he will shepherd them all. Isn't it something? That you who feel neglected, you who feel like you're in a world full of conflict, you who feel like you are residing nowhere and going nowhere, have a Christmas story that tells us that it is precisely in circumstances and contexts like this That the God of the heaven and earth chooses to come and do his greatest work. And Christmas, if it is about anything, is about God coming to redeem and to rescue. People living in darkness. People living without hope. People in their utter brokenness. People who have not been cared for by this world. And it is into this world that this divine king is born. And the summation of his whole life and work is one word. Come. Come and enroll in my kingdom. Repent and believe that I, Jesus of Nazareth. And the living God who took on your flesh, to be for you, not against you, to be by my Spirit in you and with you, not against you and outside of you. To do my work in and through you rather than requiring you to sweat and slave for me, to pay the penalty for your sins, rather than execute vengeance. For all that you have done. As we think about Christmas Think about people coming into your life and bearing this message. The true king has been born. Think about them coming and declaring this to you. Your king has been born Are you troubled by that? Are you troubled by the fact that you're not the king? When my kids were small, there was a song we used to hear on the radio where somebody in a somewhat whiny voice, with no offense I hope, to the singer, because I think they were supposed to sound like they were whining. But they were saying, You're not the boss of me. Anybody ever heard that song? Yeah, that's sort of the spirit of our age, maybe since Adam and Eve ate the apple or banana, whatever that fruit was. We don't know the kind of fruit, believe it or not. Do you know that you have a boss and he was born? Does it trouble you? Do you feel that he's going to crem your style You feel that he's going to kick you out of the throne you usurped? That means that you took unrightfully? Are you upset about the fact that the king has been born and he's going to tell you some things about what is right and wrong, good and bad, that you might not agree with? Are you distressed that someone is born who has every right to say yes and no to you according to his good pleasure? You're not alone. Herod and all Jerusalem with him were troubled, because they knew that if the true king was born Change would come. And who likes change? You will be ripped out of your comfort zones. You'll be pulled away from your addictions. You will be put in a place where you will begin to hate the sins that have brought you rest. for short-term gain. You will be dragged from one place into another, and it won't be entirely comfortable And so if you're troubled by the arrival of the king and the message of Christmas, there's good reason for that. But despite the trouble that coming to Christ might bring to your life, to your priorities. Even to your personality, as you deal with issues that you really need to deal with. There is a beauty in coming and worshiping the true King The true king of the Jews, Jesus, born in Bethlehem, raised in Nazareth. There is a beauty in bending the knee and bowing the head to the one to whom your allegiance is owed, who has done everything for you. And he invites you, however great your rebellion might have been or it might be right now, he invites you to come to him. You don't need to get your life straightened out to come to Jesus. You simply need to come to him acknowledging your brokenness and need for forgiveness. And over the course of your walk with Jesus, your King. Your life will begin to get straightened out. Some of it will hurt. But beloved, it will be a beautiful thing, And as you are blessed by God, you will become a blessing to the people around you. Amen. Almighty God, we pray that you would help us to remember on Christmas as we put up our trees and decorate them and string lights up and bake cookies and Go shopping for presents, Lord. All these are wonderful, wonderful things. But Lord, we pray that you would help us to remember Throughout all of these holiday festivities and activities, Lord, help us to remember that we celebrate a Messiah who was born for us Not in beautiful ceramic crush scenes, but in a in a world, Lord, that was so very dark, in a place that was not notable at all. For the simple purpose of shepherding us. And Lord, help us to take hope, help us to take heart. Help us to take action. Help us to remember that you are the God with whom nothing is impossible, and you are the God who redeems even in the midst of the most difficult of circumstances. Lord, help us to see how we can be part of your great redeeming work, no matter what our context or situation might be. And help us to lay hold of every opportunity to come and worship Christ our King, who lived for us and died for us, and was raised for us and reigns even now. Bless us, Lord, and help us to worship you, our shepherd king from Bethlehem, this Christmas season. Amen.