With me to Genesis chapter three. It was awkward, my Bible was upside down. This morning I'm going to be reading for us verses 1 through 15. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, O God, for its truth. We thank you for its beauty. And Lord, even in the difficult passages, there is a beauty that is deep, because it tells us truth. Truth that is designed to direct us to you. And there is nothing more beautiful than reconciliation with the God who made us. And so, Lord, we pray that this reading of your word would be to that end. Lord, that we might see and truly know and feel the truth of who you are, what our condition is, and how we might know you this first Sunday of Advent. And Lord, the preaching that follows the reading, and as much as it is faithful, blessed to us we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Genesis chapter three, beginning with verse one, the word of God. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God did say, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened. And they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock. and above all beasts of the field, on your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. This ends the reading of God's Word. As I delight in pointing out to my children, I'm 56 years old. Uh that's saying something. It means that I'm almost fifty-seven. But it also means that over the course of my life I've probably received somewhere in the neighborhood of fifteen hundred Christmas cards. I did the math. You know, if you uh live to be 50 years old and receive 20 a year uh on average, you also have hit a thousand Christmas cards. And a lot of the Christmas cards I have echo certain motifs we associate with Christmas, biblical images, wise men, a manger scene, a bright star. A heavenly host of angels, a snake in a garden. Wait. Out of fifteen hundred Christmas trees I have never once uh Christmas cards, I've never once gotten a Christmas card that has a picture of a snake on the cover. But yet when the church, in its earliest form, as early as the second century, within uh a couple generations Of the death of John the beloved disciple. As early as we have written reflections upon the theology of the church Christmas begins in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. I earlier today, I can't remember who now, but someone in Sunday school noticed I dropped something And it was my notes, so I thank them for finding it. But I want to read you, this was written in 180 A. D. Uh John, the beloved disciple, probably died somewhere In the late 90s A. D. So that gives you a little frame of reference. Within a hundred years of the death of one of the men who walked with Christ, this is written. Irenaeus. He writes. Christ completely renewed all things, both taking up the battle against our enemy and crushing him who at the beginning had led us captive in Adam, trampling on his head. As you find in Genesis that God said to the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and the seed of the woman. He will be on the watch for your head, and you will be on the watch for his heel. From then on it was proclaimed that he who was to be born of a virgin, after the likeness of Adam, would be on the watch for the serpent's head. This is the seed of which the apostle speaks in the letter to the Galatians. From the very beginning of church history, this was seen as a prophecy that a son would be born of the woman Who would crush, bruise, fatally wound the head of the serpent, but who would himself be bruised on the heel. In celebrating and in reflecting on the Sundays of Advent, the first Sunday of Advent is typically connected to the idea of hope. And it's helpful for us as Christians to think that the very first hope associated with Christmas in the tradition of the Bible, in all of its Advent prophecies, is hope that our great enemy will be defeated and we will be set free. If you were to ask me what is my great hope for Christmas, I may say something along Gary's earlier comments that Carrie and I are moved into our house or that uh You know, one of my favorite commentary sets shows up under the tree or that uh the kids all do well in school, the two that are still in college, or that my son has a safe fire season, we have a lot of hopes. But all of those hopes pale into insignificance when they are set beside the great hope. That Satan himself is undone, and we are free. And I want us this Christmas, this Advent Day of Hope, to think about that hope. And think about it in terms of one sentence that I've broken out into an outline so that it can be easily followed, if I can find it. Found it. Here's the sentence. The first hope of Christmas is that the source of all evil will be defeated by a wounded savior. The source of all evil will be defeated by a wounded savior. You know, Jesus did not come to deal with the fruit of sin in our life. He came to deal with the root of it. He did not come to fool about with the symptoms of our disease. He came to eradicate the virus Jesus came to do something that strikes to the very heart of everything that is wrong with the human condition. And we see that in God's response to this almost ridiculous and childish blame shifting that first Adam and then Eve engage in. We're very familiar with the story of how God created Adam and Eve, moral perfection, sinless. And in order that they might demonstrate their love and loyalty to God, they had an opportunity to do so by following the one rule that He gave them. That notion that Jesus reiterates when he says, if you love me, you obey me, We see it in the garden as well. That Adam and Eve might demonstrate their love and allegiance to God, it was needful that they have one thing. that they not do out of fealty to their Maker. And that one thing is precisely what they did. And somewhat shocking, Satan, the great tempter of God's people, the one who had aspired to displace God himself on the throne of heaven, settles for what must be a distant second for him. Well then I will displace God in the hearts of his special creation. those who bear his image. If I can't replace him where he lives, I will replace him where he resides by grace in the hearts of people. And so he approaches the woman and the man together, and he tempts the woman who would have heard the instruction from Adam. So she's really challenging not just, Satan's challenging not just what God said, but what Adam said as well. And Eve says what she's heard. Satan twists things up and adds a little bit, never telling the complete truth ever. He's the father of all lies, and all that he says involves some lie. And so Eve eats from the fruit, gives it to Adam. He eats from the fruit. They recognize that they're sinners, that they are exposed, that they are naked, they hide from God. God confronts them. Where are you? Have you sinned? Adam's first response is, Not yes, I ate from the fruit. His first response is the woman. The woman you put here. She gave it to me, and I ate. Rather than immediately confronting him, God Almighty turns to the woman and says, What is this that you have done? The woman says, the serpent deceived me, and I ate And it's notable that God immediately curses the serpent. He doesn't ask the serpent what he's done. He knows this creature. The beautiful one among the angels, the one who fell. Lucifer, Satan is his name. And he immediately says, because you have done this, you're cursed above all livestock. We know that part. But God says, I'm going to put enmity between you and your seed. That means you and everybody that is like you And this woman and everything that comes and is like her. And she is going to have a seed, as Galatians points out, singular, and he is going to crush you. God recognizes the guilt of Satan and the sin of Adam and Eve. And he starts with the very grounds of the sin. And he destroys, he prophesies the destruction of Satan. He doesn't prophesy the destruction of Eve. He doesn't prophesy the destruction of Adam. They are going to experience the effects of living in a sinful world. What's been called the battle of the sexes, which really stands for broader than that, the problems that we have. person and person as we relate to one another, particularly in that closest, most intense, what ought to be the most intimate and joyful and peaceful of societal relations, the husband and wife. And it goes not only from there, but in the curse on Adam, all of our vocational work, everything that we do, we find rocks and thorns. But we're not prophesied destruction. Only Satan, only the serpent, is going to have his head crushed. Badly bruised is how it could be translated. And that is a word that must have been a comfort to Adam and Eve. that the source of all of the misinformation they got that they foolishly acted on would be redressed. I want you to imagine that you have some kind of physical malady. Many of you do. I know I've had my share. I was having what was called glossopharyngeal neuralgia, started about nine years ago, and it It it was it expressed itself for those of you medical doctors as intense pain in my throat that would radiate from here and go down to like my voice box. Intense pain. I'd have to lay down on the field when I was coaching lacrosse I I couldn't keep my eyes open. It was worse than kidney stones and I've had them. And I went to doctor after doctor and they would think it was acid reflux. They would think it was TMJ. They would think it was Clenching my teeth at night. They would think it's all kind. They were focused on the symptoms. But then I found a doctor who said, you know, maybe Maybe it's a problem in your head, and just maybe you've got an artery pressing on your ninth cranial nerve. And he did this wonderful test. He took a needle that was about 72 feet long. Looked like something you would use to administer a dose of medicine to an elephant. And I made the very foolish mistake with my very narrow field of vision looking directly at the tray of the instrument that was about to be used. And he said, open your mouth. Open my mouth. And he shot it right in the back. Instantly all the pain went away because he'd found the root of the problem. And of course it took a surgery to fix that, but man, to have the root of the problem addressed. And so the symptoms aren't constantly being appeased. Think about how in your life there's a lot of ways that you just try to appease the symptoms in your life. Now allow your spiritual imagination to comprehend this fact God has already destroyed the source of it all. He did. The head of the serpent was crushed. Now The source of all evil. We read in this translation, the ESV that I read from, that it says that the seed of the woman will bruise the head of the serpent and the serpent shall bruise his heel. Well, to be bruised doesn't really sound like dead. I mean I have bruises pretty much every day of my life from walking into things and I'm still alive and mostly well. But when we think about the translation of this and some of the intensive forms, that's why many of the translation says crush. He will really bruise, badly bruise, destroy, crush, and that image is picked up later in the scriptures. The idea here is of the delivering of a mortal wound. Now, we had something fascinating happen when my wife and I were in ministry in Vermont. We had a little uh raised ranch, two-bedroom. uh on about on almost an acre, it was like 0. 8 of an acre, and it had lots of apple trees and a little garage barn on the hill. Loved it. And we lived in that house for uh seven of the eight years that we were were up in Vermont. I was pastoring little church in a dairytown. And because our lawn was so big we had a rider mower. And I think I was allowed to drive it until I crashed it for the fourth or fifth time. And at that point, Terry said, Nope, you can't uh you can't drive the rider mower anymore. Um I was delig demoted to weed whacking. But one time Carrie's riding a mower and I all this commotion and I you know put the weed whacker down or I was trimming around the house in the apple trees And she had run over with the lawnmower a uh a ri they called them ribbon snakes. It's like a garter snake. You know, maybe fourteen, fifteen inch long garter snake. And I realized when she did that that the blade on my Rider Mower was exceedingly dull. Because it didn't lop the head off of it, it crushed the head of the serpent. And that serpent was wiggling around on the ground in death rows. And I thought to myself, what a crazy example. So I picked that dying snake up, brought it out to our green Costco special picnic table. You know the plastic ones that are supposed to last forever. They do. And I had the little kids come out and it was able to tell them, look, even though the snake is dead, it doesn't know it yet. Even though its head is bruised, it's thrashing around. Watch this. And I went to pick it up and that snake coiled itself around my fingers and it was trying to operate its no longer functioning mandible. And what a picture of the spiritual coils we find ourselves wrapped in. The head of that snake is already crushed. These are reflexive experiences of a vindictive evil that met its match, that was defeated, that gave its best. And it merely hit the heel of the Savior who conquers. Makes me a little bit embarrassed when I'm overwhelmed. By the spasms of a dying Satan, or as Charles Spurgeon put it, of a defeated foe. Because he is defeated. And Christmas is about this hope and its very first blush in the literature of the Bible given us by the Holy Spirit through Moses. He says, a savior is going to become. A son will be born of this woman, and he will defeat Satan himself. The source of all evil will be defeated by a wounded Savior By a wounded Savior. The very first promise of a Savior to be born to us makes it clear that He will pay a price. The Redeemer will be wounded. And to this very day, five bleeding wounds he bears. You know, when I get to heaven, I expect that I will see with 2020 vision and have a full 90 degrees. No longer. Will people be able to sneak up on me? No longer will I walk into the chairs that aren't tucked in under the table or walk into the building instead of Into a building. But Jesus, in his resurrection body with which he appeared to the disciples, He was able to say to Thomas, put your fingers in these holes. Five bleeding wounds he bears. They plead effectually. Forgive him, oh forgive, they cry The wounds of Jesus are still there. He was wounded for us. He was wounded for us. He paid the penalty. He paid the price. He was he absorbed the venom. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. He paid the wages of our sin that we might receive the gift of heaven He, the son born to Eve, after many, many, many generations, he crushed the head of the enemy. at great cost. So great was his love for us. And the hope of Christmas is this that the source of all evil has been defeated by your wounded Savior And this Christmas, as we think about many things, many things that are good and beautiful and wonderful. I love the Christmas tree lights, the decorated houses. I love the cookies. I love the gifts. Usually for me books. And I always get a pair of new pajamas. I have about 30 pairs. We all have our traditions. I love my little ceramic Christmas tree village with the lights slit up in it. That's all me, by the way. That's like my contribution to the house decorating. I love those things. They are gifts from God too. Simple pleasures. But the thing that provides context and the grounds of all of my hope is that everything that is wrong in this world and everything that is wrong with me was defeated by the one who was born for me in his living and dying in my place. And that's what enables me to just love that gingerbread man. To love that runny nose on a cold day. To love the turkey or the ham. To love Christmas. The hope of Christmas is yours. In what ways, in the meantime, are you in a state of enmity as a child of Eve by grace through faith? standing under the shield of the Savior who was born. God has put enmity between you and Satan and his ilk. Where are you struggling with sin? Because that's your great fight against the defeated foe. Where is that crushed-headed serpent coiling around your life? Do you need to remind yourself this Christmas that that serpent had a run-in with a heavenly lawnmower? And that its days are numbered and its strength is sapped. And that you have been set free. Do you need to struggle, knowing that you are on the winning side and the fight has already been won? Do you need to be a Christmas warrior, man or woman, standing under the strong banner of Jesus, knowing that the king was born? When the shepherds were out in the fields, the first thing they saw was not a heavenly choir, it was a host. A military term. The battalions of heaven were on display when this the champion was born. And it was a battle cry, not a lullaby Glory to God in the highest, and on peace, peace which is brought by a king on earth to men on whom his favor rests. Do you in your spiritual struggles need to embrace the victory that Christ has won for you? Dear Christian, look to Jesus. He came to fight for us. And whatever you're fighting, you are not fighting alone. He fought with and for you, and he is by his spirit in you, striving with you. It is not by your might or power, as Zechariah says, that you will overcome anything, but by his spirit that God accomplishes his purpose. That's even in your life. And the spirit of the Christmas child who was born to conquer and conquer, he did. He is with you. And is your source of hope in the biggest things that matter most in this life that we share together. So be hopeful. Be hopeful If you were to go back as a New England Patriots fan and re-watch the Super Bowl against Atlanta. And see that they're down by 28 points at the half, you would nonetheless watch that game with a sense of hope and confidence, because you know how it ended, am I right? Biggest comeback in Super Bowl history. The beauty of this life is that we know how it ends. And even if you, dear Christian, feel that you're down by 28 and the clock is ticking, I'm not sure whether it's going to be a Hail Mary or a crazy bootleg or some trick. I don't know what the play is going to be. But Jesus won, and you will too, if you're trusting in him. That's the hope of Christmas. And it's my hope, and I hope it's yours as well Almighty God, we thank you for this day. Lord, we thank you, Lord Jesus, that you came not just to model a gentle way of life. But you came to channel all that was right about righteous wrath against sin, and you expressed it perfectly and Lord, vindicating us by destroying our enemy. Lord, we pray that you would help us this Christmas to have a celebration of Christmas that carries itself forward on the grounds of this great hope that you have fought the battle for us, you have won the battle for us. You embraced the wounds for us, and we are more than conquerors now because of you who loved us. What a Christmas hope! And Lord, we pray that any who don't know you, Lord, we pray that we would come to you, even as the wise men did, even though it be from far away. That we would come to you, even as the uh residents of Bethlehem who were living right there in the very shadow of the manger, as it were, Lord, that we would come to you. Whether we know much about you or little, Lord, we pray that we would come to you. who were born to conquer. And Lord, that we would be won over by your love, and that we would have hope. Hear our prayers, O God Almighty. We lift them up in Jesus' name. Amen.