Welcome and good morning. My name is Pastor Bob. I am delighted and privileged to be the pastor of Columbia Presbyterian Church, and it is wonderful to see all of you here this morning. Before we go to the word, I want to make two quick announcements, one of thanks and one of celebration. First, some of you may notice that there are now grayish silver. Is that a color? stripes on the front of the steps leading down from the platform. Do you see them? Thank you, uh Al Edwards and Bob Weir for putting them in. Some of you know I don't see really well and that makes it easier for me to get up and down the steps. Sex, so thank you. Secondly, uh yesterday at the this church as a Presbyterian church is part of a presbytery. A Presbytery is the regional uh church. So for us it's the Baltimore environs, down to Annapolis, and a lot of central Maryland. And when we met, Kendall Morton was taken under care by the Presbytery. Now, you might think, what in the world does that mean? That means that he is recognized and acknowledged by the regional Presbyterian Church in America as a man who is preparing for ministry. He's enrolled in seminary. And he was examined in the area of his Christian life and called a ministry and he passed the flying colors and it was a wonderful day. So if you see Kendall today, I know he's here. Be sure to encourage him. And now if you have your Bibles with you, turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter ten. I'll be reading for us verses 21 to 24. Almighty God, we thank you for the blessing of your word. Lord, we thank you that you are a God who speaks to us, who reveals Himself, not just through creation, but explicitly. Lord, in your word, you tell us in propositional form, in narrative form Through parable and sign, you make so clear who you are and what you have done for us. And Almighty God, we pray that by your Spirit you would make us mindful of what you would teach us through the reading of your word this morning. Bless the reading of your word to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, and as much as it is faithful to what you are and what you have said, Lord bless that as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter ten, beginning with verse twenty-one, the word of God. In that same hour He rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, or who the Father is except the Son And anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Then, turning to the disciples, he said privately, Blessed are the eyes that see what you see. For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear and did not hear it. This ends the reading of God's Word. When you're reading your Bible And you open up to a section, maybe it's a beginning of a paragraph or a chapter or a new part that's got a heading like this one does. ESV that I'm reading from. There's a italicized heading that's not part of the original text of Scripture that says, Jesus rejoices in the Father's will. And if your reading for the day starts in a place like that, and the first words you read are in that same hour, that is a pretty strong clue that you ought to back up. Because there's a very deliberate contextualization of what follows. It's very important clearly to the Holy Spirit, who has given us Scripture through inspiration of apostles and prophets alike. It's very important to the Spirit that we understand what Jesus says in the context of what has immediately preceded. Because it's in that hour Not another that Jesus says these things for the benefit of the crowds and later the disciples and ultimately you and me What has happened? What is it about that hour that is of significance? In Luke chapter 9, Jesus sends out the 12. Those are his twelve disciples, the one we know as apostles. And he sends them out two by two throughout the region up north where he began his ministry in Galilee, close to places like Nazareth and Cana and Bethseda and Capernaum. And in Luke chapter 10, he sends out not twelve, representative in some ways of the twelve tribes of Israel, but seventy-two. representative of the rabbinic and old testament tradition that there are 72 nations in 72 languages, a representative number. He sends out seventy-two of his disciples. Remember, his disciples numbered more than twelve, but there were the twelve, often called the twelve in Scripture, and then there were many others who followed Jesus. To learn from him, to become like him. The definition of a disciple. So he sends out 72 of these, most certainly, or at least most probably, including the actual twelve. And they go out and have the same power and the same authority and the same mission that the 12 had in Luke chapter 9. They're declaring that the kingdom is come, that it is drawn near in the person of Jesus. They're declaring victory over all implications and effects of sin. Calling people to repentance. Delivering people from bondage to spirits. Healing. They're also being rejected and learning how it is to persevere in ministry when things don't go well In this hour that our text refers to, the seventy-two have just returned. And have begun rejoicing in the success of their ministry, in the fact that all the spirits were subject to them And Jesus underscores for them in the immediately preceding verses the significance of what they had done for the kingdom. But he tells them, don't rejoice in that. Instead, rejoice in the fact that your names are written in heaven. And he calls God's people from those seventy-two down to you and to me. To remember that the foundation, the grounds, the wellspring of our great joy must be the fact that in and by Jesus Christ we are redeemed. And there will be many successes and failures that cause limited joy or the lack of joy in our life. But that is secondary to this great and abiding wellspring of joy. We are the redeemed. Our names are written in heaven. We are safe. We will be kept until that great day. We belong to God through Christ. That is our joy. And it's in the context of that that we read in that same hour, Jesus tells us what he rejoices in. So we're told what we should rejoice in. Now we're told what Jesus rejoices in. And we're told that first in a way that Refers to everyone. You'll know first he 's talking to clearly the same people, the same 72, and the others who've gathered to hear the report of what these missionaries had to say. But then look at verse 20. Then turning to the disciples, he said privately. So here is a particular word for the disciples, indicating clearly that what precedes Was for everyone to hear. So let's begin with what everyone heard. What everyone heard is that Jesus exults, first of all, in a gracious revelation. And that word for rejoice, let's consider that for a moment. It's not the exact same word as appeared in the verses preceding. When you read the seventy-two returned with joy, some of you might know that the the word Keras means joy in the language of the Koine Greek, which the New Testament was written in. And you might know that because how many of you know someone named Keras? I that name, I began hearing that name back in the eighties or so where people are starting to get named Karas and and that name is a name that means joy, just like Zoe means life, and some of these that's it Different words are coming back into vogue as names, but Keris is one of them. This word is not Keras. In that same hour he rejoiced. This word is a word that is perhaps better translated, exalt. But our translators of the modern Bible didn't use the word exalt, because how often do you use the word exalt? When's the last time you said I exulted in the fact that the Denver Broncos won last night? Yeah. Sorry about that. I just stepped on someone's toes. As a preacher, I'm wont to do that, but not over football choices. We don't use the word exalt, so that word is something that as translators we tend to sometimes not include. However This word, rejoice, is the same word that Mary uses in the Gospel of Luke when she exalts in God her Savior over the promise of the Messiah she is carrying. This is a deep, it is a soul deep, not merely a bone deep joy that is expressed. He exalts in the fact That there has been a gracious revelation from and by God to people like you and me. He says, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. Your gracious will was to make certain that the great mystery of your saving work Would not be something accessible by means of intelligence or wisdom. Think of the horrific injustice of such a thing If you had to have a certain IQ as we measure it today in order to understand the gospel. What would be the effect? The people by virtue of education her background or native ability simply didn't have the capacity to lay hold of Christ by faith. I've pastored many people in different ways over the last 30-some years. One very unique family unit that I pastored was a mother and her special needs son. The son had special needs and was by no means intelligent. He was communicative, but he was not smart. The mom was literally a card-carrying mensa member. Kids, if you don't know what the mensa club is, it means your IQ is uh something above what mine is. Is it a hundred and forty? I I don't know. Very different in their mental capacities. But as God is my witness, I could not tell you which of the two was the godlier. Which was more sanctified, which bore more evidences of a sweet spirit that they knew Jesus. They both did There's famously a noblewoman from the 17th century in England who said that she thanked God that she was saved by an M. Saved by an M. Joel Strand, the elder who led worship, read from 1 Corinthians chapter 1, not many are wise or noble. You see, she was noble, and frankly, based on her writing, she was also wise. She also knew Jesus. She was saved by an M, not many. Thank God it doesn't say not any. But the point being made here is that even if some of us have PhDs or have IQs of over 140, It is not our wisdom or intelligence that in any way, shape, or form qualifies us to know God or to lay hold of Jesus. That is revealed to us in our weakness, not our strength. And it is in no way true that we have to have a certain profile of human abilities in order to know Christ. whether they be social or economic, all that is needful for us to know Jesus Christ is that we are like little children. That word little children is an interesting word. It was used in a general sense to refer to people that were immature. Sometimes it's used in the Bible in a negative sense in the New Testament. Sometimes it's used in a positive sense. What the word technically means is someone who cannot speak, someone who hasn't learned even how to talk yet. So Jesus is saying, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you've hidden these things from the wise and understanding, the sophists and the philosophers of our day, the rabbis, the preachers, the great men, the great women of intellect. But you've revealed it to pre-verbal toddlers. That is the point Jesus is making That his saving work does not depend on your capacity or ability to know. His work is a radical work In which he reveals himself to us powerfully and deeply. Whether we are, as the Protestants would say in the reforming years of the 16th century, Even if we're idiots or infants, salvation depends not on your IQ. Or your standing. Rather, it is because of the grace of God that He reveals Himself in ways that are beyond our understanding To the sons and daughters of Adam and Eve, who recognize in some way, some way that is very difficult for you or even for me to describe or understand. That we need Christ and we must belong to Him. It is a gracious revelation. There is no room in it whatsoever for human merit. or for your work, for your cleverness, your industry. And Jesus exalts. He rejoices And the fact that the terms of his kingdom enrollment are from first to last by grace. The Apostle Paul puts it this way, for it is by grace you have been saved through faith, and that is not of yourselves. Even our faith, whether we're an infant or an idiot or a PhD or Menseh Club member, that faith is God's gift to you. Amen. Jesus rejoices in that. And he rejoices in his saving work. What exactly is it that is revealed to little children, to pre-verbal kids? First, all things have been handed over to me by my father The supremacy of Christ, his power, the fact that he is the one who has come by the will of the triune God and the plan of redemption. Determined before the creation of the world to come and to establish his kingdom, that power and authority to bring the kingdom Is given to Christ. All power and authority are given to Him. He is the one who has come to reveal God the Father. He is the one who has come, who gives the Spirit. He is the linchpin, the cornerstone, the author, the captain. In him reside all the hopes of God's people, and from him comes all the comfort we could dare hope for. All things have been handed over to me by my Father. All things. Do you see in Jesus Christ the solution to all of your problems, or only some of them, or perhaps none of them? And you're functionally in a in a pre-Christian state where you have some creed or some confession that you assent to, but when it comes down to it. Every single thing you do is you trying to earn your own way out of whatever mess you might be in. Do you recognize that all power has been given to Jesus for the church, as Ephesians chapter 1 teaches us? For our benefit. Jesus glories in this fact. That by grace God has opened wide the doors to the kingdom, and he has been given by the Father all power and authority in its establishment. His authority over all things. Isn't that something that you and I can rejoice in as well? That the one who wrote our names in heaven cannot be naysayed? He cannot be controverted. He cannot be edited or revised. The one who by his blood wrote our name in heaven in that book of life is one who can never be countermanded by any all power. has been given to the one who loved you and gave himself for you, was raised for you and reigns over you today. And Jesus rejoices in the eternal security of his flock because of who he is. And he rejoices in his great standing. as the unshakable and immovable savior of souls like yours, souls like mine. His authority over all things is followed by the unique relationship he bears with the Father God has hidden all these things, but graciously revealed them. And what are those things? All things have been handed over to me by my Father. And these next two statements go together. And they speak of a utterly unique statement. Relationship between the Father and the Son that is unique in both directions. No one knows who the son is except the father, or who the father is except the son. There is a sense in which there is a uniqueness to that relationship between God the Father and God the Son, in which Within the inner-Trinitarian workings, only God truly knows who God is. And this passage isn't speaking of the Holy Spirit, but it is pointing us to the Father and the Son. What is true of them is propositionally true of the Spirit as well. But here we're focused on the Father and the Son, and that only they truly know each other and who and what each other are. You see, going back to our wisdom, our knowledge, our philosophies, there are certain things we can deduce about God or infer about God based upon looking at creation. That he is wise and that he is powerful. Those are things we read about in Romans chapter 1, that these things are made clear through what is made. Just like you can tell certain things about an artist based upon looking at their artwork. I've been told by one artistic expert who studied painting that you can tell if an artist is left or right-handed based upon brush strokes, that you can infer from the way the painting is way the way the paint is is is put onto the canvas. Now I could certainly never do that, but some people presumably can There are things likewise or similarly that you can tell about God based upon his creation. The constancy. The permanence, the immutability of certain facts, things like gravity Things like the speed of light, which even when it bends around planetary objects, is still subject to laws and order. Things like time itself. Things like the persistence of matter, when we know that at the end of the day we are but so many atoms collected together and bound. The fact that there is a sustaining happening in the universe, and that entropy and the decay all around is limited. And controlled. There are things we know about God by observing all these things. He is wise and he is powerful. But there are things we can never learn about God on the basis of mere nature. We will never be able to conclusively prove, based upon what we see, that He is for us love and mercy and grace. Because even though we we see those things in nature all around us, because of the effects of sin, we also see and acknowledge that nature is red in tooth and claw, and there is brutality in every corner of the world. Not just man to man, but animal to animal. God the Father and God the Son Have a unique and exhaustive relationship of who and what one another are that we cannot enter into And again, Jesus exults in that. He rejoices in the fact that there is such a distinctive, qualitative difference between God and man That God can never be dragged down as it were to our level and possessed as an item of knowledge by people like us. And we can never, however hard we try, build a tower of Babel, either by bricks or by logical truth, to reach him and contain him within our heads. God knows God. The Father knows the Son, the Son knows the Father, and no one else does Not you, not me, not Calvin or Luther, not Augustus or Paul himself. Except And this is the third point. Except those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him Part of the power entrusted to Jesus Christ that is the grounds of his great joy is the fact that he is able to reveal the Father. And we are not without hope in this world. Despite our inability to mentally or by our spiritual exercises know God, Jesus has been given the authority by his Spirit. To reveal the Father to us, to be Himself the great mediating agent of reconciliation between fallen humanity. And the Creator God, the Father, creator of all things, to whom Jesus is giving thanks and rejoicing by the Spirit for his graciousness Jesus rejoices in the fact that he has been entrusted by this powerful endowment to share that which only he can share. the true knowledge of who God is, that we might know Him and have peace and rest for our souls. And the great linchpin, the key that unlocks the relationship. between a holy God who is unsearchable and unknowable, hidden, unapproachable, in light, blazing in glory. The thing that unlocks that great barrier that prevents fallen dusty earthworms like us from knowing and resting in that great God. The key Is repentance. Repentance unto God. That means turning. That's the word repentance. It's not merely feeling sorry for your sins. It means turning from them. And it doesn't mean turning from one vice to another. That's jumping out of the frying pan into the fire. It means turning from sins to God, recognizing in Jesus Christ the provision for our sinfulness, that He came, God Himself in flesh. To live for us, to die in our place, to pay the penalty for our sins, that by believing in Him, turning from sin, and entrusting ourselves to His care , we can be reconciled to the Father. And this is something that Jesus has done, not only through Christophanes in the Old Testament, through demonstrations of God's presence, through all the types and the signs and the prophecies about Christ. in which all of the Old Testament saints were putting their faith in the Messiah to come, the mediator to come, the childborn of Eve to come who would crush the serpent. the Lamb who would come and whose blood would be on the doorposts of our life, the scapegoat goat who would come and enter into the wilderness and perish. bearing the sins of his people on his head. All of these types and symbols invited people in the Old Testament to put their faith in the Messiah to come And it is by those types and signs and the prophetic exhortations of God's prophets that God's people of old truly did put their faith in Christ. The gospel was declared in advance to Abram, as Paul writes to the Galatians. Everyone with whom we rejoice and celebrate in heaven will be there for one reason. Jesus died for them. Jesus reveals who the Father is to us. And he glories and exalts and rejoices in that privileged role that he does what only he could do. And that it is in fact done for us. We have a sure revelation. We have a means of finding out about who God is and how we can know Him. We are not left wondering, pondering, merely hoping. We can know who the Father is, because the one who truly and uniquely knows him has been given the power to declare him and to reveal him, and he does that through his word and his servants. And he's doing that even through preachers like me. Preachers like you. Parents who tell their kids Jesus loves them, for the Bible tells us so. Uncles, grandparents, neighbors, Sunday school teachers. Jesus Christ is revealing the Father through us that we might have reconciliation with our God and life forever. And Jesus rejoices in that gracious revelation of his saving work. And he rejoices very particularly in that blessed privilege that is bestowed on all of his children. Notice what he says in turning to his disciples. He says, Blessed are the eyes that see what you see. For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear and did not hear it. The prophets and kings, the wise and the powerful of the Old Testament, they heard about it, but didn't hear it. They caught glimpses of it, but could not see it. They knew the Messiah would come, but they were not privileged to be there when he did. And how they longed to see and to hear the voice of the Son of God. And they put their faith in the shadows and the types and entrusted themselves to the will of God, knowing that one day that great day of the Lord would arrive. Like godly Simeon and Anna described in the Gospel of Luke, they looked for the day of redemption and they rejoiced when they when they got to see with their own eyes and hear perhaps that eight-day-old infant cry with their own ears And they rejoiced at the fact that redemption had come to Israel. Jesus rejoices in the culmination of the Old Testament prophets. And all of the declared word that had come to God's people until then. Jesus rejoiced in the fact that his message, that we can repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand, that he has come. And history will never be the same. A victory has been won. God has truly glorified. These are the things he rejoices in. And I want you to pause and think, dear Christian, about the fact that ultimately the exaltation of Jesus Christ has much to do with you. There's one other place famously where the joy of Jesus is described, and it's in Hebrews chapter 12. In Hebrews chapter 12 , We read in verse 2 that he, for the joy set before him, endured the cross, scorning its shame. And what was that joy? It was the fact that by his death, by his work on the cross, he was winning a people to himself for eternity. It was the fact that all power was given to him, even the power to die in the place of fallen mankind. His source of joy was in the fact that on the other side of the cross would be a people safe for eternity. People that included Adam, Noah, Abram, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph. Included people like David and Solomon, like Malachi and Jeremiah, like Peter, Paul, and James. It included people like Bob Bjerkes and people like you. And he rejoiced at that. Because he and he alone had the power and the authority to reveal God the Father to people like us. And the way he did that ultimately was through the cross. Have you been reconciled to God through the work of Christ? Let me put that another way. Does Jesus Christ exalt in you? Did he rejoice at the thought of being your friend for eternity on the eve of his crucifixion Do you have peace with the Father, the Lord of heaven and earth How can we, dear Christian, be used by Jesus to reveal the Father through our words and works? Remember, in that hour that Jesus talks about his joy, he's just heard the reports and encouraged the 72 who went out. How does Jesus reveal the Father? Through sending out 72. through sending out a thousand, ten thousand, through sending out people like us here at CPC in Columbia, Maryland. To the villages in which we live, right here in Columbia, or Sykesville, or Ellicott City, or Jessup or Laurel, wherever we live To the regional hubs of DC and Baltimore, to other states where we might visit, whether it's California, Maine, or Florida. Around the world as we go on mission trips or send some of our own to spend their lifetimes far away. How can we be used by Jesus to reveal the Father through the words and works we are called to perform and speak in Christ's name? And lastly, as an exhortation, dear Christian, I would invite you to remind yourself regularly That it is indeed for this joy set before him that he died for you, that he endured the cross. And let that encourage you. Because you in no way, shape, or form merited that or need to merit that. And there's a difference between those two. How many times I have tried to pastor a soul that believes somehow or other they have to be worthy of the gospel after they've believed in it Well, allow me to set your heart at rest if I may. There is nothing you could possibly do to be worthy of the cross of Jesus Christ. On either side of faith, before coming to him trembling from east or west, or after you have been saved and come to know God your Father. There is nothing we can do to earn merit or deserve the salvation that is ours, the reconciliation that we have with the Lord of heaven and earth. It is of grace from first to last. There are things we must do and changes we must make, but none of them are meritorious. Jesus loves you. And he rejoices in you, Christian. And there's really nothing you can do about it. Rejoice in it. Rest in it. Respond to it by putting sin to death in your own life and adorning the gospel with your good works that others might see and believe Following the service today, we'll have members of our prayer team here at the front of the sanctuary. And I want to invite and encourage, if I could, I would command you. If you have business to do with Jesus, or you are not sure that he exalts in you That he is exalting in the fact that he has been entrusted with the power by the design of a gracious triune God to reveal to you the Father. If you're not sure if that's true of you, you need to be up in this corner of the sanctuary following the service, and you need to come to Jesus. When Jesus says come, we tend to think of it as an invitation. Like, won't you come to my dinner party? But we miss something. And it's hard to capture in our translations of the Bible Because that word come is in every case an imperative. That means it's in a command tone. Not a subjunctive wishy-washy if you want to. Have you pondered the fact, dear friend, that Jesus, the Son of the Living God? who has all power and alone can reconcile you to your Maker, summons you before him with that word come. And why would you not? So come forward. We have people who will pray with you, that you might by grace through faith lay hold of the Jesus who exalts in the reclamation of souls like yours. This is the message the church exists for. And it is the theme of our life together. Amen. Almighty God, we pray that Jesus Christ, your Son, our Savior, might have more and more and more grounds to exalt in and over and through us. As by His Spirit, applying your word to us, we are transformed more and more. into that gospel missionary mindset where we recognize that the thing that matters more than all other things combined is reconciliation with the Father. Peace with our Maker. Allegiance to the Lord of heaven and earth. Obedience to that great summons to come before the living God with repentance and faith. Almighty God, glorify yourself in us. Draw us powerfully to yourself. Give us victory over the sins that beset us and entangle us. Help us to live out a joyful response to your glorious goodness. And save us. Save our families. Save our communities. We would pray for the salvation of the entire world. In Christ's name we ask. Amen.