As we enter upon the week of this long-awaited crusade There's one matter that I would like forcefully to bring to each of our attention, which I think that we can so easily forget. That God passionately loves sinners. As you sit in Memorial Stadium This week, sometime, as I hope each of you will be doing, at least once, and hopefully God will bless you at that time. And someone who doesn't know the Lord sitting next to you. But as you're sitting there and look all about you, what will you see? You'll see a vast assortment of people. Old people, young people Fat people, thin people, black people, white people. You'll see educated people, uneducated people, all kinds of assortments in the human race And as you look about you to see them, I want you to ask yourself this question. How does God look at them? How does God look at them? Does he look down at this vast assemblage of people with some disgust and disdain and say, why did I create that motley group? Look at them. They're wallowing in their sin. How do I have anything to do with them? And we look and we say, why can't there be more nice people here? You know, people like us. You know we were joking this week in our disciple making course about how we have all these principles for how to disciple normal people The problem is nobody ever gives us normal people to disciple. And so we look about us and we see people unlike us, people in many cases very needy, broken by sin. And we say, now, how can God love something like that? How do you look at those people? Well, unless you and I can come to that deep and burning conviction That God loves these sinners. Then you better stay home. Might as well just stay home from the creature. Unless you and I can identify with that burning passionate zeal, that desire that God has to draw sinners to Himself But I want to use a passage that we're all familiar with to focus on John 3. 16. To remind us from God's word how much He loves sinners. Let's take a look then. God's Word from John 3. 16. Turn in your Bibles To John 3. 16, even though you may think that you can quote it, a verse that we're all so familiar with, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Let's take a look at that verse in its context, beginning with verse 1 of John chapter 3. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a member of the Jewish Ruling Council. He came to Jesus at night and said, Rabbi, we know that you're a teacher who has come from God, for no one could perform the miraculous signs that you're doing if God were not with him. In reply, Jesus declared, I tell you the truth, that unless a man is born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Flesh gives birth to flesh, but the spirit gives birth to spirit. You should not be surprised at my saying, you must be born again. The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it's going. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit How can this be? Nicodemus answered. You are Israel's teacher, said Jesus. And do you not understand these things? I tell you the truth, we speak of what we know, and we testify to what we have seen. But still you people do not accept our testimony. I have spoken to you of earthly things and you do not believe. How then will you believe if I speak of heavenly things? No one has ever gone into heaven except the one who came from heaven, the Son of Man. Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe stands condemned already because he has not believed in the name of God's one and only Son. This is the verdict. Light has come into the world, but men love darkness instead of light because their deeds were evil. Everyone who does evil hates the light, and will not come into the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. But whoever lives by the truth comes into the light, so that it may be seen plainly. That what he has done has been done through God. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, his one and only Son So that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. Let's pause for just a moment to ask God to teach us and to seal these truths into our hearts and mind. Teach his father. Teach us what this means. Lord, these truths are so familiar to us. This verse is so familiar to us. Give us fresh eyes to understand what it's really saying. Lord, the weakness of my words will never accomplish that. Holy Spirit, we ask you to do your work now of lifting up Jesus Christ. For us, that you would lift him up and show us the love of the Father, the love of the Son, and your love for us. We ask, Lord God, that you'd open our eyes, that we may behold these things, and that we may be those who believe to eternal life. Help us to identify with that love of yours for sins. Amen. Many people, of course, have favorite verses. But I think if we were to take a poll of the church down through history, and its favorite verse of all time, probably John 3. 16, would be the winner. It's the verse for many of us that we first memorized. It's the first verse the translators put into other languages. It's probably appeared on more plaques and walls. And then any other verse of scripture. Do you know that John 3:16 is the verse that God used to teach Moody About his love for sinners. It happened one day that White Almoody early in his ministry was traveling in England. And he bumped into a fellow by the name of Henry Morehouse And they started chatting and uh Moody said rather glibly, well, you know, if you're ever in Chicago, look me up and I'll let you preach in my church. Not ever thinking that he would take him up on it And so sometime later, when Moody was back in Chicago, he received a telegram from Morehouse that he was in New York and was going to come that Sunday and was looking forward to the invitation. Moody gulped a couple times and wondered what he was going to do with this. Now he wondered why he had ever said such a foolish thing. Never heard the guy preach. Didn't know if he wanted him to preach. Worse than that, Moody was going to be out of town that Sunday. And so what was he going to do? And so I called the leaders of the church together and his wife and he said, Well, put him on once and if he's okay then give him a second chance. And with that moody left town He came back a week later, it was during the middle of the next week. He came back and asked his wife, well, how did Morehouse go? And she said, Oh, he's a better preacher than you are. Always a rather humbling comparison to hear from your own wife. And uh Moody said, uh, no, what do you mean he's a better preacher than I am? What's he doing? So he's saying, Oh, he's telling sinners that God loves them. And Moody said, that's not true. God doesn't love sinners He can't preach that. She says, Well, come here for yourself. And Moody said, You mean he's still preaching? She says, Oh yeah, he's been preaching every night. And every night he's been using just one text, John 3. 16. Samudi said, Well, I've got to hear this for myself. And that night he went to hear Moorhouse. And Moorhouse stood up and he said, All week I've been searching for a text from the scripture. And I still haven't been able to come up with anything better than John three sixteen, so we're going to consider it one more time tonight. Moody says in looking back on that night, as Henry Morehouse began to open up the truth of God's love for sinners out of this precious verse. He said, that was the first time I ever really understood the gospel and saw how great God's love for sinners was. And that was a turning point in Moody's ministry. And unless you and I can identify with that verse to see how great God's love is for sinners. That our evangelism will be a hollow charade this week and relatively powerless as we seek to persuade people of the love of Christ. You know, we speak so liberally of God's love I think of just recently how I've said, I love irises, I love roses, I love strawberry shortcake, I love summer vacation You kids think of school being out and you say, I just love school letting out. I love vacation coming. I love summertime. And all of the things that we used to say that we love. And then we say, God so loved the world And that can imply to us somehow that God has a sort of an affection for the world. He thinks the world's a neat place, something nice to have around. And we so miss what this verse is saying because of our good use of the word love in speaking about God's love. Smile, God loves you. And yet we need to see what this verse is really saying. You notice that the verse is a reason, an explanation for verses 14 and 15. Notice what Jesus is saying there. In verse 14, he says, Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. For Now, some commentators think that that four there marks a transition, and that the end of verse 15 is the end of Jesus' words And at sixteen and on through the rest of the chapter are John's commentary on this, because of his speaking of God's giving the Son in the past tense and speaking of Certain things that he does that are typical of the way John speaks. Some people think that this is John's words, his explanation of Jesus' statements. Whether it's Jesus' words or not, we can't prove. But we do know that it's an explanation of what's being said in verse 15. Why can everyone who believes in Jesus have eternal life? Because for God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. It's a reason. You see, this reason would have hit Nicodemus right square between the eyes. The Jews had plenty of verses and writings that said that God loved the Jews. But so far no one has ever found a writing from first century Palestine or before of any Jewish writing that says God loves the world. No Jew had ever said that or had ever written it, as far as we know. And so for Nicodemus at this point to hear that God loves the world Would have been something that would have struck him as heresy. And yet how many of us have a view, perhaps, that God loves the church. He loves Christians But we're not so sure that God loves the world, that God loves those in sin. And we need to understand what this verse is saying The verse is a measure of God's love. That's clear because of the word so. You see there in verse 16, God so loved the world. In other words, God loved the world so much How much did God love the world? Well, there are three measures I'd like for us to notice in this verse of God's love for the world. First of all, his measure, the measure of the need That was there. Secondly, the measure of the gift that God gave. And thirdly, the measure of the purpose of God's giving that gift. First of all, then considering those who God loved, secondly, considering the gift that God gave, and thirdly, considering what the gift accomplished. The measure of the need then, first of all. God so loved the world. The world. What's meant by the world? Does he mean simply that God 's love is so great that he could love four billion people all at once? Well, I don't think it's saying that at all You see, because God is infinite. To say that God loved four people, or forty people, or four billion people, or forty billion people, really doesn't say a whole lot A God with an infinite capacity to love can love any number of people. In fact, when you think of infinity, to compare any finite number with that really is rather silly. You know, it's sort of like taking a look at one of those old blacksmiths, you know, biceps like watermelons He's able to break trunks of trees in his bare hands, you know. The physical strength of the early blacksmiths was legendary. And suppose you made a statement, that blacksmith is so strong that he can hold a mustard seed in his outstretched palm. Well, what have you said? Right? You really haven't said a whole lot, you see. The comparison of what he's able to hold with his strength really doesn't mean much. What John's focusing on here, you see, is not how big the world is But how bad it is. What he's calling our attention to is not that God's love is so great it can love so many people, but the world is so rotten that the amazing thing is that he could love it at all. That's what John 3. 16 is telling us. God so loved the world. And that word world has a particular meaning to John. Back in chapter 1, John had just said, in chapter 1, verse 10, that Jesus was in the world. And through the world, and though the world was made by him, the world did not recognize him. In chapter 7, verse 7, Jesus talking to his brothers says that the world hates me because I testify that its deeds are evil. In John's usage, this word world refers to the human race in opposition to God, in opposition to Christ and his kingdom and all that they stand for. The world is that sin-dominated system, that system of which Satan is the prince, for Jesus tells us in John 12, 31, that Satan is the prince, the ruler of the world. And so the world is that system dead set against him. In 1 John 2, 16 and 17, we read that the world is comprised of the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. And all of these things that are set against the Father, all of this evil which is against his righteousness. And so the world is not referring simply to all these people It's referring to the quality of these people. The fact that these are people who are disobedient, disfigured, and dead. There are people who are disobedient. Have you ever tried to love a bratty child? I mean, it's one thing to love a child who is mixed in its Obedience, desire to please, and its desire simply to get its own way and to give you a hard time at every turn God is speaking here of a world of brats. We're a people who constantly disobey, who are always seeking to get our own way Martin Luther, in his inimitable style, once wrote, If the world had treated me the way it treated God, I'd have kicked the wretched thing to pieces. That's the kind of world the Bible tells us in John 3:16 that God loved, arrogant, self-centered, disobedient. So disobedient that it's been disfigured. God made man to reflect him, to be a mirror of his qualities of righteousness and goodness. Yet we read in the Bible that that mirror is so blurred that when God looks into it, he can barely recognize himself. You know, it's sort of like that story, the classic, the portrait of Doreen Gray. Do you remember that story where that fella sold his soul? so that he would be able to remain eternally young and handsome, and all of his age and his character would be transferred into this portrait that had been painted And so he lives a sordid life of self-centered manipulation. And years later, he goes back and he looks at that portrait to see what it's become. And the portrait is a hideous caricature of a man, a man whose eyes are haunted, opposess. A picture which strikes terror to Dorian Gray even as he looks to consider what kind of character that picture could portray. And that's a picture of the world. That's a picture of what we have become in disfiguring ourselves because of our disobedience and our going our own way, like sheep who've gone astray. The Bible pictures this in the book of Hosea. Do you remember it tells us about Goma, the wife of Hosea, a beautiful woman who left him and was unfaithful to him. And as she goes off with other lovers, she is in a pretty good position and getting all that she wants. But her life goes downhill. And gradually her lovers become less and less affluent and less and less loving and more and more coarse in their using of her. Until finally God tells us in Hosea chapter 2 and 3 that Gomer has been reduced to a slave. She's being offered naked on the auction block, as one who has absolutely nothing. The lover that she's with now can't even feed her. Can't even keep her. And God says to Hosea, you go And you buy the groceries, and you pay for her food, and you clothe her, and you keep her. Even though you can hardly recognize her as your wife, she's so disfigured from what she had once been In that bloom of youth and beauty. God tells us that's the picture of the world. And that's the picture of His love for us. God tells us that not only are we disfigured, but that you and I are covered from head to foot with spiritual leprosy. Have you ever seen a leper? Have you ever seen someone running and smelly with putrid sores running out from head to foot? Their fingers and their toes distorted, reduced to stumps, the flesh crawling God says that's a picture of the world. He tells us that explicitly in the book of Numbers. That's a picture of the world. In Leviticus, he tells us that That's the disfigure. John three sixteen says, God so loved the world. Not only are we disobedient and disfigured, the Bible tells us, but we're dead. We can't even respond to that love. We spurn that love. We're totally ignorant of it. Ephesians tells us that when we were dead in our trespasses and sins, God loved us. We're not simply full of leprosy, we're a rotting corpse. That's the picture of the world that God loved. Totally unresponsive, a rotting corpse. But God's love is unquenchable. God's love is set upon that world, for God so loved the world. So loved the world, John tells us that he aimed his one and only Son. The measure then of the gift that God has given us First of all, notice that God gave his son. And there in your outline you should underline his. God gave his son, his own son. Those of you who are parents understand what a love for a son or a daughter can be, what it means for you to think of sacrificing your own child Remember the story that God gave in Abraham. Abraham, who had waited so long for his own son Not simply the son of a slave girl, but the son between him and his wife, the son of promise, Ishmael, or Isaac, the one on whom Abraham set his heart in all his devotion And at the age of 115, God tells Abraham, the son that you've waited for so long, and set your treasure in, Abraham, I want you to go up and I want you to sacrifice that. Son. So Abraham struggles with that all night. But the next morning, in immediate obedience, Abraham takes a knife from the firewood and saddles up the dummy. And he takes Isaac up to sacrifice him. And what must have gone through Abraham's heart as he thought of taking his own son and laying him on the altar? Cutting his neck, his throat, so that the blood would run out, and burn him as a sacrifice. And God interposed his own hand in that situation And he stopped Abraham from sacrificing his son. But God didn't stop himself. There was no one to intercede. When God sent his own son. And this word gave in verse 16 means to surrender and to sacrifice. But God sacrificed his own son. He gave him for us. We've heard recently about the abduction, the torture and the death of Chester Bitterman, who had gone to Columbia Gone there to be a translator for Wycliffe Bible translators had gone there because of a love for the people of Colombia and a desire to introduce them to Jesus Christ. In an interview recently with Chet 's father. His father had this to say. Tet was our firstborn. And so we dedicated him to the Lord in a special way. Because we had already given him to God, we were comfortable with his going into missions. We crossed the bridge then, giving him up for whatever happened. He lost his son He lost him, he sacrificed him, he gave him up. But oh how much more for God to give up his own son The Bittermans have other children. God had only one son. It was his only son that he gave up. The word there only begotten means his one and only son. There was no other comfort, you see, for God when he gave up his son. Jacob lost Joseph, but he had the other eleven. Job lost his sons, but God restored them with other sons. But there was no other son for God He had only one son. And if God could have given anything else for us, how easily and how gladly he would have done it If you and I could have been ransomed with diamonds, God would have said, I'll give you diamonds, I'll give you mountains of gold. I'll give you the world. I'll create other worlds. I could give you stars and galaxies. Anything. But nothing else would suffice. But God only had one Son. And when God gave up Jesus, heaven was empty. You know, my mother is a widow, and I'm her only child. When I go to visit her, she'll often say when I'm ready to leave, there's such a void here when you go. The place is so empty. Imagine what heaven was like when the son left. When there was no son and father to be able to communicate in ways that only they could understand. There was a vast void when God gave up his son for you and for me. But there was no other son. And God gave him for us. That's the measure of his love for sinners. Not only was it his only son, but it was his eternal son. God's eternal son We develop such close bonds of affection in just the very few years that we have our children, don't we? Dean's only a year and a half. And yet it would be wrenching the very heart out of me to take Dean away, even after this short space of time. And God, the Father walked with the Son through the corridors of eternity together But in the great infinite heart of God, the Father and the Son, what kind of bond must there have been formed between the two of them? An unbreakable bond, a bond that never knew any rift of communication. There was never an argument, an alienation, but they were always together in everything that they did. I think sometimes we miss the impact of that because we sort of wonder what was God doing before he made the world? He's just sort of sitting around being bored. We don't know what the Father and the Son were doing, but we do know with the infinite capacity they had for love, creativity. They must have been doing something together. Something that fulfilled them completely in all their activities as God. And yet the Father, at a point of time, gave the Son. His eternal son gave him for us so that he would never be the same again, but returned in the form of a body, nail-scarred and spear-pierced for the rest of eternity. Because God gave his eternal son for you and for me. Gave his son to live a life of obedience A life that you and I could never live gave his son to be a sacrifice, to be cursed by God. So that he would bear that curse that you and I deserved. Gave his son because he loved us so much. Jack Miller says in his book, Evangelism and Your Church, the Christian who witnesses needs to know that God loves the world with a holy passion. We must be fully confident that God is really sincere in his love to wicked men, and that he desires our salvation with a most compassionate heart. With R. B. Triper, we must let John 3. 16 grippus. In his words, John 3. 16 makes the amazing. Incomprehensible, unfathomably profound, well-nigh unbelievable declaration that the Holy God sovereignly loves hell-deserving sinners and that he loves them so much. That he is willing that his only begotten Son, whom he loves with all the love of his infinite heart, should go to hell in their stead. Do you identify with a love like that? And understand what it means for God to love you. Love the world. Consider lastly with me the measure of his purpose, of his love. The purpose is the rest of the verse that whosoever believes in him Should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. God then loves us personally. The whoever is a blank check. An invitation for you to insert your name and the name of anyone that you talk to this week about Jesus Christ. Read it, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that Alan Harris may believe in him and not perish. But have eternal life. Did you talk to someone about the Lord this week? At the Crusade or anywhere else. Have the person put their name in that verse to remind them that the whoever is not a promiscuous demonstration that anybody who wants in some vague impersonal way may come. But it's the most personal of invitations that you who are being confronted with Jesus Christ right at this moment and all his glory and all his love, that you May believe in him and thus not perish, but have eternal life. For God's love is the most personal of love. We need to remember that and understand it for ourselves and those that we talk to. Not only is it a personal love, but it's a positive love. Sometimes we have the view of the cross that it's almost just a fire insurance policy. You know, it gets us out of hell without understanding the other side. It's certainly true that negatively he says here that whoever believes in him should not perish. And that's a strong statement. It means he'll be acquitted. He will not stand for the judgment that is due to him. He will be forgiven. His slate will be wiped clean. And that sin which so richly deserved God's wrath will have been placed on the Son, and so he will not perish, because the Son perished Also, it goes beyond that, far beyond that. For it says that he'll have a definite, you see, an assurance, he will have Not to ever lose again, but he will have eternal life. Eternal life refers to life both in quantity as well as quality. A life that never ends. When we've been there ten thousand years, bright shining of the sun. We've no less days to sing God's praise. Than when we first begun. And after a billion years you won't have another wrinkle on your forehead. To when the Lord Jesus came and smoothed them all away and took us to himself Eternity within. But uh the word eternal refers not simply to the duration. It refers to that quality of life with him. Life lived in God's presence and in his kingdom, his eternal kingdom. And that's what he means by eternal life. Eternal life is a life of the kingdom which has begun. And not only are we made citizens of his kingdom, where everything is done God's way. But were also made members of his family, sons, adopted into the royal family, children of the king, eternal life , life Of belonging to God's own family. For God so loved the world that he gave eternal life to the one who believes in Jesus Finally, not only has he loved in his purpose personally and positively, but God has loved the world passionately. We read in Hosea, after Gomer has humiliated herself, has gone into lowest with degradation, has become One who's disfigured in her moral decadence. God says to Hosea Go show your s go show your love to your wife again, though she's loved by another and another and another and a prostitute and an adulteress Love her as the Lord loves Israel, though they turn to other gods and love the sacred raisin case. And Isaiah says, so I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and about an omer and a lethic of barla. I bought her on the auction block as a slave And then I told her, You're to live with me for many days. And you must not be a prostitute or to be intimate with any other man, and I will live with you. God applying that to his love for us tells us in chapter fourteen that I will heal their waywardness. And I will love them freely. God takes you and me as spiritual prostitutes. He draws us to himself. And he loves us freely. He loves us passionately. He loves us with all the love of his infinite great heart in the capacity of that love. And it's upon us. As his people. A people that God is determined to draw to himself and to love freely. F. M. Lehman had some understanding of this. When he wrote his great hymn, The Love of God. The love of God is greater far than tongue or pen can ever tell He goes beyond the highest star and reaches to the lowest hell. The guilty pair, bowed down with care, God gave his son to win. His erring child he reconciled and pardoned from his sin. Then the last stanza of this stanza that was found added later to the hymn When it had been found written on the wall of an insane asylum by a person who was supposed to be demented. And scratched on the wall of that asylum were these words. Could we with ink the ocean fill, and where the skies of parchment made, where every stalk on earth a quill And every man ascribe by trade. To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry. Nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. O love of God, how rich and pure, how measureless and strong. It shall for ages, evermore, endure. The saints and angel song. That's the measure of God's love for sinners. Have you believed on him to eternal life? Or have you asperned a love like that? Or more subtly, have you put it off in your response to him? Notice the verse says, that he who believes in him should not perish But have eternal life. Dear friend, there's no third alternative. It's either perish or eternal life. And the eternal life is offered only on the basis of your believing in Him. Have you personally responded to the love of God in Jesus Christ? by casting yourself on him. And if you have, when's the last time you thanked him with such a love to you? And spend time just telling him of how you understand his love and thinking about it and dwelling on it and responding to it Relate that love to your greatest need and understand that you and I know God's love not by having a trouble-free life. Not by having a life with no griefs and no hassles. And when this week you have one of those days when you know it would have been better if you had just stayed in bed. And you say, how can God love me and let me live this kind of a schedule and give me this kind of frustration or these kind of broken relationships or this kind of problem, this kind of grief to bear That kind of situation, how do you know God's love? A person who has worshiped with us in this room and who has preached God's love The week before last, he was playing in a basketball game, slammed against the wall of the court, and broke his neck. He's paralyzed from the waist down How does he know God's love now? Does that contradict that love and say God can't love me? Why would he let me be paralyzed for the rest of my life? Perhaps, just by a slight accident. We think of the words of Johnny Erickson, who paralyzed from her neck down has written, When I consider the love of God, I look at the cross that there God gave his son. And you can't argue with a love like that. How often it's the griefs and the heartaches that only amplify our understanding of God's love. Because the love of God is demonstrated at the cross, not in the hassle-free life Oh friend, look at the cross to see the love of God for you. And when you go this week to the crusade, and when you talk to your friend about the love of Jesus Christ, Think of God's love for sinners. Identify with that love. And focus on the cross of Jesus. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, how could we ever write or speak of your life In ways that we can comprehend. Truly, Father, it's a scroll of the heavens which stretched from sky to sky It couldn't contain the whole. The oceans where they drain to write it could not communicate to us the measure of it Your love is so vast and so deep for sinners. And we're amazed that you could love sinners at all That you can tolerate the world. We become so quickly irritated with it. But you tell us, Father, that your love overcomes our sin. You gave your own eternal son to win us back to your Son. Lord God, help us to see our griefs and our trials. For each one here, Father, whatever this struggle is, I pray that you would give the insight to see that struggle, that grief In the light of your love, demonstrated, not in taking away the greed, not in taking away the problem, but in your provision for it at the cross. Oh, help us to identify with your love. Your passionate love for sinners, Lord God. Give us that response by the power of your spirit into that. Oh yeah.