I wish that when we talk about the RP, that we need that we have separate And yet separate from us is too big. And we have the difficulty separate from us as birth of all creaks and all that there. Isaiah fifty-seven, verse fifteen. This is such a high level We call that these there are two ways that John Pepperd knows what exists in the eighths. His pepper is not The time to see that here for one's move is lift for everybody's things causing this. So you're both separate for space. He is the one who is high and plausible. He lives in a high and holy place, a high end witnesses. So place witnesses acts a whole different dimension of existence of the created universe that is the work that is man. It's all that we do. This picture of our galaxy fact that it took that galaxy, that picture of it. So we couldn't really see the sun Yeah, these are beyond that still black photographs of five and something absorbed in Central American continent. And if you had a photograph that large just then would you begin with the one tiny little dot that photographs And on that scale, the nearest other thoughts you would be able to see is in that galaxy. That field, the nearest other little thing Yeah, that's why it's like well, it's noise because I thought for a moment to calculate that by today I was one of that for I think it's a couple of more slides, it's a third. That are over twelve billion light years, but light years over 50 billion miles of possibility. Twelve billion times 6 billion miles from here. Whatever full we can do is all we've done that thing to do. This rooms is a conscious of every one of our Of our problems, of our needs, of everything about us, all at one and the same moment. And that God who looked at us as reality, just expand what you want to explain. And that scale that I described to a sun is just a dot within a size of the universe that didn't Used to the size of the North and Central American economics. The Earth would still be a done so small you would need an electron micro for those of the system. And on that any infant that's going to start I know We didn't want to explain this time. But that's where you covered the spirit experiences. He is never able to break his promise. He is undefiled. You will only get to do that also. One weekend the other extent. First thing this is on a man with a dirty mouth And I dwell over these things. So I live through the files of the seasons. The people that I live with are We are unclean and when you and I begin to get a glimpse of those thoughts that we see our skin and our different views and our veraclization And we no longer ask, can I do this with Christians? So all of us are easy to see this. We want God to rid us of sin. Well, we've seen it in its ugliness in his life. Humility is in the first sense. So humility is different to those who are just clear. Humility isn't thinking pretending that you are nothing, what in fact is the consciousness. Humility is the recognition that But if you were other indicators, if you're a popular writer in our slide, you can follow by the Ognandino uh written many books, they're very very possible, you can keep them all up. And uh someone who said they were a Christian seemed to find that someone's like Christian books. All the people are using this. We're just not putting those access up. But I need this proof that God saves me And my ability to not just say the first time I have faith in God and his ability, the way to conject it is And if I perfectly tens it is simply that I can have all that I want by ex my voice. I am I'm able to do all things behind the center of the universe. And if there's anything And our generation is holding the guy safe. So we need to understand reality. Sanity is to begin to understand my finitude, my suspendence upon things I'm not sure. But that when I understand that is the food resources, that is the the member of the parties and I speak what speed for them. The other part of that is one is on the distal and other Not only that I have kids, but that I am I have absolutely no hopes of fulfilling the righteous requirements of God Almighty. I have exposed authority to burden to have That part is the eye of the science, the expression of the same physical I'm quite I realize I am liking this price because I think it's happening because Turn to that number. The people who are confronted with the holiness of God and how they respond. What God says with them in Isaiah 31, 93 So these are reasonable. No there's in my Bible that says except for the references of these things. When we look at the vertical, what I mean zero times are based on that You are a woman. Now we're still you're a different thing. You're a people that's hard to preach to. Because I understand there is no possibility of my word getting through to your heart. Children's unwilling commercials, of course. They say to the sears, see no more visions. Say to the prophets, give us no more visions of what is like. Tell us pleasant things. Prophesy illusions. Leave this way, get off this path, and stop confronting us with us, holy one of Israel. We need these bulties and we need people feel the people where they are as people come in. And we take that and still compose them out, those problems needed to build these But the subtle tendency is for me to begin to think that I want this free the way we see all life in these things. We want to give a method I see people say that would great I felt good after hearing this. I want to come back but make me feel good when I hear it's things. So you and I will not in fact grow with a discouragement. We will not grow in the way of a holy discovery. The last week of questions, whatever. Because it's only as we're confronted with sin that we understand our needs. The other standards and MRIs before decided that But you have forget to implement your mind on a pressure, it's suspended on your mind, it's not different. This sin will become for you like a high wall, packed and bulging, that collapses suddenly in an instant. It will break in like pieces. pieces like pottery, shattered so mercilessly that among its pieces not a fragment will be held, even for taking coal from a hearth and scooping water out of amazing. Then you're like you're standing before this bulging wall. It's not ready to wrinkle your head that wall that you think is going to protect you the wall of the peace of your own abilities of your own ability to please God and to live in a way that will be okay that landscape Talk about how the family family room we began to see the family room feelings begin to fall on us and as they all ran out seconds after they ran out of the place But like the overright side is considerable water disability. See how it comes in over the mouth zero. Just then a weather man said that if you are in a dangerous area, the best thing to do is to get So now whatever cushions and pillows refined shield your belt with a simple space as a went into an inferior farming ball. You know what I'm saying? Some wonder if you doubt this on the session. I sat there feeling the one long ball. Now inside of this house we're walled and vaulty and ready to collapse in upon us. As I felt the closet wall bulging against my back, I found myself thinking, if we're not safe here, if the entire house were destroyed, where could we go to seek shelter? And maybe So whatever you're trying to use is your life, the other way, so it's usually It's about to collapse floodly in an infinite or break in pieces Jesus like pottery and you will stand before the holy God with nothing of your excuses. Now why didn't that a chance? Why did this do like this? All the gases are And as we So your fundamentality and my purpose is not always all these and it was a meta step. Israel lost the ark of the Philippines. And then you remember that ark with Zoltack. It's put into a Zol Circle Simmer. It's like inside the arts. You remember when that article was taken us with sleepers? People said, let's pick it up, it's how we're gonna pick it up because we'll cinnamon a card. And whether they didn't control the word or whether they were It is a bit once that we've written a placebo. Now Bible slippers article carry it on spold Legalisms with following the street of natural review as a law now. Curriculum is obedience ridiculous. It is simply ridiculous. Do you remember as we were going up to the city? The awesome thumb holds. And on the reach out of the Freddy's army got a couple of things. People did really see the Catholic words. We don't want to hear about holy systems. We want help. Only when you and I see the same thing. Within the paths and involved Captain 303. This was what the sovereign Lord does only want to do this. So the view and I begin what it's No longer are we spending running around trying to do all the things that will be enough The other thing that you've probably been arguing is I I only remember why it's a There you are, all these whole specs on that planet. That's a whole speck down there. You're storing It all around something ball on this. And yet the Lord walls You know him to be great. We know you. You don't think me Love and great to you. Right. See there's the situation of the Holy One of Israel standing behind this galaxy and beyond is the lofty one who dwells in a high and holy place of totally distinct dimensions from Israel. Far removed from all the galaxy of this world. And in that holy majestic throne of his power, as the Bible says, Like the father of the father of the world, that's the words. But it's very necessary. I don't think that's a good stuff. So back to the capital six times. This is what the high and lofty one says, he is references. Name is the holy one. I live in a high and holy place of the holy It's the Holy One who came near And he said to them in Exodus chapter 3, verse 7, I have indeed seen the misery of thy people in Egypt. I have some of them spying out the part of their street line. And I am concerned about their consequences. So I have sequences. To rescue them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land into a wood. So when God, through the exercise of the flesh, humbled that mighty nation Egypt, and he brought them out beyond the Red Sea, and they stood the other side of their enemies who were They try out the full of those and in that song they say, Who among the gods of my symbol? Do it like you, majestic peace, holiness, awesome in glory. Working on this. You stretched out your right hand and the earth follow us. Holy God. That same holy one has come down the seed of the sea. The Holy One, every one has an idea. For the one who was separate of the Creator is Greek. John chapter one tells us This is He, the Word who was with God from the beginning. Through Him all things were made. Without Him nothing was made that has been made. From the very beginning separate in time and space. This one verse fourteen says the word the same flesh made his dwelling among us. And we've seen his glory, the glory of the one and only contained from the Father. That one the Creator seems to be the same. Not only the case here is a boss under the files. eight two. Well the most amazing and direct reference. Second chapter five. Second Corinthians chapter five, verse twenty-one. God God made him peace. Who had no sin. This is the eternal word. Never sin As born in the flesh, no sin, totally obedient to the Father, had no sin, the undefiled one. He made him to be sin for us. For you and for me, the defiles. Those who are arrogantly ignoring and rationalizing to rule over it. But it is like oh But may the undefiled once even openly defiled. The cause is the kingdom of ours. Delivered from the bondage of his kingdom of sins. More brought beyond the sea of judgment. The revelation picked up on that image. We, the new Israel, are carried beyond that sea of judgment, and we think the new thought of Moses. Revelation 15, that's exactly the 50s that you have. Revelation 15 reads, we're given harps and we sang the song of Moses before the Lamb, servant of God, and our song is great and marvelous for your deeds, Lord. God Almighty just and true are your ways, King of the ages. Who will not fear you, O Lord, and bring glory to your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship before you for your righteousness. When I read that, number one, number one for the market is a little bit more. So we don't demand a whole lot of colours and the thing Experience. Explain how many of you using the floor? How many of you can honestly say that perhaps God has opened your eyes and see if you have the window open But you begin to see here it's more. I just and I feel like I'm standing in a breakfast and God wants all of you who wants to make this. God of who wants to go first. Once in a while I've given her three months. Last week somebody left the spirit. The Holy Spirit had really brought this person into holiness in a whole new way. And they were struggling with the same liveliness. As we talk together, we pray together. Then this week they wrote something. They gave it to me for their permission to share it with you. Really? With anguish I come before God. And my sins sins before. This was amazing. Somebody in our country follow us. Chooses to love and to forgive us. So I should celebrate this. I find it very painful. I want to shout, no, don't! Can't you understand? We're going to defile your name. You can't love me like that. I'm not worth it. We will destroy all that you stand for. We will see all that you've given to us and we'll slap you in the face with it. I will not find. And what's wrong with something? Sins of us all. You see my destiny, wicked heart, even more clearly than I do, Lord. This brings so much anguish. What hurts more is that you continue to look at me. You want to cleanse my soul. Never in eternity could I deserve this, so I beg, why? It's only each more burning coal from my cremandous soul. And it is here, Lord, that you clean