Brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ, you are priests. I hope that that's beginning to sink in. That you are priests in the New Covenant As we read in 1 Peter chapter 2, in verses 4 and 5, as you come to him the living stone, rejected by men but chosen by God and precious to him, you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be Holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. And then in verse nine that we've been tracing for a number of weeks, but you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood. Now what does that mean? We've seen, first of all, that it means that as priests, you and I have direct access to the throne of God, to worship him. Personally, the veil of the temple has been torn from top to bottom, and we can enter into the holy of holies of God's presence to worship Him directly. Secondly, we have seen that it means that we also intercede in prayer for one another, bearing one another in our needs and concerns to the throne of grace to find help in time of need. Thirdly, we have seen that it means that we minister to one another, that as priests we minister by getting to know one another, meeting together regularly So that we can incite one another to love and to good works, and so that we can encourage one another meaningfully, significantly, as our as we walk in the Lord Fourthly, it means that we evangelize. Now you say, where are you digging that at? What does being a priest have to do with evangelism? Do you know that the Bible says that the people that you bring to Jesus Christ are your offering to him as a priest? The Bible says that in Romans chapter 15 and verse 6. The people that you bring to Jesus Christ are a priestly offering. In Romans chapter 15 and verse 16, Paul says that he is a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles with the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God. So that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Now let's put that in a little bit of context and let's so pick up that verse, see it in the context of that chapter. So let's read now Romans chapter 15. Follow along as I read beginning from verse one. Romans fifteen. We who are strong ought to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. Each of us should please his neighbor for his good to build him up. For even Christ did not please himself, but just as it is written, the insults of those who insult you have fallen on me, for everything that was written in the past was written to teach us So that through endurance and the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. May the God who gives endurance and encouragement give you a spirit of unity among yourselves as you follow Christ Jesus, so that with one heart and mouth you may glorify the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Accept one another, then just as Christ has accepted you, in order to bring praise to God. For I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews on behalf of God's truth to confirm the promises made to the patriarchs, so that the Gentiles may glorify God for his mercy, just as it's written, therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles. I will sing hymns to your name. Again it says, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with this people. And again, praise the Lord all ye Gentiles, and sing praises to Him all ye peoples. And again, Isaiah says, The root of Jesse will spring up, one who will rise to rule over the nations. The Gentiles will hope in him. May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in him, so that you may overflow with the hope and the power of the Holy Spirit. I myself am convinced, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, complete in knowledge, and competent to instruct one another. I have written it quite boldly on some points as if to remind you of them again, because of the grace God Gave me to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, with the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God, so that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Therefore, I promise. I glory in Christ Jesus in my service to God. I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me in leading the Gentiles to obey God by what I have said and done, by the power of signs and miracles, through the power of the Spirit. And so from Jerusalem and all the way around to an Urkun, I have fully proclaimed the gospel of Christ. It has always been my ambition to preach the gospel where Christ was not known, so that I would not be building on someone else's foundation. it's written, those who were not told about him will see, and those who have not heard will understand. This is why I've been often hindered from coming to you. the Gentile believers why he has written to them so boldly. You see there in verse fourteen, uh in this particular section of that passage, Paul saying, uh I want to tell you why I came on so strong. About certain of my points. The reason that I did that was because of God's grace given to me to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles with the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God so that the Gentiles You people might become an offering acceptable to God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. With another verse. A verse that uses the same three key words that he uses here in the Old Testament priestly way. Paul here, you see, is not describing something unique to his own ministry. But it's describing himself as the first fruits of that which you and I are called to do. And we can best understand that by contrasting and comparing it with Hebrews chapter 10, verse 11 Hebrews chapter 10, verse 11. Now you may want to keep your finger in the one and your hand open on the other one so you can sit back and forth between these two verses and notice in the comparison and the contrast certain things that we learn from them. In Hebrews chapter 10, verse 11, we read, Day after day every priest stands and performs his religious duties. Again and again he offers The same sacrifices which can never take away sins. Now there are three words used in each of these verses, the same three words. The word minister, 1 Romans 15, 16, Paul says, I was called to be a minister. of Jesus Christ. Hebrews 10, 11, the NIV has performing his religious duties, the New American Standard has ministering. It is the same word, to minister. And then secondly you have this word priest, Romans fifteen sixteen, Paul says, with a priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel , Hebrews ten eleven, every priest stands daily ministering. Two the same word, two different forms. of it. Then the third word is this word offering. In Romans fifteen sixteen, Paul says, so that the Gentiles would become an offering, acceptable to God. Hebrews ten eleven performs his religious duties. Again and again he offers the same sacrifices, same word, different forms of the same word. Minister, priest, and authoring. Three distinctive Old Testament words used in a New Testament context to describe what we Now, in all the years I've heard messages on evangelism, I must confess to you, I have never heard a message that talked about the priestly aspect of evangelism. How we do evangelism. And if you understand what Paul's talking about here, you may be better prepared to understand how God wants to use you in proclaiming the gospel to your friends and neighbors. Let's take these words on one at a time. First of all, the word minister. You notice he says that he's a minister of Christ. Hebrews talks about ministering. This is not the usual New Testament word that you read for minister. It's not the word from which we We get the deacon who ministers. This is a particular word that refers to the Levitical priesthood. It's a technical term. It refers to the Levitical Priesthood ministry. And in Hebrews, you see. See, uh notice how I've tried to design the outline this morning so that visually you can see the comparison and the contrast. Now notice in Hebrews in the left column, Romans in the right column, that in Hebrews we have the minister of God who's waiting for the minister. Messiah. He's standing offering these sacrifices, the picture, the work of the Messiah. Romans shows us the minister of the Messiah, who is God, who has come. And there you see. the comparison of the two ministries. Both of them are ministers of God. One waiting for the Messiah, the other one of the Messiah. Now what is his function? His function, of course, is priestly activity. What is that activity? In Romans, we read that every priest stands and performs his religious duties again and again, offering the same sacrifices. In Romans, we read that as a minister of Jesus Christ, I performed the priest. Priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God. That which tells you. First of all, notice the contrast Between these two verses. The Old Testament priest was active. Notice in Hebrews 10:11, he stands, not sitting down, standing because he's constantly active. He's standing and offering sacrifices to take away. Sin. The New Testament priest is also active, but his offering is the gospel that sins have been taken away. Whereas the Old Testament priest offered the sacrifice to take away sins, we offer the gospel that sins have been taken away. To quote again from Patrick Fairbairn in his book Pathwith Law. The service which the New Testament scripture associates with the ministry of the gospel is one that employs itself not with presenting a sacrifice for men, but in persuading them to believe in a sacrifice already offered. And through that promoting in them a work of personal reconciliation with God. But it's so easy for us to see the contrast The wonderful contrast to the fact that we don't offer sacrifices, but rather a gospel about a sacrifice completed, that we as 20th century Christians may miss the comparison that Paul is making here. And it's the comparison to He wants to emphasize. That's why he uses this word priestly duty. He's trying to compare something here in his evangelism with what the priest did. Now, what is that point of comparison between what the priest does in all offering a sacrifice and what you and I do when we stumble through the gospel to try and share it with someone. Well the point of comparison you see there in point B, and that is that in both cases it's a solemn and a sacred responsibility. You see, you take a priest who has a sacrifice to offer. He doesn't just rush into the court, grab the first bully he can lay his hands on, grab the first pole axe that happens to be handy, and start hacking. He doesn't, once he has taken that bull, just sort of throw it on the altar, take the blood, and wherever it happens to strike his fancy, throw the blood. He doesn't uh do what seems best to him. But rather there is a closely prescribed ritual for him to go through. He washes his feet carefully at the labor of the altar. He puts on his garments and adorns his priestly vestments. Having done that, he comes and takes the bowl that has been inspected closely to see that it's acceptable. He uses the correct instruments to divide that bowl, even to the meticulous division of the fat and the liver where those parts should be placed. He takes the blood and he sprinkles it on the worns of the altar. And he does all of these things according to a prescribed direction by God. It's God who tells him what to do. They see a priest who can go in one day and say, you know, I think it would be a little more meaningful if I uh sacrificed the eyeballs. But maybe if I took the ears and I laid the ears on the altar, that'd be more meaningful than the fact because after all, you know, it's it's sort of symbolizing the fact that we're well we don't Dedicate our eyes to the Lord and our ears to the Lord and our hands and our feet. I think this time I'm going to take those parts and I'm going to throw them on the altar. Make a lot more sense to me. It's more meaningful. The priest didn't have the liberty to do that. Why? Because the sacrifice was God's sacrifice. sacrifice. And God was the one who determined how it was to be done. You remember the story in 1 Samuel of Hophne and Phineas , those wicked priests who had no desire to keep sacred the offering. To God, but rather did it any old way they pleased in order to please themselves. And when Hophney and Phineas took over and perverted and distorted the procedure of the priestly sacrifice, what was the effect? We read in 1 Samuel chapter 2 that the people despised the offerings of God. They no longer respected God. They no longer saw that this was a God to be stood in awe before. That this was a God to be worshipped. This was a God that we hadn't bowed down before. Because the priests were treating the things of God lightly. And because of that, the people didn't treat the things of God with great respect. It's how the priest treats the things of God That will determine how the people received them. And Paul says, How did I treat the gospel? It was like a priest. He was one who saw that the proclamation of the gospel was a holy and sacred responsibility. Paul said that I realized that it was the gospel of God that I was giving. Notice what he says in Romans 15:16. He says it was the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God. It's not my Gospel. It's God's gospel, just like it was God's sacrifice. And so Paul realizes that it was God who had authored and originated this gospel. It was God the Father who had put it together. It was God the Son who acted. It was God the Spirit who was applying that gospel to people who would hear it and believe. It was God's gospel. And because of the fact that it was God's gospel, it was a sacred and awesome responsibility to handle that gospel And yet, when we read so much of modern-day Christianity, we get the idea that the gospel is something that you and I can handle in a way that we please in ourselves. And somehow we know better how to offer the gospel than God who authored it. In Christianity Today, the article in March twenty one has an excellent article on peddling the promises. Which speaks about the fact that we so often will take the gospel and rather than offer it in a way that we may not totally appreciate and understand But offer it in a way that God has given it. We take that gospel and we offer it in a way that seems right to us. We make it marketable. We make it sellable. We make it something that's a commodity that people in our generation are going to want to clamor after. Because of that, we've lost the realization that it's a priestly duty. It's God's gospel. The question is not how marketable I make it, but how faithful I am to it. Because of this, we largely appeal today to emotions, to my rational experiences for people to come to Jesus Christ. So that their experience can match the experience of the person who's given the testimony, the person who is offering himself as a product of Jesus Christ A tendency to romanticize my life before Jesus Christ and all the sin and the ugliness of it. To make that something that people sort of drool over and they hear and say, Boy, that person was really rotten. Wow, that's really great. There's sort of a certain perverted delight in hearing how rotten a person was. before he came to Christ. And then to see the dramatic change that went on. And Christians who have had not such a dramatic overt change begin to wonder what's the matter with me? You know, I sort of missed out something here. I've I was having such a dramatic conversion. We'll begin to get all kinds of false notions of what the gospel is about. Because we've handled it as that which belonged to us. We've tampered with it. We've had to make it more marketable. For the public. The gospel of the New Testament has content. It's God's gospel. It's a message about who God is His message about who man is and what his problem is and his alienation from God and from others are the results of his rebellion against God It's a message, you see, about the solution that God has provided by his own grace, undeserved by us, in the person and the work of Jesus, his Son, whom He had sent. It's a message about Him alone whom we must trust. Him that we must give our lives to. It's a gospel about the offer of Jesus for sinners. And that offer, that content Must be handled in a responsible and sacred manner. As a priest. Have you ever looked at your function In sharing the gospel with someone as a priest holding a precious sacrifice to be offered to God. That's the image that Paul's giving here Now notice I'm not saying that you've got to be a theologian to evangelize. I'm not saying that you've got to get all the content down, and you've got to be able to answer all the questions that may come up before you can honor God. You can do this in the simplest manner, in the simplest way not knowing hardly any scripture, having just come to Jesus Christ in your own life The question is your desire for faithfulness to Him. Do you desire as a priest to handle the gospel in a manner that's pleasing to God? That's the question. Then we come now to the offering itself. The offering itself. In Hebrews, you notice, he says that the offering, he offers the same sacrifices that can never take away sins. In Romans, what is the offering? In Romans, the offering is the Gentiles. Who have become acceptable to God and offering to God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. First of all, notice the comparison, the point of comparison here. The point of comparison is that in both cases the priest is presenting something that is pleasing to God. In each case presenting something that is pleasing to God, and that's the main point. See, it's not something that's being presented to make me feel good, it's not something that's being presented for my own glory. But see what Romans says, so that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God. The question is whether he's pleased with this offering or not When you and I bring a person to Jesus Christ, we have to remember that ultimately we're not bringing them to the church. Ultimately, you're not bringing them to your fellowship group. Ultimately, you're not bringing them to self-fulfillment. Ultimately, you're not bringing them to become one of your disciples. But you're doing exactly what you said. You're bringing them to Christ. You're bringing them to the living God. Has that ever gripped you when you get involved with talking to a person about Jesus? We're not talking to them simply about an ideology. You're not simply talking to them About a set of beliefs. You're talking to them about a person that you want to introduce them to. You're saying, here is my Lord and my Savior, Jesus. He's a real person, risen from the dead. I want you to meet Him. I want to bring you to Him. I 'm going to present you as an acceptable offering to him. That's my concern in telling you about Jesus. But rather when we see that, when we see that we're presenting people to Jesus, then we come to a joyful abandon to lay ourselves on his altar. Once we understand who we're bringing people to, then the whole question of why we bring them and the purpose and the effect begins to fall into line. They were his people. The second thing is to notice the contrast. Notice the contrast here. In comparison, it's something that's pleasing to God. In contrast, the Old Testament priest offered, as his offering, sacrifices for sin. But in the New Testament, our offering is people devoted to Him. As priests, you and I offer not animals The people. That's exciting. We don't offer an offering. We offer the offerer. We bring the person to God. This was anticipated, you see, in Isaiah chapter 66. This I think is what Paul had in mind. In Isaiah 66, in verse 20, you read, or Isaiah here in the very climax of his book, this is the last few verse 6. Isaiah is bringing all of what he has said about the great kingdom age to a crescendo. And how does he finish it up? He says that in that day they will bring all of your brothers from all the To my holy mountain in Jerusalem as an offering to the Lord. They're gonna bring him on horses, they're gonna bring him in chariots, they're gonna bring them in wagons. He was a whole vast array, he got every colour. Kind of contraption, bringing all these people coming up to Jerusalem. Horses, chariots, wagons, mules, camels, says the Lord. He says he had a marshal, everything you get. One grand tirade of people coming up to God. And they're coming as an offering. They will bring them as Jerusalem. the Israelites bring their grain offerings. They will bring them to the temple of the Lord as ceremonially clean vessels. That's what evangelism's about. To present to our God ceremonially clean vessels. Offerings acceptable to him. And those offerings are people. People who are sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Let us learn the third contrast in these two. verses. In Hebrews, in chapter 10, verse 11, the offering was to make the people acceptable to God. And it's totally incapable of doing. Notice in verse 8. Hebrews 10:8 says, sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings you did not desire, nor were you pleased with them, although the law required them to be made. Totally incapable of accomplishing their stated purpose, of making the people acceptable to God. He says in verse eleven that if he priests offers again and again, you see, uh there's nothing effective about it, but again And again he offers the same sacrifices over and over, which can never take away sins. But what do you have in Romans? In contrast to that, you have in Romans a people who are already made acceptable. A people already made acceptable. Fully. How? By being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. God's made me to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, with the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God. So that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God. Sanctified. Past tense, you see. Something that He's done in their lives. Being made sanctified. Being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. What a privilege that you and I present offerings that are already sanctified. Sanctified how? The Holy Spirit used the sacrifice of Jesus to do it. Notice what he says in Hebrews chapter 2. Chapter 10. In verse 10, he had said , concerning this Jesus who is coming, by that will, we have been made, by Jesus, his his obedience, his willful obedience, and his death, we have been made holy through the Sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Verse fourteen, because by one sacrifice he is made perfect for ever, those who are being made holy. Now in verse ten and verse fourteen. thirteen that word sacrifice is the same word offering that you have in Romans fifteen sixteen. By one offering he's been made s he 's been made holy. In verse ten and fourteen you have the same word sanctified that's used in Romans. 15, 16. And the same thing is used again the third time in verse 18. Notice there. He says, And when these have been forgiven, there is no longer any sacrifice, or the same word offering, there's no longer For any offering for sin. The offering's been made. Because the offering's been made, the sanctification has been accomplished. You and I have been made holy in the person of Jesus Christ. All that remains now is to work it out in our experience. But in Jesus Christ we have been sanctified. We have been presented as an acceptable offering to God. Now that's an offer of salvation that you and I are commissioned to present. This then. First of all, the first thing, the first question that you've got to ask is: are you yourself an acceptable offering to God? Again, let me remind you. As I do again and again, you can never make yourself an acceptable offering. You see, you can't make yourself an acceptable offering to God any more than that Old Testament Israelite who came with that bull could somehow become the bull or become the lamb so that he would be the acceptable sacrifice. All you could do was lay your hands on that sacrifice. And by doing that be identified with that sacrifice so that when God had the sacrifice of that animal, he accepted you. And it's the same way with Jesus. God's accepted the sacrifice of Jesus and you can't add to that. And you can't make yourself an acceptable sacrifice. All you can do is to by faith lay your hands on Jesus, to give yourself to him, and let him be accepted in your place. And by doing that, you become an acceptable offering to God. Because Jesus is that acceptable offering. And in him you become acceptable to God. Have you ever taken that step of identifying with the death and the resurrection of Jesus by faith? Yourself on Him to become an acceptable offering to God through Him. Unless you become the acceptable offering, you never can become the priest. Once you've become the Acceptable Offering, You immediately are made the priest. And so once you've been made the priest, what's it mean? Now notice the second question. For everyone here who's a priest in Jesus, the question that you and I have to deal with Is do you have a vision and a concern to offer to God a people brought to Christ through your ministry? In Romans 15, 16, we could translate that word Zen. Gentiles there. You see, he says, uh, so that I be a minister of Christ to the Gentiles with the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God so that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God. Don't listen that word Gentiles. The fact that you can translate that my family, my neighbors, my friends, the people I work with, those are the Gentiles. Not some group of people that are somehow mentioned as foreign in the New Testament. The Gentiles, well whoever they are, I don't know what that is, but I don't know how it relates to me. The Gentiles are the people that you and I love and care for and rub shoulders with who don't know Jesus. They're the Gentiles. People who are without hope because they don't have Jesus Christ. Paul saying they're the people that you meet, the people that you care for. Are you concerned to present them as an offering acceptable to God? Do you have a vision and a concern for that? But when you heard me read about the sacrifice of Jesus a few minutes ago, about the fact that you and I have been made holy by his sacrifice once for all Did your heart leap at that again to be reminded of the fact that yes, I've been made clean and pure and acceptable to God because of the sacrifice of Jesus. If in fact you find that sort of road past you Sort of just drifted past as any other announcement might or something. Maybe the problem is that you and I as Christians tend to, in operating with Christians, take the gospel as jargon. Uh it's sort of in language. It's sort of well uh well yeah, now he's gonna preach the gospel in case anybody here doesn't know Jesus. Well no, I know this part. I can tune out until he gets back to the Christians. Or do we find ourselves lifted Up at hearing the gospel. Listen to what I find. I find that my own heart warms to the gospel in direct correlation to how much I'm involved in sharing that gospel with people who don't know it. When I spend all my time with Christians and don't and am not involved in sharing the gospel of Christ with those that don't know him, the gospel becomes scale. The gospel becomes something that's taken for granted in my life. It's jargon. I get involved in talking to a person about Jesus Christ. And I see if I had the privilege of seeing just a couple of weeks ago a person in my study come hostile to the gospel and find that person changed by the Spirit of God. In a matter of minutes, their hearts softened. That person comes to say, I need Jesus in my life. You don't know how much I need that. Come from that point to another ten minutes, say I just don't want to become a Christian. I must become a Christian. It's the only hope in my life. And watch that person play. Watch that person pass from hopelessness and death and despair. Into new life in Jesus Christ, gospel takes on a new meaning. That person as a brand new Christian can preach the gospel more effectively to me than anybody who would give me a learned discourse at that point, because I'm seeing the gospel. gospel made effective in a person's life. And maybe the reason the gospel doesn't have the impact and the power, uh the gracious effect in our lives that God intends for it, is that we're not using it as a priestly offering. We're not as priests offering it with a concern to offer up a people through our own ministry as an acceptable offering to God. When we're involved in that, God makes the gospel alive in our own lives. Well you say, yes, I'd like to do that. But you don't know all the other things that I seem to get involved in And besides, I feel so very inadequate. But do you believe that God could use you to bring a person to Jesus Christ? Beyond that, do you believe that God wants to use you, not the person next to you, not the Under Shepherd group leader, not the people that you look at around you as more mature in the Lord. Do you believe that God wants to use you to bring another person to Jesus Christ? Believe that God can do that? Sure, I know you have problems. I know you have struggles and priorities. I know that you feel very inadequate. I know that you're very busy. But I didn't ask that. The question I originally asked was, Do you have a vision and a concern to offer to God a people brought to Christ through your ministry? That's the question. Do you have that concern? Do you have that vision? You say, well, nobody that I know is interested. Everybody I know just turns off to the gospel. Well no, I doubt that that's true. My wife and I have begun leading just this past Thursday a Bible study, an investigative Bible study, with two couples, none of the four people in that two couple set. At this point, as far as we can tell, names Jesus Christ. They're very open to getting into the Bible. Surprised me when they said yes, that they'd like to get into a Bible study and meet, look at God's Word. But don't rule out the people. That you see and say, no, they wouldn't be interested until you've asked them. Now I find there's an interesting correlation also here. People who are interested in sharing the gospel seem to find people who are interested in hearing it. People who are not interested in sharing the gospel seem to only find people who are not interested in hearing it. What do you feel about that? I had a friend that was saying at one point in his life, Lord, I don't know how to do it, but I desperately want to share the gospel with somebody. And Lord, this person was standing at a train station at the time said, Lord, just lead me to somebody and you open up the situation so that I can share the gospel with someone. I don't know how to begin it, Lord, but I really want to be used by you in this way. About five minutes later a person came up to him and took his arm and said, Can I talk to you for a minute? He said, Well you're why he says, You see that train that just went past there? I was going to throw myself under that train. My life is just at a total end. I have nowhere to turn. But I saw you standing there and I thought I'll talk to one more person before I do it. The person said, Well Lord You really hear prayer, don't you? People who want the opportunities, God will provide them. I remember a student that I talked to once a number of years ago, was working with a fellow in a lab, University of Maryland. He said, You know, I said I'd like to share the gospel, but he said says, I'm convinced I have this this thing that if I share the gospel with somebody, they're gonna have one of two responses. Either they're gonna lay down on the floor and roll around and die laughing at me, or else they're gonna come at me with a knife and say, How dare you begin to proselytize me? Yeah, just I don't know, I I probably won't do that, but that's kind of the way I feel they respond. I said well look, let's believe God that they won't do that. Because I'll tell you, they probably won't. Let's pray to God that they won't do that. Because they'll listen. Let's just pray for your lab partner, this fellow mic. Let's pray that he'll listen. And in faith now, you step out and ask God to provide the opportunity to share it. I remember the next week he came back and he was all lit up like a light bulb and came back and said, Hey, you know I did it, I shared the gospel. And he said, you know, he neither fell down on the floor and died laughing. Nor did he come at me with a knife. In fact he listened. So that's the first stop. Terrific. Because he was willing, to have that vision, that concern, to present a people as an offering to God, he began to share with Mike, began to pray for Mike. began to talk to Mike. Mike was a grad student. As he talked with Mike, within a period of about two months, Mike trusted Jesus Christ. And now Mike is a missionary with H C J B in Ecuador. Telling people all over the world through his talents and the t radio technology and the skills that he used there about Jesus Christ, because his lab partner was willing to trust God. He said, I want to present a people, an offering to God who acceptable and I'm willing to take the risk and expose myself to be vulnerable to talk about Jesus. You have that kind of vision, that concern, and that belief That God could use you as a priest to offer the sacrifice of the gospel? Finally, are you concerned to handle that gospel as a priest handles his offering? Are you concerned to handle it with care? As a priest we described before, handles his sacrifice in the way that God has said to handle it, not the way the priest inclined by his own feelings and wisdom to do it. In other words, are you determined to be faithful? To the whole message of the gospel. Or do you say to yourself, well, you know, I think I get more effect, more results, if I downplay the bit about sin? If I don't sort of talk so much about the consequences of sin and judgment, but sort of emphasizes. emphasize all the good things of the gospel. The fact that God loves them, that He wants to do all these things in their life, and that God wants to give them these good things of fellowship and forgiveness and all these kind of things. If I emphasize that part, well then maybe I'll have better results. Just talk about God's love. That's not what a priest does. The priest didn't take one part of the sacrifice and one part of the procedure and just throw out the rest of it. You had to do each step in the way that God had said to do it. And that's the way you and I should. Share Jesus Christ. We present the whole gospel because we're convinced that the gospel is the power of God to salvation. So many times I believe that Christians today don't present the whole gospel because they don't believe that the power resides in the gospel, but rather in their own powers of persuasion. It's me who brings the person to Jesus, and the gospel is the means. We need to realize that it's the gospel that brings the person to Jesus and who the means. And if we trust the power of the gospel, we'll see the power of the gospel demonstrated. If you don't know how to do that, let me suggest to you. I have a number of copies of this on the rear table. It's simply a gospel outline that seeks to demonstrate the message in the gospel in a way that you can communicate it to a friend of yours, with the scriptures and the points that you need to get across to a person. Something to help me or not, you'd like to do it, feel free to take that to make sure there's two pages. You can take get both of them, you only get half the gospel. Make sure you get two sheets and use that. In your own right, so you as a priest can handle the gospel with care. Secondly, are you as a priest concerned to please God with your offer of the gospel? Remember that the offering is to God and not to man. You minister to God with it. Therefore, you're concerned with what God thinks about your evangelism. You don't major, therefore, in your experience. You don't major on all The self-help that the gospel can produce, but you major on the fact that it's God who is going to do the work. You talk about Jesus. And you emphasize Him. And then finally you realize that the gospel, the offering as a priest, is to honor God. It's not to honor or to help man ultimately It will help the person that you're talking to, but it'll only help him if you realize that the ultimate goal is to be an offering to God, not simply to help the person. The person has been made to honor God, to be a pleasing sacrifice, an offering to him. If you and I have that perspective, So that the Lord is lifted up. He'll use the gospel to help the person. Remember, in evangelism, we're called to propagate. Not to practice propaganda. We're called to be heralds in the gospel, not hucksters What is it that God's speaking to you about this morning? Some change that He wants to make in your life as you examine your own evangelism. And what the Lord wants to do in it. Let's take just thirty seconds to think silently about that and what you would like to write down as you go home today in that section on the bulletin about what God's speaking to you about And we'll come together to God in prayer. Lord our God, how we give you praise and thanks this morning for your grace That has made us to be ministers of Jesus. That we each can describe ourselves as having that sacred and awesome office. Of being priests, for the awesome and the sacred privilege of declaring the gospel of God. Help us to understand afresh this morning, Father, that that's your gospel. It's not ours. We didn't author it. We're not the basis of it, and we don't apply it. Help us to realize again this morning that it's the gospel that you have authored. Lord Jesus, that you are the foundation of it. And Holy Spirit, it's your power that makes it effective in people's lives. And therefore, Father, help us. To see ourselves as priests with the sacred duty of being faithful in the use and the handling of that gospel You could have given that gospel through celestial tape recorders. You could have declared yourself by writing the gospel across the heavens. You have not chosen to do that, but rather you have chosen to make it known through sinners like ourselves. Lord, what grace that is, that we declare The Messiah, Jesus. Help us, Father, to be mindful of what a privilege that is. We give you thanks for your work in our lives, and Father, we pray that if there's anyone here who has not experienced that work of grace in their own lives, that you would bring them to see that, to know that To become an acceptable offering to you by identifying with the sacrifice of Jesus, by casting themselves on Him. Capos Father as priests, to have that vision and that concern to offer to you a people. For acceptable offerings, through our ministry of bringing them to Jesus Christ. Father, we pray that you would forbid Did anyone in this room who knows you could think that you could not use them where they are in school? In their neighborhood? At work with your family. Father, help us to stretch our imagination to see the extent of your power. But what you want to do. Help us to realize, Father, that every one of us are here worshiping Jesus because we are the end of an unbroken line that all that goes all the way back to this verse and the people that Paul had in mind two thousand years ago. And if each one of them was concerned to offer that offering to you. And because of that concern, Father, someone has ultimately told us, and we have become an acceptable sacrifice to you. Give us grace, Father, to continue that process.