On the top of your sermon outline, a true false question. I want you to go ahead and look at that, read it, think it through, and answer it The question is, Jesus is everything I ever expected and hoped for. He meets all my needs and desires, true or false. Let me open us in prayer Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, we come to you to hear and to meet you. We know that this is not simply another presentation of ideas, and it's not simply us gathering together to accomplish something in our own strength. It is you meeting with us and speaking to us through your word. And I pray that as we look at your truths We will see you. Lord, as we are here, that we will come to you And we pray, Lord, that we will see you clearly, truly, and powerfully. In your most precious name we pray. Amen. The passage that we looked at last Sunday and continue to look at today is 1 Peter 2, verses 4 through 10. Let me read to you the word of the Lord. As you come to Him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in Scripture it says, See, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe, the stone the builders rejected has become a capstone. And a stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. We've been looking at the passage and recognizing that it speaks of either rejecting or choosing Jesus. Last week we looked at the fact that Jesus is the focus of all of creation. That we either reject Him or we choose Him and honor Him. We look at the fact that the unbelievers reject him completely and live in denial. In verse 4, it says, rejected by men In verse 7, the stone that the builders rejected. And we looked at what that term reject means It's not simply to live in ignorance of or to deny. It is to weigh in the scales, to test, to scrutinize, and to find wanting, to find Jesus inadequate. We talked about the fact that there is both that constant rejecting that is the state of the unbeliever. But there's also that rejecting that we as believers do when we deny his work, when we deny his work of redemption. When we struggle with Him being adequate for us. Because we have to be honest and recognize that many times we too test Jesus and we conclude He's not enough. Today, we're going to look more at the idea of what does it mean to choose Jesus? How do we do that? How do we move away from that notion of rejecting Him into embracing Him? And so as we do that we need to look first and foremost at who it is that chooses Jesus. And in verse four. We see that contrast, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You see, God chooses Jesus, and what you need to understand from that is this. God sees Jesus fully, clearly, and truthfully for who he is. And God says of Jesus this: He's precious. He's precious and honored. It says in verse 4, in the very beginning, as you come to him. That too is a choice of Jesus. That's our choice of him. It says In verse six, the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. How do we come to Jesus? Well, first and foremost, it's by belief. Ephesians 2 says, For by grace you have been saved through faith, that not of yourselves that is a gift of God. Not as a result of works, lest any man should boast. We come to him in our conversion experience We believe who he is. But brothers and sisters, that belief we often find to be a cognitive thing. God says this is Jesus. God says he's precious. Therefore, because God is true, I will believe in Jesus. And it's very tempting for me, and I assume because you are also human, it's tempting for you to leave it in that realm of cognitive belief, of assent. I want to turn your attention to a passage that Jesus speaks to us of this very thought. Let me read it to you. I don't want you to turn to it, so I'm not going to tell you what it is. You'll probably recognize it when you hear it, but I want you to listen carefully. Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. That's Jesus' call to you to come That's what Peter speaks of when he says, as you come to him, are you weary? Are you burdened Jesus bids you come. We come to Him first in conversion. I want you to take a moment and think back to the day you became a Christian. To the day you believed what God says of Jesus. I want you to think back. You had struggles, you had trials, you had needs You don't come to Jesus without a sense of burden. You don't come to Jesus without a sense of your need for Him. That day you came to Him You saw him probably more clearly than many times since. Think of how you felt as you looked at Jesus Think of the joy you had in him. Think of his beauty Think of the power you saw in the one who could redeem you. He was your very life You walked on air. Brothers and sisters, when you came to Christ, I'm sure you were infatuated with him. You had a hope that everything was going to work out. Nothing could overcome his power And his love for you. But you also had at that point a real picture of Jesus. Is He who you see today? Do you have that same powerful, overwhelming sense of his strength and his love for you? He delivered you from sin and death. And you knew it so clearly. He brought you hope. He brought you joy. He brought you peace. Brothers and sisters, that picture of Jesus on that day is still who he is today. But the sense that Peter gives us in the way he wrote this passage as he speaks of coming, he's not saying that we who believe have come. In our conversion experience, and our feet are planted and we stay and are immovable. We're not stuck in glue. We saw that last week as we looked at that whole issue of how we as believers are so capable of rejecting Jesus. And so Peter is saying to us in the very way he shapes his language, coming to him continuously It is that you live not only day by day, but moment by moment in coming to Jesus. Because day by day and moment by moment you face new trials. And day by day and moment by moment you come to recognize your own inadequacies. And day by day and moment by moment, you're hopeless apart from Christ. The brothers and sisters, if you're like me, it's a struggle. It's a struggle to come to Him. And it becomes now a question of will hope tested stand up? Is Jesus enough? And we'll take two approaches to this. We'll take one of two approaches. One of which is we will live in denial. Let me unpack that. We won't recognize the depth of our sin. We won't look at our fears. We won't look at our pain. Because to see how deep and how real those issues are in our lives Means either I have to be strong enough to deal with it, or Jesus has to be strong enough to deal with it. And brothers and sisters, you believe he's failed you. You believe he hasn't measured up. He's calling you now in the call to come Yesterday I spent the day dealing with a clogged toilet. Thank you. I can see the humor in it now because it's 24 hours later. We uh have had this problem in the kids' bathroom upstairs with the toilet where where it has periodically gotten completely plugged. Or if it's not completely plugged, it flows very slowly. And I see in my experiences with this toilet a parable of my heart towards my sin. At first, as I dealt with those wondrous treasures that were left in the toilet, I used the plunger. And and and I I tried to clean it out. And and I was really seriously giving it my best shot. But there was no reward of that wonderful chau As the water goes. It just sort of slowly drained. So I said, okay, I I can take another couple of courses. I can I can pretend now that it has slowly drained that everything is okay. And just live with the consequences. Brothers and sisters, I am so tempted to do that with my sin. I am so tempted to do that with my sin because there is a modicum of success. I'm willing to settle. I'm willing to settle for so much less than God wants to give me. Or I could step out of denial and I could use a toilet otter Now, for those of you who don't know, this is a wonderful piece of equipment that has this long little L-shaped thing and a cable that goes through to hopefully move whatever is blocking your plumbing. And so I Got the auger out of the garage and I started working on it. And I hit an object and I thought, well okay I'm I'm moving this along and I'm getting it cleaned out And I did manage to bring a little piece of plastic out from inside the toilet. It was part of a yogurt cup. Don't ask. But as I brought it out, the auger which was of the inexpensive variety was bent. And I tried again and again and I thought n now I have a choice. I can go back to that earlier idea of living in denial and and thinking that that one little piece that I got was enough and that as it slowly drains, it'll still work. Or I can go for the super heavy-duty variety toilet auger with a cable that thick, which happened by God's providence to be on sale at Home Depot, half price. Or I could take the toilet apart. So naturally, being the one who doesn't want to do any more than I have to do to deal with the issues, I got the heavy duty auger and I figured, even if all I do is clear out that much space, it should be enough. Who has to do the whole job? Let's just get it done. Let's just make it work. And so I did. And this is a wonderful auger. If you guys need an auger, this is a great one to get because it extends and it becomes six feet and it goes through the toilet down into the pipes and it really works. It works so well that I tore out part of the flange And brought up a little black plastic piece that time. And I thought, well, it's going down much faster. Maybe it's done No, because the next day I came home and there was a treasure for me in the toilet all over again. And so yesterday I took the toilet off the floor. And I thought, okay, well, I'll be able at least to see from the other side what this thing is and how to get it and move it. And there it was, firmly lodged. Really firmly lodged. So not only did I have to take the toilet off the floor and turn it upside down and try and run the shower head through it, didn't work. I had to take it outside. Do you know how fun it is to take your toilet seat outside to work on on your deck? I'm thinking I hope the neighbors aren't seeing this And after working on this with my super heavy duty auger from both directions with the toilet off the floor, I was rewarded with a Trix Yogurt Cup. And I could put my toilet back together. As long as I lived in denial, if there was a blockage in my toilet, it would not work And brothers and sisters, I am so tempted to live in denial of my sin. I am so tempted not to look honestly at my heart. Because to look honestly at my heart forces me to come to Jesus It forces me to accept that I'm not enough. And it forces me to believe that He is. Jesus is calling you in this call to come to Him to move out of denial He's calling you to see those sins in your life for what they really are. They may be the technical or sins of addictions to substances. That may be the technical or sins of addictions to pornography. You may at this moment be engaged in a life and death battle against addictions. You may be tempted and you may even be acting. on desires for an adulterous relationship. You may be in gross states of sin And your life is dedicated to maintaining that facade of denial. Your sins may not be the technicolor. It may simply be gossip. It may be pride. It may be hopelessness and unbelief. But you, as a son of Adam and a daughter of Eve, are engaged in a battle with sin. Jesus' call is to a call to forsake denial I've had the wonderful privilege in the last several weeks of three units of people from this church coming to me To help me to see my sin. My response was not a response of a warm welcome. I'm so thankful you showed me this. My sin is arrogance, abrasiveness, selfishness, and I'm sure none of this comes as surprise to any of you It isn't even honestly a surprise to me. And this is not the complete picture. But God gave me a gracious gift through you. They have to look square at my sin. And there are many more my sins. But do you know what God did through that for me? He said, Yes, this is who you are. This is your sinful heart. This is not an issue of actions and of behavior. It's who you are at your core. And I love you. And I will not leave you or forsake you. I will not try you and find you wanting, for I have redeemed you. We also have fears. We have many fears. Last week I shared with you that my headliner in my car was falling down. And how God had used that episode, even in driving into church, to preach in the morning, to show me my unbelieving heart. Now having a headliner that falls down isn't a sinful thing, but my response to that was to doubt God's goodness to me. I've had 15 of you come to me over the week and tell me how difficult it is to deal with a headliner that wants to fall down and all the solutions that you've tried in the few that may have worked. I appreciate your efforts. I'll get back to you with my results. But the most important part of that, brothers and sisters, isn't that my headliner is falling down, it's my heart. It is my fear. It is my unbelief. It is my rejecting Christ and his sufficiency for me. And I do it in many, many different ways. Greater than my sin of arrogance and my abrasive personality is my unbelief. Which frees me to to give myself to so many different kinds of fears Jesus' call to me to come to him moment by moment is a call to forsake my fear, because he is my hope. He's your hope. I don't know whether the issues that bring you to fear are marriage issues, financial issues. Parenting and child issues, neighbors, health. There are so many things that we can be afraid of, but brothers and sisters, come to him. See him as he is Jesus tells us what it means to come to Him. Jesus unpacks this for us in John chapter 15, and I want you to listen to what he says. I am the vine. You are the branches. If a man remains in me, and your translation may say, abide or dwell But if a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit. Apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not remain in me, he is like a branch that is thrown away and withers Such branches are picked up, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be given you. This is to my Father's glory that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples, as the Father has loved me. So have I loved you. Now remain in my love. If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed the Father's commands and remain in his love. I have told you this, so that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be complete. My command is this: love each other as I have loved you. Jesus says this so that his joy may be in us And our joy complete, our joy complete Now you may think, then why am I facing so much difficulty? Why is there so much pain? Why am I so busy battling my sin? Why am I so afraid? Jesus, this is pie in the sky. This is John chapter 15, brothers and sisters. In John chapter 13, he introduces the Lord's Supper. He washes his disciples' feet. He gives them his final command, and they go to Gethsemane. Jesus says this to his disciples facing the cross. He says this facing that time of agony and prayer as he asks the Father to take the cup of wrath from him. This is no pie in the sky. There is no fear you will face that That measures in comparison to Jesus looking at bearing the wrath of God And yet, in this context, Jesus says to his disciples, if you remain in me, if you rest in me. My joy will be in you, and your joy will be complete. This is the same Jesus who says to you, Come to me, you who are weary, and I will give you rest. As you look honestly at your sin and your fears and your pain I wish I had more time to go into how Jesus deals with our pain. I wish I had more time to go into how he deals with our desire to struggle to obey. We really do have a desire to obey. We're called to obey. This epistle is written to the chosen ones by the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit to obedience. Your choosing is to obedience. That's what he's called you to. But while you want to obey, you have to honestly admit you don't want to obey We still want to sin. We still want to be boss. We still want to be in control. We want what we want when we want it and how we want it. Heal my pain, remove my sin, overcome my fears You need to come to recognize, and you need desperately to come to recognize, but you can't do it, that he is strong and will never reject you. It's not your work. To come to that faith. It's his to give it to you. As we experience that, we're told in verse 5 and in verse 9, there's a couple of things that will happen We're being built into that spiritual house to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. That's another part of that obedience. We are going to offer spiritual sacrifices that please the Father. We're told in verse 9 that we are a royal priesthood, a holy nation of people belonging to God, so that we can declare his excellencies. His wonder, his beauty, his excellencies. That we can declare the excellencies of the one who has called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. So let me ask you a question. What excellencies do you see in Jesus? What excellencies that you see in Jesus are you proclaiming to the people around you? That's your calling. If you're not proclaiming it, do you see it? And if, brothers and sisters, you find yourself in that place Where you are dealing with pain and you are dealing with fears, and you're battling your sin, and you say, Jesus, are you really enough? Jesus bids you come. Jesus bids you cling to him. How How? Confess your unbelief. Confess your fears The issue isn't that you overcome them. The issue is that you see him more clearly. No one sees Jesus more clearly than the Father. And the Father says of him, I will exalt him above all, that at his name every knee shall bow in heaven and earth and under the earth, and every tongue shall confess that he is Lord. God says, this is who Jesus is. And if the issue for you is you don't see him clearly enough, ask for God to show you him more clearly. The answer is to keep your eyes on Jesus. Chapter 1, verse 3, we're told that it is God who begets us to a new and living hope. It's his work. Chapter 1, verse 13. The call that we have is to fix our hope fully on the grace given to us in the revelation of Jesus Christ. As we see Him, His grace works in and through us. And becomes that cornerstone, that foundation for our hope. Not because we do, but because he is, and he does. Fix your hope fully on the grace given to you. To one, we're told that we rid ourselves of sin And we come and cling to him, craving that pure spiritual milk that we may grow up in our salvation. Jesus reveals himself in the Word. If you want to see Him more clearly, this is where you'll find Him. This is where He speaks of Himself. And in four coming to him The result of that is that as God works in you to bring you to Him, He creates you as a spiritual house. He creates you to be a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a special people for his own possession. It says that he gives you mercy who had no mercy. Brothers and sisters, this passage is a call to come to Him and to leave behind denial. Through that, you will experience intimacy with God in a way that you can no otherwise experience. You too, with God the Father, will see his preciousness. You won't have to think about what you can say about him to others. It will flow from you You will praise him and revel in his goodness. And in verse six it says that we as we trust in him, as we come to him, will never be put to shame. Brothers and sisters, this is a call to acknowledge that you either reject Jesus because you find him wanting, or to choose him because you see him for who he really is. Do you need to take a fresh look at Jesus? Do you need to come to Him more clearly in His Word? A way to think about that and focus that for you as we end is what do you dream of? that he will do? What do you hope against hope that Jesus is going to do? And with that hope do you also disbelieve? If you do, I do, confess your unbelief. It's not time to pretend it doesn't exist. It's not time to cover it up. It's time to own it. Because, brothers and sisters, as a son of Adam and a daughter of Eve, you have an unbelieving heart. You engage in that battle that Paul speaks of in Romans 6 and 7. Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? That which I want to do, I don't do. That which I don't want to do, I do. God, I need you to deliver me. Show me and show me you. Lord, take my unbelieving heart and change it. Give me that heart of flesh that I so desperately need, that heart of faith that only you can give. Confess your unbelief and ask him for the faith and the spirit you need to move forward. He says in Luke eleven that whoever comes and asks of the Spirit will receive the Spirit. He will not give you a counterfeit. Brothers and sisters, plead with him for him Come to him. Let's pray. Jesus, you are the living stone. You are our cornerstone, precious And wonderful. You are our foundation. It is your work to redeem us that we trust. It is your spirit Who sanctifies. We need you desperately. Free us from denial. Free us from pretense. Free us to trust you and to cling to you and to love you We pray in your most precious, holy, and honorable name. Amen.