Amen. A couple of weeks ago, Dr. Koch and I were talking over email about this Sunday morning service and what text I would be preaching from. I gave him the scripture attribution, and he then sent me an email saying, what is the theme? How to avoid ships in the Mediterranean Sea? What could potentially be the subject of this sermon, except but for a shipwreck? We come to a very interesting portion of Acts in that. It describes a near-death experience for Paul. It demonstrates the perils and power of faith. What could the perils and power of faith be? As we look at the life of Paul in the midst of his situation I hope that it becomes evident and encourages us as we seek to walk together with the Lord. Or even as we consider the truth of Christianity in the midst of suffering. Hear now the Word of God. Much time had been lost and sailing had already become dangerous because by now it was after the fast. So Paul warned them, Men, I can see that our voyage is going to be disastrous and bring great loss to ship and cargo and to our own lives also. But the centurion, instead of listening to what Paul said, followed the advice of the pilot and of the owner of the ship. Since the harbor was unsuitable to winter in, the majority decided that we should sail on, hoping to reach Phoenix and winter there. This was a harbor in Crete facing both southwest and northwest. When the gentle south wind began to blow, they thought they had obtained what they wanted. So they weighed anchor and sailed along the shore of Crete. Before very long, a strong wind of hurricane force called the nor'easter. Swept down from the island. The ship was caught by the storm and could not head in, could not head into the wind, so they gave way to it and were driven along. As they passed to the lee of a small island called Kalda, they were hardly able to make the lifeboat secure When the men had hoisted it aboard, they passed ropes under the ship itself to hold it together, fearing that they would run aground on the sandbars of Curtis They lowered the sea anchor and let the ship be driven along. We took such a violent battering from the storm that the next day they began to throw the cargo overboard On the third day they threw the ship's tackle overboard with their own hands. When neither the sun nor stars appeared for many days, the storm continued raging. We finally gave up all hope of being saved. After the men had gone a long time without food, Paul stood up before them and said , Men you should have taken my advice not to sail from Crete. Then you would have spared yourselves and this damage and loss. But now I urge you to keep up your courage. Because not one of you will be lost. Only the ship will be destroyed. Last night an angel of God, whose I am and whom I served, stood beside me and said, Do not be afraid, Paul. You must stand trial before Caesar. And God has graciously given you the lives of all who sail with you. So keep up your courage, men, for I have faith in God that it will happen just as He told me. Nevertheless, We must run aground on some island. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Please pray with me. Now we ask you, O Lord, to open our hearts to the truth of your word. That your Spirit would apply to us this part of the story and drama of Paul's life. that it may usher us and lead us to see the security in faith in Christ But the truth that having faith in Christ does not insulate us from suffering for his name. does not insulate us from suffering at all, but actually will become fertile ground. That trust and faith would grow stronger. Lord, if we're honest, that is difficult to embrace But unless you, by your Holy Spirit, and the power of the risen Christ come in, we will be led to bitterness. But Lord, lead us away from bitterness, to hope, and to security, knowing that Jesus Christ is the Lord. In his name we pray. Amen. Ben Shuri is a famous chef. I didn't know that until I started watching a series on Netflix about six famous chefs. Ben Shuri is a chef in Melbourne, Australia. He's always loved the ocean. He grew up in New Zealand and then would become a chef in Australia He talked about how close he is and was with his father. He's always admired his father. And how his father had always opened up the doors for him to experience all kinds of experiences with food and adventure growing up in New Zealand But he told the story of a time when he would go with his father with his siblings and they would go to this uh famous part of a beach and they would go through this dark tunnel and they had video of this tunnel and it was an it was a a tunnel that had been Dug into the hillside and you could see the ocean opening up before you, just on the other side of the tunnel And as you came through the tunnel, it would open wide to what is a common beach site in that part of the world. It was almost black sand and rocks, beautiful high cliffs. But a perilous place to swim. But it was an enjoyable place, a dangerous place, but an enjoyable place to swim and recreate. So out with his family one day, he went out onto one of the rocks as a part of the reef there. And he turned back towards the beach, waving at his family. And he turned his back towards the waves and didn't see what was coming behind him. A large wave came, swept him off the rock, and then dragged him along the reef. As he came up above the ocean, it was just at the right time that the second wave washed over him. And he remembers as he tells the story of what it was like Feeling as though the water was holding him down. He came up, and just as he did, a third wave. washed over him. And at that point, feeling held down, being scraped across the coral reef, he believed this overwhelming sense of drowning But then a hand grabbed him and pulled him up, and he said, I had always loved my father. And thankful for the experiences and the life that He had opened to me But none so much as that moment when the hand of my father plucked me from what I thought was sure drowning. This is the passage that we have before us. Of Paul being able to live through, and now it's being narrated to us through Luke, who was with him. This is also Luke's narrative of facing what seemed to them certain death. And yet the Father coming to them in the midst of their almost drowning at sea And claiming them, rescuing them, and everyone with them. That we know is the end of the story, that they are rescued. Not everyone is rescued We know that in Scripture. Even Paul will not ultimately be rescued from the hands of his persecutors. But there is a curious question as I read through this passage that came to me as I was thinking of it this way. If God uses a storm at sea , A near-death experience to demonstrate his power And the faithfulness of his promise, what implication does that have for me and for us if you are a Christian? What implications does that have for faith? Let's look and see if we can find the answer to that question. We'll see it in this drama. First, a surprising turn. And then balance in the extreme. Surprising turn, and balance in the extreme. Most of this passage, most of it, leads up to the moment where the angel appears to Paul. But until that moment, I was trying to imagine, as we ought to try to imagine, what the conversation must have been like on that boat. Here's Paul, who was not inexperienced with the ocean, who would certainly have known the difficulty of the waters in that part of the world at that time of year, late summer. They would not have been unaware of it, but they they seemed to look at the circumstances. But Paul said, hey, guess what? This is not wise. We are risking great damage. He's a prisoner. Who is going to listen to a prisoner? Even though they'd given him, if you read through the whole narrative, they had given to him some leeway and some freedom. He found favor with his captors. He was allowed to be cared for by friends when they landed. But he was a prisoner. Who is going to listen to him? And they certainly did not listen to him. They completely ignored his advice. They said, essentially, thanks but no thanks. Don't call us, we'll call you. We're going to turn to everybody else. We're going to turn to the owner of the boat. We're going to turn to the pilot. What do you guys think we should do? And of course we know what happens. Now, at what point in the midst of the storm, particularly in the passage where it says Fearing that they would run aground on these sandbars, fearing that indeed they would lose their lives. At what point were any of them going, should we have listened to Paul? Somebody had to. At what point did any of them even think of going, perhaps we should go back to him and ask him a few questions? Maybe he knows what we ought to do. They don't seem to do that. What's interesting is that God allows this storm to enable us to see That one of the things he does with the storm at sea is he allows it to demonstrate both to Paul and to his friends and to everyone else on the boat to see a surprising turn that he God would allow such Vulnerability to storm and to weakness to be the exact point that God would take Paul from being a prisoner to essentially being captain of the ship. That's what happens in this fairly tight narrative that stretches over days and weeks. It goes from being completely ignored, completely laughed at, overseen, but finally to the point when they are at their worst. Paul says, hey You guys need to eat. Take courage. Now what would that have been like when they heard him say, hey everybody, men, verse 11, men you should have taken my advice not to sell from Crete. Well Okay, Christian, do you ever laugh at scripture? I mean, I mean, could you not read through that and just imagine what it was like? Have you not been in a situation Where someone had advice and you thought, that that's completely boneheaded. We're going to do something else. And then you had to come back to them because they came to you and said, hey, you should have taken my advice. How was that received? Right? I imagine that was similar to what was is that not funny to you? I Okay, all right. Maybe it's just you're laughing a little bit. Okay, you get it. All right. But I I laughed out loud every time I read through this passage. Because number one, somebody had to be angry, right? Well, thanks a lot. We already knew we were having to swallow our own pride, but now you're coming and reminding us. I kind of like the boldness of Paul there. You should have listened to me. He okay, maybe he was nice about it, we really don't know, but he he clearly said, You should have listened to me. He did it at the most difficult moment, by the way. It just said that neither the sun nor the stars appeared for many days, and the storm continued raging, and we f we finally gave up all hope of being saved. And then Paul says, yeah, you should have listened to me. So now he's got their attention, or at least their anger If we pause there for just a moment, step back, and we say, okay, what is the Lord doing here? It is both hopeful, but also incredibly perilous The God of the Scriptures will take us, and even at times, those around us To the end of ourselves and to the end of themselves. To the point, perhaps, of fearing of our own lives. To be the place and the crossroads where God demonstrates His presence Why does he do that? You ready for the answer? I have no idea Except to say that Scripture seems to teach us that because of human pride and our unwillingness to be vulnerable, our desire and penchant towards being self-reliant. Our tendency to look at our immediate circumstances and make a conclusion based on those immediate circumstances That God will take us to the end of ourselves so that we can finally learn Oh, I really am not in control. Someone else is And when that dawns on the human heart, that the one who is is one who is good. One who is merciful, one who is gracious, and desires us to be in relationship with him. And he will use difficult circumstances to get our attention. That's not always what's happening, but that seems to be the case here. That God allows the consequences of their actions to bring them to the point of near death So therefore he can use his spokesperson, Paul, to demonstrate that God is the one who is behind all things, the one who is indeed a God of promise and power, the one who is to be trusted in. And he allows this surprising turn to demonstrate that instead of taking cues from our circumstances To ask God, what are you doing? What am I to learn? It's hard because oftentimes weakness is something we try to avoid We want to look strong. We want to look self-reliant because that's what we're rewarded for. We're rewarded with compliments from others, respect from others, attention from others, success. If we're able to dis to do to show and to display self-control. But weakness in this passage and a whole host of others, that weakness is the fertile soil where trust and confidence in the Lord actually grows. And often where strength and character and leadership take a much deeper root. And Paul's confidence gives him a fearlessness before man to speak. He was not rubbing his nose at, you know, just or rubbing their nose in it, or thumbming his nose at them. But rather, he had a fearlessness, not based on himself, but on the power and promise of God, to then make a bold claim And this is what he does next. He makes this bold claim, which then displays Paul's faith. And only in the light of Paul's faith does what he says and what he's in make any sense to us. And it enables us to see the balance in the midst of the extreme circumstances that he finds himself in. And we can only understand it as I said. In the light of Paul's faith and the one in whom he invested that faith. But for just a moment, let's talk about the context. Wayne said earlier, the ocean and the seas play a large context in the scriptures. Consider just one particular Psalm, Psalm 60. 9, where it says, Save me, O God, for the waters have come up to my neck. I sink in the miry depths where there is no foothold. I have come into the deep waters, the floods engulf me, I am worn out calling for help, my throat is parched, my eyes fail, looking for my God Then just a few verses later it says, rescue me from the mire. Do not let me sink. Deliver me from those who hate me, from deep waters. Do not let the floodwaters engulf me, or the depths swallow me up, or the pit close its mouth over me. Answer me, O Lord, out of the goodness of your love. In your great mercy, turn to me. Now here the psalmist is using the sea and being engulfed in it, drowning in it, almost being completely engulfed by it as a metaphor of persecution, those who are coming against him. Why? Because that's oftentimes how the sea and oceans and waters are seen in the Scriptures. They're seen as places of great danger and peril, often as an enemy to God's people, and at other times used as A tool in God's hand to bring people to himself It's used in various ways as themes throughout Scripture, but one of the clear ways is of something to be feared. And the truth is it becomes a place of real suffering. And Paul here isn't just talking about a suffering in general. Here is specifically talking about suffering for the name. And this is a very clear context to the entire passage. And as Tim Keller writes in his very wonderful book, but I must add, a difficult book. On suffering, called walking with God through pain and suffering, states this. Many ancients saw adversity as merely something to withstand and endure without flinching or even feeling until it goes away. Many modern Western people see suffering as something like adverse weather, something you avoid or insulate yourself from until it passes by. The unusual balance of Christian faith is seen oftentimes in suffering. through darkness, through swirling waters, through walking with the Lord, and even in the midst of fire. We are not to lose our footing and just let suffering have its way with us, but we are not also to think that we can somehow avoid it or be completely impervious to it either. We are to meet and move through suffering without shock and surprise, without denial or sorrow and weakness, without resentment or paralyzing fear Yet also without acquiescence or capitulation, without surrender or despair. The context of suffering in its various forms is even for the mature Christian difficult ground. We as Christians do not want to see ourselves and we do not want to see others that we care about suffering. And we oftentimes desire to bring comfort and encouragement to those we're in relationship with, with the Word of God to encourage some in the midst of suffering. And even with good intentions, we'll use verses like Romans 8. For God will use, turn to the good. What once was meant for evil. He will bring all things, he will bring good things even out of all difficult things. And while that is often said with good intention If it's said without empathy, even Christians to other Christians can take suffering and put lipstick on a pig and pass it off as a supermodel. Right? Oftentimes what we need to do, yet it is hard to do is to just listen to what storms are going on in another person's life. And just say, thank you for sharing that with me. Because we ourselves, when we're honest, find the context of suffering being in extreme circumstances, whatever they might be, for you. They're uncomfortable for us, they're uncomfortable for our faith, and we feel uncomfortable when others go through it, and we don't know what to say. And we feel as though we need to say something. And even with good intentions, we try to offer an answer. When sometimes there just aren't clear answers. And in the midst of this storm, there aren't clear answers. We can only look back at it with 2020 hindsight. Because it's been written for us by somebody who was on the boat. But in the midst of the storm, Paul knew he needed to make it to Rome. They didn't listen to his advice. Why didn't the Lord allow it to happen a few days earlier? Why did the storms keep battering them? Why did they have to throw the food and tackle overboard? What is the Lord doing? And do you know for many Christians, just asking that question, what is the Lord doing? feels as though we're being disrespectful towards God. Or if somehow we cannot come up with a quick answer that somehow that's not being theological enough But even the very Psalm, which I quoted for you, Psalm 69, says very clearly, we often don't know the answer. And we don't always see the end of the story. Even the psalmist didn't have an angel of the Lord come alongside him and say, Be strong and courageous, as Paul did on the ship. Don't we want that sometimes? Yes, we do. And those of you who are facing the acute point of suffering this morning No, don't you wish that you had an angel come before you and say, be strong and courageous. This is what the Lord is going to do. But Christian, those of you who wish at times you could have that happen, even when God has shown up before his people and told him exactly what he was going to do, they still resisted trusting. Go back and read Exodus. He told Moses what he was going to do, how he was going to do it, when he was going to do it, where he was going to do it. And the people said, Have you brought us out into the desert to die? Friends, asking what God is doing is not disrespectful. In fact, it's deeply biblical. In fact, that's exactly what the psalmist says. He says, my throat has grown parched from asking you, where, O Lord, are you? But he then balances it with not coming up with the answer of why this and why now and why here He balances it with a deeper truth when the psalmist finishes. The Lord hears the needy. and does not despise his captive people. Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and all that move in them, for God will save Zion. Rebuild the cities of Judah, then people will settle there and possess it. The children of his servants will inherit it, and those who love his name will dwell there. What does he do? He calls back in the midst of his extremity of asking, where are you, God? He then matches it by reciting the promises of God, the character of God, the love of God, the mercy of God, the presence of God. And he turns from saying, God, save me from the being engulfed by the ocean, to then praising the God who created all the beauty of the ocean. You see the balance in the extreme? It's recognizing that being in extreme circumstances is frankly not fun. Why, oh Lord, are you doing this? But then it says, oh, but you are still the Lord. Now Paul says to them, Men, if you had taken my advice, you would have spared yourselves these things. He speaks boldly and he says, but now I urge you to keep up your courage because not one of you will be lost. 276 are on the ship. Only the ship will be destroyed. You say, God is going to preserve you, but it doesn't mean it's going to land at a nice little dock somewhere in the Mediterranean. This is going to end in a difficult way. It's going to mean perhaps more suffering, but the Lord is with us. And he then says, the Lord, last night the angel of God, whose I am and whom I serve, stood here and beside me. He says, Do not be afraid. He's calling on the promises of God and he recites it to them. He takes what is a difficult context. And then I think he calls us into contrast, this balance in the extreme. So let me borrow the words of Keller and say this. What this passage teaches us is not to be like Paul, it's telling us what Christian faith looks like is this. We receive suffering. But we don't have to capitulate to it. We don't have to give in to it. We don't have to ignore it. We can trust God whose character, whose power has formed the world and even us, we can trust His character, even though we cannot see him, even though we can't always hear him, even though we cry out to him, we can still trust God, but also without bitterness. We can have strength in the midst of suffering because of God's presence, but recognizing we're not impervious to doubt or fear. They still feared. They're not impervious to it. Suffering still hurts. But that doesn't mean we can't be strong in the face of it. And even If our weakness and suffering can become fertile ground where the character of God and the power of God is displayed, then that means we can embrace suffering. without being surprised. Isn't that what Peter says to those who would hear him in his letter? Dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful trial you are suffering. As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice, and here's the key, but rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ. So that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. How is it that true balance in the extreme can be experienced Let me first say, it's not by rushing to the cross. We had this discussion with our membership seminar about a week ago, those who were investigating being members here. If we rush to the cross and miss the 33 some odd years that Jesus lived up to the cross, What we will miss is how Jesus suffered in his body, suffered in his spirit. walked in the midst of difficulty and trial and persecution and loss. And he actively obeyed. He actively trusted where you and I can't. He actively embraced suffering that you and I could not, that is the wrath of God, and be raised to life on the third day Christ walked every day and even said, Lord, take this cup from me, but your will be done, not mine. You see, the beauty is the only way we can find balance in the extreme and really see the beauty of the perils and power of faith is that Christ in his life up to the cross received suffering, trusted God in the midst of it, had strength in the face of it, and embraced it Therefore, he did it as one who was innocent of all sin, and he did all of that, and was incarnate of God, took on human flesh, walked in our steps. So that we can say in the midst of our suffering, as the psalmist says, surely the Lord is with us. Christ walked all the way to the cross, and the Father turned his back So that he would be separated from the Father for our sin. So that, Christian, when you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, nothing, oh nothing. can separate us ever from the love of Christ. How can we have balance in the extreme? Nothing in us but alone in Christ Who is our Lord, and who is our Savior, who is our shepherd Who is our friend? Who is our brother? Who is the head of the church? And so as we suffer, we suffer and participate in his sufferings. So that the glory of Christ and all that he is. may be displayed in and through us. Do you know this is what we celebrate in the Supper? He invites you to participate in this meal because this meal is a glorious display in simple elements. Of what Christ has suffered for you. So that as you take and eat, as you take and drink, that is a gift of grace to you Because even before our enemies, Christ has set the table. In the midst of your suffering this morning, Christ has set the table In the midst of your suffering, Christ has spoken to you from his word. The Lord is surely in this place. May he strengthen us and our trust in him alone for his glory and our good. Let's pray. Lord, help us in our weakness. Meet us in our doubt Comfort us in our suffering. Demonstrate to us your character Your promise, your power, and make our suffering the fertile ground to display who you are Do this we pray in Jesus' mighty name. Amen.