Well, I too have a cold. This is the third hour. I don't know if it's the same cold. And Tim has, whether I gave it to him or he gave it to me. We share a lot around the office. Uh but uh I figured because uh of what he said. I'll just um let you read the passage and I won't preach. No, I that that's all right. He was back in October the third of eighteen sixty-three, a couple months after Gettysburg. That Abraham Lincoln issued a proclamation for celebration of Thanksgiving that has become the precedent for every year since that. In part it said, quote, It has seemed to me fit and proper that God should be solemnly, reverently, and gratefully acknowledged as with one heart and one voice by the whole American people. I do therefore invite my fellow citizens in every part of the United States and also those who are at sea and those who are sojourning in foreign lands. To set apart and observe the last Thursday of November as a day of thanksgiving and praise to our beneficent Father who dwells in the heavens. And we have been celebrating that time since Roosevelt changed it from the last Thursday to the fourth Thursday. But of course we know that uh it didn't originate with Abraham Lincoln. Back in 1789, George Washington had issued a similar proclamation of thanksgiving to our God Who had delivered us and given us independence and had produced a constitution. But of course we realized it didn't originate with George Washington. But that the first American Thanksgiving was celebrated in sixteen twenty-one when after a very severe winter Before, when out of a hundred and two pilgrims who had come over on the Mayflower, forty-seven perished in hunger, disease, and cold After an adequate harvest, the pilgrims, knowing that they did not deserve God's mercies, proclaimed a time of thanksgiving And they invited their friend Massasoit, the Indian, who had helped them a great deal, to come, and Massasoit said, Can I bring a few friends? And they said, sure, why not? And he brought 90 hungry braves, who fortunately brought some food with him. Five deer. There were a number of wild turkeys and other fowl and shellfish. And they had such a good time. They didn't just eat one day. They ate for three days before they went home. And so we, this Thursday. We'll probably only feast for one big day. That's all we need. Um, to be able to also acknowledge God's mercies and goodness to us And so I encourage you, as I encourage myself, that besides eating, that we also take some time before, during, or after the meal To share a bit with one another as families, something of God's mercies and goodness, things that we're thankful for. And that uh maybe if you find you're in a situation where The family can get a little negative. There's at least some few minutes where our thoughts can turn to praise and thanksgiving and things that are positive I'm always reminded when we have those kinds of times, which tend to be kind of a highlight to me of our day, how I tend normally to be a complainer. and uh notice more particularly what's wrong, what's not perfect, what who left a window open or left uh lights on or something, you know, rather than to be just noticing and thinking and giving thanks for the great blessings and the things that God has given to us. I've observed during the through the years of doing that, both in myself and in others that I hear expressing thanks and uh Christians as well as unbelievers, that almost universally the things that we mention when we say, so what are you thankful for before we sit down to eat? What are you thankful for this year? That um our thoughts will dwell almost universally on the blessings of this life. You know, I'm thankful for our family, or I'm thankful that we could all get together today. I'm thankful for our house. Thankful for the dog. Thankful for health, thankful for the fact that I got a new cell phone or a new iPod or something, you know. And so, you know, these are good things. It's good that we're thankful for them. I enjoy my house and my garden, my car, you know. It's good that we acknowledge that we didn't just earn or get those things on our own. However, if that's the focus of our Thanksgiving, uh, then I wonder if we're maybe a little bit like the little girl who once said, you know, there's a lot of things that I think I'd rather have than eternal life. You know, I mean, is that a bit theoretical? Is it a bit removed from the immediate that we come to think about And uh I was reminded of a conversation I had with one of my daughters who uh surprised me in an observation that she said, we were talking about things in life, and she said, Dad, I I have come to learn That your sense of well-being has to rest on something that nobody can take from you. And I thought, boy, she's grown up. Our sense of well-being must come from something that no one can take from us. And so it is that our thanksgiving Must come from something that no one can take from us. When I think about how we complain and how we take for granted the things that we have, I think of a little poem that my mother gave me from Anne Landers many years ago. It goes like this. Today on a bus I saw a lovely girl with golden hair. I envied her. She seemed so young. I wished I were half as fair. When suddenly she rose to leave, I saw her hobble down the aisle. She had one leg, and used a crutch, and as she passed she flashed a smile. Oh God, forgive me when I whine. I have two legs, the world is mine. And when I stopped to buy some sweets the lad who sold them had such charm. I talked with him. He seemed so glad. If I were late, it would do no harm. And as I left, he said to me, Thank you. You have been so kind. You see, he added, I am blind. O God, forgive me when I whine I have two eyes, the world is mine, with legs to take me where I want to go, with eyes to see the sunset glow. Oh God, forgive me when I whine. I'm blessed indeed. The world is mine. It's good to be grateful for the things that we have and can so easily take for granted But you know there is not a single thing you have in this life that you couldn't lose. That next Thanksgiving you might be without. Our thanksgiving, as well as our well-being, must ultimately rest on something that no one can take from us. And so with those kind of thoughts in my mind, I was meditating on Colossians chapter 1 in which the Apostle Paul talks with a larger perspective than I usually have about Thanksgiving. If you think about the passage that Tim read, Colossians 1, verses 9 to 14. Perhaps your response is kind of like mine when I go through a passage like that. It's only three sentences, classic Pauline language, and you look at it and you say. Wow man, there's a lot there. I you know take me a year to unpack it, you know, because all these dependent clauses of this and that and comes to this and flows from that and go, you know Well, I don't pretend to unpack that whole thing this morning, but what I want to do is point out a couple things from that passage that I think can be helpful for us as we go into Thanksgiving. If you look at that passage, I've become convinced as I've meditated on it that it breaks down neatly into two parts. And it's kind of like a seesaw. You know, a seesaw has a fulcrum. And if you look at that passage, the seesaw starts in verse 9, and verses 9 to 11 are one side of it. Verses 9 to 11 talk about the things that you long for, the things that you pray for to experience. And that climaxes in the phrase, the simple phrase, joyfully giving thanks. I believe that phrase is like the fulcrum of a seesaw. Everything up to it leads up to it, and it becomes the basis for everything that goes after it. Everything rests on that little phrase, joyfully giving thanks. What goes before what you long for and pray for, and then what follows joyfully giving thanks for things that you have. securely that no one can take from you. Things that are so significant, so important, that they outweigh any disappointment, hurt, or stress. that can characterize your life that you long to escape from. So I want to look at those two parts and see how they're related and how Thanksgiving is the linchpin or the fulcrum between the two. Very quickly, I want to just go through the first verses and just kind of talk you through what I think is the line of Paul's argument. So the first thing What you pray for to experience, or what you long for, that ends in thanksgiving, Paul prays for you and for me and models for us what we would pray. That we would begin with knowledge of God and His ways. Lord, I want to know you, want to know what you're like, want to know your ways, want to know your will. And He says, as you become full of that then your life becomes transformed by that, and he uses three images, three pictures to describe how it's transformed. First of all, the picture of a scale. We're familiar with that from those that have been around for Ephesians, because it's the same word that he uses there. The word which means to bring something into equilibrium. So he says So being full of this knowledge of God's will and his ways, you will walk, the words walk there literally, live out, you will walk in equilibrium with the knowledge that you have of him and his ways. Your life will come into equilibrium with that. That's the first image. Second image is that of a lover that you will long to please him in everything that you do. The word please there is a Greek word which means to anticipate the desires of someone else so that you can satisfy those desires. It's used of slaves. in how a good slave anticipates the desire of the master or mistress and longs to please that. The third image that he uses is that of a fruit tree. Saying, bearing fruit in every good work, so that your life is fruitful, reflecting the fruit of the Spirit. And as you do that He says you come around, it's kind of like a spiral, you come around another level, and now you have fuller knowledge of God as you learn to please him and walk with him. and live in equilibrium with the knowledge of the gospel and living out of the gospel, then you you come to a higher level of knowledge. And as you come to that Deeper level, then he says, you begin to find your attitude is transformed. Your attitude is changed. That attitude in which you are living in difficult circumstances, you find that you're empowered, and he says by his glorious might, literally by the might of his glory. You are empowered by the might of his glory. That's a very strong phrase to refer to the fact that you and I do not have the power to change our attitudes. But As God comes by the might of his glory to work in you, he produces two things endurance and patience. Joyful endurance, that is, that you are able to not quit when you feel like it. And joyful patience, that is, that you do not lose it when you're stressed. Now notice after that he he talks about then moving into this joyful thanksgiving. But let's just pause there for a moment. He's saying you you have endurance and you have patience. Now, some of you are going through some difficult times in your life. Maybe things that no one else knows about. It may be struggles with your kids, keen disappointments, frustration. Maybe for you kids, it's frustration with your parents, your brothers, your sisters. Maybe maybe your marriage is pretty fragile. It's in trouble. You're wondering if it's gonna last. Maybe it's uh problems at work, maybe it's feeling particularly assaulted by the malicious power of your addictions. Something that's got you really stressed. Maybe you're thinking about Thanksgiving and you're thinking, you know, Thanksgiving is supposed to be when all the family gathers and we all You know, have turkey and everything is perfect, the meal's perfect, and everybody's laughing and sharing good memories, and that's not the way it's gonna be at our house. They're gonna have critical relatives that'll come over and things won't be right and there'll be stress and you know, uh I don't know why it is, but some of our most exquisite blow-ups in our families have been in holidays. And uh you think of the stress that you already begin to churn about as you think of who's coming and what that'll mean. And I know in our own situation we have a couple relatives coming, and I anticipate there's going to be some stress over some stuff that's going to happen Now, see what Paul's saying here is that living out of the gospel, the Spirit, the might of His power, produces in you an endurance and a patience. But it's not a grit your teeth, kind of I'll pray to get through it. But he climaxes with a very interesting phrase, joyfully giving thanks. The joyfully giving thanks combines this word joy and thanks. Now The word joy comes right after endurance and patience, and some commentators think that you should translate that endurance and patience with joy, that is joyful endurance and joyful patience. And I believe that Paul, perhaps in this case, as he does sometimes in Ephesians, ambiguously puts it between so that the word, again, as a linchpin goes with both sides, that the joy refers not only to the endurance and the patience, but to the kind of thanksgiving. Which reminds me of something that I've shared with you a number of times in the past. Remember the word thanksgiving and joy. are from the same root word. The word joy is kara, the word thanksgiving or to give thanks is Eucharisteo. They're the same word. And the root word is caris grace. And that's very helpful to me because it reminds me of what Thanksgiving really is. Thanksgiving Is understanding grace. Thanksgiving is saying I'm getting better than I deserve. That's why I'm thankful. That's why the pilgrims could be thankful for so little. Because they said it's better than we deserve. And if you believe that you're getting better than you deserve, you're thankful. If you believe you deserve better than you're getting, you're not going to be thankful. But when you believe that you're getting better than you deserve, the thanksgiving produces joy. It's a joyful thanksgiving because it's related to grace. Now, why is that? So he opens up the door to verses 12 to 14 in which he describes what you have gotten that is infinitely better than you deserve. Not only have you gotten it, but his point is no one can take it from you. It is fixed. Whatever else goes down the tubes this week. Or this holiday season, this is fixed. So let's unpack it for just a little bit. And I'm going to do that because it's a very complex three verses by giving you just three sets of threes. There are three things that he says that you have that are precious. And each of those three things he describes by three words or phrases. First thing, you have new life. That's the first blank. You have a new life. And that new life is described by three terms. It's described by the word rescue. He has rescued you. Verse 13 from the Dominion of Darkness. You think of the stories of rescue, part of our Fairy tales and the stories that we love that involve the prince that comes to the damsel who is hopelessly imprisoned in the dungeon She can't get out, and he comes and he rescues her. He releases her from that dungeon, from that dominion of darkness. That's the image that Paul has here. The hero has come and he's rescued you out of your prison. He's also redeemed you, verse 14. That means that this rescue involved a great cost to him. In fact, it was the price of the infinite cost of the blood of his own son. That's what he paid, because he loved you enough that he would not live without you. And he paid that cost to purchase you out of that dungeon. And then thirdly, the picture is of forgiveness. In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. It's not simply a redemption for us to be released to uh live the way we were living or to be subject to be captive again, but it's It's a redemption that has purchased forgiveness so that all the things you look at in your life for which you are feel guilt and shame God Himself no longer holds against you. God knows your life, your heart, your wickedness, my wickedness, better than we know it. And you look down in your heart, and it's like an infinite chasm of darkness. God knows far more how deep and dark and violet is. And he says, I do not hold any of that against you. Isn't that good news? I mean, you have that as a gift. Jesus Christ purchased that. He rescued you. He redeemed you. He forgave you. It's not a matter of you're forgiving yourself, it's receiving the gift of new life. that he has given to you. Paul says that's why you joyfully give thanks. Secondly, he describes the picture of the fact that you're a new citizen. You have a new citizenship. You've been transferred from one kingdom to another kingdom. He talks about transference. He says you were transferred out of the dominion, that is literally the authority or the kingdom of darkness in verse 13. And you've been brought into the kingdom of the Son that He loves. The word there, transferred, in the Greek has the idea it's used of removing people from one country. Into another country as colonists or as citizens. So these people have a new citizenship. The pilgrims were citizens of England. In England, they were being persecuted. In England, they couldn't worship as they desired to do. In England, they were being put into prisons. They lived in fear. They, after a number of attempts that were harrowing and caused much suffering, they finally fled to Holland, where they found some respite. But discovered that that was not going to work out long term, and so they never became citizens of Holland, but they left Holland to come into America as colonists. They were citizens of a new country. They were still under the regime and there was some transfer, um, you know, the London Company and all the rest of that, but But they were now citizens in a new country in which they set up their own government established by the Mayflower Compact. And Paul is saying that you were citizens of Satan's kingdom. God has transferred you into a new kingdom, and that kingdom, notice the contrast. The old kingdom was a kingdom of darkness. Darkness is a picture of of confusion. Things don't make sense. You're disoriented. You can't see. It's gloom, it's despair, uh it's an oppressive situation if you've ever been in a dark cave or in darkness where you're disoriented. And he's brought you out of that into the kingdom described out how the kingdom of light. A kingdom where things make sense Where things fit together, you're oriented, you know who you are, you know what's going on. It's a kingdom where the darkness pictures sin and Secrecy. This is a kingdom of openness. It's a kingdom where everything is displayed, and it's a kingdom of joy and hope. He's transferred you into that kingdom. Do you feel like you are a citizen of a new kingdom? Is that something that that affects you as you think this this uh Thanksgiving season of how you just don't fit in this world. Maybe you'll be with people that really quite at home in this world. In fact that's all they want to talk about is what they have in this world and what they've achieved and all the rest of it. And you feel like you don't fit. You see, there's a reason for joyful thanksgiving in that because you say, you know, I'm no longer a citizen in this kingdom, in this world. Uh I'm passing through as a pilgrim here because God has transferred my citizenship. I'm now citizen of another kingdom which I sometimes think about and dream about. I can sometimes taste it. But it's a citizenship where I will be rubbing shoulders with angels, where I will be no longer simply sipping And longing for a taste from the fountainhead of goodness. But I will drink deeply, as deeply as my heart desires, from the fountainhead of all his living. perfection of the delights of his being. In fact, the only thing that will limit the Ability to quaff my thirst in the fullness of his being is my capacity to enjoy it, and that capacity will grow through the ages, through all eternity. As I come to know the fullness of his delights. Is that something real to you this morning? Is that something you long for? Man, do I long for that? Do I long to not just have sips and drops of the being of the fullness of God? But to enter in with great gulps into the light of his being. Paul says you have that. See, that's why you joyfully give thanks. It's established. He has rescued you, he has transferred you. And now you're just waiting for the king to come. The third way he describes it in terms of new relationships. New relationships. Notice in verse 12 he says, giving thanks to the Father. God is no longer your judge. He's now your father, your father, a perfect father, a perfect father who will wipe away all of your tears and will be to you everything that your earthly father never could have been. Or, if he's still living, can never be. And he will satisfy every good desire and delight of your heart, starting now. Not just in the future, he wants to show you his fatherly care and character this week As you learn to call on him as father, trust him as father, depend on him as father, know that he is there for you as a father. Notice that as a father, he has given to you an inheritance, giving thanks to the Father who's qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of light. He's given you an inheritance and he has qualified you to fully receive it. In your wildest dreams you can't grasp the fullness of that inheritance. In fact, the Bible describes the city of God as being paved with streets of gold. Now, do you think there's really going to be streets of gold? I don't know. But you know, when I think of streets of gold It seems kind of funny to me because you can't get much traction on gold. Sliding all around, you know, scratching the gold. So you know, I don't know what it means, but I believe that it's part of the language of revelation that takes what we value the most And it uses that to say, you know, I mean, if the streets are paved with what you think is the most precious, imagine what the precious things are. And his point is, you can't. Eye hasn't seen. Ear has not heard. Your imagination hasn't begun to enter into the treasures of this inheritance. This is a place where you will never pray again because there will never be a need to pray for. This is a place where you'll never confess sin again because there will be no sin to confess. You will never examine your heart again because you will never have to second guess anything that you ever do. It's a place where there will be no patience Because there will not be nothing to be patient in waiting for. Every good desire is immediately and always gratified. In fact, it's a place where there will be no faith. Because everything will be by sight. And there will be nothing but the exquisite entering into the deepest joys and triumphs. Of knowing a God who has fulfilled every desire in your heart that is good. This is an inheritance that is so delightful. God who has created your desires couldn't have thought up a better one Paul says that's what you have. That's why you joyfully give thanks. No one can take that from you. And notice he describes thirdly that you are part of this kingdom of the Son that he loves. The kingdom is not just a realm of his rule, it's it's the kingdom of the Son that he loves. It's not just a a land of numbers. You're not just part of a myriad of horde of people longing to be noticed. How we long to be noticed by those that are important to us, don't we? You know, I saw recently an ad for a camera, for a digital camera. What intrigued me about the ad was it didn't say a thing about what the camera could do. Nothing about its performance, its quality, anything about that. It just showed that it came in five colors, and it was a chic girl holding this little camera, and here's the only thing the ad said. This camera will get you noticed. Hey, that's what I want in a camera, you know? I don't care if it takes pictures, I just want to get noticed. But you see, that's such a deep longing of our hearts that the marketers understand that'll sell the camera. This will get you noticed. Paul saying, you're going to be in the kingdom of the Son that he loves. God himself is not only going to notice you. He's going to set his heart and his attention upon you every instant through all eternity. How does he do that? How does he divide his attention among the myriads of his saints? I don't know, but I don't understand multidimensional reality either. So in some way this God is able to notice you and spend time with you and you have his attention and his affection and You can please him and you can live in full equilibrium with everything that you know about him and everything that you've experienced in the gospel, and you can bear fruit. To the fullness of your being in every creative expression of what it means to serve Him. Paul says that's why you joyfully give thanks. Nothing can take that away. A couple of weeks ago, I was out in my backyard and I was gazing at a tree that I had planted eight years ago. It was a maple tree, and I had picked a spot that was between our place and the house that was across the creek across the way and I thought this thing will grow up and it'll be a perfect shield for that and I picked one that, you know in the fall would have brilliant maple, orange, red leaves. And I was looking at it uh eight years ago I planted the deer had tried to destroy it course and they'd nearly girdled it and I had protected it from the deer and I'd nursed it back and I had it nice and straight. And I was looking at it and thinking, Well, I think it's about forty feet tall, it's all spread out, man, that's really beautiful And then this Monday I went out to do my usual deer repellent trek, walked back to the tree, and was gone. It was gone. I couldn't believe it. My heart stopped. Right there at where the tree was, about you know, 10-12 inches above the ground, was a stump. It had been sawed down and it was gone. And I thought, what can I do? My tree is gone. Now I will tell you, at that moment, I was not joyfully giving thanks for my inheritance I was not thinking, hey, what's a maple tree? You know, I mean, you know, I've got life and the kingdom and God's my father. I'm thinking, God, how'd you let that happen? I was thinking, God, I want blood. Who did this? You can't just prop it back up again. I was mad. In case you didn't pick that up. I went over to my neighbor, banged on his door. What's going on? And he said, Oh, I know who did that. Skip down the street. And then, you know, and then he sort of smiles and said, Hey, go get him. You know Because this is the kid that's not the most popular kid in the neighborhood. I've been trying to like him. All of a sudden by trying to like him, I didn't want to try to like him anymore. I wanted to wring his neck And I realized that I may say that my inheritance transcends my circumstances And you know, I didn't have that perspective. Gradually it began to dawn on me, well you know, Al You've been praying for that family. Maybe this is God's way of taking a maple tree and causing you to get more involved in that family as you begin to try to go down there and pray to model strength. And mercy. And tell the kid what he needs to do and have him plant a new tree with you. And I said, I don't want to hear that. I went up there, I want to pound a little more. It was only gradually as over the next days was thinking about this God began to something, you know, it was a good thing. I was looking for that kid all day. He is always over next door. Oh I think the word got out to the neighbor. I have not seen him all week. I see him every day over there, trashing the dar the place next door. And I haven't seen 'em once. Either you know, after the first service, everybody told me their tree stories. But you know we all have our stories, don't we? We all have those things where we we want revenge or we we see all our peces destroyed. And Paul says, when your heart settles down, come, look, see again. Nobody can take this. And you live out of that hope, endurance, and patience, joyfully giving thanks. Because God has preserved that for you. And you deal with the other things, but you deal with them out of that framework. Let's pray. And so, Lord our God, we come to you this morning to ask you to remind us of our legacy and our inheritance. That this week, as we give thanks, Lord, we would not simply think of the things that we had that we enjoy now, but that could be taken away from us. Could be cut down or destroyed, removed. But that we remember that our real joy and our thanksgiving Comes from the gospel and the hope that no one can take from us, that we so long for that we can taste it What it means to be rescued, redeemed, and forgiven, transferred from a dominion of darkness into a kingdom of light of the sun, did you love? To be able to call you Father, to enter into an inheritance that's so full that you yourself could not have made it any better for people like us who don't deserve the least of your mercies. Fill our hearts with the joy of the thanksgiving, of that hope we pray, to live in grace and peace this week. In Jesus Christ. Amen.