And as uh several of you go back to get that, which really encourages me, I'm gonna talk about what we talked about the last two messages. We've been going through the story of Ezekiel. I mean Elijah. It's one of those E's. Story of Elijah, this particular episode is on Mount Carmel. And we've looked at two messages. The first message looked at the struggle we have with idolatry. That we like the Israelites or idolaters as we look at our relationship with God and how we worship or don't worship. The second message looked at how God redeems a people for himself. That it is God who acted to restore the Israelites into relationship with him because they weren't fit. And today what we're going to look at is a continuation of that, that God reveals Himself. So the first is idolatry, the second is redemption, and this message really focuses on On God revealing himself, but more than simply revealing himself, it focuses on how God pursues And so as you turn to First Kings eighteen in verse 20, we see that the passage starts and it talks about God Gathering people through Ahab to Mount Carmel. And in verse 20, we see that, or 21, we see that Elijah went before the people and said, How long will you waver between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him. If Baal, follow him. And that's Focusing us on something important, and that is first and foremost that the Lord, the covenant God of Israel, whenever you see Lord, capital L O R D in the Bible, that is A transliteration from one word in Hebrew to another word in Hebrew translated into English. Whenever that word is there, in the Hebrew text, what you find is the covenant name of God Yahweh. But the Israelites believed that was too holy to utter, and so they would translate it, Lord. And so they would make that transition that said, what we're really talking about here is the God who has revealed himself to Moses by name, Yahweh. But we're talking about Lord. And so that's a very special, it's a very special name, and it speaks of a personal God. This is not a contest between gods. It's a contest between Yahweh, the covenant God who established relationship with Israel and Baal, two who claim to be God, and only one is. So the question for us as we look at this is, if the Lord, if Yahweh is God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him. There's so much more to this story, though, than just that contest. There's so much more than just the fact that God, Yahweh, is honestly God, and he deserves worship. He's within his rights to demand worship and require it and expect it from us because he purely, simply is God. He is the creator. He is the sustainer. He's the one who we owe everything to. And he can command us to worship him. It's the natural response once we recognize who he is. But there's so much more to this story as God reveals it. then that focus, it would be almost as if we were to say that the Lord of the Rings can be summarized by saying is simply a story of good versus evil. Tolkien wrote thousands of pages, and in my versions, it takes three entire books to write the story. There's rich details, there's wonder, there's there's so much more. That God wants us to see even in this story than we typically see. So I want to take us further. I want us to look more. I want us to see this morning that God set up a contest. Tom did a great job in the beginning of the service talking about the fact that this is not a contest between Elijah and the prophets of Baal. It's not a contest between two People or two groups of people, it's not a human contest. It is honestly a divine contest. It's a battle of the gods. It's a battle to prove whether Yahweh is covenant God and honestly the Lord of heaven and earth, or whether Baal is. And the point is, whoever is God deserves our worship. So let's see who is God. But it's not Elijah who sets up this contest. Elijah appears on the scene in chapter 17, and that's the first we hear of him. And all of a sudden he's on the scene and he speaks to the king. It'd be like you or me walking in to go see President Bush. It isn't going to happen. Elijah has some stature. He comes before the king, and out of the blue, he says something really bizarre. He says, if you look at chapter 17, Verse one. As the Lord the God of Israel lives, whom I serve. As the Lord, the God of Israel, lives, as Yahweh, the God of Israel, lives. Ahab doesn't want to hear that. Ahab is a king who has established the worship of Baal. Now, if if someone had come in pursuing A good position with Ahab, he would come in and talk about as Baal, the God of storm and fertility, lives. But Elijah comes in and says, as Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel, lives. And he continues, whom I serve. You Ahab serve Baal. You serve Ashra. You serve the gods of the Sidonians. You don't serve the covenant God of Israel. There will be neither dew nor rain in the next years, except at my word. God is coming through the person of Elijah to Ahab, the king who has established the worship of Baal, the false God. And says, as Yahweh the covenant Lord lives, whom I serve, you and I are at odds. And in order to demonstrate that there is a contest that has been established, there will be no dew nor rain. There will be no water. These few years, except at my word. I'm a servant of the covenant God Yahweh, and he is going to show you who is God. Now it's important because Baal is a God of rain. And what does Yahweh decide? He decides there will be no rain. Well, if Baal is a god of rain, Yahweh has no say. But there's no rain. For three and a half years there's no rain because Baal isn't God established the contest to reveal who we are to follow, and the Israelites agreed to the contest. If you look in verse 21, you'll hear Elijah say, If the Lord is God, follow him, but if Baal is God, follow him, and then you auspiciously hear that the Israelites said nothing. But the people said nothing. That's a really important theme in this particular story. Because silence silence is invariably linked to bail The people were silent because they did not know what to say about who to follow. But they agreed to the contest. The Israelites agreed to follow or worship the God who answered by accepting the sacrifice. Because you see A few verses later. But as Elijah said, Bring this contest to pass You call on the name of your God, I will call on the name of the Lord, the God who answers by fire, he is God. Then all the people said, What you say is good. This contest will help us. We'll know what we're supposed to do The problem is that even after God reveals himself and receives their worship and sends down fire from heaven, Which, by the way, is how the tabernacle was dedicated and offerings were received in the tabernacle. Fire came down from the Lord. They didn't light the sacrifice. In the temple, when it's dedicated in 2 Chronicles 7:1, it says that fire came down from heaven. They did not light the fire to burn the sacrifices. God did This is very clearly an act of worship that Yahweh has established, and he receives the worship of the Israelites. But most of Israel quickly turns away from God even after he revealed himself. And as you look later in the story, as you see in 1 Kings chapter 21, there's a comment that's made about Ahab. Beginning in verse twenty five. There was never a man like Ahab who sold himself to do evil in the eyes of the Lord. Urged on by Jezebel his wife, he behaved in the vilest manner, by going after idols like the Amorites. The Lord drove out before Israel. He sold himself to do evil. He was a wicked man, but he was a king And as he led, Israel followed. And we see that his son, Amaziah, is described in chapter 22. And it speaks of Amaziah, and it says. Of him, Amaziah the son of Ahab became king of Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah. And he reigned over Israel two years. He did evil in the eyes of the Lord because he walked in the way of his father and mother, and in the ways of Jeroboam, son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. He served and worshipped Baal. And provoked the Lord, the God of Israel, to anger just as his father had done. So the Israelites, even after seeing God send fire from heaven, To consume the sacrifice, even after confessing with their mouths that the Lord, the covenant God of Israel, Yahweh, is God, they turned away. They turned away. And the truth of the matter is that neither Israel nor ourselves, nor we ourselves, are fit to follow the Lord. As we sit here this morning, As we consider our lives, as we look at what's going on in our hearts and in our minds, we're not worthy, we're not fit to offer God worship. The God who has a right to demand and to extract worship from us is too good for us to worship And so God does something absolutely remarkable. Look at the end of Elijah's prayer. It's in verse thirty-seven. That you are turning their hearts back again. God redeems. God redeems the Israelites. We talked in the second sermon on this passage. about the fact that as the Israelites saw that God sent fire from heaven, their righteous response would have been terror. Terror As a matter of fact, in verse 40, the verse following what we read this morning, what it says is that the prophets of Baal were executed. They were killed. Because of their idolatry. But, brothers and sisters, you and I, and the Israelites themselves, are as guilty of idolatry as were the prophets of Baal. Whether you're redeemed this morning, meaning that God has already given you a new relationship with Himself through the work of Christ, or whether you're still seeking. Whether you've been in the Lord for a dozen decades, well, several decades. Or whether you're still wondering whether the Lord really is God. And you're there with the Israelites saying, okay, God, show me your God. You need to be redeemed Because you continue to rebel. And this is an amazing, amazing thought. God turns our hearts back God turns our hearts back to Him. Somebody was talking with me after the first service and he was making a point of the fact that it doesn't say that God called us to turn our hearts back. It's not that God says to us, You really should return to me. What God does is he turns our hearts back. On his own. He gives the gift of repentance. We see our sin because he shows it to us. We see him because he shows himself to us. And he gives us New hearts. He redeems us. The Lord's purpose is to make himself known and to redeem for himself a people who will worship him. The Lord's purpose is to make himself known He doesn't leave that to chance. If you want to have a really profitable study and you have a good concordance, begin to look at where the phrase, know that I am the Lord, is found in the Bible. And if you don't have a good concordance, send me an email because I've got a list of all the verses. And it's amazing. It's amazing to see how God goes to extreme lengths to make himself known. God goes to extreme lengths to make himself known and to establish intimacy with his people. We take that lightly. We take it lightly. For God to make Himself known is an amazing, amazing thing. God says, I want to be known. God says, I will make myself known. God even says in chapter 20 of 1 Kings. To Ahab. If you have your Bibles, look at verse 13. This is Ahab. This is the king who has rebelled against God, has instituted formal worship of Baal, has instituted formal worship of Asherah, and has said to God, You are pointless. And God, even after Mount Carmel, this is later, this is after the contest when the prophets of Baal have been executed. God says to Ahab, the wicked, rebellious king. Meanwhile, a prophet came to Ahab, king of Israel, and announced, this is what the Lord says. God's still speaking to him. Do you see this vast army? It's the army of Syria. They've come because they want to defeat Israel. Do you see this vast army? I will give it into your hand today, and then you will know that I am the Lord. God makes himself known to Ahab. God says, I will make you know me. And what happens is God delivers the army into Ahab's hands. Ahab's army is described as a small flock. The army of the Syrians is described as multitudes who cover the land. Ahab wins. Doesn't get through to him. Verse 28, the next year. The Syrians have said, okay, we got beat, but we got beat because their God is the God of the hills, and we were foolish enough to take them on in the hills. So, our God's the God of the valleys. All we have to do is take him on to the valleys. And in verse 28, the man of God came and told the king of Israel, Ahab. This is what the Lord says, the covenant God of Israel, Yahweh. This is what the Lord says. Because the Arameans think that the Lord is a God of the hills. And not a God of the valleys, I will deliver this vast army into your hands, and you will know that I am the Lord. You will know that I am the Lord. We may, in the comfort of these seats, thousands of years hence, from this battle with Ahab, be thinking, what has this got to do with me? You know? Yeah, God defeated armies, God gave them victory, God gave them all these things, but God, what have you done to show me who you are today? You gave the Israelites Mount Carmel. I got a story that tells me that Mount Carmel existed, but God, what have you done today to show me that you, Yahweh, covenant God of Israel, are God? I'd like a little fire from heaven. Maybe, maybe it's I'd like my spouse to treat me better Maybe it's that I'd like my kids to obey. Maybe it's that I would like my job to go well. Maybe it's that I'd like the affirmation and approval of others. Maybe it's that my finances need some dire attention. Maybe it's that I really need you God to change me. But I'm looking for fire to come down out of heaven. And if you, God, will send that fire, I'll know that you're the Lord and I'll follow. I'll follow. What contest are you expecting God to fulfill today to show you who He is? What do you want him to do without which you will not follow him? What is it that it will take for you to give yourself intimately? To the covenant God who has called you to himself. Dan Allender in his book Healing Path has several quotes, and I'm going to read them. That speak about how we look for God to act. Dan says, we will be willing to embrace life, including its disappointments. Only to the degree that we hear God's welcome and see his open arms in the midst of our struggle. But most of us don't see God with open arms. Rather, we see him with his arms crossed and his face tense and irritated. Or we don't really see him at all. He goes on and he talks about suffering and how God uses suffering in our lives, and he says, My premise is that doubt, despair And disappointment are not only a reality of daily life, they are also the tools God uses to grow faith, hope, and love in us. Doubt, despair, and disappointment are not only reality of daily life, they're the tools God uses to grow faith, hope, and love in us. If we run from what we fear or find displeasurable, we actually rob ourselves of the joy God intends for us to experience. As we walk through our past, play with our future, and live now in new passion. He goes on to say: God's desire is to use our powerlessness to send us reeling back to Him. Evil wants it to send us reeling to rely on ourselves with greater intensity. We unwittingly follow evil's plan when we attempt to escape our powerlessness through martyrdom, rebellion, or disengagement. God is not oblivious to your suffering. God is not oblivious to the difficult issues of your lives. God cares. But God is using them to shape you. God is using them to show you that the things you long for your idols to give can't satisfy. If you had everything you longed for, if you had every desire satisfied, if your idols could give you everything you want. Your list would grow. You will always find more things that you need. You will always hunger for something else. And God loves you too much to feed your lists God is not oblivious to your pain. He's using it He's redeeming you through it. He says, I will give them one heart and a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh. That they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. It's not just an issue of obedience, and it's not just an issue of force. He says, I will give them a heart to know that I am the Lord. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God, for they shall return to me with their whole heart. What God wants is intimacy. He wants worship from a free heart. He wants your love because you see him and you know him, and you know that whether your circumstances are wonderful or tragic, he's good. That He loves you and He's in control and good will come. He will be vindicated What we tend to do is look at the lists. I'd like to read a quote from Larry Crab talking about prayer. And talking about idolatry, he says this: For years I've prayed as if the real purpose of prayer were to get the things that I want from God. For years, I prayed as if the real purpose of prayer were to get the things I want from God. And I thought those things were the obvious blessings of life. The things that we all want to make our lives happier, more meaningful, and more satisfying. Things will satisfy. Comfort will please. Prayer is about getting from God But I'm coming to see that what I want most is Him. I want to know Him To trust him, hear his voice, and experience his power to live the way he tells me to, whether things go my way or not. That I'm discovering gives me a solid joy. Nothing else provides God has gone to extreme lengths to make himself known and to establish intimacy with his people, with us. In this story, in chapter 17, we see that what God did was to go to the extreme length of sending a drought God sent a drought as a direct challenge to Baal and to the worship of Baal. God said, you want to worship this idol so that you have the things that are necessary for life. You want to go to worship Baal so that you have rain and crops and food and drink. I will go to the extreme length, ascending you into drought and famine, to prove two things. One, God Baal is not God. Baal cannot give you what you seek from him. Two, what you seek from him is not enough. The rain, the crops, the food, the drink, it's not enough. You can have all of those things and be miserable. You can have all of those things and be in rebellion and idolatry. You need me. And frankly, with me, you have enough. So he sends them into drought. And we can look at that from our position in time and say, oh, that must have been hard. It was so hard that people died. People died of hunger. People died of thirst. People died because God loved them enough to take extreme measures to pursue them, to make himself known, and to give them intimacy with himself. And so as you look at the difficulties you're going through, are they because God doesn't listen, or are they because God pursues? God gave them the contest on Mount Carmel. It's a little easier for us to look at and to see because it's a contest where He gives quick victory. The contest is, in this one day, will I answer by fire or will Baal? Or will neither of us? Who's God? And as He's revealed, will you follow Him? The contest in Mount Carmel, God makes Himself known, and it's amazing to listen to the prayer. Elijah prays, O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known this day, now, at this moment, that you are God in Israel. That this people may know that you, O Lord, are God, these Israelites who've wandered from you and rebelled against you, who've pursued Food and water at the cost of worshiping Baal, that these people will know that you, O Lord, are God. Then the fire of the Lord fell. And the Lord revealed himself. Answer me, O Lord, answer me that these people may know that you, O Lord, are God, and that you have turned their hearts back. God not only revealed himself, God redeemed, so that they would be appropriate as worshipers. God revealed himself, as we've already seen in 1 Kings 20 to Ahab. God pursues. Do you see what He's doing? He's unwilling to settle For the appearance of a relationship. God is unwilling for the externals to say, you and me, we're together. I'm your God, you're my people, we're okay. When the hearts are far from him. God does whatever is necessary to gain our hearts God does whatever is necessary to gain our hearts. Now when you hear that, what's your response? On the one hand, it may be fear, because God will do what's necessary to show you who He is and to give you intimacy with Him, and whatever's necessary may hurt A drought led to death. For the nation of Israel, God established them as his people, they wandered away. He revealed himself in the dedication of the tabernacle. He revealed himself in the in the wanderings in the exile. I mean in in in in Exodus. He revealed himself in the dedication of the temple. He gave them victories over and over and over again in much the same way that he is at work in your lives. He has revealed himself to you over and over again, not just in the stories, but in your own life details. And they wandered, and they rebelled, and they turned away, and they worshiped Baal, and they worshipped Ashrath, and they worshipped Shemosh. They sacrifice their children in the fires in order to earn the approval and the comforts that the gods promised. And God said, Yes, there's still a temple in Jerusalem, and yes, you still believe that I'm here, but I'm not willing to settle for the externals. I will pursue you. And I want you to think for a minute about that. Think of a significant relationship you've had with another person. Somebody that you've given your heart to, somebody that you long to spend time with, somebody who you enjoy. Somebody who affirms you, somebody who tells you of their love for you, somebody who validates you and tells you of your gifts and your strengths. And They spurn you. They turn their back on you. They reject you. They wound you. They deny you. And in that horrendous moment of pain, as you begin to think, did they really just do that? Did they really just say that? I must have misheard. And you begin to realize that no, they reject you They turn away from you. You immediately move into a response. And if you're at all like me, your response is to reject in turn. Oh yeah, you reject me? Well, who wants you? It's as pathetic as it sounds. But we do. Because to defend ourselves and to establish our own self-esteem, we reject in turn. But look at what God does. God does not reject. God does not cast us off. God does not send us away. God does not say, that's the last. That's it. It's over. You're done. God pursues. God calls us. God set up the contest with the drought. God set up the contest with Mount Carmel and the offering. God received the sacrifices Elijah offered. God said, I want you. I want you. Even though you reject me, even though you wander from me, even though you spurn me, I want you. Not in weakness, not in codependency, not Not in a pitiful way, but out of incredible strength. You foolish people. You foolish, stupid people. Jesus says, I would have gathered you as a mother of hand gathers her chicks under her wings, but you would not. Even as he enters Jerusalem and is ready to die, he's come. And they reject. You may think that this is True of this story, but it's not really generally true of the God of the Old Testament, because the God of the Old Testament is a vicious, wrathful, mean God whose arms are folded and whose face is stern, and who says, Do better. Do better. If you want to be with me, earn it. God's not God. It's not God on Mount Carmel. It's not God. with Ahab, it's not God with the Israelites. It's also not God with David. In Acts 13 Verse 22, God says of David that he was a man after his own heart. In fact, he says that this one will do what I command. So David's anointed king. And shortly after he's anointed, he goes to visit his brothers in battle And in battle, Goliath is taunting the Israelites, and no Israelite is ready to stand against this giant Goliath. And David goes and says, You insult the armies of the living God of Israel. I will feed your body to the birds. And he does David is so submissive to the Lord, so willing to follow God, that when Saul forces him to flee, twice David has the opportunity to kill Saul. Once in a cave, when Saul goes in to take a nap and he doesn't know that David and his men are in the cave, and David, David, in a moment. A bravado goes to the sleeping body of Saul and cuts a piece of his robe. He's so struck by remorse that he would have lifted his hand against the Lord's anointed That he waits for Saul to wake up to leave the cave and he stands and he repents and says, Men, we can't take Saul. We can't lift our hands against the one the Lord has anointed. It's not because Saul is his Friend, it's not because Saul deserves to live. It's because God has anointed Saul and God must judge him. God alone can deal with Saul. And David knows that. And David is so faithful that even though he could end the battle then, even though he could in that moment establish himself as the king of Israel, He feels remorse that he has lifted his hand in any fashion against the Lord's anointed. David is a man after God's heart. But not always. For the same David who slew Goliath and who honored God by sparing Saul. Later in his in his reign, stayed home from war. And he was on his roof relaxing, enjoying the cool of the day, and he spied Bathsheba. And instead of turning away from the temptation, gave in. And not only lusted after her, but he commanded she be brought to him. and not only commanded she be brought to him, but took her. And when she became pregnant He did not repent. He did not trust God. He did not act in obedience. He continued his sin. He continued his desire to justify himself, and so he called for her husband Uriah, and said, Uriah, go, relax with your wife. Uriah, a righteous man, said, No, my lord, while my men are in the field, I will not enjoy the pleasures of home. I will sleep in a tent at the palace. And so David in fear continues down this path. And he orders Uriah killed. He claims Bathsheba as a wife, and the child is now his. But God pursues God pursues. God in his gracious care does this. If you look at 2 Samuel chapter twelve, it's an amazing story. God in his graciousness does this. The Lord sent Nathan to David. God could have judged David. God could have sent his wrath. God could have delivered a fiery bolt from heaven and consumed David. God could have enacted vengeance and justice. But God pursues God pursues. God sends Nathan to David, and God gives Nathan the words, and Nathan so gently tells a story of two men, two families, one with a multitude of sheep. And guest who takes the one U lamb the other family has and offers her as a meal for their guest. David's infuriated and he cries out what is true. This man deserves death. And Nathan so gently says, David, David, this man is you God so gently calls David back. David repents. David gives his heart once again to God. And it's not just in stories of the Old Testament, the most amazing story of God's pursuit is Christ, the second person of the Trinity, becomes God and man in one person that he might save us. He receives the condemnation of the nation who should have fallen at his feet in worship. He obeys the law that he's not bound by that he might save us. He so lives for 33 years that he demonstrates an amazing gentle love for us. He dies a death he does not want nor deserve for us. God pursues. God pursues those who are in rebellion to Him. God pursues you. And He doesn't do it with folded arms and an irritated face. He does it with open arms, saying, Come. Come, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Come to me. He changes your heart so that when you hear that cry, you can come. He is the one who pursues out of tremendous covenant love. He is the God who pursues. Let's pray. Jesus, if you did not pursue, I could not pray. If you do not redeem and sustain and transform and sanctify. Heaven is not a place of glory and awe. It is a place of fear and judgment. But you have revealed in every page of Scripture that you are the God who pursues. You pursue in Christ and you pursue in so many detailed ways. Lord, thank you for Mount Carmel and what you accomplish in revealing yourself. Thank you for how throughout all of Scripture you have made yourself known. And you call us, you call us to yourself. Thank you that you long not simply for the superficial experience on a level of superficiality, but you don't simply accept what looks okay you want in You want worship, you want our hearts. And thank you, Lord, that you don't wait for us to measure up, but you call us and you transform us and you give us love for you. Lord Jesus, we need you. Thank you that you are there. You are the one who deserves our worship. And Lord, we long. We long this week that you will show us more and more how to worship you well. How to give you our hearts and our minds. That you will be pleased in what we do to serve you. In your name we pray. Amen. Amen.