If you have your Bibles with you, please turn to the Gospel of Luke, chapter nine. Now before we begin, I do want to offer that invitation that Edward suggested I might have for you kids that stayed. After the service, I always go back to the welcome desk, and I'd love to greet as many of you as would like to say hello when I get back there. But I especially like it when kids come and tell me something they heard or learned in the sermon. So keep your ears peeled, kids, for maybe one thing you didn't know before or something you have a question about. And I would love to hear from you at the end of the service. We are going to today be looking at Luke chapter 9, verses 37 through the first half of verse 43. Let's bow our heads. Heavenly Father, we give thanks and praise for your word. Lord, we thank you for its truth, and we thank you for its clarity Lord, it is sufficiently clear that we can read it and see and know all that is needful to understand who we are and to understand who you are. to understand how we can come to know you and be reconciled to our Creator and have life because of our Redeemer. And Father, as we come to your Holy Word, we pray that the reading of it would be something we give special attention to. Father, help us to remember that your word is exalted above all things but your name itself Bless it to us. And Lord, in the preaching that follows. And as much as it is useful and faithful to who you are and what you've said, we ask your blessing on the preaching too. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 9, beginning with verse 37, the Word of God. On the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd met him. And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child. And behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out. It convulses him so that he foams at the mouth and shatters him and will hardly leave him. And I begged your disciples to cast it out, but they could not. Jesus answered, O faithless and twisted generation. How long am I to be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here. While he was coming, the demon threw him to the ground and convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy and gave him back to his father. And all were astonished at the majesty of God. This ends the reading of God's Word. Reading that passage of Scripture suggests immediately a lot of questions. On the next day, the day after what? When they had come down from the mountain, what were they doing on the mountain? You see, these kinds of questions require us to look at this passage of Scripture, this event from the ministry of Christ's life, in the context of what has come immediately before. What has come immediately before? Immediately before this, Jesus had gone to the top of a mountain with three of his disciples, Peter, James, and John. And when he was up there, he was transfigured. It's as if the glory, the divine glory that was within him, shone out from him, and he was met with by Moses and Elijah, and they spoke about the mighty deliverance that Jesus would perform in Jerusalem, the exodus, his departure from Jerusalem. Talking about redemption, the way in which Jesus, this one in whom all the hopes of God's people were fully contained, this one who would be, as the Apostle Paul said, the yes to every promise God had ever made. This one was going to go to Jerusalem. and offer himself as the Lamb who takes away his people's sins. That was their topic of conversation His disciples had gone up there with him ostensibly to pray, because that's why Jesus went to the mountaintop to pray. This all happened while Jesus was praying. Well, they had been falling asleep. They had not gotten an extra hour. And they had not had a bag full of canti. They got drowsy and they wake up a little disoriented and they say in a sense Hey, it's good that we're here. And as Moses and Elijah start to leave, these uh heavenly appearances of these great men that represented the Old Testament people of God Peter speaks for the disciples and says, Hey, no, it's good that we stay here. Let us make booths. Let us make tabernacles. The word comes from the celebration that the Old Testament Israelites had to remember how God provided for them after their deliverance in Egypt. as he cared for him for forty years in the wilderness. Well, that's not what happens. They didn't know what they were talking about. And as Peter was saying these things, a cloud comes down and a voice from heaven speaks: God the Father Almighty says, This is my Son, my chosen one. Listen to him. And then we come to the foot of the mountain. A very different scene Yet there's something about the two scenes that ties them together, not just their proximity, but the idea of majesty. The idea of majesty rings through both of these events. First, in ways that are so clear that it need not be mentioned. And secondly, in a place where it's so unclear that it must be mentioned. The word for majesty in your New Testament is a word that shows up in two different forms on a total of six different occasions. This is the first. And all were astonished at the majesty of God. That word majesty begins with the word mega. a word for great, a word associated with power and grandeur, and the loyates that follows it. This idea is associated in all six of these New Testament occurrences and in every rabbinical use of that word when they wrote in Greek. is associated with the divine attribute and prerogative. That word majesty is a word that is described by one scholar, Professor Kelly, from the last century, as a word that implies and conveys this sense of Awful transcendence. That's his phrase. And we think awful and we think really, really bad. Back when Professor Kelly used it, it was full of awe. Utterly, completely awe-inspiring. And remember, awe is this feeling of mixed uh uh fear, reverence, and dread if you turn to the book of uh the dictionary and look at what the word awe means Awesome transcendence is this idea of the absolute uncontrolled authority and power of God. Do we often think about God that way? As the one who rightly rules and has absolute power to perform his will. Who is unhindered or fettered by anything at all, absolutely free to do what is good and right and well-pleasing to him and blessed to his people on any given occasion. The majesty of God is something that the apostolic band associated very, very specifically with. The transfiguration, what happened on the mountain immediately before this. I want to invite you to consider with me 2 Peter. Chapter 1, verse 16. Here, this is Peter, one of the three disciples, who had just been on the mountain with Jesus. He describes that experience. twice with the term majesty. Same word. For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we were eyewitnesses to his majesty. For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the majestic glory This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain. The transfiguration was about the revelation of the majesty of God coming from the Father in flesh and emanating from the Son. The divine prerogative to do what he will according to his own goodness and mercy. The majesty of God was on display on the mountaintop. The majesty of God, beloved, was also on display in the valley. The majesty of God was also on display when after the voice of the Heavenly Father says, This is my Son, my chosen one, the one I am giving to you to accomplish redemption, the one that is going to be Crucified. Listen to him. After that heavenly paternal voice speaks, at the valley floor, we hear another paternal voice. But this one is very different. It is a father pleading and begging, saying, This is my son, my only son. And he is utterly wrecked by sin and broken in every way. He is without hope in the world. Not even your disciples could help him. What a contrast. And we see the majesty of God and the mercy that Jesus Christ, the man from Galilee, the Son of Nazareth We see his mercy and the way he recognizes the utter failure of this broken, twisted, depraved generation that humanity has become says, bring him to me. And that mercy is demonstrated in the fact that the Father can do nothing but beg. That word beg is a word that has shown up a couple times already in the Gospel of Luke. It is a word used by the Gathering. Man who lived naked and broken and shunned and powerless and a disgusting life among the tombs, this place of uncleanness, when he begs Jesus to let him come with him, and Jesus says, no, dear friend. You must stay here and declare all that has been done for you. This begging, this pleading, as if it's your only and your last great hope. That's the same word of the demons themselves, legion who had inhabited that man struggling chained with uh brokenness and this uh community's hatred in the the prison of that tomb, that graveyard. The demons begged to Jesus, let us go into these pigs. Jesus says yes. It was their last hope This Father has this one last hope. And this is another place where we're able to see the mercy of Christ. The Father's hopes are not very high. In Mark verse 9, Mark chapter 9, we have this very same account of this very same healing immediately after they come down from the Mount of Transfiguration. And we read there that Jesus asked the Father, Do you believe? And the father gives an interesting answer. He says, Yes, help me in my unbelief. Communicating that there's just this shred, this tiny remnant, this this spark of faith. This man has already gone to the disciples of Jesus. And understand this: the disciples in Luke chapter 9, verse 1, were told that Jesus gave them authority to cast out. All demons. And they had done so And the fame of their actions that redounded to the glory of Jesus of Nazareth had gotten all the way to Herod, such that Herod was thinking, Who is this guy? This father had brought in his broken son to the disciples who could cast out all demons, and they had failed. You see, Jesus was his last hope, and he was holding on to a shred of faith. The majesty of God, dear friend, is such that the smallest faith, the least flicker of belief, the frailest of hopes, can be fully met By the utter, complete, entire majesty of God The majesty of God and its expression in your life is not dependent on the amount of faith you have, only on the presence of faith. Faith the size of a mustard seed, the smallest of the seeds in the typical garden of Palestine at that time. Was sufficient to move a mountain. The smallest faith that you have, dear beloved, if you Have faith in Jesus, the Son of God, from all eternity, who took on flesh and gave himself as God's chosen one for you, the smallest, weakest, frailest faith in Him Is loved and delighted in by the majesty on high. They were in awe of that. That God would through his chosen servant so completely Affect and transform the life of this nearly hopeless father with a broken son. Mercy towards the Father shows us the majesty of God And it teaches us that that majesty in its expression is not dependent upon the amount of faith we have, but on the fact that we come to Him with any faith at all. Isn't that good news? We also see the majesty of God on full display in the restoration of the boy. When Jesus says, Bring your son to me. At that time, this evil spirit, this wicked demon throws the boy to the ground and convulses him as if it's his last great chance to utterly ruin the life of this image-bearer of the living God, this little anonymous boy Who had no hope and a father who was struggling to have any hope at all. But Jesus does three things: He rebukes the demon He heals the boy and he gives him back to his father. Now throughout the Gospel of Luke, and some of you know that Luke by his training was a doctor. There is a very fine line between spirit possession and demonic experience and physical ailments, and they're not always clearly distinguished in his world and life view. But in this text, we're told that there is an absolutely complete and a holistic healing of this boy, and three things are happening. He is being spiritually restored and set free from the power of the evil one. He is being physically restored, healed of all of the things that that demonic possession had afflicted him with. And he's being relationally restored and being given back to his father. His father gives him to Jesus. Jesus Sets him free and heals him and gives him back to his father. This is important language. Keep in mind that in the in the Jewish and the Israelite And indeed the ancient world in general at that time, if you were suffering in such a manner, you were outcast, you were separated from your people. Think back to that example I mentioned earlier of the the man that the Gospel of Luke mentions on the other side of the Sea of Galilee in the Gathering who was possessed by demons and made to live out in a graveyard And they weren't even particularly pious people. They saw the power of Jesus and asked Jesus to go away. We don't want anything to do with that kind of holiness. Jesus Christ has come to take someone who is unfit and unworthy of community and reattach them to community. He comes to take this demon-possessed, broken boy who would have been an object of fear and loathing and condemnation and give him back changed. And is that not partly why Jesus said to that man from Gadderene area who wanted to go with Jesus after sealing, no, I'm sending you back to your people. Give glory to God in that context and environment in which you are Speak of my power and my great majesty, that merciful expression of my unstoppable will. We learn about the majesty of God and the restoration of the boy when we see that the worst calamities are nothing before the majesty of God. And it doesn't take a great cultural leap for us to understand how desperately and deeply that one human father would have wanted that one only child, that son of his to be healed. And right when that spirit of evil is at its worst, Jesus Christ with a word changes everything. Indeed, one little word fells the enemy and brings life. We also see the majesty of God in the forbearance of these disciples. Forbearance is a word that we don't often associate with ourselves. How often of you think, I am so grateful that my wife has forbearance with me? Any any takers there? Any hands? Wives, how often do you say, I am so grateful that my husband has forbearance towards me? That's the idea that I'm so grateful that my spouse or my family or my parents or my kids or my teammates or my boss or my boy put up with me It is a recognition that there is something deficient in me. And thank God that you, God, or whoever is willing to put up with me chooses to do so and gives me time to grow and to learn and to develop What Jesus says after he recognizes that these disciples, whom he had given power over all demons, when he hears that they failed, Every one of them, all of them together, and had been unable to help this man. His response is it's a powerful response. O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you and bear with you? Jesus of Nazareth, God in flesh. Says, this is an utterly broken species. These image-bearers of mine have done so much in their rebellion that there is nothing straight about them. And even when they are given all power and authority, they'll find a way to abnegate the exercise of that power and authority through unbelief. In such a manner that they fail, that they turn back, that they waver. We can look at this text and recognize that Luke, remember in Luke chapter 1, verses 1 through 3, talks about how Luke, led by the Spirit. uh looks at other gospels and puts together this account. And the other gospels have way more information than this one. Luke Edits it down and he he redacts this text to be a small, tightly conceived event in which we see the desperation of the man, we see the brokenness of the sun, and we see the inability of the disciples. Now, the inability of the disciples is clearly in view here, and they, in fact, in the Gospel of Mark, in that account, go on to say, Jesus, why couldn't we do it? And Jesus tells them this kind only comes out by prayer. Which suggests very strongly that what's one thing they had not done in trying to cast that demon out? Pray Which reveals the fact that they did not recognize that to endure this great spiritual contest and overcome this spiritual enemy that had broken this boy They did not express and act as if they needed God to work through them to bring about holiness. They clearly attempted to do it in their own power. And how often do you and I do that? How often do you and I think, ah, you know what, I've I've preached 789 sermons. I, you know, I don't need to really spend an hour in prayer for this one. I got this, God. You take a break. How often do you in your life, in your calling, say, Well, I've gone through, I've done this so many times. I know how to do this. I know the process. I know the method. And we can live our life using the exact same methods we used descriptively when we were depending upon God. We can take those exact same methods And use them prayerlessly without an active and a lively and a humble acknowledgement that you feel to the mare of your bones that God must be in this or it will fail. We can start thinking that Okay, I've learned the process. I've got the book on how to do this. And I'm going to cook by recipe and God will act. And how often do the people of God fail? Because it's not the motions that bring the results, it's not our procedures that bring the results, it's not our methodologies that bring the results, it's not our vision statements, it' It's not our compassion, it's not our gifts that bring results Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit. We plant and water, but no growth comes apart from God Himself. And it is likely when you canvass the history of the saints' interpretation of this text as you look back at the preaching traditions through continents and denominations. These disciples had forgotten that. And they had, in a manner that did not depend upon prayer, attempted to do something they had done who knows how many times, and without prayer they failed. His disciples were unable to do what Jesus called them to do. Their problem was a failure to express belief and a reliance upon their own skills, abilities, and standing. And so they failed. And there's something really powerful and beautiful about this. And I'm so glad it is contained in Holy Scripture. One of the other, of those six references to the word majesty, that I haven't referred to yet, takes place in Acts. In Acts chapter 19, the Apostle Paul is in the city of Ephesus. And there are people that are really angry at the Apostle Paul because he's talking about this living God and the eternal Son of God and the Spirit of God, and he's talking about how lives can be changed, and he has seen uh demons cast out by God through his ministry. He has seen amazing Ephesus is being turned on its head. People are upset. Because in Ephesus there's this tremendous temple to this pagan deity, Artemis. Artemis of Ephesus. And that city makes a lot of money. The silversmiths make a lot of money, crafting little idols of Artemis of Ephesus. And they object. And they go before the council, these pagans, these idol makers, and they say in verse 27 of chapter 19: And there is danger. Not only that this trade of ours, making idols, may come into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be counted as nothing, and that she may even be deposed from Her Majesty, she whom all Asia and the world worship. You see, there was this concept in the ancient world that the majesty of a God was a function of how much people believed in that God and worshiped that God. That the power of God was attached in this paganistic sense to how much worship people gave, as if it was some kind of tithe that had real meaning that met a real need that the God had so that God would be strong. Such that if people stop worshiping the God, the if people stop believing in the God and depending on the God, the God would lose power And in that context, the people recognize the majesty of God as something that does not depend upon the faithfulness of the apostles. It does not depend in any way, shape, or form on whether or not we pray. The majesty of God is independent Of your worship, God has no need of your worship. It is good and right and glorious for us to worship Him But your God, dear Christian, is majestic, and that majesty is in no way compromised by your weakness. And isn't that good news? Isn't it good news that we can behold the majesty of God and the fact that in Christ his Son His prerogative is perfectly expressed even in the face of the failure of his closest and strongest and worthiest apostles? And even in the presence of the most active and heinous evil, the majestic, awesome transcendence of the living God bursts out of Jesus the Messiah. And transforms a life. The majesty of God was displayed on the Mount of Transfiguration And the majesty of God was displayed in the valley below. The majesty of God is on full display when the voice of God says, This is my son. He is the chosen one who will be the sacrifice for sin. He should be listened to. And the voice of the Father, begging for a broken son with tiny hope. When that meets this Jesus of Nazareth, that too shows the majesty of God. Are you astonished at the majesty of God? That's the response to this account. And all were astonished at the majesty of God. Are you astonished? By the fact that in Jesus Christ, the second person of the triune God, in his life, and his death and his resurrection, in what he does by his spirit today among us Are you struck by the fact that nothing can stop Jesus Christ? His absolute power. His perfect and glorious and holy will break through every conceivable obstacle, including our unwavering faith. Including the fallenness of this world I thank God for the majesty that is shown so consistently in Scripture. Edward, in planning the liturgy for this service , Shows Psalm 27, in which in view of the brokenness of humanity, that psalmist is urged by God to seek my face And the response of David is, Your face, Lord, I will seek. I want you to understand something, friend. The face of the living God is a majestic face. And he bids you to seek him, even if you've got the smallest, merest, atomically insignificant degree of faith. Take that faith. And turn to look at this glorious majestic Savior. And look with that small faith, however long it takes. And your God will show Himself to you. In small ways, mundane details, in the beauty of creation And the truth of his word. Your God is majestic. Amen. The God who is has a majesty that is offered to you who would come to him in Christ. Almighty God, we come and we acknowledge your majesty. And Father, we thank you that your majesty is so great, your power is so great. It is independent on us. It is unhindered by our lack of faith or the power of evil alike. Lord, your majesty is our hope. Father, help us as we live our lives to put our hope in you. And Lord, we pray that you would bless us as your people. Lord, give us a willing spirit to sustain us in living. in light of a majestic God's will. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen.