It was seven years ago that um there was a lot of talk going around about the persecuted church, and you saw in Christian media a lot of things about it, and they uh called for the first day of the uh persecuted church. It was in September. And then the next year I think they moved it to November. And uh through the years I have seen less and less about that. Until this year, I have not uh read anything, no word about uh the persecuted church Sunday. And nobody after the second after the first service said they had seen anything either, so I wonder what's ever happened to that. But I thought that I'm not giving up. Uh we're going to observe that this Sunday and take a look at what Scripture says as well as how that is applying in our current situation. Partly to uh call us again to remember our brothers and sisters who are suffering, particularly in other countries in some very, very difficult ways to pray for them. That is what they ask us to do more than anything. But also to see our own lives in perspective as we consider what the scripture says about how Suffering is more the norm of the Christian life than the exception. And then finally to see the hope that we have of Jesus' triumph in the midst of all of that. When I was uh at the University of Pennsylvania, I was doing some research on um gambling actually. Um I won't get into that to defend it. But what I was really looking at was how irrational we are the way we think about statistical probabilities when we have a vested interest. The classic example is if uh I flip a coin and it comes up heads five times and you have uh money on it, um you'll say to yourself, the sixth time, you know, it's gotta be tails. Tails is due. even though it's no more likely to come up tails than any other time because it's still fifty fifty. And that occurred to me in the last few weeks With all the talk about the sniper attacks, because I thought again of how irrational we are about probabilities people being a afraid to uh pump gas or go to Walmart when in fact the statistical probability is much higher they'd be killed in the car on the highway going to the gas station or to the Walmart than they would by any sniper bullet In fact, what was intriguing was that during that time when there were ten murders, I believe, in this area from sniper bullets, there were thirty-two people shot in District of Columbia by handguns. plus 18 more murdered in personal assaults with handguns during that same period of time. And most of those didn't even make the paper and we didn't see anything about them. So we weren't particularly worried about that And then I thought, during that same three-week period, how many of my brothers and sisters in Christ around the world have been murdered because of their faith? And we don't even think about that. They're not in the papers. There's no roll of them. There is no record. But every week, many, many, untold numbers of our brothers and sisters are being killed for the gospel. You take um Well, what I want to do this morning, we get to the text, is I'd like to look again at the book of Revelation. And I want for us to see what God says about this, and how do we fit that in the context of His promises of care and provision for us? What does that all mean? How does it fit together? Last week we looked at Revelation 2. I want to look at Revelation 6 this week. And that strange passage that uh Tim has read twice, I've told it was so strange we needed to read this a number of times for it to sink in, just what this is about. So let me read it again, Revelation chapter 6. Verses 9 to 11. And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and the testimony they had maintained. He called out in a loud voice, How long, sovereign Lord, holy and true, until you judge the inhabitants of the earth and avenge our blood. Then each of them was given a white robe, and they were told to wait a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and brothers who were to be killed as they had been was completed. Okay, need a brief orientation here. So take a look. Michael, get up that little chart. Remember the book of Revelation. We've looked at in the past. Some of you have had this, and I know when I give you these real brief overviews. So yeah, too quick we can get all down. Well, you know, Presbyterians, we've got to get it all down. So in case you don't have it and you want it, there's still four copies left over from the first service in the back table. You can grab 'em up afterwards All I want to do with this, though, is to remind you that I think the best breakdown of the book of Revelation is that it's into seven sevens. After the prologue and before the epilogue, you got seven series of sevens. The first four are the progressive disclosure or revelation, which is what it's about, of the ultimate sources of conflict in history, climax. By the exposure of Satan and his angels in chapter 13, the seven figures against the angels of God. Each of those cycles covers the whole period between Jesus' first and second coming. That's why people find it so hard to do chronology in Revelation. I believe then the second series, you go from four then to seven, is a progressive revelation of the ultimate victory of Christ and the overthrow of evil. Now what we're reading here is in that second series Chapter 6 particularly focuses on the seven seals, and you notice this passage is the fifth seal. That's what that's about. Now that's the basic context of it. Remember that what Revelation is basically describing to us is that The story of history is the progress both of Jesus' victory over the nations and his rule, as well as the suffering, the opposition. uh and the persecution that will be sustained during that time. Some of us have this idea that the more Jesus is victorious, the less there'll be persecution. I think the Bible presents just the opposite. The more Jesus is victorious the more there is suffering and persecution. And if you want a simple overview of that, I believe that Matthew chapter 24 uh was really the book of Revelation in one chapter, uh, because in Matthew twenty-four I think what Jesus is doing is saying, between my time right now and seventy AD You're going to see a microcosm of all that's going to happen between my coming and when I return again. And so you have in verse 14, the gospel is going to be preached to all the nations. And you have in verses 19 and Excuse me, in verses 10 to 13, just before that, Jesus had talked about how there would be persecution and apostasy and difficult times of tribulation. So these things are always interwoven. Then, when you turn to the book of Revelation, you see that chapter 1 introduces Jesus as how, the ruler of all the nations. Absolutely clear who is the one who is going to conquer in all this. But as soon as it describes him as the ruler of all the nations, you get down to verses nine and ten, and John says, I'm your fellow sufferer. I'm the one who is enduring with you through the persecution. And then in chapters 2 and 3, you have the letters to the seven churches. Interesting that in those letters, the idea of overcoming and suffering and persecution is dominant throughout them. For instance, you remember last week we looked at Revelation 2, verses 1 to 7, about the church of Ephesus, Jesus, the last, the fifth and last epistle in the New Testament to the church in Ephesus. You remember how we saw in verse 3, you've persevered, you've endured hardships for my name, not grown weary. That's in the context of those who were said they were apostles or not, the wicked men, the conflict that was with them To the next church, Smyrna. You remember he wrote in chapter 2, verse 10, even more specific, do not be afraid of what you're about to suffer. I tell you the devil will put some of you in prison to test you. You will suffer persecution for ten days. Be faithful even to the point of death. And I will give you the crown of life. And then the promise, verse 11, he who overcomes will not be hurt by the second death. Then you've got the church in Pergamum Third church, verse 13. He says, I know where you live, where Satan has his throne, yet you remain true to my name. You did not renounce your faith in me, even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was put to death in your city where Satan lives. You ever notice that verse and think about it? I mean, who was Antipas? What did Antipas suffer? Why was he put to death? How did he die? Who grieved for Anibus after he was killed? Did he have a mom and dad that were still alive? Was he married? Was his wife heartbroken to lose him? Did he have kids? They lost their dad. What about this fella, Antipas? You know, there's just so many who have suffered the loss of their life for the cause of Christ. And very few are named. Yeah, this one name stuck in here, Antipas. You and I will see him someday. Who is Antipas? The only clue we have as to why he was martyred is the beginning and the end of verse 13. John or Jesus says there, I know where you live, where Satan has his throne, and the end where Satan lives. This probably has reference to the fact that Pergamon was an official center of emperor worship for the Roman Empire. So it's likely that Antipas refused to offer those few grains of incense. Before the altar of the emperor Caesar, and say the words, Caesar is Lord. He simply could not do it Because that would demean and disgrace his Lord Jesus. And Antipas knew there was but one Lord And he couldn't, the words would stick in his throat. You may take my life, but I can't do it. And they murdered him He loved Jesus too much. Now it's in the next section that you have here the seven seals. So now we're coming back, and John's taking us back through church history again. Now we've done it by looking at seven churches. Now he's going to take a different perspective to take us a little deeper into the disclosure of this warfare, this spiritual warfare that's occurring. And so in chapter 6, you have the seven seals. And if you come to this fifth seal, And now say it again in the context of what we've just read. Then he opened the fifth seal, and I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and a testimony that they had maintained. That includes Antipas. Antipas is down there, as well as legions, myriads of others of your and my spiritual ancestors thousands today around the world that are being added to that number. They called out in a loud voice, How long, Sovereign Lord, holy and true, until you judge the inhabitants of the earth. and avenge our blood. Then each of them was given a white robe, and they were told to wait a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and brothers who were to be killed, as they had been, was completed. Four things I would like you to notice from these three verses. Number one, notice that the persecution is to the point of death. You see the yellow? The souls of those who had been slain, they didn't just suffer, they didn't lose their jobs. These people were put to death for the cause of the gospel. And that's not just then, that's still going on. I've reminded you before. By the year 1970, more people, more Christians, had been killed for their faith. in the 20th century than all previous nineteen centuries. That was by 1970. The persecution has increased vastly since then. Think of the Christians in southern Sudan, a very rapidly growing church around from among churches around the world. Of course, there's always the nominal church, but in the southern Sudan, I understand you have a very vibrant biblical church. Some parts of Southern Sudan, 90% of the population profess to be Christians. But Sudan is officially a Muslim country. The government in Khartoum is a Muslim government. Islamic law is imposed on the country And for nearly twenty years now, the government from Khartoum has been systematically seeking to eradicate the Christians in southern Sudan Since 1985, over two million people have been slaughtered in southern Sudan. Currently, millions are starving. They are in difficult situations in good times. But now not only are they in difficult times, but the government of Khartoum has cut off all humanitarian aid. They have bombed Franklin Graham's hospitals there. They have recently bought high-tech Russian MIGs in order to use smart missiles to destroy the Christians. They have outlawed as of September all humanitarian aid reaching southern Sudan in order to destroy the Christian opposition. Or you take Indonesia. Indonesia is also a place where the church has been growing the fastest. In fact, in uh the last decade or two the church was going so rapidly in Indonesia that it was over 20% of the population and the Muslim government in Jakarta was embarrassed by those figures and suppressed them. And in recent years, the government has been raiding villages, towns, burning them, destroying them. uh trapping Christians inside their churches for worship and simply burning down the buildings with them in. And you hear all of these different I have uh I have appeals in my office from pastors in Indonesia pray for us, pray for deliverance from these raids. The Indonesian government is supposed to officially protect us and allow not allow this to happen. But typically a terrorist group will come in. And the troops from the government simply disappear until the Christians are slaughtered and they come back and say, Oh, well, we weren't there to help. And all that seems kind of distant and remote to us, but uh last week Dick and Linda Barnes were here with some military people because of an international Christian conference for training among military leaders. And they happened to catch me in my office stop by and they had a couple of people with them uh among whom was A woman, retired military from Indonesia, a very attractive, bright, pleasant woman named Elizabeth I met her and I couldn't resist asking her, uh, can you confirm the reports that we hear about persecution of Christians in Indonesia? And she smiled and said, Oh yes, I can. That's happening And I said, Do you have any personal acquaintance with that persecution? And again she said, Oh yes. I've lost two nephews to bombings, a third family member, and a number of friends You know, it's one thing to read that in a paper. It's another thing to stand in a potter's house with a woman that says, Oh yes. We live daily with a threat of bombings and burnings as Christians in Indonesia. Now we get freaked out in this area about some snipers In the very low statistical probability of any of us becoming a target. And our brothers and sisters in Indonesia live every day with the possibility of terrorist attacks every time they go to worship. They wonder, will this Sunday be the Sunday that the terrorists come into our congregation? Can we even begin to understand what it means to live in a as a Christian? In such a circumstance. I'll tell you, I had to drop my eyes looking to Elizabeth, and what do you say? We'll pray for you. That's tough. Must be hard to go home. She wants to go home. She's home now. What does that mean? Notice secondly the reason why these brothers and sisters endure this The reason for the persecution is quite clear there in verse 9, because of the word of God and the testimony they had maintained. That's the simple reason. You have that kind of reference a number of times in the book of Revelation. When we bear witness to the gospel, when we hold to the fact that it's true. We're going to suffer for it. And that's not just in foreign countries. Well, what about in the United States? Well we have it so easy here. Yeah, but it might get harder How many of you have read the story about Ron Brown in the news in the last couple months? Hey, it's the same as First Service. Zero. Ron Brown is a coach, head coach at the University of Nebraska. Very talented fellow. Stanford recruited him and he applied. They were given a top coaching job at Stanford University. At the last minute, they withdrew the offer. Why? Ron Brown's a committed Christian. And Stanford said, in our diverse community, a man with such convictions could disrupt the peace and the harmony. It was a very candid statement, usually not released to where it can get to the press. It also came out that the uh active gay rights community at Stanford had said we oppose is being given to this job, given this job because this man believes the Bible and you know what people who believe the Bible do to people like us It's sad that that's seen. We as a congregation are committed to not being enemies of gay people or gay bashing. Nevertheless, the agenda is a threat to the freedom of speech. And so Ron Brown was just put to the side and said, We're not going to offer you the job. Actually there was a lawyer in California that offered to take his case against discrimin for discriminatory practices. I don't know what'll ever happen to that. Well what's that mean for you and for me in the future? What about you kids in the years ahead, in the job opportunities that you'll be offered, particularly in areas like university settings, where political correctness is paramount? I can't help but think of that and ask you as I ask myself, what do you suffer because of your testimony for Jesus Christ? This was because of the testimony that they had maintained. We don't have to give our lives, but do you give anything? What about you kids at school? Are you willing to say that you're not going to cheat? And you're not going to help somebody to cheat because you're a Christian? Are you willing to say that you're not going to shoplift when your friends are? You're not going to steal because you're a Christian? What do you back down? I told you the story a long time ago myself of two big guys a couple years older than me when I was just a little kid that got me trapped in this area and had matches and said they were going to burn me if I didn't say a couple obscene words. And I resisted for a while, but I finally capitulated I said them and I was released to my shame, determining never to do that kind of thing again What are we willing to pay? You know, there's a principle in life. If you compromise on the little little things, you're never going to be like an anipus when the ultimate test comes. We don't know what lies ahead in our country. Some of you kids and some of you teenagers are right now, I believe, in training of the Holy Spirit to see what you're willing to stand for with Jesus. Some of you teenagers. You hang around your friends. Are you willing to be different? To say that you're not going to watch the same shows, listen to the same music, go to the same movies. Do the same things, tell the same jokes, get involved in the same stuff that they do, because you're a Christian and heaven forbid even try to talk to them about the Lord. Or are some of you scared to become Christians because of what it would cost you? I don't rule out the fact there's some of you that know the gospel's true, that you know that what I'm talking about here every week Is the truth. You've been raised with it. You know it. But you're too scared to become a Christian because you say, if I become a Christian, it's going to cost me something at school You know, one of the things God used to convict me of my need for Jesus Christ as a teenager in high school was how my language was so different with my friends in school from what it was at church. And I refused to be different. I finally became so convicted of that. I knew I wasn't a Christian, and I knew I had to stand one way or the other. God, by his grace, showed me my need of Christ. Some of you holding back from Jesus Christ and giving your life to him out of fear of what it will cost you. I plead with you. When that last day comes and you stand before Jesus Christ, who's going to care what your friends thought? The only thing that will matter then is what Jesus Christ thinks. Amen. I hope a couple teenagers said amen there. Well, that's the reason. Notice thirdly, they're longing for vengeance. Verse 10. They called out in a loud voice. How long, sovereign Lord, holy and true, until you judge the inhabitants of the earth and avenge our blood? They're probably, that's the blue that's up there. I can't look real blue from here, but you can see a little bit. But uh they're probably claiming the promise of 1 Thessalonians, excuse me, uh 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 3 to 10, where Jesus promised To avenge the blood of his people from their persecutors and to judge the persecutors and destroy them. And they're saying, Lord, how long? You're in control. How long before you're going to do this? Now, what's intriguing to me about that is that there may be some indication there that they're aware of what's going on on earth. They're talking about heaven here. You notice these are under the altar. Altar indicates sacrifice. They paid the sacrifice. There they are. Their souls waiting for their bodies to be joined with them when Jesus comes. They're here in this time between death and when the great resurrection, and they're saying, Lord, how long before you're going to avenge them? So it seems like they know what's going on. Now Revelation has much symbolic language that you can't you can't prove. You can't say, well, we know that they know what's going on on earth because of that. Just like you can't know the dimensions of Jerusalem when you read the dimensions in Revelation. But maybe there's an indication, just something to think about. Nevertheless, what's more important is the answer that they're given in verse 11. Then each of them was given a white robe. That's the first thing. They're given white robes. Now, what are white robes? Well, I've given you the biblical references and revelation there, but for time let me just sum it up. White robes mean two things in all the passages you see there. One is white robes are given to those who overcome. White robes symbolize victory. It's like the helmet, remember in Ephesians 6. The helmet's to protect you, to give you the hope, but it's also gleaming and it's it's uh got a decoration for the plume and the victory uh march And so these white robes were for the victory celebration. And they're given to those who persevere and overcome. So that's an indication. If you're given the white robes, you have overcome. Here it is. Here's my recognition and acknowledgement of that. But the second thing that white robes indicates is, of course, it is the righteousness of Christ. And so you have white robes that are given to cover their shame in Revelation. The white robes are the righteousness of Christ, Romans 13. You remember Paul says, clothe yourself with Christ. Galatians 3. 27, all who belong to Christ are clothed with Christ. The interesting thing is as you come to chapter 19, you have these two ideas blended together. We have the saints who are rayed in white linen, the robes, who come in that final battle as overcomers. But then in verse 8, you read that these are those who come in their white robes, and it says the white linen, the white robes, are the righteous acts of the saints. Now, here you have this idea in Revelation that it's the righteousness of Christ to cover our shame, but then in Revelation 19 you have that it's the righteous acts of the saints. I used to ponder that and wonder well how could it be the righteous acts of the saints? I would think it would say This is the righteousness of Christ, but it's, you know, they're righteous. Until all of a sudden, you know, duh, of course, Ephesians gives you the answer, right? You know? So you look at Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 24, and what's Paul say there put on the new self which is being renewed in righteousness and holiness of truth. And so what did we have? We had that between this time when we're given the righteousness of Christ to clothe ourselves with and that time When at that time when Jesus gathers us together, our righteousness imputed to us becomes a righteousness imparted in us. And you and I become in our experience, in every thought, word, be fully, completely righteous. And the robes at that point symbolize you are thoroughly, from the tip of your head to the toes of your feet, fully and completely, morally Fully in character like the Lord Jesus, as much like him as a creature is capable of being. And so right after chapter 6, you have that beautiful passage in chapter 7. We read there in verse 13. One of the elders asked me, these and the white robes, who are they? Where'd they come from? And I answered, Sir, you know. And he said, Yes, these are they who come have come out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Obviously it's symbolic, but there is the imputed righteousness. But in that day, they're going to come, and they're going to, when Jesus comes to receive them, they will be before the throne of God. And they will serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will spread his tent over them. Never again will they hunger, never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat upon them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will lead them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes No more pain. I am home. I see Jesus as he really is. I belong here. All that I was meant to be is now fulfilled as what I am becomes the fullness of Christ in me. Amen? Do you look forward to that? Do you live in the hope of that? As you remember Antipas and you remember this week what it cost you to walk with Jesus Christ. to be different, to not be at home in this world. Do you think of that robe? Do you think of when Jesus comes and he takes all of the pain and the sin all away? No more enemies. No more opposition. You stand before him complete. Jesus says, wait a little longer. Verse 11. See? Wait, wait, wait, my children, wait a little longer until the number of the fellow servants and brothers who are to be killed, those who are night right now still being killed Wait, wait, it's almost over. It's almost done. Jesus will come, and every knee shall bow. And you and I will be vindicated with him as those who belong to the king who's reigned in his righteousness. And Jesus says, No army can stand against me. No one can oppose the onslaught, the triumph of the gospel. The gates of hell cannot prevail against it. And so in 1903, in China, when it was a fully open nation, except for attitudes, you know, it was the cultural opposition, but 1903, some number of Presbyterian missionaries Went to a little town, Xingtai, 250 miles southeast of Beijing. And they planted a Presbyterian church there. They preached the gospel, and that church took hold And immediately after that, there was the Boxer Rebellion. Hundreds of missionaries were killed. And then years after that, the communists came in and they sought to eradicate Christianity out of China, mainland China. You know that this year, 100 years, almost a hundred years after that church was planted, somebody came from that church to Washington, D. C. to say that church still exists. In fact, that church exists, and I'm here sent by my father to re-establish some contact with Western Presbyterian missionaries and to have contact again And so he contacted a couple of Orthodox Presbyterian missionaries and said, can we have contact? And as a result of that, make a long story short, three of our missionaries who had contact with China this past summer went to Xingtai to preach the gospel. Three Orthodox Presbyterian missionaries re-established the contact. wondering who will be here, what is going to be left of this little remnant of a church after a hundred years of persecution. When they preached one Saturday, two thousand people showed up. They preached on Sunday morning, over 3,000 people showed up. They talked with a pastor. There were two people who were on paid staff. The pastor and the add-on assistant These were assisted by 300 layleaders, people who after long days of work go out and plant churches. How well had they done? They said that in the nineteen counties around them, I don't know how many congregations they had, but the body of believers that were part of that church was over 100,000 Christians from one little church in a hundred years of persecution. Brothers and sisters, you can't keep the gospel down because Jesus and his reputation and his name and his power are at stake. Who here is willing this week to stand and live for Jesus Christ? The two points in the application, simply one, stand firm. Remember Antipas. Who among you, who of us here is willing to stand to say, I will walk with Jesus Christ? I will be known as a Christian. I'm not going to try and hide it. If people are going to accept me, it's going to be as a Christian. I'm tired of trying to live a double life, fit in with the world because of the awkwardness. I'm trying, tired of trying to hide the gospel. Are you willing to stand for Him so that you will look forward to that white robe of the overcomers and you will have that day when you will see Jesus and you will say, Oh Lord Jesus, it was all worth it. Now comes the rest. And then finally the second point. Remember your brothers and sisters. Hebrews 13:3. Remember them as if you were imprisoned with them. And my challenge to you in this service as it was in the first service, think and pray about it. Would there be two or three or four or five of you who would be willing to serve on a persecuted church task force A group of people who would say, I will look and I will see what's going on in the news and I will help us to mobilize in legislation, see if we can help our brothers and sisters We'll pray together regularly for them. All of you can come Thursday mornings to our Thursday concert of prayer. We spend on most Thursday mornings part of our time praying for persecuted Christians throughout the world. Come and join us anytime you can, Thursday morning, 6. 30 a. m. to 7. 30, right over there in the Potter's house. But a task force that can say, I'll mobilize the congregation and let you guys know times when we might be able to do something strategic. You know what makes a difference? I told you about Southern Sudan. Again, how many of you read in the news about the Sudan Peace Act? That backed act was passed overwhelmingly on October the 7th by our House of Representatives. You It was passed overwhelmingly by the Senate on October the 9th. We now have in law in the last couple of weeks in this country a law which condemns the Khartoum government for its persecution of Christians in southern Sudan. provides $100 million of relief aid that cannot be stopped for those Christians, requires the Khartoum government to enter into peace negotiations with Southern Sudan with good faith initiatives or sanctions are brought by the United States government against them by law. A lot needs still to be done. Can you imagine the hope that that gives to brothers and sisters in Southern Dusedan to say, we have not been forgotten? Are we willing to stand and to pray and to join with them? But most important simply to stand this week for the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray Our Father, I wonder how many of us, if we really were honest in our hearts, could say right now, I'm willing to stand here, just stand on my feet and say, I'm willing to stand for Jesus. Lord, we pray that in our hearts you would you would cause us to examine. If there's even anyone here who's saying, you know, that's the real reason I'm not becoming a Christian I'm not willing to follow him. I just don't want to have to take that stand. Lord, show that person the utter foolishness of such a position. And Lord, strengthen us. We cannot stand in our own strength. It is the power of Jesus who comes, who gives the white robe, who is the one who equips us and strengthens us this week. If we seek to stand in our own strength, we will utterly fail. And Lord, we ask you to give us that strength, that love for Jesus. That wisdom, that ability to be able to be known as Christians. Oh Lord, Lord, forgive us. Of being ashamed of the gospel. We've been ashamed long enough. We want to come out. We want to be openly your disciples and follow you. And to know what that means, we ask for that, for your grace and your power in Jesus' name. Amen.