Nothing else. This three-week series on Zachariah will help you to know where Zachariah is. In three weeks returning to this You by now ought to be aware that it's the second to the last book of the Old Testament just before the book of Malachi. Let's look again at God's word, Zechariah chapter 16 Then the angel who talked with me returned and awakened me as a man who's waking from his sleep. And he asked me, What do you think? I answered, I see a solid gold landstand with a bowl at the top, with seven lights on it, with seven channels for the light. Also there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl and the other on its left. I asked the angel who talked with me, what are these, my lord? He answered, Do you not know what these are? No, my lord, I replied. So he said to me, This is the word of the Lord says a rubbable, not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord Almighty. What are you, O mighty mountain? Before it's a rubble, you will become level ground. Then he will bring out the capstones, the shouts of God bless us, God bless us. Then the word of the Lord came to you The hands of the rubble have laid the foundation of this temple. His hands will also conclude it. Then you will know the Lord Almighty has sent you to you. Who despite today of small things? Men will rejoice when they see the plumb line in the hand of the rubbables These seven are the eyes of the Lord which reign throughout the earth. Then I asked the angel, What are these two olive trees on the right and on the left of the lamp plant? Again I asked him, What are these two olive branches beside the two golden sites that pour out golden oil? He replied, Do you not know what these are? No, my lord, I said. So he said, These are the two who are anointed to serve the Lord of all the earth. So in the reading of God's word I consider again this chapter particularly focusing on that verse. Verse 6, not by might, not by power, but by my spirit Love the Lord Almighty. Why is it that I take three weeks? One phrase like this Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. The reason is quite simple. Simply because it is not by might nor by power, but it's by my spirit, says the Lord. And that idea so challenges our complacency and self-dependence that we need to have it repeated so that it begins to sink into us gradually That it really is not by might nor by power, but it's by God's Spirit that the temple is raised And I believe that we need to focus on that again and again, but particularly this morning, I think we need to see that verse in its context. Of that chapter, chapter 4, to fully understand it. We need to see that chapter in the light of the rest of Scripture. Particularly a New Testament parallel passage that applies that verse to this ages. That is Revelation chapter 11, verse 1 to 14. These two passages together give a rather different picture from what we often hear is what the Christian life ought to be like in the world in which we live. A very different picture And the one that we often hear today. First of all, then I want us to see that the key to understanding Zechariah chapter 4 It's Revelation chapter eleven, one to fourteen, by establishing that both of these are speaking about the same thing. Now if you have your bulletin outline before you notice that I have set these in columns so that you can see the three points of commonality between these two passages. So you may want to stick one finger in Zechariah chapter four and stick another finger in Revelation eleven so you can flip back and forth for a couple minutes at least to be able to notice how these two passages are in fact speaking of the same thing. Zechariah chapter four, notice in verse three Your Zachariah is talking about two olive trees, two olive trees by this lampstand, one on the right and the other on the left. He says again in verse eleven, what are the two olive trees on the right and left of the lampstand? Go to Revelation eleven, and you see in verse four, John 's having a vision of two olive trees So you have in both cases to all the trees. Well that's not very compelling, uh that it's necessarily speaking about the same thing, but when you add that together with the second thing that in Zechariah four, verse two and verse eleven. He has a vision of a lampstand. Zechariah 4-2. I see a solid gold lampstand. Describes with the bowl and the light And then verse 11, the olive trees are on the right and the left of the lampstand. Then you go over to Revelation 11, and you see again in verse 4 that these are the two olive trees and the two lampstands. You see in Zechariah 4, one lampstand , Revelation 11, two lampstands, hold on to the numbers for a couple minutes, but in both cases, there are lampstands associated with these holys. And then the coup de grâce, the final uh convict uh con uh compelling uh evidence is when you see what is paired with these two things, in Zechariah chapter four In verse 14, these two olive trees are said to be the two who are anointed to serve the Lord of all the earth. Literally. You have a new American standard, it has it to the two who are standing before the Lord of all the earth. Go over to Revelation eleven, verse four We find that these two olive trees and the two lampstands are the ones that stand before the Lord of all the earth. Precisely the same language Zachariah simply adds the word all. In fact, if you look in the Greek and the Hebrew, the construction is identical except for the word all. literally as you see it in the bulletin, who are standing by the Lord of the earth. Zachariah says, of all the earth. And so as you look at these two pictures, you see clearly that Zachariah and John are having the same kind of vision. It's a vision which in the unity of the Spirit of God is talking about the same thing. And what is it that that's talking about? By comparing these two passages, I believe we'll discover three things that are very important in our understanding of what the Christian life is about in our age. First of all, we see that we are all called as witnesses to Christ. We are all called, those who follow Jesus Christ, as witnesses for Christ. How do you see that? How is it that the Lord calls us to witness? Well, it's by God taking humble and helpless people And raising them up, not by light or by power, but by his spirit, by his power, that we become exhibit A of the power of Jesus Christ to the world. Take that lion's back. There were a people who were hopeless. Remember the foundation of the temple had been laid. And for fourteen years nothing else has been done, because they're intimidated and scared by those who have persecuted and appalled them These are a helpless people. Then God comes and he says, It's not by might or by power, but by my spirit. And so the Lord calls to To lead the people. He calls Joshua the priest, who is spoken of in Zechariah chapter 3. The vision that Zechariah has in chapter 3 relates To Zachariah to uh Joshua, the priest. That whole vision is about Joshua, the priest. Then in chapter four The vision is about so uh Di Rebabel who is of the line of David serving as the king. He's an acting king, a governor. He doesn't have the title of king But he acts as king for the people. And so the Lord raises up the priest Joshua and the king Zerubabel to raise up his temple. He's bringing here the two together, the priest king. And I believe that it's clear that these two are the ones spoken of in verse fourteen. When he says in verse fourteen, who are these two olive trees? Who are the two olive branches? that stand before the Lord of all the earth. It's clear that those two are Joshua and Zerubbabel. Those are the two, the priest king that the Lord has called to stand before him and to lead the people in the raising up of the temple. That's clear if you look and compare it with chapter three And you see, this is the power of the Lord, making them witnesses. The temple is raised up and all the world sees that it was raised up by a helpless people through the priests and the king. And then we read in Hebrews 7 that he priests king, Jesus King. Zechariah , Zerubabo, and Joshua are simply a picture of the true priest king combined in one person, Jesus Christ. Who raises up dead people. And he comes in the power of the Spirit and speaks the word of power. And the dead are raised up to life. Then the same Jesus, believed his weakness, was crucified. Jesus was crucified, and if we believe that he was crucified for what he deserved, for what he did But then there's no justice in all the world. Jesus was crucified for himself, and then there's no hope of any justice. For no one deserves to be crucified less than Jesus Christ. And in fact, the Bible tells us he is not crucified for himself. He was crucified from you, for me. He was crucified as a substitute, a substitute to take the punishment that you and I deserve for our sake, and to bear that upon himself So if this morning you come here, you have a need in your life. A recognized need to be forgiven by God. To have your life changed. And Jesus Christ The priest, King, who was crucified and raised up in your Savior and your Lord, to forgive you Because he's taken the punishment that Jesus has. To change your life by the power of his spirit, who has said, because he's been raised up, the true temple raised up. You remember Jesus said, destroy this temple, speaking of his body, John said, and in three days I will raise it up. And God, by the power of his Spirit, has raised up Jesus so that all the world will know that there's a God in heaven, and that God is revealed in the person of Jesus Christ. And the power of the Spirit is made available to those who look to Jesus Christ for salvation, for forgiveness But for changed laws, be healed , be made whole people by his power. Some of these last days, God's constant Raising up a living temple, not a stone temple, like in back rival, but a living temple, a temple that is composed of spiritual corpses We were raised up by the power of the Spirit of God. That living temple is a witness. Zechariah says that this uh His vision of the church is in terms of a lampstand. A lampstand gives light. It's point out truth. So the living temple today is a lampstand. It's a light to point to the power of Jesus Christ to contain people like you and like me, spiritually dead in my sins, with no interest in the things of God. He can change us. We can make it the people who are live, who love it, who lay all of our idols at his feet. They're in the process of being changed by Zechariah and Revelation both picture the church as a witness Zechariah by talking of the church as a lamp, as a life. John picks that idea up and tells us that uh For instance, Jesus and Matthew tells us that we are a light set upon a hill that men may see our good deeds and glorify the Father. John refers to light again and again in conjunction with the idea of witness unto Jesus Christ. And then particularly, if you have still any doubt, take a look at Revelation 11, verse 3, where you have these olive trees and the lampstand together. And John says, concerning these, I will give power to my two witnesses. The olive trees and the lampstands are witnesses. This is the same picture you had in Zechariah. And so the church here is seeing pictures as a witness. Now you notice that in Zechariah, you had the priest and the king who were for the church. Joshua and Zerubbabel for the church to lead the church as a means of grace for the church to raise up the temple. But in John Notice in verse four, these are the two olive trees and the two lampstands. In John, you don't have uh the priest king for the church. In John, the priest king for the church. Two lamp spans are joined with the two olive trees. And the two form one image. So that you have now all of the church are priests and kings. John adds to that idea that the church as a witness are also prophets. Notice verse 10. He says I took the scroll of students chapter 11 verse 10. The inhabitants of the earth will gloat over them talking about these two witnesses and celebrate by sending each other gifts because these two prophets had tormented those who live on the earth. So the church is referred to here as prophets, priests, and king to the earth. Who are the two prophets then in Revelation chapter 11? Well, what is said about this? Notice in verse six. These two witnesses, these two prophets. have power to shut up the sky so that it will not rain during the time that they are prophesying, and they have power to turn the waters into flood, and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they want. I believe that these two prophets spoken of here in Revelation 11 are Moses and Elijah. I believe it's Moses and Elijah for three reasons Number one, because Moses and Elijah were both prophets. And verse 10 clearly tells us that these two men are prophets. And so you have the image of the priest king from Zechariah being merged into the image of prophet priest king. These two men are clearly prophets, Moses and Elijah were prophets. The second reason But I believe it just refers to Moses and Elijah because their miracles correspond to those of Moses and Elijah. Moses had the power to turn the waters of the Nile into blood You see in verse 6 they have power to turn the waters into blood. Elijah was the one called to shut up the heavens So that it wouldn't rain for three and a half years. Verse 6 says that these men have power to shut up the sky so that it won't rain during the time that they're prophesying for these twelve hundred and sixty days. Now, the third reason, I believe that it's Moses and Elijah, is because Moses and Elijah are linked together in Mark 9. 4, talking to Jesus. And so you have that link of these two standing before Jesus on the mount of transfiguration. And they then are joined with the image of the church, representing the church. And so you see what John is telling us here is that you and I are called as Moses and Elijah in the power of the Spirit to be witnesses to our world. Now it's interesting. Why Moses and Elijah? Think about it for a moment. Moses was the witness to Egypt. It stood for the world. Now the world that knew not God. Elijah was the witness to apostate Israel , the people of God in name. People who call themselves Christians but don't know the power of Jesus Christ. And that's precisely what God has commissioned you and me to be witnesses to today in the power of His Spirit Be witnesses to the world that knows not God and has no interest in him. Also be witnesses to those who claim the name of Jesus Christ. don't show the power of the spirit because they don't know the truth. All they know is some sort of a cultural religion ri religianity That means Jesus Christ because it's not the source. So the question for you and for me this morning, what kind of a witness Are you to this world? You to the uh Christian Christian culture that doesn't know Jesus Christ. The question you see is not, will you be a witness? You are, by virtue of who you are If you are part of the Church of Jesus Christ, you are a witness. The question is simply, what kind of witness are you? Are you a witness from the power of the Spirit to show that even someone as weak and hopeless and helpless as you has been changed by Jesus Christ? And nothing can explain the transformation in your life except the power of Jesus Christ. And you're willing to talk about that and explain that to anyone who wants to listen. Or do you seek behind the fact that you belong to Jesus Christ? Or do you seek to um not speak because you're embarrassed when the topic of Jesus Christ comes up. You and I are called as inquisitive But pray that God will make you and me effective witnesses. Witnesses in the power of His Spirit, of Moses , a life, of a Lamb , for a world. Desperately believe in this podcast. See the power of the spirit. But I warn you, on the basis of what this passage says, not going to be easy. It's not going to be easy at all. In fact, the Bible tells us that it's a very fierce battle that we're called to I believe the church is being lulled today in many ways by what I call the harassment of the easy Christian life. The theology of the easy Christian life. You know how it goes? It's something like this. Come to Jesus Christ, and you will find that He'll meet all of your needs. Come to Jesus. There's not much to give up when you come to Jesus. You're not going to find any great conflict in the world when you come to Jesus. In fact, when you come to Jesus Christ, you're going to appear more desirable to the world. You're going to have more things to offer for all of your friends around you. I mean, after all, if you come to Jesus, you'll have an improved self-image. People will notice that. And as people look at you, they'll see that you're a happier person. As people look at you as a Christian, they'll see you're more moral and you may have to give up a few things like smoking, drinking, things like this. But People will see that because of this you have a closer family life, and particularly that you're more prosperous. That you're more successful, and the Lord has blessed you in all of your endeavors. In fact, you look pretty much like the middle-class American ideal because of Jesus Christ. I want to suggest with not too much of a caricature in that, type of false view, according to the Bible. Not what Revelation 11 here presents, in the light of Zechariah 4. Revelation 11 and the rest of my Bible tells me one of those about it. That when we come to Jesus Christ, that does not make it more popular. It doesn't say that we'll be alienated in enemies from all of our non-Christian friends, but what it does say is that there's a fierce, raging battle When we come to Jesus Christ, we're thrown in the midst that God. You notice what it says. It says in verse 1 and 2 that John was to measure the temple. But not to the outer court, because that's been given to the Gentiles, and they're gonna trample on the holy city for forty-two months. There's a battle going on there around the temple And the Bible is so fierce that the people are getting trampled. And notice what these prophets are wearing in verse 4. Verse 3, excuse me. And these two witnesses who are going out are not dressed in pinstripe suits, they're wearing sackcloth. And that sackcloth is a symbol of the fact That things are pretty sober. That there is a battle raging and that there's a great danger. A prophet wore sack cloth when he was warning of imminent danger. And that's the picture that we have here of the witnesses in these last days. And the battle in this whole view oscillates. Now notice how the description of this battle shows that it oscillates. At certain times, the church appears to be very powerful and mighty in this battle. Notice verse 5 and 6. If anyone tries to harm these witnesses, of which remember these are a picture of you and me, and if anyone tries to harm the church, the witnesses at these times, fire comes from their mouth and devours their enemies. This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die. And these men have power to shut up the sky so it won't rain during the time they're prophesying. And they have power to turn waters into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they want. But you know, that's a picture of what the church looks like in revival That's a picture of what the church looked like in Zechariah's day. Here's these Jews that are wandering around hopeless and hopeless, and Zechariah comes and he says, It's not by might nor by power but by spirit, and they begin to build up the temple. And Darius, the king of Persia, has his very heart changed. And the people begin to look in amazement. They see this temple go up and they say nothing can stop that. It's the picture of the church during the New Testament era , when Ananias and Sapphira are struck dead for lying against the Holy Spirit. We read that nobody joined with them because they were afraid of the holiness of that church. It's the picture of the power of the Spirit coming upon a holy church in revival. The picture of the church in the Reformation And the revival succeeded in wave after wave of the power of the Spirit, coming to show that Jesus Christ is alive and he's changing people. And that you better bow your knees to Jesus Christ or you'll be consumed in the army of the Lamb. That's the power of the church, mighty. The power of the Spirit. Then there are times when the church is so powerful So powerful and so mighty, we begin to think battles even won. When I may smile , wonder that anyone could ever think that Let me give you a quote from an evangelical leader, Calvin Colton, who wrote a book in 1830, in which he surveyed what the scene was like at that time. Colton said in 1830, it is unnecessary to write another book or to make another argument or preach another sermon to establish the supremacy of Christianity and the respect of mankind. That work is done and done forever. Christians have now only to take advantage of that impression of that state of society which God in his providence has deuced in the progress of 1800 years. to plant their feet upon this ground, to start from this point, and by one united and vigorous onset to march directly to the conquest of the world in the use of the simple and naked weapons of evangelical truth. Holter was no sorry-eyed liberal talking about bringing in a kingdom on earth. He was a committed believer of Jesus Christ, saying that the gospel is so powerful now we don't even need to argue against Anybody who stands against Christianity, all we have to do is continue to go to the ends of the world and declare it. And he expected one continuous revival to continue from then until when Jesus Christ returned. Now, if you think that he can be discounted, Jonathan Edwards is generally accounted and seen as one of the greatest, if not the greatest, philosophical thinker of the American well of our history in America Or wrote just some years before that that he expected the same kind of thing, a wave after wave of revival in which the church and its great power would completely overtake the kingdom of Satan And that he would see in Africa and all over great theological seminaries being raised up and the whole world would be Christianized Where Colton and Edwards didn't know it was about to hit them with the advent of Marx, Darwin, Freud, Dewey, secular humanism, and all of the things that have come in the next hundred years So on the other side there are times when the church may seem in just battle like it's dead. And that's the picture also that Revelation 11 does. Notice what it says Zechariah 4. 1, we had had the picture of Zechariah awaken from his sleep. The picture of a lethargy and a complacency in order to see this vision. You had that picture is presented in Revelation chapter 11 beginning with verse 7. Now when they have finished their testimony, these witnesses, the beast that comes up from the abyss, will attack them. And overpowered and killed. And their bodies will lie in the street of the great city which is figuratively called Sodom and Egypt were also their lord was crucified. This is talking about the world clearly. The three and a half days men from every tribe and people and language and nation will gazed on their bodies and refused and buried. My early days I was taught that that was something to be literally fulfilled with the advent of satellite television so that people could all see the bodies of these two witnesses. I don't believe it's talking about that at all. I believe it's talking about the fact that this is the church. These are the witnesses of the church. And the people, the world is going to look at the church and they're going to say, Christianity is over with, it's done, it's finished. There's nothing more we have to worry about. We're in a post-Christian era. And secular humanism laughs at the claims of Christianity. The people in Arkansas mock child that have to do with the Bible's view of creation. The inhabitants will gloat first ten over them. And they will celebrate by sending each other's gifts because these two prophets have tormented those who live on the earth. Once a time when these people intimidated us And they held us under their power, but no longer the church is vanquished. Christianity is no longer an issue So you see in the Middle Ages , the stream of history , that same kind of death to the church Not because the world was counted, but because there was no power of the Spirit, or at least not a whole lot that was evident. You see, in 18th century England and France In the debauchery and the sadistic tendencies of those countries, uh the evidence of what it was like when Christianity is lost and falls on society And in England that led to revival. France it led to revolution. Then you see in the nineteenth century. The age of secular humanism. Question that you and I have to ask ourselves, what kind of an age are we living in? How does it live in Revelation eleven? We're living in an age in which uh the world is looking at the church and they say the church is over and they're done. Whatever we conclude, the one thing that I want for us to see clearly this morning This is a battle. It's a fierce battle just being destroyed. It's a battle of Christ and antichrist. It's a battle here of the Lamb and the beast. It's a battle of Jerusalem and Babylon It's a battle in which the church is assaulted by that unholy trinity, the three foes of Jesus Christ. The unholy trinities pictured by the 666, the beast from the sea, persecution. The beast from the earth called the false prophets, heresies, and the intellectual battle against Christianity. And the harlot Babylon, immorality And materialism. And these battles come against us as a church, and they come against you, and they come against me to frighten us, to deceive us, to seduce us. We turn on our television, we read our magnitude. All we see are the ideologies Uh the pictures. And how often do we recognize that behind those pictures, behind the subtleties of the messages, we've been communicating is a spiritual battle of life and death. A message that's a is just inclined, it's designed to deceive you. You see a talk show on television, and somebody talks about some new evidence that discredits the Bible. And do you see behind that the beast, the false prophet, in his attempt to deceive, in his attempt to bring down the power of your witness To raise up doubts upon the church, to discredit Jesus Christ. We see in movies, uh every movie seems like everybody's gone to bed with everybody else, and it's commonly accepted And immorality is a way of life that is not even considered immoral. You say that's just the way things are, you become known. Alhamdulillah. We become numbed to the seduction of our world when we forget what we're about. You kids go into school, you hear your teachers. talk about ideas that undermine the Bible. They speak of evolution and things that discredit what God says in His Word. And you see that it's just the idea of the teaching. You see in that There's a battle going on. A battle for your mind. A battle for your mind. You recognize that there's a battle in revelation life. A battle is being pictured in Zechariah chapter 4. A battle that is won not by might nor by power but by my spirit. See this week , see it again and again, Christians becoming numbed and groomed and broken by the productions and the defeats of the evil ones in the Bible. A man who said he wanted to come and worship with us last week. And he said before he could come here and to worship, he started to pray and he saw a vision. And as a result of that vision, he was led into a cult. And we say the battle's gone. Battles for hearts and our minds I say that if you and I could see the battle with spiritual eyes that was going on this morning with your mind and the mind of your family The the battle that's being waged against with the principalities and the powers of this world. You and I would not go one step further until like Moses we fell down and said, Lord, unless you go up with us, we dare not go up. But we don't see the battle. That's why we're complacent. We don't see the battle. We think it's easy. We think that living the Christian life is relatively a calm thing in our culture. Listen about it. We 're missing the battle that God has called us a prophet, a priest, a king to Egypt, and to a false Israel. The name of the name of Jesus Christ has shown power in Cain's lives And to call people to righteousness, to call our friends and our neighbors who are living together and don't care about God's law. For cheating and lying and doing the things that treat each other as things, and we don't say anything, but God's calling us as witnesses to say something to Jesus Christ. With passion and kindness, but to say it with boldness, you can't do that. I won't do it. It's in my own strength, but it's not by mine or by Oh my excuse. One last thing we need to see. That is we're certain of a victory in this battle. Notice we're certain of a victory in history, as well as at the end of history Look again at Revelation eleven. You have these two prophets, the witnesses, and they're dead They're laying there as corpses and you say, how can that be a picture of the church? The church isn't dead. The church only appears to be dead at certain times. I go on to read verse 11. But after the three and a half days, a breath of life from God I remind you again, the word breath, both in Hebrew and in Greek, is the same word for spirit. And so this is saying, after those three and a half days of breath of life or the spirit of life from God Entered into them, not by mind or by power, but by my spirit who is coming upon them, and they stood on their feet. And the terror struck those who saw them. And when they heard with a loud voice from heaven saying to them, Come up here. And they went up, these witnesses, to heaven in a cloud, while their enemies looked on. And at that very hour there was a a severe earthquake. And a tenth of the city collapsed. Seven thousand people were killed in that earthquake. And the survivors were terrified. And note this gave glory. God of heaven. There's something there going on before the judgment. Something that shows the power of the church revived by which people can see and give glory to God before it's too late. And these people seem to come to Jesus Christ. And others come to give glory to God out of the sheer curve of seeing his power. They're going to come upon us again and again. God's Spirit will be clean. Is it possible that there will be in our century another Spreading, pervasive, revival by the power of the Spirit of God. Do you say in your heart, oh no, no? Things are too far gone. Secular humanism has captured the minds of our cult of our culture and country, and there's no hope. That's just what Zachary people said. They said, There's no way we can stand against the whole empire of Persia and build this temple. Zachariah came and he reminded me again, it's not by mind, nor by power But by my spirit. Give me one shred of evidence from the Word of God that that couldn't happen again today. Give me one shred of evidence from Scripture that God couldn't bring about Through the realization of the death of the hope of secular humanism, the emptiness of any possibility of answers outside of Jesus Christ, a great turning to Jesus Christ in the next 25 or 30 years But you and I may fall prey to a self-fulfilling prophecy because it can't happen. Or will we turn our eyes to Jesus Christ and say, not by mind or by power Oh Lord, if possible. Oh Lord, if your spirit comes upon us, beginning here at Columbia, there is no limit to what you can do. And we'll begin to look for in our own lives the power of the Spirit to come where we're discouraged. Don't sit around moping about your sins, complaining about your helplessness. Look to Jesus Christ and his power. Look to that power which is sufficient to you this morning to take whatever problem you have and to show in that power his ability to change and to revive you And look to Jesus Christ. As we as a church look for his power. Begin at Columbia of a Bible that will turn people back to Jesus Christ. That may happen in history, but certainly that victory will be seen at the end of history. For you notice, the church is brought up To heaven with a cloud, and their enemies look on. There comes then upon that city, Sodom, Easy, where the Lord is crucified. A great judgment. The judgment is thus hinted at in verse thirteen, and then is more fully explained in chapter 18 and 19 The final judge, where Jesus Christ upon the throne, judges all his enemies, and then all destroyed, and his things enter into an everlasting life. Where would you be if Jesus Christ were to come back before? And begin by that full and consummated rain amidst, where all of his enemies were put down. And all of his people are brought to a side. Come to Jesus Christ before it's too late. You belong to Jesus Christ. Listen , the line of God expectations the power available to you by His Spirit. And plan and work for the revival that God may be pleased to bring about in our generation before he comes back But that could be very easy.