Well, I hope you enjoyed your snow day. And unlike the Christmas program I am able to do what I was going to do last week. In fact, you'll see your outline even has last week's date. So we will not miss what you are going to get, even though it's a day or two after Christmas. The truth is still the same. It's the gospel. Remember, we are concluding our meditation on Mary's song, The Magnificat, and remember that in this song Mary, a Jewish teenager from Nazareth, is articulating one of the most profound principles. One of the most basic principles of life, which most of the world misses and is even rather vague to most Christians, especially those in America, including myself. It's a principle which if you grasp it will change radically the way that you think and you live. A principle which is at the very heart of Christmas. Principle I'm speaking of as the principle of humility. We all, especially myself , have a gravitational pull to pride and independence. And somehow in me at least it seems to surface most of the holidays. I need to defend myself, I want to control my circumstances, I need to protect my image. So as we look at this song, I hope and pray that you will see it not as something out there, but as something that searches your heart and shows you Christ. more deeply, which is the intention of Mary's song. Remember that last time we looked at it, it was two weeks ago, we saw that Mary magnifies the Lord. It's all to focus on him. And remember we said that that word you can picture a telescope. The magnification of a telescope Not a microscope which looks at something very small to make it large, but a telescope that looks at something which we only dimly see because it's so far away, but But to help you to see it more as it really is, she says, my soul magnifies. I want to enlarge him to you. I challenged you that you would use the telescope of Scripture. in the last couple of weeks to look at God and what he did at the incarnation so he would grow in your estimation and in your vision. She says, my soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. She engages her heart in that. I hope you are able to sing, not even just necessarily within a congregation, but on your own. Just sing to the Lord sometime in this season so that your heart is engaged in that truth. And what Mary does is she presents the Lord in these two ways that are amazing when you put them together. He is mighty, she says there in verse 949, the mighty one. has done great things for me. He is going to send his son who will establish the kingdom. The restored Eden, the reversal of the curse forever and ever. And he is the holy one, she says. Holy is his name. Holy means separate. He is separate not only from creation as the Creator far and above, beyond all things that we see. But He is also separate from sin. There is no pollution. There is nothing wrong, unrighteous. nothing sinful in him. And so the amazing thing is this one who is mighty and who is holy is also mindful of nobody's like Mary. His attention is fixed on somebody like her. She says, that's amazing to me because of his separateness. But not only is he mindful of me She says he is merciful to me. Because of my sin, I deserve that he would have nothing to do with me. But he fixes his attention on me and he does it in mercy. And that word mercy is what she expands on, really, in the rest of the song, because the word mercy is a frame around verses 50 to 55. You look in verse 50, she says that his mercy extends to those who fear him. And then in verse the end of it, in verse 54, she talks about as remembering to be merciful even to Abraham and to our fathers. Now what if she does in that? And I want to just fix this in your mind because we'll spend the rest of the time kind of illustrating it and trying to apply it. is you see in that gray box in your bulletin outline , what she does is she contrasts In seven statements, the fact that God lifts up the humble and puts down, humbles the proud. So Seven times she makes these kind of antithanal statements. In verse 50 His mercy is to those who fear him. That is, he lifts up those who realize that they can't blow God off, that they can't just live as if he doesn't matter. His mercy is to those who fear him. Then two statements about him putting down the proud. He has performed mighty deeds with his arm. He has scattered those who are proud. in their inmost thoughts. He has brought down rulers from their thrones. Then two statements about lifting up But he has lifted up the humble. He has filled the hungry with good things. Then a statement about putting down, but he has sent the rich away empty. Then finally the seventh statement about, and this is a climactic statement about his lifting up the humble. He has helped his servant. You see, Israel's characterized like Mary The servant. They're not the ones who call the shots. Israel is his servant. He has helped his servant, remembering to be merciful to Abraham and to his descendants forever, even as he said to our fathers. Seven times to indicate the fullness, the completeness, the perfection of his work, four times lifting up, three times putting down. And this principle Is so pervasive in Scripture that it is only our stubbornness that could miss it. And yet, how often do we recognize that life operates on that basic principle? God lifts up the humble and he puts down the proud. God is distant from those who are independent and self-reliant and proud. He draws close to those who are humble. Now, as I say, this principle goes through Scripture again and again, and I want to give just a few examples on both sides of how God humbles the proud and how he lifts up the humble. So you look in your outline, you see in verses 51 to 53, there's a number of examples that come to mind as we think about God humbling the proud. For instance Back in the book of Exodus, when Israel is in slavery to Egypt, Pharaoh in his arrogance refuses to listen to God through his servants Moses and Aaron. Pharaoh thinks he runs the show. God's not going to tell him what to do, and God humbles him through the ten plagues. Finally, uh killing the firstborn in all of Egypt. The army takes off after Egypt. God scatters the army. He drowns them in the Red Sea. A classic example of a proud man being humbled under God's power. They move into Canaan. God has promised them the inheritance of this land. The Canaanite rulers refuse to accommodate them. They're going to fight them. They're going to resist them And so the Canaanite rulers lose their cities, they lose their land because God is humbling them in their arrogance You move down to Nebuchadnezzar after taking Jerusalem, thinking that he has done it by his own great power. He's boasting about that. Look what I've done. And God humbles him. Do you remember he brings insanity upon him? He loses his mind. And for seven years he lives like an animal outside. And they say, What's happened again? Nebuchadnezzar? This guy's no good for anything. He can't rule us. And Nebuchadnezzar is humbled until after seven years He recognizes, the Bible says he comes to a senses and he says, it is God, the God of heaven, who has done this. I recognize that there is only one God, he rules the nations. Very significant as Israel is in exile under Babylon. The king of Babylon, humbled, recognizes that. And then his successor, Belshazzar, is holding a feast one night And he says, hey, where's those cups we took from the temple in Jerusalem? Let's bring them out and we'll use them for drinking goblets. And they're humiliating Yahweh, the God of the Israelites. He's showing in his boasting I 'm the one that calls the shots around here. And as they're having that, there's handwriting on the wall. They call in Daniel to interpret. And basically he says, your time's up In your arrogance, you've pushed God too far. And that very evening Belshazzar is slain. And that's the end of him. God brings down rulers from their thrones. It's not long after that that the Syrian general Antiochus called Epiphanes is determined to wipe out the Hebrew religion from the earth He takes Jerusalem, enters the temple, the rebuilt temple, and he desecrates it by offering a pig on the altar, an unclean animal to defile it. to thumb his nose at the Jews and to humiliate them. God raises up a humble priest, Matthias and his five sons. just a ragtag guerrilla army. They come against the mighty Syrian army and win victory after victory Beyond anything anybody could imagine would happen. Three years later, they restore the temple. and purify it in the dedication uh to God of an offering that is pure. 164 BC. A um a holiday that is still commemorated by the Jews, Hanukkah, where God had used the humble to overthrow the proud, the arrogant Syrian army. But then you see just what our human hearts are like. Here's a godly family, Matthias and his five sons. And they seek to rule and they seek to bring honor to God, but gradually in that family there is corruption. The family disintegrates until the priests themselves are as corrupt as their uh enemies have been. And over the next hundred years, through the de Defilement of the Hasmonean or Maccabean household, God brings judgment so that every single member within a hundred years has been extinguished. One of those who married one of the Hasmoneans at the end was Herod the Great. And Herod the Great comes on the scene. A man of unsurpassed arrogance and cruelty, mighty builder, and yet kills his own family. A man who then, when he hears that there has been born in Bethlehem a king, a rival king, He sends out his army to slaughter the innocents, the kids who are under two years old, thinks that he can rid himself of this rival Jesus who's been born there. But God will have none of that, for God has determined that Jesus is to be king, and so Herod's threats come to naught, and Jesus escapes with his family. God brings down the ruler. One year later Herod is dead. Jesus and his family are able to return to Nazareth. It goes on and on. Caesar Augustus determines The tax and he thinks that he's calling the shots in that. But we know from Scripture God determined that Jesus would be born in Bethlehem. So he rule he uses the the Roman Caesar To accomplish his purpose. And Caesar would have laughed if you had said that this one who's born in this manger in Bethlehem will be the end of your empire. And yet 300 years later, the Roman Empire is transformed into the Holy Roman Empire. Acknowledging at least outwardly allegiance to Jesus as the King and the Emperor of Rome Twelve hundred years after that, the Roman pontiffs have grown increasingly corrupt in their power. One of the worst of all was Pope Leo X, a man who was so infatuated with himself and his power, he went beyond all bounds in his arrogance. And what would Pope Leo X have done if he had heard at that time of that German monk in Wittenberg who was posting 95 thesis, a humble man who had no power? Calling Rome to account for its departure from Scripture. And yet, today Martin Luther is known as the hero who brought the Reformation. And Pope Leo is an embarrassment even to the scholars of his own church. They're ashamed to hear his name because of what a corrupt man he was. And on and on and on it goes, down into the 20th century. Adolf Hitler, 1933, declares that the Third Reich will last for a thousand years and supplant Christianity And in twelve years takes his life in total defeat and a bunker. God brings down rulers from the throne. Even to our own day. Just recently, Mahmud Ahmadinejad defied the International Atomic Energy Commission when it censored him for refusing to comply with weapons inspectors. In his response, I will build more nuclear facilities. I will enrich uranium to weapons grade, and there is nothing you can do to stop it. Unbridled arrogance. But you and I know that while this is going on, God is bringing numbers of Iranians to Himself. To trust and follow Jesus Christ. People who right now are without any power. But God could bring down the ruler from his throne, and you and I need to pray for a regime that seeks to Annihilate Israel and destabilize the entire Middle East. He thinks he's in control, but the scripture is quite clear. Mary says, God brings down rulers from their thrones, and he lifts up the humble. It's not just the prominent, just the rulers of the world that Mary's talking about. For here you have a fellow who's trained by his dad to play golf. And he is seen in the years that transpire as perhaps one of the best, if not the best, golfer that has ever lived. On a meteoric rise to fame, to where his endorsements are worth ninety million dollars a year, but in his pride He destroys the good things that he had, wife and family, unfaithful, time after time after time. But the point is not simply in seeing that without Christ, life doesn't work. The heart is revealed in its pride, no matter how nice the person seems. But what has intrigued me is the amount of press coverage that is given to this, the amount of discussions, the amount of concentration that we place upon that. Why is that? Because our own hearts show we envy somebody who is really successful and we love to see them fall, don't we? We love to see a person humbled who seems like they're untouchable, that they're invincible, because our own hearts envy and our own hearts are full of pride. Because we too have the same kind of heart that can't handle power, that can't handle success. within our own idol-making factories of our hearts. And so you and I look at this past holiday And you look at the conflicts that occurred in your home. How many had to do with my need to rule and run how things go around here? My need to be independent. My refusal to acknowledge that I'm wrong. After I preached the gospel and talked about joy, Christmas Eve, I go home and there's a plate of cookies that had been given. And I'm in one room and my wife and son are in the other room, and they go into the cookies and I go out and say, What are you piranhas doing out here? And I realize I only said that because of my annoyance from my own selfishness. I wanted to be the first one into the cookies We see it again and again and again, don't we? The pride, the self-centeredness, the arrogance of our own hearts. And Mary says there's a Savior that's coming. And he will be the illustration, the final statement of that principle. For in contrast to that, you see it again and again throughout the Old Testament, how God lifts up the humble, how God uses those who Are not self sufficient, arrogant, independent. You see, Joseph betrayed by his brothers who are jealous of him and sold into slavery. False charges are made against him and he's thrown into prison. But he continues to hang on to God. He trusts him And God is pleased to raise him up to be Prime Minister of Egypt against any expectation. Or you see Moses. Who after he kills an Egyptian, he runs off as a refugee into the wilderness and he thinks his career is over. And then God calls him out of the wilderness to leave his people. a couple of million Jews against the mightiest nation on earth and frees them from their power and control. And Moses, in his humility, is the instrument to lead that nation. Or his successor, Joshua. They come to Canaan. And Moses, because of a moment of his own arrogance, does not permitted to go into the land. His successor Joshua goes and they have the feast of the Passover and they're all celebrating this new leader, Joshua, who's going to lead them against the Canaanites And Joshua's knees are knocking against each other because he knows it's not in him. He realizes he cannot do it He watches and looks over to Jericho, that great walled city, and a man comes against him. And Joshua says, Are you for us or for our enemies? And he pulls out his sword. And the man says, Neither, for I am the Lord of hosts, basically. It's the pre incarnate Christ who's meeting him. And Joshua immediately takes off his sandals, bows and prostrates himself and says What does my Lord want to say to his servant? Because he's a man who humbles himself, God uses him against the cities, and the Canaanites lose their land. Gideon, a man even more unlikely, while the Midianites are ravaging the land because of God's discipline. And Gideon is out there threshing his wheat in hiding, and the angel of the Lord comes and he says, Hey, almighty warrior! And he says, Ain't no more any warriors around here, just a bunch of people scared These Midianites and God says, No, Gideon, I'm gonna raise you up, I'm gonna use you to bring deliverance to your people, and with a mere four hundred Israelites, defeats the entire Midianite army. Because God raises up the humble and defeats the proud. Were you take Hannah in those same days? Hannah, who has no children, and her rival has children, and she mocks her and she taunts her. And Hannah's heart is broken, and she in her humility cries out to the Lord, Oh Lord, give me a child. Give me a child. And when the Lord sees fit to give her Samuel, she writes the song that is the likely inspiration for Mary's song. God lifts up the humble and he puts down the proud. Or you take Ruth, that same general period of time, Ruth, a Midianite who is a widow, has no home. Follows Naomi, her mother-in-law, and she finds Boaz and becomes the grandmother of King David. King David, who began life in his own inauspicious way, when Samuel comes to anoint one of the brothers to become king They don't even call David. They forget about him. And he says, Not everybody's here. And he says, Oh, oh asteroid, we forgot about there's David, he's out there with the sheep. All right, somebody go call David just to make it complete. But obviously it can't be David, but that's the one that the Lord has in mind. Because David's a man after God's heart and his humility. God raises up David to be the mighty warrior that will deliver Israel and rule Israel with a heart that is for him. Where you take Daniel, prisoner of war in Babylon. His land has been defeated. They're living in disgrace and exile. But Daniel and his friends determine that whatever God has called them into, they will not dishonor him. And God gives Daniel, like Joseph, the power to interpret dreams. And when the king needs a dream interpreter, Daniel doesn't go in and say, Well, you know, I've interpreted a few dreams in my time. I think I'm pretty good at that. What do you got? He says, no, I can't do anything. But there is a God in heaven who can interpret dreams The determination not to take the credit for himself, but to recognize, like Mary, my soul magnifies the Lord. It's he who is able to do these things. He's the one who deserves the credit. Because of that, God raises up Daniel to be prime minister of Babylon. He raises up the humble. The humble are usable by him. And you come down to Mary. Mary, uh, insignificant, looks like anybody else, teenager in Nazareth. And the Lord says, Hail, Mary, you who are highly favored by the Lord. And Mary says in this song, there is not one reason why I've been highly favored, except the Lord is merciful and mighty. You know, if it had been me, I would have found a reason why he called me. I would have said, Well Lord, you notice I've been rather consistent in my quiet times, and I really have been seeking you and praying for the Messiah. I'm glad that you've noticed. But Mary does not say, uh, this'll show those girls at the school that are always talking about me and making fun of me, getting hand-me-down clothes This will show there's a reason. She says, no, there's no reason. There's no reason in me. God simply delights in raising up the humble. And the more humble you are, the more usable you are by Jesus Christ. Because Jesus Christ is the epitome. Of that which was humbled becoming exalted. Even his parents Mary and Joseph from the line of David have been reduced to poverty, no royal degrees or anything of affluence about them They're living in Nazareth. And they when Mary is revealed to be pregnant, of course no one believes that this is by the Holy Spirit. So even the marriage is in disgrace. They're probably glad to get out of town to go to Bethlehem for the taxes, to escape the wagging tongues and the disgrace and the humiliation. They come to Bethlehem, and there's no place for them to have the child and these Bethlehemites who Congratulate themselves that they're honest, paying taxes, don't have a place for a teenage woman to have a child and she has it in a stable thrown in there with the animals and the baby being laid in a manger. And who are those that are invited to know about this? It's the lowlife of that time, it's the shepherds. who get the announcement. They're the only ones that come, people that nobody else would have wanted to come to a party. And Jesus is then hounded by Herod, who wants to kill him because he's seen his arrival Jesus grows and becomes a carpenter, a humble, honest profession. And then Jesus declares the kingdom. He declares a kingdom. In which God is going to reverse the curse and bring about the rule of Messiah forever. And Jesus never owned a home. Never had a mortgage. Never had a bank account. Not that there's anything wrong with mortgages and bank accounts But Jesus is epitomizing the one who from glory ruled from all eternity with the Father and with the Spirit, who is part of creation in making all things, comes and owns nothing. Read in Philippians chapter 2. Your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus, who being in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped. But made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death even death on a cross, the most despicable death that the Roman government could contrive. So terrible that it was not allowed to be given to Roman citizens Only the most lowlife of the most despicable crimes that they wanted to make a public spectacle of. And he dies, the death on a cross. For a proud people, a people whose hearts are lifted up like you and like me, until we see, Lord, I can't change my proud heart Only you can change that. And the way he changes it is by your looking to him on the cross to see that's what I deserve and that's what he took. In my place. Where is there room for pride when you're looking at the cross of Christ? And so because he so humbled himself, Paul goes on, therefore, God exalted him to the highest place. He rises from the dead, and he's seated at the right hand of God, and God gives to him the name that is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Amen. He is exalted to the highest place. He is the one who was the highest to the lowest and then back to the highest. And so the angel said to Mary in Luke 1, He will be great. And will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. For Jesus is the final statement of humility exalted, because he is God incarnate, who then rules as Messiah forever. You want to look at humility, you look at Jesus. You want to look at glory, you look at Jesus. You want to be humbled in your own heart, you look at Jesus. Now, quick conclusion. Just five brief lessons. Number one, when you and I read this song, we read it entirely different From our brothers and sisters who live in countries where they are enduring persecution. Entirely different from the way a brother and sister would read it in Iran or in North Korea or in many other countries. Think what this means for them When they read that these people who are persecuting us, who are making life so difficult for us, are not the final word. There is a Jesus who can bring down at any point he desires the rulers from their thrones. Pray for them. Pray that God would use this song to encourage their hearts and their faith. Don't forget them as they labor under that persecution. Secondly, we as people in America need to remember that we should be supporting politics of humility, not politics of raw power. We here mostly live in the place of privilege. And it's easy to forget that power tends to simply want to protect itself And we should seek to place in government those that not simply preserve their power, but provide justice for the powerless. To let our politics be guided by the principles of Mary's song. Thirdly We need to look at our own hearts as you look back over the holiday to think what were the ways that you were quick to defend yourself, quick to want to fight to protect your image To want to see yourself as independent. We want to grow up and be independent. And God has made us to be dependent. Being dependent is a good thing, not a bad thing. God has made us dependent. We should delight in our dependence rather than fighting it and denying it. Because God draws near to those who are dependent. It's those who recognize their need for Him. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 12, I boast in my weakness, for then the power of Christ rests upon me. And if you see God humbling you, don't fight it. God, you're humbling me. This hurts. This is difficult. But you draw near to the humbled. You might want to think about that and pray about that some this afternoon as you look at what God's doing in your life. And then enlarge that to see what God is doing in us as a congregation. We're being humbled in a number of ways. We're going through transition now of two long-term pastors who will be moving out over the next couple of years. A facility that we're going to be intruding here and then we're going to be not even able to meet in here. And what's that going to do to our programs and ministries and attendance and all the rest of this What's it do to us as a congregation? And the elders are discussing this and they've decided our temptation would be because we're smart people who are managers to say, okay, Lord, what's the plan? How are we going to fix it? And God has convicted us that that would be the wrong way to go. And so this Saturday, the session is going to be meeting, they're going to be calling a five-hour prayer meeting. Now don't let your blood pressure go up. You're not invited. It's only the elders that are going to be praying for five hours. But I'm asking you to pray for us. Because we're going to take five hours To try to humble ourselves before the Lord, to confess our sin, to come before Him and say, Lord, what do you want to say to us? Make us open to you, not just fixing this thing. What do you want to say? For the Lord to speak, perhaps in a surprising way, perhaps in a way that's going to deeply transform our hearts and make us self-sufficient people to realize that God resists self-sufficiency. Because he delights in the dependent. And we need to pray for that. Because I resist that. So pray. And I'm asking you here to set aside, if you would, even a half hour Somewhere between 8 o'clock in the morning and 1 o'clock this afternoon, in the afternoon of this coming Saturday, to say, I'm going to pray. And if you get through 20 minutes, praise God, thank you. But pray More than five minutes, that God would meet us, that God would meet us as a church. And then on Sunday morning we're having a middle hour congregational meeting. We're going to tell you about the search committee. We're also going to tell you How God has begun to meet us. So come and find out how God's answered your prayers. We need the Lord. And if there's anything we need to repent of as a congregation, it is our self-sufficiency. God meets the humble. He resists the proud. And so finally I just offered to you an illustration I've offered years ago. A little box. You might want to have your own to put it under the tree. Then when you're thinking about all the great schemes and plans and all the good things, to remember that the very best gift you ever got was something It was very tiny. It was God sending his son from heaven, incarnate, to grow up To be a servant and to give himself even to death. The death on the cross for your sin and mine. So that on one grand morning, when Jesus comes back, you and I will be gathered up with him. And whatever the disappointments of this last Christmas day have been for you, 90% of you would say Christmas could have been better. And that morning there will be no disappointments. And we will be lifted up to rule and reign with him forever. Let's pray Lord, we offer ourselves and ask you, humble us, because we cannot humble ourselves. Lord Jesus, you must humble our hearts, or we will remain a proud people. And you will humble us by showing us yourself. Turn our eyes to see you, to see the cross, and to see in your resurrection and glory what true greatness is. That we would want to serve you, that we would care nothing for our reputations to defend them, but care only for Jesus, as Paul said, I boast in him. So Lord, we need you to do that in us. Help us as a session this Saturday. Help us in the days, the weeks, the months ahead. Help us as a congregation to be a people who are not self-sufficient. But recognize our desperate need of you to meet us in Jesus' name. Amen.