I'm going to set aside the scenes on the church until after the holidays. There will be now in this next month four messages relating to Christmas. Today, I want to deal with a question that comes up for every thoughtful Christian the weekend after Thanksgiving And it's the question, how should I observe Christmas and the Christmas season? This is the problem And then I want to deal with some biblical principles and then some personal practical considerations relating to it. First of all, then the problem How should I, as a Christian, observe Christmas? How should I observe the Christmas season in a way that pleases the Lord Now first of all we must notice that the main reason why this is a problem is simply this, because Christmas is not a biblical holiday. Now, I hope that doesn't take you by surprise, but uh you know, sometimes we tend to forget that. Uh just quick clip Uh just as Easter or Thanksgiving or any other religious holiday that we commonly observe in our culture has absolutely no biblical warrant There's absolutely no command to celebrate a Christian in the Christians. Christmas, in fact, came into being around 330 A. D. as a Christian alternative to the Roman policy. This was a rather drunken orgy in a celebration of that time when the sun uh stands still, uh that point of time when the sun the days no longer get shorter, but they begin to get longer. uh the beginning of winter. And that was such a a joking, carousing affair that Christians, rather than worshiping the sun, uh S-U-N decided that they would worship the Sun, S-O-N of righteousness, and turned it around as an alternative for those who were coming to Christ so they'd have something else to do in that gala occasion. Jesus, as far as we know, we have no evidence to think that he was born on December twenty-fifth. We have no idea when Jesus was born. Some evidence perhaps that it was in the springtime, but it's not at all sure. And so we don't celebrate December twenty-fifth as his birthday because there's any evidence for it but certainly as an alternative to the Roman falsehood. There's no commandment anywhere to observe it, even if we did know what his birthday was. There's no commandment of scriptures. To observe that as a holiday. We have to remind ourselves, I think, again and again, that there is in fact only one biblical holiday that we're commanded to observe. There's only one holiday And that holiday is the celebration that we observe 53 times a year, usually, the holiday of the resurrection, the Lord's Day, as we call it, Sunday. That is really the only biblical holiday that we have only warriors. to observe and to celebrate. However, Christmas can't be ignored, can it? Now um maybe sometimes uh you're alternately uh oscillating between saying but why should it? And I wish it could. Uh our feelings may vary on that, but the point is we can't ignore it. Uh there may be some conflict within us as Christians in which we say I wish I could recapture more of the true meaning of Christians. of sickness. I am slightly sickened by the peak commercialism. The change my stomach in which I see what was intended as a observation at least of the incarnation in which the symbol of Christmas has been changed from a child in a maze to Santa Claus in a Corvette. You think I'm sitting we once received the Christmas card that had precisely that on it with Merry Christmas. And this is the kind of view uh that our culture has taken to distort and to uh use as an excuse for carousing and self-indulging, uh the constant emphasis on things, things, things, indulge yourself. And so Christmas rather than becoming a holiday, which means literally a holy day, has become a time of extra carousing, of uh extra self-indulgence, and of a particular defiance of God's word. Well, in the light of that kind of conflict, how do we as Christians observe this? Well, uh, as I have looked in um through the years, seeing how Christians in fact do this Uh I think that our uh our alternative breaks down roughly into three categories, which you see that I've listed there under the problems. Uh there's three options that I see that Christians generally take to Christmas The first option is no observance. No observance whatsoever. Has no biblical warrant, so therefore why observe it? Why not just bypass it If you're tempted to take that option, let me say to you that you're not alone. In England in the 1600s, the carousing and the drunkenness Uh the peasants festivities mixed with a certain demeanor Christianity got so bad where we had cells who still come down to us today, such as the Holly and the Ivan, you know that grand old cell we all love so much The Holly on the Ivy. And what could be more Christmas than that? Well, Holly and the Ivy takes a season air of Christian symbolism and mixes it with a pre-Christian fertility right. And that's when you get that whole Holly and the Ivy business. Well you see this is what was going on in England. It got so bad. The Christians at that time said something's got to be done. So when the Puritans got a hold of Parliament in sixteen forty seven, they made a law outlawing Christmas. And so in 1647, in the years shortly after that, he was against the law to celebrate Christians. He was absolutely outlawed Well, of course, uh that didn't last long and it gradually encroached and returned. Um Christmas and of course a lot of our celebrations have come from the early customs But even in America this influence was felt. In 1620, when the pilgrims who had come over uh on the Mayflower celebrated uh just before they celebrated their Thanksgiving, that very first Christmas that they spent here, they recorded in their journals Is that they spent December 25th, they studied neglect of that holiday. In fact, they were uh found building their first building that day, and nobody took off And so they tried to set a precedent of no observation of Christmas whatsoever in the new land. That went so far, in fact, that in Massachusetts, in 1659, a law was passed outlawing Christmas here also A person who is found observing Christmas in any way was fined five shillings for every observation. If Massachusetts still had that law in the book today, I dare say they could out uh do any deficit they might ever possibly have in three weeks' time. Uh but that was the law back then. Of course, gradually Christmas became popular in the United States. But it's only been in within the probably the past 100 years The Christmas has been celebrated with any sort of the kind of uh flavor of Santa Claus and all this kind of stuff that we have in America to go. with that same uh sort of traditions that have been uh existing now for the last hundred years. Rather than go back before that when I'm talking about the way we look at Christians is a rather recent development Well, you can simply say here, therefore maybe we're already turned to it. There's no biblical basis for it, and in worship, that's sufficient. Uh you'll add to that that uh Christmas uh celebration is a commonly experience in the United States. uh really uh adds very little that's truly Christ honoring, but it in fact tempts us, by and large, to indulge in the world system of selfishness and greed, and so uh you come up with the question, why bother? When it's simple And wouldn't it really be better to just do away with the whole thing? Maybe it's at least the case of the good being an enemy of the best. And if that's true, uh then why not just do away with it? Let's ignore it. In fact, let's stand against it as a witness to Christ. But that's a good position, except there's some problems with it. And the problem, of course, is unless you have a very strong conviction, not only why Christmas is wrong, but why everything attached to Christmas is wrong then you're really going to find yourself in quite a struggle. And you'll probably succumb gradually to the cultural pressure. Because the resistance is going to not only come across rather crossing, but they'll be up here as a little sect. And you will constantly have to be explaining Why not only Christmas is wrong, but why carols are wrong? I mean what's wrong with a good old Christmas carol that honors the Lord? What's wrong with decorations? What's wrong with presents? What's wrong with all these things in themselves? It's hard to say what's wrong with them in themselves But so you you write off the whole thing and you're not in a meeting position, but you're always standing against things that in themselves really are not objectionable So the problem you see in trying to take such a militant stance is that you spend so much energy trying to resist what you find in yourself, you're saying, I don't really see what's wrong with this in itself anyway uh that we produce a great deal of tension. And it's very hard to be consistent with it. I'd say the second alternative then the Christians have come up with is the one we probably see the most of, and that is trying to sanctify Christian Christmas. Now this is the most popular. It's the one that Christians are always uh modeling for, let's say Christ back into Christmas, the Christ in the central place in Christmas Let's use the customs, the symbols, the speaking devices for Christian creeps. Uh let's seek to recall the incarnation and to celebrate it as Christians. I mean after all, isn't that uh Or something that Christians have a precious bidding to do. God gave a son, he came, he was born, and if there's a day that particularly calls attention to that, what could be more honoring to the Lord and what could be more joyful than for us as Christians to celebrate that? To bring our families together, to seek to sanctify whatever should be or precious to us and to use them under the Lord. Well that's a great position too But it also has some problems. Uh the problem of course there is that there's such a hassle trying to wrest something from the grip of a secularized culture today that if you're again caught in a terrific amount of tension I don't know how many of you are aware right now, but there's a pending lawsuit in our courts. The seat of Flory versus the St. Falls School District, 495 Which this speech against the school district is won without law in the United States any religious observance of Christmas in any school program whatsoever. Uh silent night, mazes, all these kind of things. Would be outlawed in our schools. We would only be able to sing jingle bells, Rudolph, the red-nosed reindeer. That would be the celebration of Christmas in our schools, you see, and our culture and its in its impetus, or its secularization makes it increasingly difficult for a Christian to seek to take Christmas and to really be able to utilize that holiday as it is presented to us in a way to truly have Christ, it's the pleasure of it. uh you feel like sometimes you're waging a losing battle and so because it's first force then uh we consider the third alternative. And the third alternative is of course just to forget the uh uh trying to make it a Christian holiday and simply enjoy it as a secular holiday. Basically this is also an option, the third option. Uh the Bible doesn't command us to uh to be able to uh celebrate it. And therefore why not just give up making a Christian? There's nothing wrong with the traditions in themselves, you say. Uh like they enjoy God's creation Let enjoy in themselves the sight and the sound, the taste, the smell, the anticipation of the big day and the family together. Then let's not try to fool ourselves and and call it Christian in some distinctive way. Let's be doing it God's creation. Well that sounds about as plausible too, but it's also got some problems as I say it. Uh the probably fewer, of course, that it's pretty hard to dissociate Christmas from the birth of Christ It's pretty hard to ig to uh celebrate something like that without really ignoring the Lord Jesus. I mean uh you you have the tension of seeking to uh to on the first hand rule out anything Christmas and say, well what's wrong with it? What's wrong with a carol in themselves if I listen to a carol or I pray the record and I observing Christmas uh to go on the other screen and saying, well if I introduce claims into anything of this am I really then sort of compromising? I mean if it's sort of gonna be a secular holiday, let's just make it like uh fourth of July or something and totally to Christ out of it, you really can't do that. So you're sort of caught in the bind. And after all, isn't the celebration of nothing really a rather hollow thing anyway And isn't that really why all of our commentators and columnists when December twenty fourth rolls around start uh platinizing and sentimentalizing in their garbage about uh the fact that the two you of the child and his coming or something like this? and peace and goodwill toward men because you've got to celebrate something. You can't just have a do a holiday because a winter's coming on and you wanna do something to sort of get the uh the dullness out of the season, you know. And so there's gotta be some reasons. Well my point in all of this is that first of all, I think that we as Christians are not as self-conscious about our position as we need to be. What I'm urging you to do this morning is in whatever position you adopt, do it self-consciously. Look at those options and to think them through and just say, well, now what is my position before the Lord? Uh what do I intend self-consciously to be my celebration or not of this season? Because I suggest to you that if you don't, you're going to be swept down screen by the cultural pressure that will force you to do things you don't intend to do. You could get caught in that position of saying, Well, I really didn't want to do this, and I'm hassled by it, and I don't like it, and I sort of feel guilty about it, but I'm doing it anyway, and I wish that it could be different next year That's why I'm preaching it this time. It'd be too late to preach this in a couple weeks. If I had to give a lot of thought to this last year so that I'd be all sort of geared up to preach it this year. Because now's when the issue is before The second way you see what I'm saying about this whole thing is that I think we need to realize that there's problems as well as virtues to any of these positions It's very difficult for us to adopt a purely consistent position to be clean in this and say, well that's the right way to go. That leads us to the principles. And the principles that I think bear on this are the principles found in Romans chapter 14. So let's take a look at the scriptures of this morning. Read together Romans chapter 14. Follow along as I read. As I read this scripture, have in mind the problems that I just outlined in this issue of celebrating Christmas. Remember chapter 14 Accept him who faith is great without passing judgment or disputable matters. One man's faith allows him to eat everything, and another man who faith is beef eats only vegetables The man who eats everything must not look down on him who does not. And the man who does not eat everything must not condemn the man who does, for God has accepted him. Free to judge someone else's service. With them as if he stands or falls, and he will stand. The Lord is able to make him stand Some man considers one day more sacred than another. Another man considers every day alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. He who regards one day as special does so to the Lord. He who eats meat eats to the Lord. And he who gives thanks to the Lord, so who gives thanks to God And he who abstains does so to the Lord and gives thanks to God. None of us lives to himself alone, and none of us dies to himself alone. If we live, we live to the Lord. But if we die, we die to the Lord. So whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord. For this very reason, Christ died and returned to life, so that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living Do then. Why do you judge your brothers? Why do you look down on your brothers? We will all stand before God's judgment seat. It is written, Asurely as I live, says the Lord, every knee will bow before me. Every tongue will confess to God. But then each of us will give an account of themselves to God. Therefore, let us stop passing judgment on one another. Instead, make up your mind not to put any stumbling block or obstacle in your brother's way. As one who is in the Lord Jesus, I am fully convinced that no food is unclean in itself. But if anyone regards something as unclean, then for him it is unclean. If your brother is distressed because of what you are no longer acting in life Do not by your eating destroy your brother for whom Christ died. Do not allow what you consider good to be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Because anyone who serves Christ in this way is pleasing to God and approved by men. Let us therefore make every effort to do what leads to peace and to mutual edification Do not destroy the work of God for the sake of food. All food is great, but it is wrong for a man to eat anything that causes someone else to stumble. It is better not to eat meat or drink, wine, or be anything else that will cause your brother to fall. So whatever you believe about these things, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the man who does not condemn himself by what he approves, but the man who has doubts is condemned with his youth, because his eating is not from faith, and everything that does not come from faith is sin. So I'm God's words on this, let's now consider them and apply them. I think there are two practical, relevant principles that stand out in this chapter relating to this question of performance. And they're the principles of freedom and responsibility. And now of course these two principles always go together in Christian in Christianity and in the scriptures. This only Judaism of our day, we constantly count Freedom and rights without any commensurate speech about responsibility. Freedom in the scripture is always a responsible freedom The 32 principles are always inextricable in any relevant scriptural discussion on some topic. We have to deal with both freedom and our responsibilities You see the freedom there declared in verse 5, particularly. Take a look at it. One man considers one day more sacred than another. Another man considers every day alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. Now, this reference here is not to something like Christian. Let's be quite clear on that. What Paul is addressing himself to is the question. of the Levitical Festival Days. We take a look in Leviticus chapter 23, we see there three or four feast days that are described. The feast of Passover, the feast of Pentecost, then the Day of Atonement, which is a fast. And then immediately followed by the feast of days of tabernacles. These are the days that Paul has in mind when he's talking about considering every day alike or setting aside a special day Now notice that these things have a biblical warrant. God commanded these things to be observed in the old economy. What Paul is saying here is that in the new economy, in the new dispensation, in the new covenant, there's a freedom. Whether you want to set these things aside or not. Whether you want to participate, for instance, as a Hebrew Christian, observe these things culturally or whether you want to discharge them and not regard them. But they have a freedom in them. Now we we don't have quite the same situation in Christmas, Eastern, and the rest of Eastern. There is no biblical warrant for them And yet, to me, this is the closest biblical principle that's relevant to the discussion because we are confronted with these days as part of our heritage. They are religious days, they are days which are explicitly Christian and satisfied with Christian foundations. And so the question still seems to me to be germane here for this verse. What does a Christian do with these things? And God says if you consider one day more sacred than another, uh or if you consider every day alike, then that's a matter in which you must be fully persuaded in your own mind. Why? Because of verse six, you see If you regard one day as special, then you do it to the Lord. If you don't regard any day special, well then you do that to the Lord too. You see what you do is unto the Lord. You give things or usually or you celebrate these things. Do it for the Lord The point you see in all of this is that we cannot dictate to one another how we can celebrate this day There is a freedom, and it is a preserved freedom in the scriptures. I cannot tell you how you should celebrate Christmas, and you cannot tell me The Lord says to Let each of us be fully persuaded in our own minds there is a freedom for each of us to come before the Lord in doing this. But that freedom is not a liberty of license Because you see, it's a responsible freedom. And that's what it goes on to develop in the whole rest of the chapter. So that responsibility, which is developed then in verses 6 to 23, is broken into two categories. First of all, a responsibility before the Lord in verses 6 to 12, and then a responsibility before our brother in Christ in verses 13 to 23 These are sort of mingled together, but that's roughly the division. Next kind of language did he use in verse 5. We should be fully convinced You see, it's not simply a matter of preference, it's a matter of prediction. Uh verse six he says here. Uh these regards the day Express about the to the Lord. He speaks to the Lord. Three times he says to the Lord Two times he says to God. In verse 8, he added he added two more times where he says to the Lord. Well if we live, we live to the Lord. If we die, we die to the Lord. So if we live or we die, we belong to the Lord It's a responsibility before the face of God, verse 9, for this reason Christ five eternal life that he might be the Lord of the dead and the living. Our freedom is subject to the Lordship of Christ and our being his disciples. He says in verse 10, uh, and on after the end of verse 10 to 12, that we give account to God. Native theory says that we all stand before God's judgment teachers It's written as surely as I am in says the Lord, every knee will bow before me, and every tongue will confess to God. So that each of us will give an account of himself to God It's a responsibility in our giving us tells of the Lord how we do these things. And then we notice that he says that it must be done with a clear conscience. Verse 14, as one who is in the Lord Jesus, I'm fully convinced that milk is unclean in itself. But if anyone regards something as unclean, then for him it is unclean. If he doesn't have a clear conscience in taking it, then for him it's sins. He goes on to say that. Down to verse twenty-two and twenty-three. So whatever you believe about these things Please between yourself and God. Musk is the man who does not condemn himself by what he approves, you see. If you condemn yourself, you're not dealing with a clear conscience. But the man who has doubt You can then be weak. Just said that there's nothing wrong with the food in itself, but if you have doubt, in other words, if you really are doing it, as far as you can see, to please the Lord Then you're condemned because he's eating not from things. And everything that does not come from those, even though in itself there's nothing wrong with it, it's been. I don't care if it's plain tidy winks or whether it is ping pong or anything else, if if you believe that that's wrong, then to go ahead and do it because you believe that it's wrong and therefore you're gonna do it anyway is a heart that is in rebellion against God. So it has to be done with a clear conscience. That's a responsibility before the Lord. That's quite clear. The point then in all of this discussion was that in the area of Christian liberty, our conduct is never non-religious. Never neutral. I think we need to remind ourselves of that before Christmas. How we celebrate Christmas is not neutral. It's not kind of just the way we do it Our heart either is drawn to the Lord in this season, through worship and growing for him, or is resisting him. And we're doing things that are not of a clear conscience, and we're going to do them anyway because we enjoy them. And therefore that is sin. Because the question is always one of our motives. And that's what we have to decide. God knows our hearts It's a question of moving, of the goal of your Christmas celebration. This is to honor Christ, this is to know him better, is it really to give him his right place? If your Christmas takes away from Christ's place as the head of your home, it's just the temptation for you. It is something which really becomes a stumbling block for you. And you need to apply what Jesus said in Matthew 5 and cut off your right arm. Cut off that which is even precious so that it doesn't leave you into sin. Unless in fact you can enjoy it and you can give thanks to God as something that honors Him in your life, then enjoy it in the freedom that God gives. But it's a question of the emergence before the Lord that only you and he know to see that really is extremely. But there's another responsibility, and that's one that's a little more observable. And that's a responsibility before our brother in Jesus Christ. That's what he talks about in verses 13 to 21. In verses 13 to 23, uh to the end, but particularly for 13 to 21 Notice he says there in verse 13, therefore let us stop passing judgment on one another. Instead, make up your mind not to put any stumbling block or obstacle in your brother's way. You see the question here is once again a question of notice. You cannot separate your love for Jesus Christ from your love for your brother and sister in Christ. I cannot say that I love God and I will devote all of my next few weeks to serving him and loving him, but I don't care how that affects you My love for Jesus Christ is directly related and reflected by how I treat you and how I care for you. So what verse 13 means? This is often a verse that's misunderstood, I believe. What he's saying here, let us therefore not make up our mind to not put any stumbling block or obstacle in our brother's way. He's talking about what we often say, offending a brother. You've ever heard that? You know, don't offend the brother. Well, what does it mean to offend a brother? Uh you can offend one another in a lot of ways. Uh I happen to drive a uh Ford Granada that I bought you. Uh I enjoy it. Uh you suppose that offends you. You say, Well that's uh too nice looking a car. You're you're passing, you ought to drive a used Volkswagen. And uh that offends you. You see, is that what Paul Soylamair at a soldier and gonna use Volkswagen as just something that uh is more like the dusty that we have that's sort of a uh a bag of rust on a chassis, you know, and that's that's more non-offensive, you see. So we wind up just reducing ourselves to the lowest common denominator of anything that somebody else may not criticize Well that's not what Paul's talking about here. That given offense is in this context is saying that which now he wrote this down just so we'd be clear on the words because I think it's important to see that. The definition I believe of this is that which A brother to do the same things that he cannot do with a clear conscience. That's the stumbling block. That's the offense It is not simply bringing upon yourself criticism, it is tempting a brother to do the same thing as you're doing, which he cannot do with a clear conscience. That's the issue which is fake here. So you're not bothered by a criticism, rather than you're concerned to care for his good. It's a very positive kind of concern. Uh the brother is troubled by drinking wine. And Paul says, you don't therefore sit down and say, go ahead, you have wine. How come you're hung up about wine? Let him say how good it is You see, but rather he says explicitly there in verse twenty-one, it is better not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything else that will cause your brother to fall. What do you mean to fall? Not to criticize you Rather he's tempted to taste that and he couldn't do it of a clear conscience. I remember as a young Christian, somebody really lay it on me about how I ought to drink wine And that offended my conscience, because it isn't simply causing to criticize him. I was tempted to do that which I didn't believe was right. That is the stumbling block that he's talking about here Before what he say is beware of the effect of how you celebrate Christmas on other people. But beware of its effect on your appearance of materialism. Uh what do you is how you celebrate is how you celebrate Christmas uh a possible way of leading another person to be sensitive into more self-indulgence and materialism? That's I think more the issue. It's not a question of whether they don't like it. It's a question of whether it's going to touch them into something that will be harmful for them. But I think there's another science of it, too. But perhaps my not celebrating Christmas because I feel very guilty about enjoying anything associated with it will tempt my brother to begin to feel guilty about enjoying God's good gift also It's not simply a one-sided sword. So perhaps I have to be careful about how I come across in my observation of God's good things. And of course, the more I will seek to demonstrate that my way is right, as opposed to your way, the more opportunity of my intimidating you and laying a heavy on you, that can in fact help you to do something you won't be able to do with a clear conscience. So I'm not going to apply this because you have to apply it, you say And I think the principle is clear. And we have to apply it in our own particular situation. Because the priorities are clear that Paul lays out here. And then in verse 16 to 19, the priorities are the kingdom, you see. Because he says there, are not simply participant of material enjoyment, but rather the priority of the kingdom. Verse 16, do not allow what you consider good to be spoken of as evil But the kingdom of God is not a matter of somebody eating and breaking for the righteousness. Jesus enjoying the Holy Spirit. That's what really matters. For anyone who serves Christ in this way is pleasing to God and is pleased by men. Let us therefore make every effort to do what leads to peace and to me for edification. Let's be concerned with our celebration of this season. That it edifies one another, that it produces joy and honor to Jesus Christ. However, in whatever we do in our particular traditions, Let us be concerned that we help one another. Let us find out from one another. What are those things which will particularly incline us and tempt us into sin? So we can help each other to enjoy this time in a way to really honor the Lord and resist society's pressures. Finally, let me suggest then some personal practical considerations. The question, again, before speaking here now, is to celebrate or not to celebrate. So I'd like to just suggest a couple reasons for both positions So that you can see I'm not lobbying. Uh you see I believe that both are live options. And I want to demonstrate that I believe there's reasons for any of the positions that I've outlined above, A, B, or C, uh, to uh not celebrate, to seek to sanctify, or to seek to celebrate as a secular holiday. These are all live options for the Christian. Uh but particularly with respect to celebrating or not celebrating, what are some considerations that you might want to meditate on and put before the Lord? First of all, concerning not celebrating. Why would we not want to celebrate So I suggest that number one, see that uh you would not want to celebrate it in order to remove the temptation of materialism from yourself You tried again and again, year after year, you say I'm not gonna get caught up in this rat race, I'm not gonna get caught up in all the pressures, the self-indulgence, imperialism Every year I go into debt. Every year I'm still paying off in March the celebration came in December. Every year I say I'm never gonna do it again. And every year I'm sorry and I feel guilty for what I did was out uh moderation. It tested me into materialism. Then you screwed up my priorities. And my prior times went down the two during the Christmas season. I'm so busy celebrating the holiday that I forgot about the Lord and I'm just not meditating on his word. Everything's activity and a frenzy. So you might say in order to just cut off that temptation, I'm going to really clear it And I just said to back off them. Maybe that for a couple of years, may come into a balance. Here, that's a very valid reason for something that Christian may want to opt for. It may be needed. A second reason to not celebrate. Maybe to remove the temptation of materialism for your brother. And you see the effects of what you've done, have had uh in effective disparity with someone else, uh, a kind of competitiveness with them, a kind of pressure on them. Uh, but you want to prevent. And so you understand that problem, and so you want to back off some in that regard too That again is a valid option. And maybe the third thing that you see is simply this you'd like to back off and not celebrate simply as a witness to the world system, which dishonest Christ And I believe it's a valid reason that as a Christian I'm called to live a radical lifestyle. It's not uh worth the hassle trying to do this in a way that appears dispensive, I just get sucked into the whole thing and said one way I can be as dispensive on this or I really believe honestly is to undergo the hassle of radicalizing my point, of standing against the system, to make my point as a witness to Jesus Christ. And when people ask me that, I'll tell them about it. And I'll use that for a witness. Well, that's another option I think uh that you might even list a number four there and simply say, I don't see a biblical warrant to celebrate it, therefore because there's not a biblical warrant. Why should I therefore do it That's another approach that people would take if we opt for the principle that in scripture we worship for that only which the scripture commands us to use in worship. Therefore the scripture doesn't speak about Christian What if uh therefore the question comes with this in light of all these weighty considerations, why in the world would we want to do it? Are there any positive benefits to Christians? Well let me suggest a couple that I think might be worth consideration. in our households, uh we get out of this partly in whether we celebrate or not, because Christmas happens to be Kathy's birthday. So you should be celebrating anyway, but we can always say we're celebrating her birthday rather than Christmas, you see That's just sort of an outfront. But for the rest of you who don't have such an excuse, why would you want to celebrate? What would be some other considerations in it? Well First of all, I think there is a consideration of the principle that Exodus 13 and 9 lays out for us, and that is that uh The God does talk about the observation of days in that particular respect he's talking about the Passover as a teaching device. Because the way the students say, Hey, why are we doing all this? Because then that gives you an opportunity to say, Because the Lord led us out from Egypt and this is what he's speaking us about that And so it's a way of teaching not only your children in very tangible ways that they can identify with, to see something of the of the majesty, of the wonder, of the fact that God became flesh, but also your neighbors. It's the evangelistic for the news of our CGM too. You know, it's the one time of the year that they may say something that has any biblical content. Or that they may read any scripture or be open to looking at the fact not simply about the peace and joy, but the fact of Jesus Christ, that he came into the world. But that's an opportunity to use that, to speak about why he came A second reason is that I find that in recalling the depth, the first coming, sharpens our anticipation for the second coming of Christ. If you think of the world at the time of Christ's first coming, the history of it, the promises that were fulfilled in that, uh, that inclines us to a thirst, a a kind of a a hunger for his return to see that the the our world is in many ways very similar to that kind of world that existed at the time of Christ's first coming. And we celebrate that and anticipate the great feast of the second coming And I think that there's something to that. A third reason that I would suggest is for the value of family traditions in a Victorian society Uh what becomes very important to us through the years often is uh the things that we did together as a family on a regular basis From the CP stock disintegration of our societies, uh very often it's their traditions that help our family time. Traditions gives continuity, security, a sense of belonging and joint. The old testing incident is full of traditions. Uh, they're a part of the people's celebration and worship of God. And I think there's a freedom to have those or not in the New Testament. So much that they're not at all commanded in the New Testament. But God is very much inclined if you read the Old Testament for lots of traditions. Uh whether it's uh box of decorations or uh taking out the albums of a bunch of old friends or the chocolate chip cookies or whatever it is, whatever your family opts for can be means of cementing the family's experience together. And I think there's a certain value in that. If again it's sanctified to the Lord. A fourth reason would be that uh gifts not only compete selfishness, I think this takes grace rather than selfishness, especially when they're to the poor A gift incidentally started as a custom in giving them to the poor, not to one another. That long ago ceased to be the primary emphasis. But we do celebrate the fact that God gave us his son, and therefore we give. We may give to our families without an expectation of measuring the return, whether it was equal to what we do. We may give to the poor and the needy from whom we can expect no return and therefore experience and an experience of giving in that way. Or maybe just give one or two people here express some gratitude for something for you. If you know they're not gonna give you anything And it's just a way of exating grace. And if you receive something from somebody, easy to get for them, if you don't panic and say, Oh no, I didn't get anything for this person. If you experience grace in it, that's fine. It's a proven in it. Firstly, blessing is, but there's also just a facial enjoyment of beauty, uh, along the lines of bookmaster's books that aren't these day justifications that God has given us uh all things richly to enjoy. And in the context of the discussion of beware of riches and materialism in 1 Timothy chapter 6, verse 17, we're reminded that God has given us all things richly to enjoy. Uh they're all things that are unto whom we we take them, we enjoy them as doors. But we need to be careful to not be uh on the one hand reacting to the idols of the various things that can trap us may also be in aesthetics. But we can enjoy the beauty of sight, decorations, visit, food, at a special time of year, perhaps. And if in fact that expresses joy of worship, then there's a freedom in that. But you see, I think Christian homes ought to in any case be the most joyful homes And if in fact we uh believe that there's a wellness to the particular uh enjoyment that are associated with Christmas, then the question before is what do we enjoy? And we are speaking to us to be those who are on the forefront of enjoyment. We need to be the paysetters for what it means to be enjoying people. To enjoy one another and to enjoy the Lord and to enjoy his creation. You're always a little uh little at ease that the person that is against Christmas but doesn't enjoy anything else. It's fine if you don't enjoy Christmas, if you set that aside, that's great As well as the people who endure the Lord our God in creation, so it's not with these smaller things. Let's just uh put these things together. First of all Because of Christmas and its central meaning in the first place, there's DNA the one who just used nothing about. Christmas is about Jesus to become flesh The girlfriend was finished, to come, to die, take upon himself the penalty that was due to you and to me, the those who had broken God's law and deserved his judgment Jesus Christ is the read this morning on his side and rose to be Lord of the dead and the living. Is he your Lord? What he determines and dictates in his word this morning, the rule of your life Are you trusting him and following him? Would you become in your own life? Would you say this whole message is rather irrelevant to you because you're going to do what you're going well pleased to do anyway? Well, a Christian can't have that attitude. A Christian has to say, I will submit my mind and my actions to the word. If that's your position before the Lord this morning, if not the first thing you need to clarify is your relationship to Jesus Christ Both from the Savior and the Lord of the Lord. The second thing, we saved her and our notice. That's really what I'm talking about. Our notice are positional in Christian That's a good thing. All of us when to baptize are two things into the right position of Christians. We tend to baptize our parents who are reactive to our past, uh our traditions we're growing up. So secondly we tend to baptize our natural priorities, whether it is on the one extreme that I don't want to be bothered with the hassles of Christmas, or I really sort of enjoy the composite savory of Christmas. We tend to take those things which are simply our natural inflammations in our past And that's why I can look for the right way. And I think until we come to that place, because I've had a time to say, that's what I inclined to do, not because of what the scriptures said, but because of my past. But I can really come to a freedom of therefore say, I can understand therefore why I do what I do and how in fact I cannot hassle somebody else to say this is the right way. Because what in fact I've done is I simply baptize my way and I tried to lay it on you so that if I can prefer you to do it, then that'll give me a little more security that my way is right. Maybe I'm a little afraid that my way is that way. And so I want you to agree with me. Not forget it. We all have inclinations that are not based on scripture, and we need to be aware that we do not simply call them to right positions. We need to look at our hearts and examine our motives and say, how are we entering this season? Because observe and to worship Jesus Christ and to use the same time to make fill us. There is to somehow clear the middle road of saying, well I want to have faith in it, but I want to enjoy all the things that I've always needed to be able to somehow rationalize them. We need to be self-conscious in our motives about that Secondly, I'm feeling with us to work out an offensive distinction, not just a reaction, that specifies our cadences that I've just spoken about. They have clear consciousness To on the one hand honor Christ and secondly to be sensitive to the effects on other Christians. But in that kind of freedom, a responsible freedom, we cease intimidating one another. And why do we speak to honor the Lord in what reasons? Do we work out an offensive that is a self-conscious plan of attack? rather than just peaceful reacting to the world and to the television through the weeks ahead. But that we certainly then do not intimidate one another with our right wing The value that we pursue the things that make for peace and the building up of one another and the binds of peace. And in light of all that, I hope you have a joyful season. Bye bye So that I'll give. Because the three with one. How do we want to? Is that are experiences of is the defender season? Whatever experiences that have been polluted, that has been um been distorted that have two humanistic and worldly elements in it. Some of us with a poor understanding of this time, others of us with a very gross secularistic understanding of self-indulgence. Apollons we should bring before you our motives, our desires, and our hearts, help us to be honest before you. Help us to face this matter head-on. Help us to violent our hearts Help us to look at the weeks ahead and help us, Father, to take a youth talk from your way this morning, not as simply a heavy Not as simply a burden for us to have to think through a principle and come to rob what um might have seemed like we discussed the overfore, but rather father that you might trust that serving you And doing what you desire is always more joyful than to do that which we hold on to and which we clutch to our breasts as the toys and those things which How we have not sanctified to you, Help us, Father, to realize this and to think through in our families what it means for us. to celebrate if we decide to go that week this season. Help us Father to be there to endure you and to enjoy your creation but to enjoy it with Jesus Christ as Lord and the head of our lives and of our families.