Turning your Bibles to Psalm 72. We're looking at Psalm 72 for two weeks, as Tom said, this Christmas season, to see the description. of the king Messiah that God promised to send for his people. And you remember that as we're looking at this, we are noticing that a king He is different from a president. A king is an absolute monarch. There's no balance of power here. He determines the quality of life in his kingdom. The device that the psalmist uses to help us to understand what the kingdom life will be like under this king. who determines whether life is miserable or whether life is pure joy is to compare the Messiah with Solomon, Israel's greatest king in her golden age. And so as this psalm looks at Solomon , we see how tremendous was his rule and his kingdom. And yet, how far he fell short of the ideal of a king. And then we contrast with that King Messiah, Jesus. And we see all the more wonderful is his kingdom, how he has not only met the ideal, he has exceeded it, as it's presented in this psalm. And that causes us to thirst for the coming of Messiah. The first, as we remember, Israel looking forward to his first coming, and for us then to look forward to his second coming. to set up to establish, to consummate the kingdom which he has already established at his resurrection. So let's take a look at this Psalm. Let's hear again God's description of this king that we're waiting for. The King who has come. Psalm 72. Hear God's word. Endow the King with your justice, O God, the royal son with your righteousness He will judge your people in righteousness, your afflicted ones with justice. The mountains will bring prosperity to the people, the hills, the fruit of righteousness. He will defend the afflicted among the people, and save the children of the needy. He will crush the oppressor. He will endure as long as the sun, as long as the moon through all generations. He will be like rain falling on a mown field, like showers watering the earth. In his days the righteous will flourish, prosperity will abound till the moon is no more. He will rule from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. The desert tribes will bow before him, and his enemies will lick the dust. The kings of Tarshish and of distant shores will bring tribute to him. The kings of Sheba and Seba will present him gifts. All kings will bow down to him, and all nations will serve him. For he will deliver the needy who cry out, the afflicted who have no one to help. He will take pity on the weak and the needy, and save the needy from death. He will rescue them from oppression and violence, for precious is their blood in his sight. Long may he live May gold from Sheba be given him. May people ever pray for him and bless him all day long. Let grain abound throughout the land. On the tops of the hills may it sway. Let its fruit flourish like Lebanon. Let it thrive like grass of the field. May his name endure forever. May it continue as long as the sun. All nations will be blessed through him, and they will call him blessed. Praise be to the Lord God, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous deeds. Praise be to his glorious name forever. May the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. This concludes the prayers of David, the son of Jesse. Amen, right? Amen. Two amens you see on that one. That's uh that's really deserving of a response. Let me see we recall now at least what we saw last week as we began this psalm in our messianic prophecy series in preparation for Christmas and the Advent season. We saw that the king and his kingdom are characterized by five R's. You'll never remember all five R's, but it'll help you to remember the breakdown perhaps a little better than if there were a couple of uh B's and C's and M's or something. The first one you remember was uh Royal Righteousness, verses 1 to 4. His court system is perfectly wise and just He not only hates evil, he eliminates it. Remember verse 4. He will crush the oppressor. His rule is a rule of righteousness. Secondly, we saw that his was an endless reign. In verses 5 to 7, we saw that he is not like Solomon's kingdom, his golden age that lasted but one generation. It's not like Camelot that lasted for one brief shining moment. Rather, his kingdom will never end It will endure through all generations. It will outlast the sun. It will never be overthrown from without. It will never decay from within. It's pure and secure because he's purchased it by his own death. And because he's changed the nature of his citizens to make them righteous. Thirdly, we saw that this is a boundless realm. This kingdom is one in verses 8 to 11 that's not like Solomon's, that though large, extending from the Gulf of Aqaba to the Mediterranean Sea, from the Sinai Peninsula to the river Euphrates. A large but bounded domain, that's not like Messiah's kingdom. For Messiah's kingdom is the fulfillment of Matthew 28, making disciples of all the nations, from sea to sea. All peoples shall serve him. His kingdom is a kingdom which extends throughout the entire earth. And so his word goes forth irresistibly. And people are responding to that word changed from death to life because he is accomplishing what he has set out to do. Jesus is this day. In the communist world, in Eastern Europe, in the Muslim world, even in Howard County, he is causing his word to be irresistibly received by people who are coming to bow before Jesus. And find their sins forgiven and a new life in him. And now we come then to the fourth characteristic. Not only is his reign of righteousness, is it endless, is it boundless, But the fourth characteristic is that he is a compassionate rescuer. He is a compassionate rescuer in verses 12 to 14. For he will deliver the needy who cry out, the afflicted who have no one to help. He will take pity on the weak and the needy, and save the needy from death He will rescue them from oppression and violence, for precious is their blood in his sight. And do you remember that we pointed out that Solomon began his reign in such a way? Solomon's proverbs are full of admonitions to be kind and compassionate to the weak and to those who have no power. You recall Solomon's concern for the two mothers who came, each claiming to have the living son when one had died. And Solomon was concerned to give justice. What I didn't mention last week was that those two women were prostitutes. And so the Solomon, by even listening to their case and being concerned for them as mothers, was showing compassion. when he could have simply cast them from his sight. But he was a ruler with compassion, and yet he didn't end that way. He ended his reign as a greedy tyrant taxing to get more for his building projects, passing on as a heritage to his son Rahabalm, a very abusive view of his people. And so Solomon gave up the compassion with which he so well began. But the Bible says of Messiah That he will deliver the needy who cry out, the afflicted who have no one to help. And that will characterize his reign forever and ever. Jesus, in other words, is full of compassion. He's not going to just give his attention to those who are going somewhere in the kingdom, to the big deals, to the leaders, to the big shots. But Jesus listens to you and to me. Does verse 12 and 13 describe you? Needy, afflicted, nobody to help? Weak? If that describes you, then you have a promise here that Jesus is going to listen to you and that he's going to be, you're assured that he's going to deliver you. See what verse 12 says? He will deliver the needy who cry out and the afflicted who have nobody else to help. You know that verse in the Bible, God helps those who help themselves? Yeah, I hear you chuckling. That's good. Biblically literate congregation. A lot of people think that verse is in the Bible. I've heard it quoted many times. You know the verse that says God helps those that help themselves? Well that verse is of course not in the Bible. But a verse is in the Bible is that Jesus helps those who are unable to help themselves. Because that's right here in verse 12 and 13. He will deliver the needy who cry out, the afflicted who have no one to help. He'll take pity on the weak and on the needy. He's the shepherd who has compassion on his sheep, as we see in Matthew 9. He's the one who calls us to come and to bear his yoke, for he says, Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light, for I bear it with you. He's the gentle Lord who calls us to follow Him. History is full of masters who have taken a very light view of human life that was under their control. Just this week in U. S. News <unk> World Report, there was an article on what is called the death railway of World War II. Built by the Japanese Army, they employed Allied prisoners and Asian slave labor for the project. 230-mile railway. Sixteen thousand men died in the construction of that. No concern for the cost of human life. You know that seventy lives for every mile of track laid No concern for human life. Just simply get the project done. Just this past year, U. S. News was pointing out. That as atrocious as that was in the movie The Bridge on the River over the River Kwai, 1957, was based on that project. U. S. News was pointing out that the Burmese army has enslaved their own citizens. 10,000 of them used as human porters and human minesweepers to go through that area. And anyone who collapsed with their load was simply left for dead. Such a cheap view of life. But what does this psalm tell us about the king who is coming? It says that he will rescue them from oppression and violence, verse 14. For precious is their blood in his sight. How precious is the blood of his lambs in his sight? The Bible tells us our blood is more precious to him than his own. For in Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 12 we read that he entered the heavenly sanctuary, not with the blood of bulls and goats, to obtain eternal redemption for you and for me, but he went In his own blood. Through his own blood, he entered into that sanctuary. I don't know about you, but my blood is pretty precious to me. I don't like to lose a drop of it. And if you cut yourself and you see your blood flow, it reminds you of how precious that blood is to you. When Jesus looked at his own blood and he looked at my blood, he said, You have broken God's law and your blood must be shed for that. Jesus kept God's law. He deserved life. But when he came before the Father, he said, Let me shed my blood in the place of Alan Harris. For his blood is precious in my sight. More precious, Father, than my own blood. Let me shed my blood for him. This morning, you have the opportunity to claim the blood of Jesus Christ for your sin. To know that no matter what you have done, Jesus says your blood is precious in his sight. If you place your trust in him as a savior able to take the penalty for the sins that you've committed And for the guilt that you've incurred in your own life, you will find that he says of you that your blood is precious in his sight. And he's glad to shed his own blood even unto death. To rescue you. See the end of verse 13? He takes pity on the weak and the needy, and he saves the needy from death. From eternal death through the shedding of his blood, because our blood is precious to him. And he's so very tender to his lambs You remember that story that I told you a couple months ago about Darlene Daibler, that missionary in the Pacific in World War II, who was held prisoner in the Japanese prison camps? One occasion after she was uh had been tortured and was in that prison camp and reduced to simply skin and bone She records how she was looking out her prison window one day and she saw a woman out in the prison yard reach her hand into a bush when the guard wasn't looking, and somebody thrust a bunch of bananas into her hand. And Darlene said as she saw that and was so glad that that woman was able to sneak past the guards and get a few bananas to supplement her diet, all of a sudden she had an overwhelming craving for bananas. See, I felt like I'd do anything to get a banana. Oh, for just one banana. And so I kneeled down on my prison floor and I cried out to God, Oh Lord, I don't want a whole bunch of bananas. Just give me one banana Lord, just one banana. And then she began to consider how the Lord might answer that. She thought of the different guards and she thought of the different ways and as she went through all the possibilities in her mind, every single one of them were eliminated. There was, she was absolutely sure, not one possible way that God could ever get a banana to her through her prison walls. And so she gave up the prayer. And she said, Lord, help me to be content. The very next morning, she received a visitor. The visitor was Mr. Yamaji, who was the camp commander where she had been interred before being put into this prison camp a man who had himself tortured prisoners and had tortured her as well as many others. And before whom you may remember I mentioned that after one such beating she witnessed of the grace and the love of Jesus Christ to that man. And so he came to visit her. She says when she saw him, when he saw her in skin and bones, his eyes filled with tears. And he said, You're very ill, aren't you? And she said, Yes, I am. And he walked out of her cell. She heard him talking to the guards. Soon after that, the guards came back to her cell and she was petrified because all of a sudden she realized she had forgotten to bow to the guards. And when any prisoner did not bow in the presence of the guards, they were beaten unmercifully. And she said, Oh Lord, I don't think I can take another beating. Help me to stand whatever you have for me When the guards came to the door, they opened the door and they thrust into her cell bananas. You guessed it. Not just one banana, or a bunch of bananas. They thrust into her cell several bunches of bananas. In fact, after she had counted them, she saw they had thrust into her cell 92 bananas, to be exact. More bananas than she could eat at that point. And she says after that, never in all my walk with the Lord was I so ashamed. And I fell down and I wept, and I said, Oh my God, I thought you were not able to answer such a prayer. But you, my shepherd, are able to do anything. And she said, It was as if I heard my Lord saying, My daughter, that's exactly what I delight to do, exceeding and abundantly, beyond all that you could ask or think. For he will deliver the needy who cry out, the afflicted who have no one to help. She was not praying this from a vacation resort. She was suffering for Jesus' name This verse doesn't say we won't suffer, but it does say that he hears us in our need, and he cares, and he delivers. Is that the Jesus that you serve this morning? Sometimes we call and he answers and surprises us. Sometimes he calls on us to take a step of faith. Sometimes he calls on us simply to wait. But do we believe that this is his character? That he has a compassionate rescuer for his people. Finally, not only is he that, but he's also a king of fifthly and boundless riches. Boundless riches. His resources are inexhaustible to help us. You see this in verses 15 to 17. Long may he live. May gold from Sheba be given him. May people ever pray for him and bless him all day long. Let grain abound throughout the land. On the tops of the hills may it sway. Let its fruit flourish like Lebanon. Let it thrive like the grass of the field. May his name endure forever May it continue as long as the Son. All nations will be blessed through him, and they will call him blessed. Solomon's wealth was of course legendary. In 1 Kings chapter 4, we have a list of his daily menu. And it reads like the hotel chain of Sheraton, all for one man, I mean, and those who he had to his table. An incredible list. Count the calories up of that, it'll make you sick just to look at it. It's just uh absolutely rich and beyond belief. Solomon was a fellow who loved horses And so he kept the stable full. Twelve thousand of them. I don't know how long it took him to ride twelve thousand horses, just one at a time. I don't know what he did with them, but you know, sort of like having 12,000 sports cars parked in your garage, you know And Solomon's wealth was beyond our imagination. You know, it took seven years to build the wondrous temple of Solomon. It took thirteen years to build his palace. And 1 Kings chapter 7 takes 12 verses to describe the magnificence of that palace. Solomon had mines, produced many precious minerals and gems. His gold mines alone, you know how much they produced per year? A few pounds, a few hundred pounds? How much would you think could be produced in Solomon's mines of gold a year? The Bible tells us that his minds produced, would you believe it, twenty-five tons of gold a year? Imagine, twenty-five tons of gold a year? I mean it's several thousand dollars a pound. What would you know, two thousand pounds a ton? What would twenty-five tons of gold be worth? And that's the wealth of this man. Is it any wonder that verse 15 describes Messiah's wealth in terms of gold? May gold from Sheba be given him. I mean, this guy knew what gold was, you know. He had gold everywhere. Probably got sick of looking at it. It was all over the place, you know. Gold, you know, gold spoons and forks and probably gold wheels on his chariots and everything. In fact, it tells the Bible tells us it is that his soldiers had gold shields. In fact, uh one of the real come-downs of the future generations, they had to go to bronze, you know, things were really tough. No more gold shields for the soldiers. That's the riches, the wealth of his kingdom. But Messiah's kingdom is so infinitely beyond that. And when even he comes as a baby without anything, born in a manger, what's the first gift that he has given after he's out of that manger and into a house by the age of two? The kings come from the east, the Bible tells us, and they present to them what? Gold. Gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And that gold is simply the first fruits of the gold that will be his. How much gold? Well, the Bible tells us in the book of Revelation that in his kingdom gold is so plentiful and so common it's used for asphalt. They paved the streets with gold. What does that mean? Think, eh, do I really want gold streets? You could slide around a little bit when it gets wet, you know Not sure I really want Gold Street. Well the point I think of that is simply that it's saying there is a whole new value system in heaven. And that whole value system is so radically different that gold is so common you can pave the streets with it. That's the nature of the riches of his kingdom. Not only that, but it's described in terms of grain. Look in verse 16. The grain will abound throughout the land. When the tops of the hills may its sway, let its fruit flourish like Lebanon, let it thrive like the grass of the field. The grain is going to be like grass, and the picture in the Hebrew here is a wind rustling the grass and the Grain, you hear this rustling all over, like the fields of Lebanon. But you notice where it grows. It grows not only throughout the land, but it's on the tops of the hills and the mountains. You know anything about grain? Grain grows in valleys, it grows in plains, it doesn't grow on the tops of mountains. Why is it saying that then? Because this is a picture of the abundance of this kingdom. You see, there's no place that's barren. Every place is producing fruitfully. Every place, even the tops of the mountains, are flourishing with grain that you can pluck and eat. There is nothing in this kingdom which is sterile or barren. Its fruitfulness is beyond belief. And not only is there in the minerals and in the fruitfulness of the crops of this land an abundance that you and I can't conceive of, but also in the groups of its people. You see there in verse 17. The groups of these people that come are going to be beyond belief also. One other thing about the material aspects of this. When we think of that, we think of the riches of Messiah, I think of uh how very often you and I Don't take that and really believe it, do you? Do you really believe that you serve that kind of a Jesus? That he has those kinds of resources at his disposal? Often I think we are people who live as if our master and our king was a pauper. As if we have to beg for scraps. And those scraps he. gives out of very carefully because his resources are so very limited. I remember reading the story of a woman in West Palm Beach, Florida, who died at the age of 71 of malnutrition. She had been reduced to 50 pounds in weight. She begged food at her neighbors' back doors. Got her clothes from the Salvation Army. And when she died, her place was a veritable pig pen. The county inspector said he had rarely ever seen a mess as disgusting as the place where she lived. They shoveled it out. And when they shoveled out her belongings among those belongings, they found two keys. The keys were to safe deposit boxes at two different banks, and they went to the banks and they opened the safe deposit boxes. In safe deposit box number one, they found 700 AT<unk>T stock certificates, plus hundreds of other stock certificates, plus a little bit of cash Well, actually it was about $200,000 in cash. They went to the second safe deposit box and that didn't have any more stock certificates. It just had some more cash. Lots of cash. $600,000 in cash. Turned out she was worth well over a million dollars. And she died a pauper of malnutrition. That reminds me of how often I think we as Christians look at our King. And we look at this and we say, that's theory. It's not real. Jesus doesn't really have that as his resource. My Savior and my Heavenly Father doesn't really have that at his disposal to give. And so we look at the insert in the bulletin, and it says that our giving's down and we need forty-one thousand dollars in December to be able to finish our obligations for this year and to launch All kinds of new endeavors for 1991. And we see unlimited opportunities for ministry. If only we had the resources, and we say, but we really don't. Or is God waiting for us to exercise our faith? To believe him, in the stewardship of our own resources, as we give and don't hold back, but believe that he can meet our needs if we give according to how he's prospered. us with generous and grateful hearts. But are we ready to take the step of faith that is suggested in the December newsletter Faith goals by which we trust God and plan our giving, to believe that He is a God of unlimited resources, and in this next year He could provide all that we need to do all that He's calling us to do in ministry In Columbia and Howard County. Do we believe that? Amen? That wasn't quite like Psalm 72, Amen, there at the end, was it? That was an honest amen, would you? That's a Presbyterian honest amen. Sort of a grunt. Something for us to examine, isn't it? Do we believe? The resources that Jesus has. Do we believe the groups of people that he's called to be his own? Look there at verse 17. May his name endure forever. May it continue as long as the Son. All nations will be blessed through him, and they will call him blessed. You see, verse 15, may people ever pray for him and bless him all day long. These are the groups of people that Messiah is calling to himself. From all nations, verse 8, C to C, verse 11, kingdom, kings, and all nations are going to bow and to serve him. And he's adding to that daily. You know how much he's adding daily? It's estimated currently that every day 70,000 people become Christians throughout the world. And of those 70,000 people, do you know what that means? That means that last week when I told you about how Jesus was extending his kingdom and all nations would serve and how he's adding to that. Since last Sunday, there's nearly a half a million more Christians worshiping Jesus. Isn't that amazing? Amen. That got a better one. Those 70,000 people, 28 ,000 of those are in China. 20,000 of them are in Africa. You know, Africa at the beginning of this century was 3% Christian. It's estimated by the year 2000, Africa will be over 40% Christian. Korea in 1900 did not have one single Protestant church in it. Currently, 30% of Korea is professing evangelical Christians. There are 4,000 churches in Seoul, Korea alone. The largest church in the world is in Seoul, Korea. All nations will be blessed through him, and they will call him blessed. More Muslims in Iran have become Christians since nineteen eighty than the previous 1,000 years combined. And on and on it goes. Latest letter just came this week from Victor Atala, our missionary in the Middle East. Talks about someone writing about his radio, as a radio broadcast goes throughout the Middle East, and somebody writing from Basra, Iraq, saying, I listen to your programs regularly and have become a Christian. Somebody writing from Kuwait City saying, I also am a Christian believer. The gospel is going out irresistibly Because Jesus is the king on the move. And even as we speak of him here this morning, he's drawing people to himself so that all nations will serve him. All nations will be blessed through him in fulfillment of the covenant with Abraham. And so we see the response in verses 18 and 19. Praise be to the Lord God, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous deeds. Praise be to his glorious name forever. May the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. You see, we praise him alone because he alone is able to do such wonderful things. We praise him forever in verse 19. Praise be to his glorious name forever. Why? Because Jesus is the forever king. See, verse 15 said, Long may he live. That was the perfunctory greeting to the king. May he live long. In some cases they would say, May he live forever. But that was just a kind of a wish like Merry Christmas, you know. But not with the Messiah, King Jesus. For King Jesus will in fact live forever. And his glorious name will be praised forever. For he is the forever king. And his name will be praised from the whole earth. Verse 19, the whole earth will be filled with his glory. So Jesus shall reign. As the psalmist says, as Isaac Watts paraphrased it, where 'er the Son does his successive journeys run His kingdom stretch from shore to shore till moon shall wax and wane no more. To him shall endless prayers be made. And praises throng to crown his head. His name, like sweet perfume, shall rise with every morning sacrifice And why do I tell you all this? Why is it that we consider Psalm 72 now? And this is the final blank on the back of your bulletin outline. To build your faith. To build your faith You see, I went through this message to build your faith in Jesus' power and his caring. What afflictions right now are discouraging you? What fear is in your heart? See Jesus as he really is and bring those fears to him. What desires do you have for ministry? What things would you like to try for Jesus this holiday season? But you're afraid to step out in faith and wonder if he'll really be able to bless that in your witness with your neighbors and in your neighborhood and at the office. The various holiday opportunities that present himself. Do you see Jesus as irresistibly drawing people to himself and the nations? I want to build my faith. See, I need my faith built. My faith is small and it's very weak. And the only way I find that it gets built is when I look at Jesus in Psalms like this. And as I look at him and as I see how the Bible presents him, I have to ask myself, do I really believe that that's the Jesus I serve? And when I believe him, then I step out on faith. Then I'm able to trust him. Then I'm able to love him. Then I'm able to serve him. And when I believe that this psalm was written a thousand years before Jesus was born in Bethlehem, and he fulfilled it precisely And he is fulfilling it now even as I speak. And he will fulfill it ultimately when he comes again. Then there's nothing that we can't believe that He's able to do if we trust Him. Let's pray Lord our God, help us to bring our fears to you. Help us to bring our timid thoughts. The ways that we hold back. We're afraid to share you with friends because we think that you're not really at work. We're afraid to trust you in our needs because we think you don't really have very much resources to dispose. Lord, how foolish and blind we are Help us to see Jesus, who has said that we are so precious to him. Our blood is so precious. That he shed his own blood, that we would be delivered from death and reign in his kingdom. Help us to believe that Jesus and to live like that this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.