We continue this morning in the book of Acts. As we go through this letter, there is much to be found here, much hope, much encouragement, and a lot of rootedness. Because this is the early church, the start of the Christian church. And it is encouraging to see and learn what the what the Lord was doing in their midst, and how we can learn from this word. For us, for we have a great deal in common, though at times that may not be readily apparent, but we do. This chapter begins the longest speech in the entire book of Acts. Of course, we're not going to be going through the entire chapter today. It has quite a few verses. That being the case, however, I had begun to think about how I was going to preach and deal with chapter 7 of the book of Acts, and I looked at a number of different folks who I respect and uh as preachers and saw many different ways to preach it. Most of the time, however, it was largely going to the end of the chapter. And preaching that is a summary of the entire thing. As I was sharing with Pastor Flora this week, I had no peace in doing that. Because as I read back through the chapter, I saw that it breaks itself up in very easily understood ways. This is Stephen preaching and giving a proclamation of why he is preaching about Christ. And in so doing, he deals with Abraham and Joseph, Moses in Egypt, and coming out of Egypt, and Joshua and Solomon. And this is a great deal of richness for us. And it reminds us that indeed the Old Testament isn't just For back then. There are a lot of lessons, not only for the church in the time in which Stephen was preaching, but also for our time. So let's look together at the beginning of this speech. We're going to be looking at the first eight verses. And this entire sermon Not only my sermon, but the sermon of Peter is unpacking one great thing, and that is the promise of God. And he's going to be looking at that promise through different facets. But this morning, we're looking at the promise, and that is the gracious revelation of God. So let's look together. We're going to be starting in chapter 6, verse 12, and through chapter 7, verse 8. Hear now the word of God. And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him and seized him and brought him before the council. And they set up false witnesses who said, This man never ceases to speak words against this holy place and the law. For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and will change the customs that Moses delivered to us. And gazing at him, all who sat in the council saw that his face was like the face of an angel. And the high priest said, Are these things so? And Stephen said, Brothers and fathers, hear me. The glory of God appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran, and said to him, Go out from your land and from your kindred and go into the land that I will show you. Then he went out from the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran, and after his father died, God removed him from there into this land in which you are now living. Yet he gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot's length, but promised to give it to him as a possession. and to his offspring after him, though he had no child. And God spoke this to this effect, that his offspring would be sojourners in a land belonging to others. Who would enslave them and afflict them four hundred years? But I will judge the nation they serve, said God, and after that they shall come out and worship me in this place. And he gave him the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham became the father of Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day, and Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob The twelve patriarchs. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Please, will you pray with me Lord, we ask that your Holy Spirit would so work so mightily in this place and in the hearts of those who believe that we would be able to see wondrous riches in your word. That we would be a people who have heard and received the gracious revelation of our God, and that we would find the promise. To be worthy of our trust. And that promise is nothing other than the Lord Jesus Christ So help us, O Lord, to see you at work here. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I read those words to you this morning, some of you may have thought, oh no, here we go again. How in the world does the Old Testament have anything to say to us now? That's not a bad question. But the question first needs to be directed to Stephen. Why, if Stephen was preaching Christ , And preaching him crucified, preaching that he was raised from the dead, preaching that there is no other salvation except through Christ alone, why then of all things would Stephen go back to the history of Israel. Of what application would that be for his hearers Yes, they were Jewish. Yes, they were the religious leaders of Israel. But why, if he was asked, why are you bringing charges? Why are you preaching about this Jesus of Nazareth? Why does he go back into history? Here's the answer: that all the promises of the Old Testament, all the leaders, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph. And of all the patriarchs, the land of Israel, all the prophets , all the kings. All the priests find their fulfillment in Christ, because Christ is the promise. But the revelation of what God was going to do and find his fulfillment in Christ began in the Old Testament. And the leaders of Israel should have known that. But here they are, now drawing Stephen Into what was likely a trial, before the high priest, who is likely Caiaphas, who was the same high priest who would have been at the time when Jesus was crucified. They have drawn Stephen before them and they've drawn up these false charges and they are trying to ask him, what are you doing? Now this is an important, such an important juncture for the church, the early church, because this is now going to reach The finest point, the sharpest point of persecution, that began earlier on in the book of Acts, that began with a warning. You are not to preach in the name of this one Jesus of Nazareth. But the apostles continued to preach. That warning was then stepped up a bit when they then brought them back before the Sanhedrin. We were looking at this last week of how when they were them you were not to preach in the name and they said we We must obey God. We must preach in this name. And so they were whipped. So from warning to whipping The apostles' response was one of rejoicing that they were considered worthy to suffer for the name. It was then, however, that the preaching continued as we learn from house to house. And Stephen, we learned last week, was chosen as one of the first deacons, a man full of the Spirit and full of wisdom. He too was out proclaiming the name. So now they're bringing him before the trial. But no longer are they just going to give a warning, no longer are they just going to whip. This does end in Stephen stoning, and he would be the first martyr of the Christian Church. The reason why this is an important juncture for us to hear, as it was for the early church, It would be through that which man would mean for evil, the taking of Stephen's life, God would use as the reason for why the church would then expand beyond Jerusalem. to Judea and Samaria and to the uttermost parts of the world. What man meant for evil, God meant for good So they mean to bring Stephen before them and serve as judge over him. But Stephen begins his speech by going through a long history, but rather summarized very well, very wisely. To point out that indeed he's not under their judgment, rather, they are under judgment of even the forefathers Because if they had listened to their forefathers, if they had received the promise of God, if they had seen what God was doing, then they would believe in Jesus Christ. And so he begins with Abraham. And so over these few weeks, we're going to be looking at this mini-series within the bigger series of this one sermon. And it's about the promise, and we're going to be looking at it through these different vignettes. Today is Abraham. And so I've read for you the first eight verses of chapter seven. And what we're going to do in looking at these first eight verses. is we're going to see God's gracious revelation, first through his presence and calling, secondly, the abundant promise, and finally, practical provision. Presence and calling, abundant promise, practical provision. Let's look then at this presence and calling. After they had falsely accused him, being asked to give an answer for why it is he's teaching in the way that he does Stephen responds by first recognizing that they are fathers and brothers to him. So as a Jew, he's speaking to Jews. He knows what they are trying to do. He knows he's being falsely accused. But in a good rhetorical flourish He does with great respect and love for them. He calls them fathers and brothers, and he means to call them himself into their company and their company into him. And he then says these words. Fathers and brothers, the God of glory appeared to our father Abraham. while he was still in Mesopotamia before he lived in Haram. Now to our ears that's like blah blah blah okay. What why does he start there? It is because in a few moments he's getting ready to turn the personal pronouns and approach them personally, saying, You, the land you stand on, where you live. This is the promised land. This was what was promised to Abraham. But he begins here by saying the God of glory appeared to Abraham not in the land flowing with milk and honey, not in Jerusalem. He appeared to Abraham in Mesopotamia, which would be the seat, one of the places that Israel would find its enemies living. The point is, God in all of his glory, and the God of glory is a technical term that he's drawing on there, and all of his hearers would have understood this. The God of weight. Of holiness, of grace, of power, of authority. This God appeared to this man, Abraham Just a man, not one who was marked out yet. Abraham A no-person kind of guy and a no-person kind of land, God of glory appeared to him. That is a shot across the bow to his hearers. Because they find their security, their power, their success. Wrapped up in the fact that they are high priests, they are the leaders of Israel in Jerusalem, in the temple. This is where God is, the God of glory. But Stephen says, oh no. Our God of glory is not limited by time and space or building. God will do as he sees fit. God does not look as man looks on the outside. God goes to a man in his heart, regardless of who he is, and he went to Abraham in Mesopotamia. He's saying, Hey, God is a much bigger God than having him housed in this temple and in this city. He is the God of the universe. He is the God of glory. This is important because indeed this would be a phrase that he returns to. At his stoning, after they were plugging their ears, ready to throw stones at him, Stephen responds, as we will see in a few weeks. He says this. When they heard this, they were furious and gnashed their teeth at him. But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, looked up to heaven and saw the glory of God. The reason why that is important is because the glory of God is wherever He chooses to be. And he is omnipresent. He is everywhere present. He is with his people, even in the midst of suffering. He is with Stephen as he's preaching. He's with Stephen. at his stoning. He was with Abraham when he was in a backwater town in the seat of enemies of Israel at a later time. And here, this is what God is doing. This is the Lord who shows his presence. Haven't we already heard this morning, Psalm 23? For even though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, there you are with me. The God of glory is bigger than any city, than any building. He is the God of all the earth. He then says, He then calls out to Abraham, and he says in verse 3, Leave your country and your people, God said, and go to the land that I will show you. He says that God is not only a God of glory, to do and go wherever he wills and to call whoever he calls, but that when he does, to know God means to know his presence and to know his calling. And if you're a Christian, you must hear that to say that you know God means that you're recognizing that God has made his presence known to you by his spirit, and that when he does, He calls you. And here he calls Abraham out of his country to walk by faith to a place he's never seen, to a people he doesn't even know, and going to be blessed with children, and he doesn't even have one yet. And yet God calls him. The God of glory calls his people to walk in faith. Leave your country. Leave the familiar. Leave the comfortable. Isn't it interesting then? As he's looking at these men who are calling him to account, he is saying to them, God is calling you. God is calling you to believe on the one that is Christ. God is calling you out of where you're comfortable, out of where you find security, and to find it alone in the God of glory. In a few moments, we're going to end the service by celebrating the Lord's Supper. And indeed, this is the picture. That the God of glory who calls his people to leave their country and to follow him is the very God who left his country and sent his son to die. This is the God of glory, the God of presence, the God of calling. What could God be calling you to do? To whom could he be calling you to testify on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ? To whom may you be called to account one day for your faith? Friends of mine this last week who were once in our church in Florida were called to account. They were about ready to land a contract for Home and Garden television for a new show. When as a part of the contract agreement, somehow s people were wanting to protest they're getting this new show, and they said, Hey, these guys say they believe in Jesus Christ. They're against gay marriage and their all other kinds of things that they were saying that the Benham brothers had never said. And they lost their contract. They lost the opportunity to get the show. But that wasn't even the most interesting thing. It was one thing, as they said, to lose a reality television show for the sake of Christ. Praise be to God, they said. But then what happened was this. This last week they received notice that one of the primary financial funders of their business, Sun Trust Bank, was going to drop the contract with their business. Because of the protests, because of their naming Christ, because of the stance that they took. Now by the end of the week, Sun Trust Bank reversed their decision. But in the middle of the week, they didn't know how the business was going to continue. What would this mean for their business? They had to give an account. You may be called to give an account. You may be called to leave the country in which you live. Today we're going to be praying for Joel and Annalise Barger, who are going to be going to China for a week. They're leaving their country to go to tell others about Christ. Are we comfortable with a God of glory who calls us out of our comfort zones? Francis Schaeffer, in the mid 1970s Toward when many began to read what he was writing, he wrote a book called How Should We Then Live And that put him on the radar of many Christians at the time. This is what he wrote in that book concerning his fears for the church. In 1976. But not just for 1976. He said, My concerns, these concerns, are actually for the church at the end of the 20th century. And this is what he wrote in 1976. He said, My concern for the Christian church is that they will be weakened because they have fallen prey to two very impoverished values. And those two values are personal peace and affluence. And this is what he writes: personal peace means to just be let alone, not to be troubled by the troubles of other people. Whether across the world or across the city, to live one's life with minimal possibilities of being personally disturbed. Personal peace means wanting to have my personal life pattern undisturbed in my lifetime, regardless of what the result will be in the lifetimes of my children and grandchildren. Affluence means an overwhelming and increasing prosperity, a life made up of things, things and more things, a success judged by an ever higher level of material abundance. Are we comfortable with believing in a God of glory who may call us directly in the opposite direction? From personal peace and affluence for the sake of his name. Of what cost is it to follow Jesus? It was a shot across the bow. Stephen was saying, are you willing, in essence, to give up? As Abraham did to leave the country that you're so comfortable with and follow Christ? Are they willing to give up their their spheres of influence and power for the sake of being converted and believing in the Lord Jesus Christ? Not only were they, are we? How much of our faith is really just a comfortable intersection between God's will and our comfort? How much of our obedience is born more out of convenience because what God wants and what works for us happens to overlap? My friends, I am no seer. I I have no idea what the future holds. But I know this. That the history of humanity teaches me. That suffering will come again to the Christian church. Are we ready for the sake of Christ to give up our personal peace and affluence for the sake of the name? That is a hard question. I encourage you to wrestle with it. But if you are not a Christian I would be lying to you if I didn't say, to receive and to believe on this God of glory, the one who calls you, the one who has sent his son to die for you Is not an easy life. It is very uncomfortable. It will change everything about you. He does not come in as an accessorizer to an already well-lived life. He will make your life completely and utterly new, and that sometimes will mean turning your life upside down. before it's turned right side up. But this I know. The reason why Stephen was preaching about Abraham is because he was pointing to the abundant promise that he gave to Abraham. That which he called Abraham from is far outshine by the promise to which he was giving to Abraham. That the life which God provides for us in Christ is far greater than the most affluent. The most peaceful life that any human being can know on this earth. It is a deep and profound peace. Is it a deep richness and joy that transcends all circumstances? But it is nonetheless a calling. But let's look at the abundant promise to which he calls us. He says about Abraham. In verses 4 through 7, he unpacks this abundant promise in three ways. He says, Here's what he did. He promised Abraham land, he promised him descendants, and he promised him a difficult journey. He promised him land. He says, okay, after the death of his father, God sent him to this land. Now he looks at the he looks at the the Sanhedrin, these leaders, and he says, God led him from this land and gave him this land that you are now standing on. In essence, he's saying, the only reason why you're standing here. You think you're in judgment over me. The truth is that the land that you stand on is provided by our Heavenly Father. It is the Lord. And he says, but guess what? He gave him no inheritance here, not even a foot of ground. But God promised that he and his descendants after him would possess the land, even though at that time Abraham had no child. God spoke to him in this way, Your descendants will be strangers in a country, not their own, and they will be enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years. Do you hear land, descendants? And difficult journey. is one that these men that are now sitting before him are now living on. And he says, if you want to know what God the Bund promises, look around. Look to the left. Look to the right. And then he says, about these descendants. He was reminding them of the history when God brought Abraham out and he said, Look at the stars. I will give you descendants that multiply more than the stars that you can see. But he didn't even have a son yet. How in the world would he do that? And then he says, oh, by the way, this people, this family, this offspring I'm going to give you is going to suffer. For over 400 years, and a land not their own, but then I am going to bring victory over the people that have enslaved my people. What in the world could be abundant about all of that? And he means to draw the attention of his hearers, and he means to draw our attention, and he says. Look at what God has done. The land came true. The descendants, if you are a child of Abraham, he's our father. And guess what? The difficult journey? God led Israel out of Egypt. But what of that for us? Why does the early church need to know that? Why do we need that? What's our connection to land and descendants? And to a difficult journey. Well, it's because at the end of the service, as I said, we're going to be coming to the Lord's Supper. That land in which he was calling Abraham to, Abraham had never seen before. He couldn't imagine what it would look like. And yet he called him to walk by faith, trusting in the God of promise. And Jesus, as he came to us, we need to understand that Jesus is the fulfillment of all of those abundant promises. He's the fulfillment of the land. He's a fulfillment of the descendants. He's a fulfillment of the difficult journey. He's the fulfillment of the victory that would come Because now that Christ has come, our land is not seen in where you and I live, the land in which we are promised. Only through Christ is the one to which Jesus will return in his second coming. And when he does, he will give us a new heaven and a new earth. That will be a renewed earth, will be our new land. Those who are descendants are no longer just the descendants by blood of Abraham, but rather the children of Abraham are the ones who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the difficult journey, the victory that was seen as Egypt being defeated by Israel going through the sea, what was that all about? That was all about the fact that the Lord would free his people from slavery. So, how does Christ free us from slavery? He frees us from the slavery of sin And the death, which is the consequence of sin. So, how does the Lord's Supper have anything to do with that? It's because Abram couldn't see all of that. But yet he believed the abundant promise. Why? It's because it was the God behind the promise. And when we come to celebrate this supper, we are celebrating The fact that God sent his son, who left the country of heaven, to come to earth And to have a war against that which enslaved us, war against Satan and a war against sin, to die for our sin. And his body was broken, and his blood of the new covenant was poured out for the forgiveness of sins. And by this body and this blood, we can receive freedom from the enslavement of sin and death, its consequence. So just as Abraham was called out, Stephen and I, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, want to say to you: he's also calling you to receive an abundant promise. That Christ will come again, and He will make all things new, and those who are His children are the true descendants of Abraham, and they will receive the new heaven and the new earth. Because they have been freed from the slavery of sin and death through the body and blood of Christ. He called Abram to walk by faith. And he calls us to walk by faith. And as we celebrate this supper, we too see that we must then ask the question: do I believe and do I know this God of abundant promise? But beyond that, he then gives a tangible practical provision. And in that practical provision, in verse 8, we learn, then he gave Abraham the covenant of circumcision. And Abraham became the father of Isaac and circumcised him eight days after his birth, and later Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob became the father of the twelve patriarchs. And so what Stephen is wisely doing there to his hearers who would have seen circumcision as important, who would have seen all of the uh worship of the Old Testament is very important to them. He draws on all of that tradition. But he does it for a purpose, not to draw attention to circumcision as the only sign. He's pointing to the God of the covenant. And what he means to say is this God of the covenant is a God who has brought about a relationship. And a covenant relationship, a covenant is a relationship with a legal stipulation. And generally it's I will do my part, you do your part, and we will have an agreement. And this will be the benefits of our relationship and of our legal contractual agreement. But the God of the covenant, the God of glory, made a covenant with humanity. And guess what? We can't keep up our end of the bargain. Which is why when God made the covenant with Abraham, it was unilateral. God said, not only am I the one to provide the provision of the relationship, I'm the only one who's going to give you the benefits of the promise. I'm the one who's going to ratify and seal the promise by my own blood. This is the great God of the promise. But he gives him this practical provision. He says, okay, here is your sign. At a late age, he gives him Isaac. And then he says, Will you sacrifice Isaac? And Abraham was prepared to do that because he believed that God would bring Isaac back from the dead, we learn in Hebrews. But indeed, he stayed the hand of Abraham, and he provided a sacrifice. And then he gave Abraham a sign. And that sign was circumcision But that was for a time to be a mark for the people of God to be marked out from the others, that they belonged to Him, an external mark of what was to be taking place as an internal reality in the heart of human beings. But we now have, because of Christ, we have a greater promise A fulfillment of that promise, a fulfillment of that covenant, a fulfillment of that sign. It's no longer circumcision. No. We have the sign of the Lord's Supper. We have the sign of baptism. But it is nonetheless teaching us that who instituted circumcision, God did. Who instituted the Lord's Supper? The Lord Jesus did. And no longer will the mark be made on human flesh. We get to receive bread. We get to receive juice. Do you know why? It's because Christ received the mark in his flesh He fulfilled our end of the covenant of the God of glory, which we could never uphold. Jesus fulfilled it all in giving of his life on the cross for our sin. Instead of receiving death and wrath and judgment, we get to partake of a feast. That is an amazing exchange, is it not? So when we come to celebrate the Lord's Supper, I want to use the word celebrate. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a celebration of victory. Because this table is a table in the middle of history. We're living our lives. We don't know when Christ is going to come again to make all things right But he is coming again. And isn't what we said earlier, though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, there he will be also. He will set a table before mine enemies. What is the last enemy? Death. What is the table? This table Do you know what that's saying? This table is a table of celebration that though death is still here, my victory over death has already been won. This is a feast of victory because our covenant keeping God Who revealed himself to Abraham has now appeared to us and given us his son Christ. The God of abundant promise of land and descendants and a difficult journey has given us the greater Abraham Christ. And the God of practical provision has done more. And give us the covenant of circumcision. He's given us the covenant of grace Of Christ, who is the fulfillment of the entire covenant of grace. And when we drink of this juice and we eat of this bread, we are proclaiming That our God is a God of promise. And so wherever you are, whether you're in the midst of fear, whether you're in the midst of a fight, whether you are in the midst of enemies. The message to you is that we can know the God of promise who has revealed himself, who meets us in our fears. Who can give us peace in the midst of our enemies, and who gives us strength in the midst of the fight? The question is, what do you believe Christ for? He has come to give us life. This is the promise. Let us pray, and then we will prepare to celebrate the victory supper of our Savior. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this meal. We thank you for this, your word. We thank you, Father, that there is indeed great hope for us because of Christ. And what he has done. That he is the fulfillment of all these things. And as we celebrate this morning, we can celebrate the promise that was given to Abraham, is now given to us Who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, I pray for those who believe on you this morning that you would give them great strength by your grace and spirit. For those who do not believe, Father, I pray that you would call them to your great promise of salvation and life made new. Lord, rescue us from our own self-indulgence and self-centeredness. Free us from the twin enemies of personal peace and affluence, and give us a deep and profound joy. In Christ alone. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.