If uh you have a copy of the scriptures with you today, I ask and invite you to turn to Titus. Chapter two, uh one of the pastoral epistles that Paul wrote to uh uh one of those that uh was in his charge and he trained and then uh with Titus in particular left on the island of Crete to do a couple of things. He said uh in first chapter, I've left you there uh so that you might appoint elders in every city. And you might uh continue or or uh complete that which is lacking in the church in Crete. And um Apparently some things are going on there in Crete, and we're not gonna go into uh a history of the the the letter here, but uh there were false teachers present and Paul urges and encourages strong doctrine Uh in fact the first chapter is dedicated to what a qualified leader will look like in this church. And then in chapter two, uh Paul starts to uh lay out for Titus Um all the different groups of people, the various um people that have been recipients of God's grace, older men, older women, younger men, younger women, um slaves, masters uh and what their lives are to look like. Um keeping in mind, Paul wants uh for them the connection, the close connection between Orthodox doctrine and orthodox or Christian conduct. I I just want to read a quote as we start, and I'll get past the introduction, but I have to have a quote from R. C. Sprouller. It's just not a temporarily sermon. So um R. C. in his book, Pleasing God says This we must reject a false dichotomy between doctrine and life. We can have sound doctrine without a sanctified life. But it is extremely difficult to progress in sanctification without sound doctrine. Sound doctrine is not a sufficient condition to produce a sound life It does not yield sanctification automatically. Sound doctrine is a necessary condition for sanctification. It is a vital prerequisite. It is like oxygen and fire. The mere presence of Oxygen does not guarantee a fire, but you can't have fire without it. So Paul has stressed for Titus in this letter up to the point where we pick up the letter today. Um sound doctrine and Christian conduct. And can you imagine then the relief or the refreshment, the encouragement that the hearers of this letter and us as well receive when Paul reminds That it is by God's grace. Because if no discussion of God's grace entered the picture at this point, all we've got is a list of rules and regulations and a heavier burden than what we experience. before knowing Christ. So I want us to see clearly that Paul magnifies the grace of God. In fact that's where we pick it up. You've read this already, for the grace of God that brings salvation Has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age Looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us. That he might redeem us from every lawless deed, and he might purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works, eager to do good works. So Paul doesn't leave out the discussion of good works. He just frames it where it needs to be framed. That is, in an understanding and a relationship that is immersed in the grace of God. And so what I would like for us to see from this text, well I'd like for us to see what God has in this text. So um what I'd like to present is that between Christ's first coming And his second coming, this present age that we dwell in, we are saved by grace, we are sanctified by God's grace, and in fact we are called to serve by God's grace. thing as we start. The word here for appeared. The grace of God brings salvation has appeared to all men. This is the Greek word epiphany. And you probably already have thought to Christmas time, haven't you? The epiphany the first advent of Christ. Well this word appears twice in the passage today, in verse eleven and verse fourteen. The epiphany. It uh carries with it this this connotation, this idea of of light breaking through the darkness. Charles Wesley and John Dwight, some of the some of the guys that wrote Christmas Carols captured this spot. In fact, uh the the one uh Dwight says, Long lay the world in sin and error, pining till he appeared. And the soul felt its worth. Now I've always wondered about that. Does the soul feel good when he appears or does the soul feel realistically truth that that soul is doomed because that soul is wicked, that heart is wicked, filled with sin. So I'm not sure what the hymn writer wanted us to carry away with that, but But the very fact remains as he says, the soul felt its worth. A thrill of hope. A weary world rejoices for yonder break. the new and glorious morn. Fall on your knees, O hear the angel voices. O Night Divine, night when Christ was born. That first coming, the first appearance of God on this earth, in the flesh, is that which Paul wants us to see in verse eleven. The appearance, the epiphany that brings grace, has brought salvation to all men. Now you can read this One or two three ways. Uh you can read that all men here get saved. But we don't take that away from a whole reading of the Word of God because all men are not saved. Some men reject Christ. Christ and ultimately lead this world to an eternity where they will incur the wrath of God for that rejection forever. In context, you could probably Probably assume, and this is how most do, I do, that the all men referring here is all types of people. The grace of God has appealed to all men. The nations are being Disciple, as we speak, we pray for our OPC missionaries here every week. God is about the business of calling all nations, tribes, tongues to himself, and he is specifically. And particularly and definitely calling all those whom he has chosen. We'll talk about that in just a bit. So between that first advent of Christ and the second advent. Is how are we to live? How are we to live? I want us to see that Paul, talking about God's grace, wants us to really see The beauty of his sacrifice for us. Paul says this, verse 13. Verse 14, sorry. Our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, verse 14, who gave himself for us. You all probably uh thought you were going to get away from Ephesians, but I can't let you. In Ephesians 5, verse 25, when I read this passage, immediately Immediately my mind went to that which Paul talks directly to husbands about in Ephesians 5. 25, and he says, Husbands, love your wives Just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water. by the word that he might present her to himself, a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. That is the activity of our great God and Savior toward his church, toward his bride. He has chosen us a particular, peculiar people In fact, the phrase that we find in this verse, his own special people, is only used once by Paul right here in verse 14 of Titus chapter 2. A unique people that he has called to himself, that he has given himself for, that he has redeemed, and that he purifies. Let's look at that. This word in the Greek is a word that uh should bring to mind immediately those uh hearers in the in the first century the idea of of buying and selling slaves. There's two words used for uh rejects. Redemption, two major words, and this word has with it the connotation that if you had a a loved one or a friend or someone who was in slavery and you wanted to purchase them, redeem them, you would take the purchase price, redeem them. And then grant to them their freedom from slavery after that redemption had taken place. And that's the word that Paul uses here. Christ gave himself for us and then grants us freedom from sin. Freedom from the power of sin, freedom from the penalty of sin, and ultimately freedom from the very presence of sin. So he has redeemed his people. Paul reminds us in chapter three what we were like. Chapter three, verse three. For we are ourselves, we were once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts. And pleasures living in malice and envy hateful and hating one another. But when the kindness and love of God our Savior toward man appeared, same word, not by works of righteousness. righteousness which we had done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Through the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior, having Justified by His grace that we should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. I want you to have in mind A husband who loves his bride. Because that's what I think we've got here. A husband who gives himself for his bride, pays a great price, and then doesn't just bring her to himself, but cleanses her and sanctifies her and preserves her. Her to himself, a glorious bride, without any spot or blemish. Because the children didn't leave for children's church, I thought I would illustrate this point with a story. And if I I will read the story. It's called Johnny Lingo and His Eight Cow Wife. Men and women, boys and girls, I want you to listen because I want you to be able to say, why did Johnny Lango pay eight cows for his wife? Okay? When I sailed to Kinewata, an island in the Pacific, I took along a notebook, and after I got back, it was filled with descriptions of flora and fauna, native customs and costumes. But the only note that still interested. interests me is the one that says, Johnny Lingo gave eight cows to Sarita's father. The people of Kinewaka all spoke highly of Johnny Lingo, yet when they spoke they smiled, and their smiles were Kind of mocking. The manager of the guest house where I was staying told me, at Fall Festival, Johnny came to Kinewatta and he found himself a wife. He paid her father eight cows. Now I knew enough about Ireland customs. To be impressed. Two or three cows would buy a fair to midland wife, four or five cows, a highly satisfactory one. Wow, I said, eight cows? She must have beauty that takes your breath away. She's she's not ugly, he conceded, and he smiled a little. But the kindness could only cause Sarita plain. Sam Carew, her father, was afraid that she would be left on his hands forever. But then he got eight cows for her? Isn't that extraordinary? Never been paid before. Yet you call Johnny's wife plain. I said it would be kindness to call her plain. She was skinny. She walked with her shoulders hunched over and her head dug down. She was scared of her own shadow. Well, I said, uh I I guess there's no accounting for love, is there? True enough, it agreed the man, and that's why the villagers grin when they talk about Johnny. They get special satisfaction from the fact that the sharpest trader in the islands was bested by dull old Sam Carew. But how? No one knows And everyone wonders. All the cousins were urging Sam to ask for three cows and hold out for two until he was sure that Johnny would only part with one. Then Johnny came to Sam Cairo and said, Father of Sarita, I offer. For eight cows for your daughter. Eight cows? I want to meet this Johnny Lingo. So the next afternoon I beached my boat at Narabandi, and I noticed as I asked directions to Johnny's house that his neck Name brought no sly smile to the face or to the lips of his fellow Nurobondians. And when I met the slim, serious young man, when he welcomed me with grace to his home, I was glad that from his own people he had respect. Unmingled with mockery. We sat in his house and we talked, and then I asked him, uh then he asked me, You come here from Kennewata Yes, I said. They speak of me on that island? They say there's nothing I might want that you can't help me get. He smiled gently. My wife is from Kinewata. Yes, uh, I know. They speak of her? Uh a little. What do they say? Uh well the question caught me off balance. They uh they told me that uh you were married at festival time Nothing more? The curve of his eyebrows told me that he knew there had to be more. Well, I paused. Um they also say that the marriage settlement was eight cows. And they wonder why. They asked that, his eyes lighted with pleasure. Everyone in Kinewata knows about the eight cows I nodded. And in Nuravandi, everyone knows it too. His chest expanded with satisfaction. Always and forever, when they speak of marriage settlements, it will be remembered that Johnny Lingo paid eight cash. So that's the answer I thought. Vanity. And then I saw her. I watched her enter the room to place flowers on the table. She stood a moment to smile at the young man beside me, and then she went swiftly out again. She was the most beautiful woman I had ever seen. The lift of her shoulders, the tilt of her chin, the sparkle of her eyes I'll spell the pride to which no one could deny her the right. I turned back to Johnny Lingo and I found him looking at me. You admire her? he murmured. She's she's glorious. Uh but she's not Sarita from Kiniwata? I asked. There's only one Sarita. Perhaps she does not look the way that she looked in Kiniwata. She doesn't. Um I heard she was homely Then in fact, they all make fun of you because you let yourself be cheated by Sam Cairo. You think eight cows were too many? A smile slid over his lips Um no. But how can she be so different? He began. Do you ever think what it must mean to a woman to know that her husband has settled on the lowest price for which she can? And then later when the women talk, they all boast of what their husbands paid for them. How does she feel that woman who was sold for one or for two? This could not happen to my Sarita. Then you did this just to make your wife happy? I wanted Sarita to be happy, yes. But I wanted more than that You say she is different. This is true. Many things can change a woman. Things happen inside, things happen outside. But the thing that matters most is what she thinks of herself. In Kenwatta, Sarita believed she was worth nothing, and now she knows that she is worth more than any other woman in the islands. Then you wanted. I wanted to marry Sarita. I loved her and no other woman. But I was close to understanding him now. But he finished softly. I wanted an eight cow wife. That's what Christ did for us. We weren't just homely and hunched over. We hated him. We were evil. We were vile, with hearts as black as night, filled with sin. And God tells us through the prophets of old that He set His affections on us. He loved us, not because of anything admirable in us, but because he chose to love us. And Paul tells us to Titus that he gave himself for us. This is the thought. That I want us to see. Paul wants us to see as he talks about good works and God's grace Purification That's what Christ wants to do to his bride. He wants to cleanse her and bring her to completion. In fact, that's the goal that he set off, and he said he would complete it. So not only are we saved by the grace of God, but we We are sanctified by the grace of God. Sanctification is simply that process by which God conforms us to His perfect image. Which he will ultimately complete as his second appearing. The word here in verse uh eleven Verse 12, excuse me, teaches us. This is a word that we've heard before, probably in one of my sermons about children and instruction and stuff. It's simply the word that means to instruct a small child. To carry that one who does not know much along and instruct them, correct them, teach them. And that's what Paul says the grace of God does. The grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation, and it teaches us. A couple of weeks ago we preached that just say yes sermon. Well, I've got two points here, and I just had to do it. The grace of God teaches us to just say no, and it teaches us to just say yes, if you will permit me. Some of you have interviewed. NIV translations and it actually says the grace of God teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly desires and to live soberly Righteously and godly in this present age. Teaches us to just say no. This is uh a thought carried in this passage of a a renunciation of all that is not godly. A double renunciation. A renunciation of the attitude, the mindset that it says um God is not sovereign, that God is not in control. Renounce that. God's grace teaches us to say no to those things that are anti-Christ and anti-biblical. And it teaches us also God's grace as it is at work in our lives. to say no to those worldly desires. The word here for desires is is not just kind of a, oh, that'd be nice if I could have that, but the word is stronger than that. It's the kind of thought carries with it That says, I want that and I am going to obtain that. And the grace of God says that those worldly desires are not good for you, and you can say no. See, the process is that we learn what is godly through his word. But the problem is that there's a lot of other stuff out there that's crowding our minds as to what God's Word says. See a lot of guys back from Hemlock. I'm so glad that you're home and safe and all that, but you probably heard this next point, so don't give it away. But I really think that Satan's one of his best schemes is to get us to laugh at stuff. He uses humor to desensitize us to the things of this world so that we come to say yes, as opposed to a strong, emphatic no. Think about it. Now I know I'm dating myself, but hopefully these illustrations will all be. received. Remember the Andy Griffith show before he was Matt Lock? He was a sheriff, Mayberry. Thank you. Good. But do you remember a guy named Otis Campbell? Otis would stumble in Saturday nights, lock himself in his cell, and it was all fixed up nice, flowers in the table stand. God says God condemns drunkenness. And we laughed at Otis stumbling in there, destroying his family, uh who knows what else, losing jobs and everything, because of his inability to say no to worldly desires. Long about the seventies or so, I was junior high or high school, I don't know And there was a show called Please Company. It was just the first that I can recall. Maybe it was soap, I don't know, but Peace Company, where a guy, uh Jack Ritter, pretended to be homosexual so that he could keep the apartment lease with the two two uh females that he shared a a place with. And we all were carried al along and laughed when Jack dressed up in a nightgown and the mister Furley came in and saw him and there was a joke or a reference to homosexuality and our Our minds were desynthesized to the thing that God calls sin. The thing that God says will separate someone from me for eternity. And we laugh. We laugh when Bart Simpson disrespects Homer and Marge and we think it's funny. And then we wonder why our kids are out of control. Listen, I can only speak about these because I've seen these. I watched these. Regretfully admitting that to you. And we the list could go on and on. I won't. Adultery, fornication, materialism, gossip, rage, violence, revenge. They're all prime subjects. We should be saying no to those things which are pleasing, which are not pleasing to God. Paul says the grace of God also teaches us to say yes, to live life in this present age between Between the first appearance that brings grace, and the second appearance of his glory in fullness and in power, we are to live lives soberly, righteously, and godly. think there's three directions here. Look at the words that soberly is a word that says uh sound mind, self-controlled. So there's an inward focus there if you're actually even following that outline or trying to. There's three blanks there. I think the only three. The first one is inward, an inward focus. God wants us to be transformed. By the renewing of our minds. In fact, Paul made that point very clear to Romans chapter 12. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed, be changed, be purified. Be sanctified by the renewing of your mind. So there's an inward focus. God's grace teaches us to think on Him, to think on who we are, and to praise Him for what He has done. There's also an outward focus. Focus. This word righteously, to live righteously, carries with it the idea of dealing honestly with other people without causing injury to them. Now, my heart is heavy because it's At this point, I want to include a bit of an announcement and a retelling of something that occurred here last week. We are 98% sure because we're still getting some verifications from a credit card. company that one of our members had some credit cards lifted from her purse while she left it to the side wall here and went down to get her children from nursery last week. Granted it Someone could have come in from the parking lot and done that. There was also some cash taken from the purse, and from all accounts we were able to gather the credit cards started to be uh Or used at about around two o'clock Sunday afternoon. I make this point at this juncture in the sermon because this word carries with it the idea of dealing honestly without causing injury. And God's grace can do that. First of all, I don't know, we don't know, who did that. So I want to make three points. First of all, to the person. If quite possibly you r return to worship this week. I want to ask you and and pray and have been praying this week that the Lord has already brought you to repentance. And I want to ask you to come to Steve or myself or one of the elders. And get with us and let us get this thing right. Confess that, repent, seek forgiveness, have it offered to you in the name of Christ. And make restitution. I want to say something to us as well. We should pray and pray fervently that the Lord would keep us from that temptation as well. Because at this point After eight days, seven days of the Lord really pressing on my heart, why are you looking down on that one, Tim? You are capable of that as well. God's grace teaches me to. live soberly and righteously and godly. But for the grace of God, there go you and I. The third point I want to make is that we don't want paranoia or hysteria breaking out, just a a reminder to be watchful of your things, if you would. And um that's that. Okay? The third direction that I believe God's grace teaches us to say you Yes, in is upward. Inward, outward, and upward. This word godly is actually a term that um is the opposite of what he has used previous in verse eleven. Paul says God's grace teaches you to be devoted to God. To devote your life to Him. I'm gonna date myself again, but there was a a song came out, Olivia Newton John sang. called Hopelessly Devoted to You. And the song she was singing was in response to the fact that the one she loved, um Danny Zuko, might not return that love. So it was this hopeless devotion. But Paul goes on to tell us that our devotion to God is a hopeful devotion. In fact, it is based on the promise of God by his name he has sworn. To carry it out. It is a completed, done deal, and we eagerly await the fulfillment of that promise. I find out. Look at our text. It says, while we wait, looking for the blessed hope and the glory of the This phrase while we wait is in the present tense, reminding us that it is imminent his return. You may not have your escort. catalogical position sealed in concrete. Hopefully after the end of the Bible in the future series, as Alan uh carries us through the end of the year and we look at postmillennialism and amillennialism and the other millennialisms that You will have your eschatology together, or at least somewhat more than we do right now. The thing is that you can count on is that he will return. Acts 1, those angels came and they said, Men of Galilee, why stand you looking up into the sky? This same Jesus, who was taken from you in the clouds, will return in just the same way. He's coming literally, he's coming visibly, and he's coming in. In all of his power to present to himself that bride spotless and without blemish. Ours is a blessed hope. I just gotta make this point. This is not the blessed like happy. Happy depends on circumstances. This word used in the Greek for blessed is a word that means our hope is set in Christ. And despite the circumstances, we can hope. Because that hope is not just wish fulfillment, but that hope is a sure promise of God completed and we even And then he says, My bride, my own special people, zealous for good works. Now, again, I just had to look at this word because good works are mentioned throughout. times it carries with it this idea of benevolent works. And that's what I thought it was here. Till I looked at that adjective for good. It's not the word that means benevolent works, although those are commended to Christians. But this is the word that means Beautiful works. It doesn't necessarily carry with it the idea of benevolence, but it carries with it the idea of revealing beauty, revealing glory. Now can you see this picture? We who have been paid for with such a great price, we who are his people, we who have been drawn to him in covenant relationship with him, eagerly await his appearance, the appearance of his glory. Glory. And while we wait for that glory, while we wait with the blessed hope that it is done and completed and it's all but a all but a realization that is to occur. We show forth that same glory. Eager, Paul says, to do beautiful works. That's what made the difference in Sarita. It was her husband. That's what makes the difference in us as his people. We are saved by his grace. There's nothing that you and I could do to merit that favor that he's shown to us. He cleanses us, he sanctifies us by that. Same grace, teaching us to say no, teaching us to say yes. And he calls us then to serve by that same grace. The service that you do for the Lord in this church and in this community. Should not be done grudgingly, but it should be done as an answering love to the love that He's already demonstrated. Amen. And amen. I want to do something in closing. You have your outline, I hope. There's a hymn that uh I typed into the outline there. And I want to take the last two or three minutes, uh minute or so, I want you to just meditate on the words of that hymn. No noise, just quiet. I want you to read through those stanzas. I want you to do two things. As you read, if that's the testimony of your heart today, I want you to give praise to God. God. I want you to worship him and say thank you, Lord God, that my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but I wholly lean. If you read that and that is not the testimony of your heart Keeping in mind the verse there that refers to the the joy that you have knowing that his coming is in judgment and in the completion of his kingdom. If you read that and you walk away from there that is not the testimony of my heart, then I I want you, please, to not let that thought go. If that's if you can't Safely and satisfactorily say, This is my belief, then would you also come and meet with one of the elders So see, many people could come to the elders today. Let's pray together, and then I want you to just spend a minute or so reflecting on those stances. Lord, please do that which only you can do.