Well, if you've been to the store in the last couple of days, you realize the seismic shift of seasons that we're going through now. Kathy and I happened to go to Walmart at 8 a. m. on Friday to pick up something on the way to see her folks. And the place was mobbed, but it wasn't mobbed with everybody going in, it was mobbed with everybody coming out. We went in there and got a couple of things and I talked to one of the salesmen, he said, Boy you think it's mobbed now. You should have seen it at six AM We sold 500 television sets in an hour. Now, there's got to be at least 500 Walmarts in the nation. And I figured if every Walmart did what they did, that means Walmart sold a quarter of a million television sets in an hour on Friday Ah, prosperity. But um at Columbia Presbyterian, the change of seasons means that we drop whatever we're in, whatever series like Ephesians or anything. And we move to a two-part Advent series. The first is uh the Old Testament, where we look at uh the prophets uh and the long-awaited Messiah, the prophecies of his coming to see how amazingly specific they are and how Jesus precisely fulfilled them. I always look forward to this because it's a time when we can turn from whatever other things we've been studying to simply focus directly on the person of Christ. And then the second part of the Advent series is the New Testament record of his birth And uh this past year I really got into it. So I hope you won't mind. We're gonna have an unusually long Advent series this year. Not only do we get five Sundays before Christmas, between Thanksgiving this year But um because I decided to cover the 20th messianic prophecy By the way, those of you who think that the Ephesians series is long, the Messianic prophecy series has been going for over 20 years. It's got Ephesians beat hands down. But uh I decided to spend three weeks on the twentieth messianic prophecy from Isaiah 50. third of the songs of the servant. And then three messages from Matthew that are somewhat related. And that means that the last one will be the Sunday after Christmas. And uh I was intrigued with the idea of the star of the Magi. You ever wondered what that star was? Well, I have um a suggestion of what I think it is, but the problem is that um I'll be preaching that on New Year's Eve. And uh the attendance here is not usually the greatest on New Year's Eve weekend. So if you want to stay To find out what the star that the wise men saw was, then arrange your holiday plans now. Okay? Either that or you have to see Paul Ison for the tapes. Speaking of that, I don't have time to review the first two songs of the servant from Isaiah 42 and 49. So if you want to find out what those were about, see Paul for the tapes of the last couple of views. Except let me observe this one thing In Isaiah 42 and 49, you have the Messiah, the servant of the Lord, presented as the teacher. He's the one whose uh mouth is a sharp sword. He's the one whose law the the whole nations wait upon But then in Isaiah chapter fifty that we look at this year, you have the servant presented as the learner, in fact as a disciple, in fact as the perfect disciple. I believe there's some fascinating insights about Jesus as well as some insights on how to live successfully in this third song of the servant in Isaiah chapter 50. So if you have your Bibles, please turn to Isaiah chapter 50. And uh let me read that passage. Um what Mark just put on the overhead is what we will be considering this morning. But let me read the whole song. So that you uh get the um the full song that we'll be considering together. Isaiah chapter fifty, here is God's word to you and to me from the Word of the servant of the Lord. The servant, in the beginning of this song, the servant himself is speaking. The sovereign Lord has given me an instructed tongue to know the word that sustains the weary. He awakens me morning by morning. Wakens my ear to listen like one being taught. The sovereign Lord has opened my ears and I have not been rebellious. I have not drawn back. I offered my back to those who beat me, my chick cheeks to those who pulled out my beard. I did not hide my face from mocking and spitting Because the sovereign Lord helps me, I will not be disgraced. Therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know I will not be put to shame. He who vindicates me is near. Who then will bring charges against me? Let us face each other. Who is my accuser? Let him confront me. It is the sovereign Lord who helps me. Who is he who will condemn me? They will all wear out like a garment. The moths will eat them up And then the Lord Himself speaks in response. Who among you fears the Lord and obeys the word of his servant? Let him who walks in the dark, who has no light, trust in the name of the Lord and rely on his God. But now all you who light fires and provide yourselves with flaming torches, go walk in the light of your fires. And the t of the torches that you have set ablaze. This is what you shall receive from my hand. You will lie down in torment Rather strange passage. You hear it, and some things may sound a bit familiar, some things a bit mysterious. Today I want to focus on just verses four and five, then six to nine, next week in the third week, verses ten and eleven But you see from this one section, this beginning section, I'd like to point out three wonderful truths. First of all, you see here Jesus as our example of a disciple The example of a disciple's life. Secondly, you see your Jesus as an example for your devotional life. And then thirdly, you see here that Jesus sustains you in your daily life Those three things. First of all, notice in this these couple verses here, Jesus as your example, my example of a disciple's life. Every one of us here who calls ourselves Christian is saying that we are a disciple. Every Christian is a disciple. Now, what is a disciple? A disciple is simply someone who has decided to be with another person in order to do what they do and be what they are. Let me repeat that. A disciple is someone who's decided to be with someone else in order to do what they do and be what they are. A disciple is essentially a learner. And there are two basic attitudes to every disciple. The first is dependence upon the one that they're following, and then second is obedience to the one that they're following. You see exactly those two things that are said here about Jesus, the servant. First of all, he's dependent. Look at the words that are underlined there. The sovereign Lord has given me. He hasn't given, he's received. Okay? Jesus has received. He's given me an instructed tongue. So Jesus needed instruction. Then you go down. He awakens my ear to listen like one being taught. Jesus was taught. The Sovereign Lord has opened my ears. Now, when you think about that for a moment, that's a rather astonishing statement, isn't it? Here this is saying that Jesus, the second person of the Trinity, who was God Himself, who knew everything. From quarks, those are subatomic particles, to quasars in the universe, those giant stars and black holes that stagger the imagination in their power, their distance, and their size. He knows everything. He understands everything about viruses and bacteria in our bodies, and he also knows what Lives at the very bottom of the sea. There is absolutely nothing beyond his comprehension and perfect grasp. And yet when Jesus came, when God became flesh, he reduced himself to the limits of first century knowledge in terms of science and the understanding of the world. And as an ignorant baby, he had to ask his mom and dad all the typical childish why questions. When Jesus saw animals and flowers, did he see them differently from you and me? If you mean did he scientifically understand understand all of their molecular makeup and all the things that God understands about them. I believe he was limited in his humanness to first century knowledge scientifically. But he had uniquely a profound awareness that they had been created by his father. And probably a growing awareness that he had participated in that creation. And yet he had to spend time with his father to learn. Isn't that amazing? Jesus had to learn. In fact, if you look at John's gospel, John emphasizes this over and over and over. How dependent Jesus was upon the Father. For instance, in John chapter 8, in verses 28 and 29, so Jesus said. When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am the one who I claim to be, and I do nothing on my own. But speak just what the Father has taught me. You see, there it is. The Father has taught me, awakens my ears to listen like one being taught. The one who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do what pleases him. That's the words of Jesus. Well, in John chapter 12, verse 49, he says, For I did not speak of my own accord, but the Father who sent me commanded me what to speak. what to say and how to say it. The precise dependence, not only what he said, but how he said it I know that his command leads to eternal life, so whatever I say is just what the Father has told me to say. Here all along you thought Jesus was acting on his own, simply on his own authority, on his own knowledge, on his own abilities. But the Bible quite clearly teaches both Old Testament and New Testament that Jesus, like you and me, was absolutely dependent upon the Father, only without a sinful nature And so when you read the so-called red words in your Bible, those are God's words. Because those are Jesus' words as God taught him. So everything that Jesus said is what God says. Every way that Jesus reacts to a situation is the way that God reacts to a situation. So, you want to know how God looks at you and what God thinks of you? Read the words of Jesus, for it's exactly what God taught. Jesus is God with skin on. And so it helps us to understand that he is not only our model for dependence as a disciple, but he perfectly mirrors God in his character. And because he loved the Father, you see, he says because he uh wants to please him, everything that he does is just to Please him, John 8, 29. He is perfectly obedient. In fact, again, look at what the text says. The sovereign Lord has opened my ears, and I have not been rebellious. I have not drawn back. He was perfectly obedient in everything, and what that was going to cost him. We'll look at that more next week, but look just now for a moment. Look at verse 6 Of Isaiah 50 says, I offered my back to those who beat me, my cheeks to those who pulled out my beard. I did not hide my face from mocking and spitting. He who was God did not turn back from mocking and spitting because he was not rebellious. He did not hold back from what the fathers called to him. A disciple does not decide the course that he takes by how it feels. Maybe God is calling you this morning, this week. To do some very difficult things. To forgive someone that you would love nothing better but to take revenge To draw close to someone that you want to flee from, to speak where you would rather be silent A disciple doesn't hold back because it doesn't feel like what he or she wants to do. Jesus is your and my perfect model of that. You are called to follow his steps, Peter says in 1 Peter 2, 20 and 21. But how do you do that? You can't simply decide, okay, well, this next week gonna do better. Whatever Jesus does, and whatever he I senses his will, that's what I'll have to do. But you notice the second thing we see here is that Jesus is our model in our devotional life. You see what he says there in verse 4. The sovereign Lord has given to me an instructed tongue to know the word that sustains the weary, he awakens me morning by morning. Wakens my ear to listen like one being taught. When is it that Jesus received his instructions? Well, throughout the day, but primarily, you see, the reference here is to morning by morning. when I awake. I see that I put that in the blue so that it would stand out as a point worth fixing in your mind and memorizing. Take it perhaps as something to say to yourself Each day this week. He awakens me morning by morning. Morning by morning, of course, means every morning. You note that Jesus made a practice of meeting with the Father first thing in the day. Occasionally I'll hear Christians talk about Is quiet time mandated in the morning? Is it okay? I'm not a morning person. Is it okay for me to have my quiet time after school or after work or afternoon or evening. Well of course there's nothing in the scripture that mandates that. There's freedom in that, but I think that uh we should take the example of Jesus here uh not lightly. And let me offer to you two reasons why I think that the morning, even if you were to spend the bulk of your time, hey, say I'm gonna spend half hour, forty five minutes in Bible study, sometime when I'm really awake and can be undistracted, I would still suggest that even if it's only ten or fifteen minutes That time in the morning, morning by morning, when you awake, is a very good practice for two reasons. Number one, because he deserves our first thoughts. The Bible talks about first fruits of what we give, of what we have And the first fruits of the day, by by meeting with God first thing, praising him, thanking him for the day, committing the day to him, I'm saying to him, You deserve the first thing that I have. You're first before I get to anything else. And secondly, I would say that this is a good practice because I need it. And you need it. That is to say, I need to meet with God before I meet with people. You and I meet to need to meet with him before we meet the stresses and the trials of the day. And even though our more thorough study could be later on, to wake up. With a word of his grace to speak to you can save you and me untold trouble. Trying to meet the day on the grace and the instruction we received from the day or two days or three days before. George Mueller, who was a man who recorded over 25,000 specific answers to prayer and walked very closely with the Lord Jesus, and was noted particularly for his joy and peace. last century wrote in his journal about his meditation on God's Word and how he says it has given me the help and the strength to pass peacefully through deep trials And then he says this what a difference there is when the soul is refreshed in fellowship with God early in the morning. Without spiritual preparation, the service, the trials, and the temptations of the day. can be overwhelming. Amen? When I need to have that time to set it apart, to be with him, first thing. Now, you may say, that'd be great, but my schedule simply doesn't allow it. I would like to do that, but I simply can't. You don't know what my morning is like. Let me prove to you in about one minute that that's not really true. You could do it. And you say, no, I really can't. No, you could. No, I can't. Yeah, you could. How do I know you can? Because, and a number of you have heard me do this before, because I noticed that every single one of you are dressed here. There's not a single person in the service that's sitting here in your jummies. Not one person in a nightgown. Not one person in your boxer shorts. Everybody's dressed. Why? Well, because when you got up this morning, that was a non-negotiable. You didn't get up late and say Well, just gotta get there and don't have time to get dressed today. Tough. But it's important to be there right at 8 30 when heaven calls us to worship. And I know you all say that So I'm gonna be there no matter what, right? But what happened? Well, some of you didn't quite make it by 8 30. Why? Because you wanted to get dressed He said, getting dressed is more important than the other things that may hold me back. My only point is, you see, we have priorities that we live by, and we set them. And if we don't meet with the Lord first thing in the morning for some brief period of time, a time in which we simply connect with him Praise him, receive some word of instruction and grace for the day. It's not because we can't do it, it's because it's not as high on the priorities as the other things we get to Now, once we have understood that, then it's simply a matter of asking: do I need to rearrange my priorities? Get to bed a little earlier, get up a little earlier, rearrange something? But Jesus himself said, I awaken morning by morning, receiving instruction from my Father, in order to know how to live this day. Let me suggest to you that if you and I do not do that, there's only one of two reasons why we don't. Number one is because you have no intention of living the way Jesus lived. That is to simply say you're not his disciple. In that case, you need Jesus Christ in your life. You need Jesus Christ to forgive your sins in which you have walked to this point in your life on your own. Ignoring the one who made you. Perhaps thinking you don't ignore him, probably don't, or else you wouldn't be here. But nevertheless, deep in your heart of hearts Reserving the right to rule and reign in your own life, and not to follow Jesus Christ, not to bow your knee before the God who rules and who will judge your life at the end. And so you need to admit that you've been running your own life the way you wanted to run it, and you need Jesus Christ to come in to forgive you of that and to run your life and to be his disciple. Or perhaps what you're saying is that, well, this being a Christian isn't that difficult And so you're living on a very surface level of it, still probably not genuinely in the kingdom of God. You think that the Christian life is just Doing certain good things, being a decent sort of person. And God is speaking to you this morning out of this to show you it's far deeper than that. It's having every thought, every word. Held captive by the Lord and Master of your life. The second reason why you might not do this It's not simply because you don't have any intention of following Jesus in any radical way. It's because you are unbelievably arrogant or presumptuous. You can fill either word you want in there. Either one will fit and do. Either one fits and does for me and it will for you. You are unbelievably arrogant or presumptuous to think that you can imitate Jesus Christ in your actions, in your speech Without spending time learning from him. In other words, that you can do in your strength what Jesus Himself could not do Jesus Himself had awakened morning by morning in order to be taught, to be instructed, to have his ears open, to have his heart Reformed to do exactly precisely what the Father wanted him to do. You and I don't even begin to approximate that But I'll tell you, if you don't spend time with him receiving the gospel into your heart and your life, spending time in this word to receive its instruction, its rebukes, its comforts. You won't even come close. How arrogant we are to think that we can coast on a sermon from Sunday and a Christian radio station that we turn on driving to work or some Christian music that we listen to and CDs or whatever. Give us a little charge here and there, turn a thought toward God, or some little devotional thought, or Something that simply scatters on the edges, the periphery of our life, without having Jesus speak deeply and powerfully to us. That's what I believe this passage is saying. Because you see, third point is Jesus alone can sustain you in your daily life. Jesus alone can sustain you. He says the sovereign Lord has given to me an instructed tongue to know the word that sustains the weary. And he, more than anyone else, has the word to sustain you in your need every day this week. He doesn't sustain you with well-meaning words of, I understand, it's really tough, and I wish I could help. I understand. That's really confusing. I wish I could offer some wisdom or advice, like a good friend. But Jesus is able to say to you as he does in Matthew 11, 28, come to me, all who are weary and are burdened. And I will give you rest. Why? Well, because look what this says. It says that he is the disciple. The one who is wakened, he's the one who's being taught the sovereign Lord's opened his ears, he's not been rebellious, he's not drawn back. You and I have been rebellious, we've drawn back. We see things all the time that we say, I can't do that Lord, I I'm I just can't folly in that. Lord, no way. I'm I intended to, but and but it was no one single instance Where Jesus ever drew back. And so what does he say to you and to me? He says, Because of the gospel, if you believe in me, you're credited with my perfect obedience. The fact that I didn't draw back. The fact that I was not rebellious. The fact that you are always looking to do better. In order that you would receive the applause and the praise of other people, that you would feel good about yourself and all the rest of this, Jesus says it'll never work. All you can do is rest in me. Rest in my perfect obedience. And brothers and sisters, if you're anything like me, you need to be reminded of that every single morning before you start the day. In order to live out of the gospel rather than out of your own strength. It's Jesus who says, if anybody here is thirsty, let them come to me and drink. Because if you come to me, I'll quench your thirst so that out of your inner being will flow streams, yes, even rivers of living water. The living water that flows from a connection with a living fountainhead of all waters, the water of life, Jesus Christ. And he wants to meet you. He wants to supply that. He wants to sustain you. He wants to empower you. Amazing that you and I don't want to meet with him. You say I do want to meet with him. Yeah? What's your record? What's November been like? Mine's far from perfect. What about you? You see, we We want to meet with him as much as we actually do meet with him. Also came when I was looking at this, it struck me that It says, the Sovereign Lord has given to me an instructed tongue to know the word that sustains the weary. You know, these verses are calling each of us, I believe, as disciples, to gain from him an instructed tongue that knows how to sustain the weary. There's so many weary people, aren't there? We're weary. Person sitting next to you, behind you, in front of you. You ever see somebody here on Sunday at CPC and you know that person is particularly going through a difficult time, grief, loss, struggle? You know something about it, but boy, you just don't know what to say to them. You don't have time to listen and you don't know what to say if you did. And so what do you do? You avoid 'em. You pretend that you're on your way to get the coffee or downstairs to the class or whatever you gotta do and So there's um there's no meaningful exchange. You feel kind of empty. I wish I had something to say. Wish I could offer something, but Just don't know what to say. Sometimes it's not as if there's some magical word you could say. But the sovereign Lord can give an instructive tongue to know the word, maybe just a word, maybe just a touch on the arm An expression to sustain the weary. Or have you ever been hurting yourself? And you come here and somebody comes and they say something to you And you say, now I feel worse than before they spoke. I wish they hadn't bothered. They sort of missed it in sustaining the weary. But have you ever had the experience when you're really hurting and feeling lonely and discouraged? And somebody puts their hand on your arm and they look at you and they say something, a word, sentence, very brief. And somehow that word goes directly to your heart and speaks powerfully to your spirit. And you feel energized. Your gaze is directed back to Jesus, and there's renewed hope. C. S. Lewis had that kind of gift. He wrote a number of letters to an American lady. One of those, she was complaining about everything from toothaches to bank balances. And he simply wrote back and said these words, uh, he said, always remember. The whatever poverty or trial you have, if you receive it lovingly, has the same benefit as voluntary poverty. I don't know what effect that had on her, but I was just reading an article this week from a woman who said she read those words written decades ago, and it spoke powerfully to her spirit to encourage her. I remember a fella call talking to me once and saying something that I had said that had made a real difference in his life. I don't remember what it was, and I don't remember altogether the difference. The thing that struck me was I didn't remember ever saying what he said I had said. God can use the exchange of hearts in ways beyond what we can grasp. But you need to be meeting with him to be in that place. Now, some of you teenagers send emails and IMs. You know, how many of you guys send emails and IMs to each other, teenagers and kids, right? A bunch of you, right? I don't I know you do. What what would you feel like if there was some friend that you had and every time you sent him an email or an IM, you didn't get a response You And maybe a week later you'd get a response, or two weeks later you'd get a message back. You know, you you know yours are just sitting there in their box. Wouldn't feel like they cared a whole lot, would you? Do you know that the Lord is sending to you IMs and emails every day? He takes his word and he says, here it is, and he sends from that by his spirit particular messages he has for you. In your circumstance today, what are you doing with them? They just sitting in your inbox? Sitting in your mail to be read? The Lord wants to sustain you with a word that only He can give. Are you ready to receive it, or are you just going to let it sit there? Let's pray. Father, we confess to you that we have ignored so much that you want to speak to us, and we are so impoverished by that. So many things this last week, this last month, that you would have wanted to reveal about yourself and the gospel, that you would have wanted to energize us with and comfort us with and challenge us with Lord, forgive us for ignoring you. We thank you that Jesus, Lord Jesus, you are the perfect disciple, then we can rest in your finished, perfect record. And that even our ignoring you is not held against us if we belong to you. Lord, if there's anyone here who doesn't, give them grace to admit their sin and their need of you, to come to receive you. And Lord, for the rest of us who know you, fill us with a deeper longing to meet with you and to know you To learn from you a word that sustains the weary, because we have ourselves been refreshed by your presence and by the gospel in Jesus' name.