Thank you, Brass, men and women. They were up here Thursday night rehearsing for Palm Sunday and Easter and I had asked if they would consider rejoice the Lord as King or Ferris Lord Jesus for offeratory, and they gave us a medley. We see in those two hymns, even the picture of what we see today in the text that we're going to look at. The majesty and power of God in the flesh. Ferris Lord Jesus, a tender, compassionate shepherd. It's just amazing who God is, who Christ our Lord is So we appreciate that reminder. If you're a fan of Leonardo DiCaprio , Then you've got a double dose of your favorite star if you've seen the 1998 film The Man in the Iron Mask. It's a movie set in eighteenth century France. Actually, it it uh the fictionalized account of the eighteenth century legend that uh King Louis who was on the throne of France, and his twin brother, Philippe, was the man imprisoned in the Iron Mask. So Louis was known for his self-centered debauchery while on the throne, and Philippe, this kind, tender heart, who had been languishing in a um prison cell, enclosed in this iron mask to cover his identity so that no one would see the resemblance and threat to the throne would take place So the loyal musketeers rescue Philippe from prison, and they train Philippe in what it means to take the throne, to be the position of king And he keeps messing up because he keeps extending grace to people and offering them fruit and saying thank you and please and all these things. And they said, No, no, no, you don't understand. Louis would never do that. He would never, ever serve anyone. So you can't do that. And after they've made the switch And Philippe is on the throne. There's a dance taking place, and one of the courtesans trips and falls right at the feet of the king. And Philippe leans over, forgetting himself, and helps her up kindly, tenderly. And D'Artagnan, the musketeer who stayed loyal to the throne, sees this and realizes there's something different about the king. investigating, he finds out it's Philippe, gets hooked up with his other musketeers and they all die in a musket hail of um stuff. But anyway, that's beside the point. The point is When D'Artagnan sees the difference in Philippe, what he knows to be the case is the true king, the true king's heart is being displayed. That the idea of majesty and tenderness was very attractive. We have the privilege today to see in this text the truest king, the truest king of kings and lord of lords, absolute power. Clothed in human flesh and serving sinners like you and like me. This is the fifth message in a series that we've called The Road to Jerusalem. We've been looking at various encounters that Christ had on his journey to Jerusalem and ultimately to the place where he would indeed lay down his life as a ransom for the many. All four of the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, all present the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem. Jerusalem. They each take a slightly different uh approach or a slightly different aspect is drawn out, different emphasis, and I hope to draw some of that to our attention today. Well we're going to focus our uh gaze on Mark chapter 11 now. Hear God's word from the Gospel of Mark in the first eleven verses. Now, when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it, you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it. If anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? Say, The Lord has need of it. And we'll send it uh and we'll send it back here immediately. And they went away and found a colt tied at the door outside in the street, and they untied it. And some of those standing there said to them What are you doing untying the colt? And they told them what Jesus had said, and they let them go. And they brought the colt to Jesus, and they threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from the fields. And those who went before, and those who followed, were shouting, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming, the kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest. And he entered Jerusalem and went into the temple. And when he had looked around at everything, as it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve Interesting passage. A lot contained in there. And I want to suggest to you that it's more than a lesson on first century livestock, a donkey and the colt and the foal of a colt and the foal of a donkey. And you see the parallel passages. It's more than first century livestock, or it's more than Middle Eastern geography. Mark is emphasizing that Jesus comes from the Mount of Olives, above the city of Jerusalem, from Bethany, through Bethany, and down into Jerusalem, in fact, to the end where he arrives at the temple. Looks around and as it was late with the twelve returns to Bethany. This is much more than livestock or geography class The gospel accounts of the triumphal entry reveal some of the prophecies, some of the exact prophecies spoken five hundred or more years before Jesus fulfilled them And we see the Messiah and the precision with which he fulfills those prophecies concerning the one who would come to save God's people. It's not what you would ever expect, but it's so much more than you can ever dream of. I want to make three points today from the Text. First, as Messiah, Jesus fulfills the prophecies concerning himself. He does that all over the gospel. But we'll see several here that I think are just astounding. And as Messiah, Jesus commands the attention of all who hear him. And the third point I want to make is as Messiah, Jesus reveals the power and the glory of the only wise God. So as Messiah, Jesus fulfills all the prophecies concerning himself. The Old Testament prophet Zechariah spoke of a king who brings salvation to God's people. But this king, Zechariah prophesies, is pictured as humble. Listen to Zechariah nine nine Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you, righteous, and having salvation is he. humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foe of a donkey. Now long before the prophet Zechariah foretold that the king who brings salvation Would be riding on a donkey. Moses recorded in Genesis chapter 49 that the scepter of God, the throne of God, would never depart from the tribe of Judah. In Revelation 5:5, we see that ultimate victory of the Lion of Judah. Where we read, And one of the elders said, Weep no more. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah. The root of David has conquered, so he is able to open the scrolls and the seven seals. In Genesis 49, the tribe of Judah is pictured as being entwined with the donkey as he arrives in victory. It's amazing this prophecy. And Mark r relays this as a simple instruction. We would pass right over this This is just to get to the good part of the story. We've okay, he gave instruction. Go get the donkey, and if anybody says these things, just you know, tell them and they'll they'll give it. But look at the scripture Jesus says to his disciples, Go into that village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it, don't look around. As soon as you enter, you'll see A coat tied on which no one has ever sat. Untie that coat, bring it to me. If anyone says, why are you doing this? Because surely they're going to think you're stealing. Then you tell them that the Lord has need of it, and they'll release it. And they went away and they found that Jesus Was exact in his prophetic word once again. The Lord of the universe was exacting his complete plan of salvation down to the smallest detail. See in the ancient Near East, uh the need of a beast of burden, if a king had a need, he would just order it, and it was his. So that's one way in which Jesus is Claiming his deity in this passage. He's saying, I'm telling you, I need the colt of a donkey to ride on. I want you to go, it'll be there, I guarantee it. You bring it back here. And they did. Jewish culture depicts that uh or dictates that no one was ever able to ride on the horse or the donkey of a king. An unridden donkey is what Jesus requested, and that is exactly what the disciples found. Think about this now. This is a wild animal that's never been broken. Never been ridden. No one has ever sat upon it. And Jesus says, Go and bring it to me. We're not surprised when we see the unbroken cult The creature doing exactly the will of the Creator when Jesus sits upon the cloaks that have been placed on the back of the donkey, and the donkey Allows him the ride. Willing submission. Most kings wouldn't be caught in public on a donkey, much less the foal of a donkey Great white powerful horse with sinew and muscle is what we think of when we think of majesty and power. Not so with the Messiah. The gospel writers uh are uh fully aware that the Jewish people would know that Messiah will come from the line of Judah and riding on a donkey. And that is exactly who Jesus is The lineage of David requesting a donkey, receiving a donkey, and riding a donkey. Do you see that? This is no mere Messiah as a hero to the Jews to overthrow Rome, but this is God incarnate, come to rescue humanity from the penalty, the power, and the very presence of our sin. Jesus makes a clear claim to his deity here. Don't miss it. Don't miss it. We read further and we see just as Jesus predicted, they find the donkey, the donkey is released into their care, but not before a discussion. Hey, what are you doing with our donkey? Maybe it wasn't even their donkey, but they just knew it wasn't the disciples' donkey And Jesus knew that question would come, and he said, Tell them this: the Lord has need of it. Now we can read this Greek word kurios here as simply sir or master. But Jesus and I believe Mark and the other passages where Mark uses this in reference to Jesus, now Jesus is using it in reference to himself, because the other definition of curios is the supreme. Ruler of all creation. I believe when Jesus gives them this instruction, he makes very clear claim to deity And he says, when you go, you tell them that the Lord has need of it. And they immediately release it to the disciples. Think about that for a moment. The same Jesus, the one with exacting precision The Lord of all creation, He knows our situation completely with exacting precision. Each day that we have has a number, a particular number to God. He knows them fully The scriptures speak of the sovereignty of God, knowing each and every hair has a number on our head. No comment about the amount of numbers. That's our God. And he knows your situation. He's the one who knows you completely, and he's the one who intercedes on your behalf before the throne of grace. Not only does he know your need before you ask We hear from the Sermon on the Mount, but that he knows how to meet your need in ways that you might not ever realize are the best. We think we know what's best. And we lay our prayer request before him, but he answers according to exactly what's best. Because he's the Lord of glory. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. We read when Jehu was anointed. Remember the story? I don't know if you recall this, but I was reading it for this sermon. Elisha goes to anoint Jehu. And he goes into a private room. That's the instruction that the Lord gave. He anoints with oil Yehu to who uh is supposed to replace Ahab as the king. And then he darts from the room and blows past everybody who was in the outer court and they think he was a crazy man. They're like, What'd that crazy guy want? And Jehu says, He anointed the next king And immediately they take off their cloaks and they lay them on the steps so that Jehu can walk down on those cloaks. His feet would not touch the ground. That's what the people here in this passage recognize. This is Messiah. in the account that John gives us, it's very soon after Jesus stood outside the tomb of Lazarus and raised Lazarus from the dead. That's the same group that's still with him. There's a group that's following, and there's a group that hears. And as the cult begins to make its way toward Jerusalem with this rabbi, this uh uh this itinerant teacher, this one who is claimed Messiah, as he makes his way toward Jerusalem, they take off their cloaks because they recognize this is the king A spontaneous outburst of the people and the reaction of the Pharisees. We see the second point I want I want to make that as Messiah, Jesus commands the attention of to all who hear of him Jesus commands the attention of all who hear of him. You may or may not be familiar with the concept of a flash mob. Now there's a s there's a yeah a show they tell me with um Howie Mandel where they actually it's called Mob or something, I don't know what it's called Flash mob is that idea of a group of people all of a sudden you're at the mall or you're in the marketplace somewhere and all of a sudden group of people all start, you know, dancing together and doing whatever and they burst into song It seems unrehearsed and it seems spontaneous, but many flash mob participants will tell you that they've rehearsed at least once, if not more than once. What we have here is a spontaneous outburst of praise. An outburst of praise and petition. What they yell, what they What they chant, what they yell, what they sing, what they say, what they shout, is Hosanna. Hosanna. In all four of the accounts, we have this word Hosanna, which literally means save now. Lord, save now. You see, it's a praise item because it recognizes that salvation is from the Lord and of the Lord. It comes from God alone. So it's a praise item expressing dependency on God, but it's also simultaneously a petition. Lord, save now And they burst forth with this, whatever it was. Maybe some were just making a joyful noise to the Lord, and others were singing in five-part harmony. Hosanna, Hosanna , blessed be the name of the Lord. Blessed is the one who comes. Matthew says, This. This is what Matthew got from the crowd. Hosanna to the son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. Mark records, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest. Luke records, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. And John records Hosanna, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel You put all those items together and you hear the shouts of the crowd. They recognize that this is the lineage of the Lion of Judah. This is the son of David. And David's Lord. This is the Messiah they have longed for Picture the scene. This is the same Jesus who opened the eyes of the blind that Rick talked about. The same Jesus that heals broken bodies. The same Jesus that called Lazarus forth from the grave. This is the one, and they hear. This is the one that was at Lazarus' tomb, the empty tomb of Lazarus, and he's riding on a colt, and he's coming to Jerusalem. The crowd burst forth with spontaneous Hosanna 's. And they cut palm fronds and they throw them on the path and they throw their cloaks down and they present the red carpet that the king deserves You see, Jesus commands attention. In Matthew's account of the triumphal entry, it says that when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city. was stirred up. Jesus commands attention. Mark describes two crowds, those that went ahead of him and those who followed behind Probably many who had heard that miracle at Lazarus' tomb. They were already with him. And then the ones that got word and they joined together. They were absolutely amazed at what Jesus had done in the miracles, and they were even more expectant and excited that this could be the one To overthrow Rome and to bring them freedom from bondage as the Jewish people. Jesus commands attention. Luke records in his account Scripture says, as he was drawing near, already on the way down the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice. For all the mighty works that they had seen. They said, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said, Teacher, rebuke your disciples, because they did not want anyone thinking. That this itinerant rabbi from Nazareth was the Messiah promised from God. And Jesus Not only did not rebuke his disciples, but he asserted with confidence how wrong they were to even think such a thing. And he said, I tell you the truth, if these were silent, then the very rocks on the ground will cry out, because I am God Almighty, and I am here to save my people from their sins. He was sure he was God. If you look into the life of Jesus, make no mistake, Jesus wasn't confused about his identity. Jesus commands attention. John includes in his gospel the account, the extreme frustration of the Pharisees. They're unable to control and manage this Jesus In Matthew's account we read the the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and Rick referred to this earlier. The chief priest and the scribe, they saw the wonderful things that Jesus Jesus did. Now listen to Matthew's account, the chief priests and the scribes they witness the miracles. And then they see the children. Hosanna, blessed is the one who comes, the king. And Matthew records, they were indignant. Remember, this is the only wise God. He's taken on flesh. God alone searches the hearts. He knows full well how our hearts operate I'm going to suggest to you that Jesus knew what the celebration of the people would raise up In the chief priests and scribes. He knew the murderous ire that would just boil over. This vindicates Jesus' claim from John 10. He says, For this reason the Father loves me. Because I lay down my life that I might take it up again. No one takes it from me. I lay my life down on my own accord, and I have the authority to lay it down and I have the authority also to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father. See what Jesus is doing there? He knows the reaction that he's going to get from those who deny who he is. And what was ordained before the foundation of the world, Jesus is orchestrating according to the sovereign plan of God. Isn't that a comforting thought? God wasn't taken by surprise by the events of the week wherein he was arrested and tried with a mockery of a trial, sped upon, beaten, and hung on a cross to die. That was part of his plan. That was his plan. And Peter reflects that so beautifully in his sermon on the day of Pentecost in Acts 2. Men of Israel, hear these words Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know. This same Jesus was delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. See how God's sovereignty is over all, even the sins of lawless men. Jesus commands attention. Either you will love him or you will hate him, but you cannot ignore him He must be reckoned with. His claims are exacting and exclusive He doesn't shrink back from claiming deity, and he doesn't shrink back from what Dan uh showed us last week: that he is the way, the truth, and the life There is no way to get to the Father except through him. Jesus never shrunk back from his claims to deity. Many in the crowd that day only thought partially of Jesus. They thought earthly Messiah to overthrow Rome. Luke's account of the triumphal entry in Luke's Gospel, he describes Jesus' lament right at the close of this scene. Jesus drew near and saw the city, Luke records, and he wept over it. Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace. Remember in Luke's gospel, they cried out, Hosanna in the highest, peace in heaven. Jesus said, Would that you would have known what was occurring before you today, the Prince of Peace was here, but to establish true peace reconciling peace between a holy God and those who were at enmity with God because of their sin. Not mere Messiah. Don't think mere Messiah and the overthrow of Rome. Think the only Messiah, the majestic Messiah, the one who would reconcile God to man. And he wept because they did not see it. Jesus commands attention. He wants our full attention. He deserves nothing less. What do you think of Jesus? I didn't ask what do you think of CPC or what do you think of the OPC, our denomination. Or what do you think of organized religion in the United States of America or around the globe? What do you think of Jesus? I often wonder what would happen if in a given week we would focus our energy on Reading about Jesus, learning about Jesus, discussing Jesus, deliberating on Jesus, wrestling with Jesus, exclusive claims. What would happen? So, I want to put a Passion Week challenge to you. Dare I do it? I'll give you this challenge and I want you to hold me to it as well I challenge you that before next Sunday, let's read at least one gospel all the way through. Choose. You can choose. This challenge is very gracious. Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John. Or you can choose the other option. Pick up the triumphal entry in each of the four Gospels and read from there to the end of those Gospels before next weekend. In fact, to prepare your heart for the Good Friday service, read that before Friday afternoon. And then come prepared to hear the seven words that our Lord spoke from the cross. And to see the uh to hear the reflections on what those words mean for us. The Passion Week Challenge. The gauntlet has been thrown I firmly believe that if we see more of Jesus, think more of Jesus, talk more of Jesus, Then we'll see this third point, that as Messiah, Jesus reveals the power. and the glory and the wisdom of the only wise God We read in verse 11, it looks like just the geography transition sentence. Thank you, Mark. Okay, now let's get to the other stuff. Remember in verse 1 of chapter eleven, Jesus begins in Bethage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, and he descends that hill. To Jerusalem, ultimately to the temple, Mark says. And in verse eleven, he entered Jerusalem and he went into the temple. And he looked around, and as it was late he went out to Bethany with the twelve. I'm beholden to R. C. Sprohl for this point. I don't think I would have ever seen this. Because I wasn't looking at Ezekiel this week. Well one of the things I read in this study pointed me to Ezekiel chapter eleven and verse twenty-three. In the Old Testament book of Ezekiel, which describes the destruction of Jerusalem and the dispersing of the Jewish people. Into captivity in Babylon. There is a noteworthy verse, verse twenty-three of chapter eleven Ezekiel. It says, And the glory of the Lord Went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountain that is on the east side of the city. Now, the geography lesson is this That the view that Ezekiel has in this vision that the Lord gives him is that from the Mount of Olives, from Bethany , The glory of the Lord is seen leaving the midst of the city. What's in the middle of the city? The temple. Leaving the midst of the city as it Departs, the glory of the Lord departing and resting on the Mount of Olives. And then in Mark 11, with the Lord of glory, the King of Glory, present. He leaves Bethany and descends to Jerusalem. The glory of the Lord is returning to the temple. To me, that's that's it right there. He is the King of glory, the Lord strong and mighty, mighty in battle. What battle? The battle that you and I have. To overcome sin. The battle that you and I have to fulfill the purpose for which we were originally designed. That was to reflect God's glory. Jesus said, I am the glory of the only, a true and living God. If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. And so the glory of the Lord leaves Bethany and descends and returns to Jerusalem. Praise be to God. Ends up at the temple That temple that was the place of sacrifice. That temple where earlier in John's Gospel in chapter 2 Jesus referenced the temple as it referred to his own body. They were uh assaulting him and asking him upon which authority. He could make the claims he was making about the house of the Lord and zeal for the house of the Lord and those things. And in chapter 2 and verse 19, Jesus answered those And he said, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up again. And the Jews said It's taken forty-six years to build this temple. And you say you can raise it up in three days? And John makes sure that the reader of his gospel is very clear on this point. But Jesus was speaking about the temple of his body. When therefore, verse 22, he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered All that he had said, and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. And see, in a very real sense, Jesus had been journeying to Jerusalem his entire earthly ministry He was born for this purpose, to live a perfectly holy life and fulfill God's requirement that you and I have to be righteous. And then to offer his life as the sacrificial lamb to shed his blood to cover our sins God was at work ordaining and orchestrating all this so that at the right time Jesus laid down his life. We'll see that even Friday night as we see until it was the time he did not give up the spirit. In First Corinthians chapter one, Paul says these words. For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, the word of the cross is the power of God. For it is written, written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. And the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since, listen, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through its wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach. To save those who believe. For the Jews demand signs, and the Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ and Him crucified. It's a stumbling block to Jews. It's folly to the Gentiles. But to those who are being called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God. Christ, the Lord of glory, reveals the wisdom and the power of God. It's Christ crucified the power of God to deliver us from our sins. The sins that we just can't seem to see Shape. And it's Christ crucified, the wisdom of God that's better than the plans that you have for your life, and the plans that I have for my life. It's God's wisdom. It's Christ crucified and it's me in Christ living a cross-centered life, receiving forgiveness, clothed in his righteousness. Proceeding on from glory to glory, from grace to grace. Because the crucified Christ is the risen Christ. And the risen Christ is the reigning Christ He's on the throne. And so, what will you do with Jesus? What will I do with Jesus? Let's pray. Our gracious God, we thank you that you give us the word Of life. And Lord, I pray that you would help our hearts to understand more clearly your claim of deity. The absolute authority that you have, and that authority extends to our lives. Lord, I pray that you would make us responsive to the call of God. I pray for all of us who have yielded and uh made a public statement that we follow you. And we love you and we want to be with you and like you. I pray, Lord, for strength in that in that pilgrimage, that journey. uh that you would work in us that which we many of us have realized we cannot work in ourselves And Lord, I do pray for the people that may be here who need to think on you, to wrestle with your claims. To consider that you are the only hope for people, the only hope of heaven, the only hope for peace. And the only hope for life eternal. I pray now that your Holy Spirit would be at work. Enable our hearts now, Lord, to pray and to praise Hosanna, praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of creation. We thank you in the name of Jesus for hearing us. Amen.