Let's turn this morning to Leviticus twenty-five, and we'll begin reading at verse eight. Leviticus twenty five and verse eight. Count off seven Sabbath of years Seven times seven years, so that the seventh Sabbath of years amount to a period of 49 years. Then have the trumpet sounded wherever, everywhere on the tenth day of the seventh month. On the Day of Atonement, sound the trumpet throughout your land. Consecrate the 50th year and proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you. Each one of you is to return to his family property and each to his own clan The 50th year shall be a jubilee for you. Do not sow and do not reap what grows of itself or harvest the untended vines. For it is a jubilee and is to be holy for you. Eat only what is taken directly from the fields. In this year of Jubilee, everyone is to return to his own property. We all have different backgrounds and I think our backgrounds impact us a lot on how we react. And especially as as to how we react initially to a passage like this. I know a lot of you are you just read the passage and you're thinking, man, why are we choosing this obscure passage? I've never heard you I've never even read this. And others of you are saying, well, I've heard it. I know what it's saying. Uh but you know I haven't really heard any preaching on it, at least not of late. Well Let me give you what my initial reaction was. Now I am a banker. I've been a banker for some 18, 19 years. started out when I was in elementary school, so you know so I'm still only about thirty. If you if we would have read on in this particular passage, we would have seen That in it, what God is saying in terms of application is that all those mortgages that we bankers made every 50th year is forgiven. And all those credit cards and all those automobile loans, we can't go out and repop those autos anymore because the loan is forgiven So my initial reaction to this is what kind of passage is this? In fact, if I was a banker back then, I've got to tell you I'd draw together my lenders and I'd say, listen, we're going to change what we're doing. We're going to change some direction. We're not going to loan anymore to our Jewish brethren. We're only going to lend to the heathen, because they're the only ones that got to pay us back Well, if you think back, I could imagine even the banking in their time is probably nothing worse than the year of Jubilee for the banker. Unless it was declining real estate values with an overbuilt market, commercial market as we have right now. That would be one of the toughest times in in the financial industry that we've had in a long time. So probably back then they had their equivalent of our Federal Deposit Insurance Corp, or whatever we call FDIC. It was probably the Israeli federal insurance. Iffy for short. Well, I could go on on the banking side, but I won't. In fact, I won't even deal with forgiving of debts. I'm not sure I can handle that part objectively. So Tito's gonna be teaching on that next week. That's true. I'm not that wasn't a joke. But as you can see, we all have different reactions. And what I'd like us to do this morning, let's set aside our initial reactions And let's glean from what God reveals to us about Himself. The first one, and I gotta tell you, my notes may not tell me where your blanks are. Okay? You got a lot of blanks. And the reason for that is I don't want you going to sleep on me. So you're gonna have to figure out what the blanks are as we go through. So let 's start out first of all with the requirements of the Jubilee. What were they? Well, let's look back at verse 8. And we see there description of we use Alan, he's always trying to get 7 times 7 times 7, always wants the perfect numbers. Well, we sure have it here It's a seven years times seven years. That's why it's 49 years. And after that 49th year, it says it's the year of Jubilee. So what God is saying is every 50 years We are to celebrate the year of Jubilee. And what's the first part of that? Well, the first requirement was that they were to proclaim with the sound of the trumpet. Look at that in verse 9. It says, then have the trumpets sounded everywhere on the tenth day of the seventh month on the Day of Atonement. It also says that in verse 10. Consecrate the 50th year and proclaim liberty. So it's proclaim with the sound of the trumpet. And what are they proclaiming? They're proclaiming the year of Jubilee. Then the second part. Look at verse 10. Consecrate the 50th year and proclaim liberty or set free. The people. Now he gives us a couple of examples of that, and we'll pick up later in the chapter here. Look down at verses uh 39. We'll start at verse 39. And here, God gives us the example of how this is to be applied in terms of how are we to be set free? What is this liberty? And in verse 39, it says, if one of your countrymen becomes poor among you and sells himself to you, do not make him work as a slave. He is to be treated as a hired worker or a temporary residence among you. He is to work for you until the year of Jubilee. Then he and his children are to be released and will go back to his own clan and to the property of his forefathers. Why? Because the Israelites are my servants, whom I brought out of Egypt, they must not be sold as slaves. Do not rule over them ruthlessly, but fear your God. If we read on there in verse 47, it talks about the alien when they come into the land and when they start becoming rich and some of the Israelites end up having to sell themselves as slaves to them, God lays out how they are to be redeemed. What are the steps that they're to go through? And it's set off as how much they're supposed to pay between that time and the year of Jubilee. But notice in particular verse 54. Because what God is saying is if all of that doesn't work , says even if he is not redeemed in any of these ways, he and his children are to be released in the year of Jubilee. For the Israelites belong to me as servants. They are my servants whom I brought out of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. Okay, then the third part, to go back to verse 10, says, consecrate the 50th year and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all of its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you. Each one of you is to do what? Is to return to his own family property. So what is he saying there? Well, if we were to read on, and in particular, look at verses 23 through 25, because here God gives us the practical application. The land must not be sold permanently, because the land is mine, and you are but aliens and my tenants. Throughout the country that you hold as a possession, you must provide for the redemption of the land. If one of your countrymen becomes poor and sells some of his property, his nearest relative is to come and redeem what his countrymen has sold. So what God lays out there for us is how we are to redeem the means of redemption. As some of you may recall the particular passage dealing with Ruth and Naomi. So let's turn to that. Ruth chapter 4 I want to pick up at the beginning of that chapter. And here is an example in later time of the application of this year of Jubilee and the requirements. We recall that uh Naomi came back to her country. She brought Ruth, her uh daughter-in-law, and here We now have the picture of what is happening in terms of this kinsman redeemer. So we start out. Meanwhile, Boaz went up to the town gate and sat there. When the kinsman redeemer he had mentioned came along, Boaz said, Come over here, my friend, and sit down. So he went over and he sat down. Boaz took ten of the elders of the town and said, sit here, and they did so. Then he said to the kinsman Redeemer, Naomi, who has come back from Moab, is selling the piece of land that belonged to our brother Elimelech. I thought I should bring it to bring a matter to your attention and suggest that you buy it in the presence of these seated here and in the presence of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, do so. But if you will not, tell me, so I will know. For no one has the right to do it except you. And I am next in line. I will redeem it, he said. Then Boaz said, On the day you buy the land from Naomi and from Ruth the Moabitus, you acquire the dead man's widow in order to maintain the name of the dead which with his property. At this the kinsman redeemer said, Then I cannot redeem Redeem it because I might endanger my whole estate. You redeem it yourself. I cannot do it. Well what this is referring back to is that God had set up this order of how to redeem the people. And redeem the land. And in this case The nearest kinsman redeemer said, hey, forget it. And the reason is it's it might endanger my whole estate. But there was an ex kinsman redeemer. And if we were to read on there We would see the praise that the other women give to Naomi. They say, the women said to Naomi, Praise be to the Lord, who this day has not left you without a kinsman redeemer. May he become the f famous throughout Israel. And so they only recognize how God, in his mercy, provided the kinsman redeemer. It all refers back to what we just read in Leviticus. Now, as we read those particular examples, I hope that you noticed A couple of similar themes or elements in that. And let me touch on them. Take a look first of all at verse 23, what God says about the requirements. He says the land must not be sold permanently because what? Because the land is mine. The land is mine. And then in verse 38, this one we didn't read, but look what it says. I am the Lord your God. Well there there is a particular reason we didn't read this, so let me back up. Um we'll read it anyway. If one of your countrymen becomes poor and is unable to support himself among you, help him as you would an alien. or a temporary resident, so he can continue to live among you. This is the reason I didn't r didn't read it. Do not take any interest of any kind from him. But fear your God so that your countrymen may continue to live among you. You must not lend to him money or at interest or sell him food at a profit. I, and this is the part I want you to notice, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God. And then the other passage we read in verse forty-two, here God says, Because the Israelites are my servants, whom I brought out of Egypt. And then in verse 55, the same thing. For the Israelites belong to me. As servants, they are my servants whom I brought out of Egypt And I am the Lord your God. Three particular things that I hope you notice. First of all, God is saying that the land is mine. Why is that so important? Because the land stood for their inheritance. An inheritance even for us that we look forward to. And he also says, the people are mine. These are my treasure possession. My holy people. And then the third one, which is absolutely essential to see in it, God says over and over again, I brought you out of Egypt. Now what is the basis of that? Let's turn back to Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter, or I'm sorry, Exodus chapter 6. Beginning at verse six, Exodus six, verse six Now this is a this really is a tremendous passage. In fact, it could be used as a sermon in and of itself. But notice what God is saying. Therefore say to Israel, for say to the Israelites, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. I will take you as my people, then I will be your God. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from the under the yoke of the Egyptians. And I will bring you to the land I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. I will give it to you as a possession. I am the Lord. So when God laid this year of Jubilee out for us, He laid out the requirements, He's pointing back. to what he has done for the Israelites. And if we read on in the in Exodus, God paints it as a different picture. And what he says is You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt and how I carried you on eagle's wings. And brought you to myself. Out of all the nations, you will be for me a treasured possession, although the whole earth is mine You will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. We had that picture of God in his mercy and compassion Picking up the Israelites as on eagle's wings, and then bringing them to himself. What a beautiful picture of the mercy and the love of our God. Now, what is the purpose of the Jubilee? What is it that God is pointing us to? Well, God is illustrating for us redemption, a treasured people And an inheritance which we enjoy in part now and we look forward to In the future, in a greater, greater sense, the fullness of God's mercy. So let's note the parallel here. First of all Jesus is our Jubilee. Jesus is our Jubilee. Now, first of all, in recognizing that Christ is our Jubilee, we must recognize that we are slaves to sin. And deserving of death. And secondly, that we have no one and no way to redeem ourselves But God in His love and His mercy has provided a kinsman redeemer. Christ has picked us up as on eagle's wings and brought us to himself. And let's look at that picture as Paul gives to us in Galatians. It's the same basis. Galatians chapter 3, beginning at verse 13, and Paul says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. By becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who has hung on a tree. He redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus. So that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit. Therefore, we ought to recognize that we are not our own. We have been bought with a price. The price has been the very precious and dear blood of his son and our Savior. And the second point. Okay, the second point is, and the purpose is that the Jubilee stands for Liberty from our spiritual debts. Okay? Liberty from our spiritual debts Not only are our sins forgiven, but we are free from the burdens and the penalties of our sins. And then the third part is, in terms of the parallel, is that it is proclaimed not by a trumpet so much, but it's proclaimed by the sound of the gospel. Is proclaimed by the sound of the gospel. If we remember that passage as The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. It was the proclaiming of the good news where John the Baptist was preparing for our Jubilee to come forth. And as we recognize that today is the day of salvation, right now is the year of God's favor. So God set up the year of Jubilee to point us towards Christ as our Redeemer through the proclamation of the gospel. the message that our sins have been forgiven. Now, how about application? How does it really apply to us today? How are we to respond to this Jubilee? Well, first of all, the most obvious is we are to rejoice. Why? Because we have a kinsman redeemer. We are to rejoice because we have a kinsman redeemer I don't know how many of you remember your kit when your kids were very small, toddlers. You remember as they were about to go through change, they seemed to cling. Cling especially to the mother. Cling to the mother. About the time they try to make that change and when they make that change they kind of go on. But the next time they're going through that period of change, they begin clinging again. No, teenagers don't do that, they push away. Well You know, if you use that example in the business world of trying as as we go through change, they're gonna laugh at you. Wait a minute, don't start using that kind of stuff. What are you, a mama 's boy? What do you you're a will wimp when you start using something like that? So we come up with something a little bit more sophisticated. So you know when we're trying to make a change, it's like crossing this big ravine. And the only way that you can get from here over to here is you gotta cross the bridge. But you know what our problem is? We want to hang on to this side of the bridge and try and cross and we can't get across without letting go. And even if the rien wasn't really that wide, you get out there and you're holding on both sides and that that bridge starts Swaying, you're going to let go one way or the other. Now why do I bring that up? Well, in terms of rejoicing, my fear is that we don't know how to rejoice. We really don't know how to rejoice. And this strikes at the very heart of me. So as I bring this out, don't think I'm just pointing at someone else What is it that we are clinging to that we can't rejoice? And I know for myself what it is I'm clinging to that old tradition. Listen, it's hard for me to rejoice. As some of you do. It's hard for me to put aside my traditions, my old conservative ways. What do you mean, clap? Give me a break. What do you mean, dance? Listen, I come from a Nazarene background. There is no way that you're going to get me to do any dancing before the Lord. It would be very tough. It's hard for me to be clapping. In fact, you know I guess what I'm not saying is that you have to be clapping and dancing. What I'm saying is I'm not certain that we know how to rejoice. It's hard for me to come outside of myself and rejoice with all my heart before the Lord. When we start doing some of this other stuff, you know, when I start doing it, no way, Jose, you got the wrong doringo if you think I'm going to be doing that But we need to learn to rejoice. And I think for some of the other of us We simply don't rejoice that way because, you know, we're a little bit afraid of what other people are going to think about us. Our thoughts are on ourselves. You know, it's real tough to rejoice in what God has done for us when our eyes are on ourselves. But we ought to be rejoicing, because God, in his mercy and in his love, has given us a kinsman redeemer. Well, what is the second response? Well, the second response should be a natural one. We ought to act as though we have been set free. We need to act as though we have been set free. What do we mean by that? Well, let me ask you, are you experiencing Having been set free from the burdens of your sins. Are you really experiencing that? Now I know some of you are going to say no. I still feel the burden of my sins. You know, that's not uncommon among believers. It's a very common thing for us to feel that burden of sin. But let me ask you. Is it possible that you simply lack a clear understanding of what Christ has done for you? Have you come to grips with what it pot what it really means to have been crucified with Christ and raised with him? Do you recognize that you have been washed clean? Not just part clean, but wholly clean. And that you stand before the Father, robed with Christ, with the righteousness of Christ. Now I know for others of you who are saying no, you know, it may be because Maybe it's because you don't have a kinsman redeemer. You know, it's possible for you to be in the church. Sunday after Sunday, to be among God's people, day after day, and rely upon that. As your salvation. Have you really come to that point in your life? When you've fallen before the Father and cried out to him, recognizing that you really do need a redeemer. Have you said to him that you need a redeemer? And cried out to him for mercy. Well, to you, we haven't come to that point. But I say to you, today is the day of salvation. Now is the year of God's favor. You need to be honest with yourself. You can't hide in what you are doing. You can't hide in the fact that you're attending church. And you can't hide among believers. You need to be robed in the in Christ Himself, in His holiness. Well, what is the third response? Well, our third response is that we proclaim our Jubilee with our very being. We need to be proclaiming our Jubilee. First of all, with our lips, and yes, we sing praises to him and about him. That is one way in which we proclaim with our lips. But we all ought to also be telling others about this Jubilee. If it means something to you, you ought to be proclaiming it to those around you. And we ought to proclaim it also with our hearts. You know, if we really believe this in our hearts and we are rejoicing in our hearts, it will come out. It will be reflected. In our very lives. And so the third part is we ought to be doing this with our lives. Our lives ought to reflect a response to our Jubilee as we live out. Our new heart's desires. Listen, in Christ He has given us a new heart. And our new heart's desire Is to glorify God Himself. Is that what your desire is? Well, let me repeat a passage that Tito used earlier in Luke, only let me go back to what Luke was referring to. And listen to what Isaiah says to us about Christ. Now, it's a very familiar passage, but I want you to think of it in the context of the year of Jubilee. The spirit of the sovereign Lord is on me. Now recognize because what Tito read earlier was to show that what Isaiah was saying about this passage was he was referring to Christ. And so Isaiah says about Christ, the Spirit of the Sovereign Lord is on me, because the Lord has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. Notice that that's that proclamation again. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim freedom for the captives and release for the prisoners. To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance of our God. To comfort all who mourn and provide for those who grieve in Zion, to bestow on them a crown of beauty instead of ashes. the oil of gladness instead of mourning, and a garment of praise instead of a spirit of despair. They will be called oaks of righteousness, a planting of the Lord, for the display of his splendor. You see, that is what Christ has accomplished. And so often, you know what we're doing? We're running around with spirits of despair. As his people, how can that be? That is why I fear we simply don't know how to rejoice. And yes, I bring it back here And then in that same passage, Isaiah goes on, and he says this about the church. I delight greatly in the Lord. My soul rejoices in my God, for He has clothed me with the garments of salvation, and arrayed me in the robe of righteousness. Let us rejoice because we have a Redeemer. Let us act as though we have been set free. Let us proclaim today is the day of salvation. And let us rejoice as we look forward to the full fruits of righteousness. As we look forward to being with Christ forever. Let us pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we do confess before you this morning, and especially I, that at times I simply don't know how. I simply don't rejoice greatly in the salvation that you have so richly given to me and to each one of us Us who are your children. Help us, O Lord , to rejoice with our lips, with our hearts, with our very lives. Help us to proclaim to those around us. The basis of our hope, our hope who has entered into the inner sanctuary and sits at your right hand, interceding for us. We praise your name, O Father. For your son. Amen.