How Mark is the gospel of the kingdom. Today we're going to be looking at chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. And as Mark is the gospel of the kingdom of God, he is consistently pointing us to see clearly who God is. And for us to see clearly who we are. And often what Mark is doing is where those two questions intersect, he's showing us Jesus. Who he is, who Jesus is claiming to be, what are the actions that he does? Who is Jesus? And so this text this morning will be looking at that. Pray with me as we get started and as I read God's Word. Father, would you bless the hearing of your word and the preaching of your word that you would grow faith. in us? Would you grow faith in people for the first time? Would you grow faith in people who have believed for many, many years? Would you grow faith where it is stagnant? Would you grow faith where it is skeptical? Would you grow faith where it is Despairing, and even unbelieving. Would you grow our faith to see you, Jesus, more clearly In your name we pray. Amen. Mark chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. And when he returned to Capernaum after some days, it was reported that he was at home. And many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door. And he was preaching the word to them. And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him. And when they had made an opening They let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. Now, some of the scribes were sitting there questioning in their hearts, why does this man speak like that? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sin sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, Why do you question these things in your hearts? Which is easier to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise, take up your bed, and walk? But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home. And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. This is the word of the Lord. Indeed. Thanks be to God. What if What if you go to see your doctor? Not for a wellness visit, but for something that you're actually really concerned about. You might be very hopeful that it's nothing, but you just want to go and be sure. But you also might be very nervous and afraid that it could be the worst news possible. But you know that you don't have the training, the knowledge, the expertise to appropriately diagnose the problem. And you certainly don't have the power to do anything about it. So you go to your doctor to be checked out, to see if your doctor can help you You schedule an appointment. You rearrange your whole schedule. You go to the office and you fill out paperwork. You sit in a waiting room that appears to be full of people There are phones ringing in the background. You hear receptionists talking to nurses. You're hearing receptionists talking to patients about insurance. You look across from you and you see a person sitting there very calmly and quietly with their eyes shut, closed. And then the person next to them is nervously flipping through a magazine. Behind you, you hear someone whisper on their cell phone saying, it's going to be okay. I'll be fine. I'll call you after the appointment. And you wait, but finally your name is called, and you do the awkward thing that we all do in the doctor's office, is we smile and we greet each other and we have chick- chat while our vitals are being taken and we try to fill the awkward space of measurements and blood pressure and waiting, more waiting. And finally the doctor knocks and comes in. You again greet one another, usually with a smile, maybe some chit-chat again. But this time, what if the doctor, as he's coming in, he sits down on his little roly stool and and and and scoots right in front of you. What if he doesn't ask any questions? What if he doesn't look at any paperwork and he just looks at you in your face and in your eyes and he says, your sins are forgiven. What's going to be going through your mind? Well, maybe a lot of things. Certainly, maybe the first thing might be, uh, okay, thanks. I don't feel very well, so can we run some tests? Or um or maybe you'll you would start looking at his badge to see if the name and the the the face match up to who you're supposed to be seeing. Make sure it's the right doctor. But what if what if that's exactly what we need to hear? This morning's passage really has one main point. Jesus has the authority to forgive sins. His authority is rooted in who he is. And it's demonstrated by his power to heal. Now the question for you and for me this morning is who is Jesus claiming to be? During the early stages of Jesus' public ministry, as he's kind of going around this northern section of Israel in the area known as Galilee. We see from the previous week and the previous passages that Jesus is gaining popularity. We see how the good news of the kingdom of God is being disruptive. Often in good ways. But as the Gospel of Mark marches forward, and we're seeing a foreshadowing it of today. The gospel of the kingdom for some people is dangerous. And so as we look at this today, we're going to look at this passage, looking at it in three conflicts. Verses 1 through 5 highlighting the disruption involving the man on the mat. Verses 6 through 9 highlights the dispute between the scribes and And Jesus, and then verses 10 through 12 is a resolution, a resolution to both the man in his faith and then the scribes in their skepticism regarding Jesus' power. So first let's look at disruption. How is this the first conflict of the passage? The text tells us that Jesus has returned to Capernaum some days later, we don't know how long, but following the events of the previous section. He's been getting a reputation of teaching with authority. People are spreading the news that he is casting out demons, that he is healing people. They've never seen anything like this. And there is a report that goes that Jesus has returned to Capernaum and he's in a house. Now, we don't know what house or who's the owner. There is speculation that this is probably Simon's house, where we heard just a few passages before where Jesus helped Simon's mother-in-law with her fever. But regardless, Jesus is in a home, and as we've seen with various archaeological digs, I mean houses in this time and this place of in history, um we're talking maybe tops fifty people can fit in one of these spaces, probably much less. And so we have this tight, cramped quarter with people kind of flowing out into the doorway, out into the street. So consider the vantage point of the people in the room. They're here to hear Jesus preach. We know from earlier, chapter 1, verse 14, and verse 22, kind of the summary message of what Jesus is preaching about. So he's here with a group of people doing that. Just imagine all the bodies in that space, the the heat of the room, maybe the smell of food People leaning up against the walls, others sitting down on the floor. People kind of leaning on one another. kind of poke their head through the door to see or at least to hear better what Jesus is talking about. This is a scene in which Jesus and his listeners are disrupted by a noise. A scratching sound, maybe, uh maybe a banging, a digging sound coming from the roof above. And I I just wonder, the text doesn't tell us, but I just wonder what what on earth would they be thinking? I mean in some ways we can speculate it's very common to how we interact with distractions, right? I bet there's a person in the front row who's trying really, really, really hard to pretend that they're listening as dust is falling on their shoulders and their faces Maybe there's a bat a guy in the back of the room who's already checked out and he's just staring at the ceiling and then people begin to whisper. People begin to tap on people's shoulders and pointing. Look, look. lights breaking through and pieces of the ceiling are falling down. There's a disruption. Maybe others are getting angry, whispering to themselves, or maybe out loud to a neighbor, can can you believe these guys? I mean, I got here early. I found my seat. I came here to hear the man speak. I mean, do they even know who this guy is? I mean, it's Jesus, right? How rude. Consider the vantage point of the men trying to get to Jesus. They have heard that Jesus has been going around Galilee preaching about the kingdom of God, and they hear that people are being healed. Maybe one of the men Gets this idea, hey, I heard he was over at Simon's house. And then maybe another one says, I wonder if he would heal Frank. Because that's we know that's his name. Then but then maybe together with enthusiasm they say, let's let's take Frank to Jesus Now we don't know that, of course, and we certainly his name's not Frank. We don't know the relationship these men had with each other. We don't even know the relationship they had to the to the paralytic man. But we do know is that at the very least, they're trying to take him to Jesus because they know Jesus can help them. Upon getting to the house, they see the crowds. It's flowing out through the doorway. They can't get in, so they improvise. Verse 4 says, they remove the roof above him. So in that time there was probably a ladder, maybe even steps on the side of the house going up to the roof. It would have been a flat roof, there would have been cross beams with some sort of kind of thatched roof. uh covered with a layer of like dried mud or or caked clay. And so it wouldn't have been difficult to begin digging a hole, but it it was a it was a physical activity. I mean This isn't just kind of like opening a trapdoor and like see all the people below. It's there the text is saying they're digging. They're they're unroofing the roof To get him to Jesus. They did their part, so what happens next? Consider the vantage point of the man on the map. We don't know to the extent of his paralysis. We don't know how long. We can only assume based on the fact that four men carried him on a stretcher-like mattress that the man was severely limited in his ability to move his body on his own. The text doesn't tell us whose idea it was. Maybe it was his, maybe it was the other men. Regardless, now is the moment. He's being lowered through the roof. He had heard the reports of the other people in the surrounding area interacting with Jesus, amazed by his teaching, but even more amazed that people were being healed. People saw with their eyes, they they heard with their ears. The man who was healed from his leprous skin diseases, he was going around telling everybody that Jesus is the one that healed him. Maybe the man on this mat is saying the same thing. Maybe Jesus will help me. Consider the vantage point of Jesus. What did Jesus see? Verse 5. It says Jesus saw their faith. Isn't that interesting? Usually when there's healing in the Gospels, it's on account of the faith of the one who is being healed. There's another instance where it's on the account of someone else's faith. But here it's very clear, it's their faith, it's plural. Now it could just mean the men who are lowering him down, but it also certainly could include the man himself. But Jesus is recognizing their faith. That's significant. They were seeing Jesus. They were entrusting this man to him, believing he could heal him. So what does Jesus do? Again, verse 5. He speaks. He speaks to the paralytic. Son, your sins are forgiven. This is where maybe the guy's like, um, okay, thanks. Um can you do something about my legs? But what's so fascinating, what's so unbelievable about this passage is the moment This is the moment in the movie when the the party gets crashed and the record player scratches and everybody just goes silent and just starts staring. What's gonna happen next? I bet you could hear a pin drop in that room You see, this passage is full of disruption in the lives of the people present, in the lives of the four men, in the lives of that man, the paralytic man. And in the midst of the disruption, Jesus brings clarity. He brings focus. He bridges the disruption. By stating something much deeper and far truer about the man's condition. Yes, the man has physical need and he has spiritual need. And Jesus forgives them. But where there are disruptions, disputes often follow. So we see in verse 6, after Jesus said, Son, your sins are forgiven, some of the scribes present, they didn't like that much. Now the scribes were scholars and teachers of the law. They often taught in the synagogues. It was a complement and a supplement to the temple life, the sacrifices that were happening at the temple. Scribes were not priests, but priests could be scribes. Scribes were not prophets, and their authority was based only just on their knowledge and learning of the scriptures. and the customs around the law. So we see something interesting. Their sensibilities are being shaken a little bit. They're seeing and hearing Jesus and then they're having their categories stretched. Because we see that they began to question in their hearts. They began to even accuse Jesus. He's blaspheming. Which is a way of speaking irreverently about God. Often it involved taking God's name in vain , though that doesn't happen here, but the scribes are getting something right. They know that it's only God who forgives sins. And they know Jesus is saying something that's not just like The priests in the temple, or even the scribes in the synagogues, who pronounce that God forgives their sin through repentance, through sacrifice. Jesus is saying something that by his words he's forgiving the man. And the scribes are recognizing Jesus is doing something that that no man is supposed to be doing. So their natural reaction is this must be this man must be blaspheming. Jesus disrupts their internal dialogue by asking a question, verse 9. Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise, take up your bed and walk? Which which do you think is easier? When you hear that question, how would you respond to that question? On one hand, it's much easier to just say words, right? Of course, I can say your sins are forgiven, but does that mean anything? Did it actually happen? It's much harder to make a paralyzed man no longer paralyzed. But on the other hand, forgiveness is not easy. You see, the need for forgiveness implies that someone has done something wrong. They have broken a command. They have sinned against someone. Someone has been wronged. The offender and the offended. A relationship has been harmed and broken. Sometimes there are outward physical reminders of the consequences of this brokenness, but there is more often the inward emotional pain that we carry when we experience such sin. In our own lives or when we've experienced it from the hand of another. Forgiveness is not easy as it comes with great cost to the one who sinned against to overcome the pain, to overcome the sadness Even to overcome just and righteous anger. How can such brokenness be overcome Well, quickly, at least three things. A greater love must be present to motivate someone to move toward the very person that is guilty of the wrongdoing. A greater love moves us toward forgiveness. A deeper hope that the relationship can be mended and restored once again. And a power outside of our own ability accomplishes this forgiveness and cultivates the love and hope that seeks reconciliation and restoration. Now we can do that on one level when it's been a horizontal sin, if it's a friend or a family member that sinned against us. We can experience that process of forgiveness. But what what's profound here is what's at stake. This man hasn't sinned against Jesus in what we would experience sin. Presumably, Jesus never knew this man. And so he's saying something particular. And so it's it's actually Jesus' love that is greater. His hope is with a deeper hope. And the very power of the gospel to forgive sins and to be renewed by his love. That is the actual empowerment, the enablement of what it means then to move out in love and healing and restoration, that we can have renewed hope. Perhaps you've seen the show Fixer Upper. Chip and Joanna Gaines. They own a construction business and a remodeling design business in Texas. And they have a show. The show chronicles their jobs, how they remodel uh and redesign um houses. They take dilapidated houses and they turn them into beautiful homes for someone. And at the end of the show, there's this big reveal. And the family's standing outside of the house and there's a big screen blocking the house. And it's a picture of how the original house looked. before they started remodeling. And there's some discussion and recap and you know how shows are, they have to build up the drama. But the there's the moment of the reveal of what's this house going to look like when the screen is rolled back. Now, what if they rolled the screen back and it just was the same house? I mean Like maybe disappointed, um, maybe mad. Um, maybe you're giving them the the benefit of the doubt and you're thinking, okay, maybe the inside the the inside has to be awesome. So what if you go inside? What if you open the door and it's just the same walls? It's the same the same layout. And then you start asking, like, hey Chip, Joanna, like, what'd you guys do? Oh, we made this house so awesome. I know you can't see it, but this house had rusted pipes, and we fixed the pipes. Uh Joanna, I don't know if you've and Chip, I don't know if you've seen your own show, but um it's not how this reveal is supposed to work, right? Of course not. We know how the show works. Their success in making the house pretty is completely dependent on whether or not they fix Two things. They they go in and they fix the pipes. They fix the underlying issues. But what flows from that that makes it a house, that makes it a place that's hospitable and welcoming and beautiful And it for their enjoyment is also the cosmetic fixes , the artwork, the decorations. It can't be one or the other. You can't walk into a house and just have some coat uh some fresh paint on the walls and some new artwork and just say Well that's great, but um the thing that's rotting the floor, uh it's great that I have a new floor, but the pipes are flooding the floor and they're gonna rot again. And so Chip and Joanna and what they do is a great picture of what the gospel does. Jesus comes in and fixes our whole being. He comes to us and he bridges us, bridges the divide, and he says, I'm gonna not only tell you and agree with you that you have a problem. And what you think is your problem is part of the problem, but I'm actually going to go beyond what you see as the problem, and I'm going to show you your greatest need. And Jesus says, your sins are forgiven. By forgiving us, he makes it possible to us experience new life in God. with him. And we wait for the day when all of his sons and all of his daughters will experience complete healing. But it starts with the announcement of the king pushing back the curse and saying, the kingdom of God is near. By my presence, I declare, not only declare, but I forgive you of your sins. Find life in me. Find your healing in me. Be renewed from the inside out. This brings us to conflict number three, which is interesting because I put it as a resolution. Verses 10 through 12 These verses really, it's the big reveal. It's bringing all the suspense of this passage together. It's the boiling point. It's revealing the climax. Jesus doesn't leave the scribes too much time to ruminate over his question if you go from verse 9 to 10. He immediately demonstrates What he's getting at. He's basically saying talk is cheap, actions speak louder than words. Let me actually answer the question for you by showing you. And he tells the man to rise and get up, pick up your mat Now Jesus, he uses his favorite phrase, particularly in the Gospel of Mark, his favorite phrase to describe himself, the Son of Man. It's a way of describing himself in his role as Messiah. It comes primarily from the passage we read earlier from Daniel chapter 7. This vision of the future of the Son of Man coming like the Son of Man being presented before the ancient of days. There's something that's going on in God's economy, in God's history, in God's plan of salvation. That he is going to orchestrate a rescue mission, a repair model. He's going to take dilapidated houses and he's going to fix them and he's going to make them beautiful. And so with this turn of events, Jesus is showing that he has the authority to forgive sin. He shows that their assumptions about God were being disrupted. You see, the scribes, they have a choice, right? Do they reject what they are seeing and hearing based on what they assume? To be true about how God works, that only God forgives sins? Or do they have their category stretched of who God is? And what he is presently doing in the world to bring about his kingdom. Likewise, Jesus brings resolution to the man's body. Verse 12, we see that where we talked about earlier how the man Probably maybe he's included in the group of man with their faith, but we see here in verse 12 specifically the man's faith. And what does he do? It's action. He believes, he trusts, and he gets up. He gets up The mat that he slept on, the mat he ate food on, the mat he lived his waking hours, the mat he was transported on. Jesus tells them to pick it up and go home. What do you do in that moment? Do you live off of your experience that I was paralyzed yesterday and I'm going to be paralyzed today? Who is this man? He's just saying, get up? Is he kitty? No, the man exercises faith and he got up He believed Jesus to be who he said he was, and he believed Jesus had the power to heal him. Now, a couple clarifications. This passage does not teach that you will be physically healed if you have faith, or prove that you have persistent enough faith Or that your faith is strong enough. Likewise, this passage does not teach that God only cares about spiritual Matters. Spiritual conditions, spiritual sins, as opposed as if you didn't care about the body We know that's not to be true. We know the opposite is true. He actually, in his creation, he made us bodies. He took on flesh himself in bodily form. He took on pain and suffering and humility and humiliation and he died. And likewise he physically was raised. Jesus took on bodies because God cares about what he has created. Because he, remember, he saw that it was good. Although warped and thwarted and crooked and deformed from sin and the fall. Jesus brings resolution to the crowd's suspense. We see that they are amazed and they glorify God. You could say that this is a moving them also forward in their faith, believing more, seeing Jesus more clearly for who he is So the question for us in this resolution for the text becomes our conflict, the reader. What are we going to do? How do we respond? Who do we say Jesus is? We in a way place our trust in Chip and Joanna to do the job. We know that they are going to give those old houses new life. We know that they're going to fix the foundations, we know that they're going to give them beautiful furniture. We know that the plumbing is going to be fixed, and we know that there's going to be pictures on the walls. The show is a glimpse of the work of Jesus Christ working from the inside out. Taking an abandoned home and giving a new life. It begins a process of not only revitalizing that house, but beginning to revitalize the neighborhood. One description of the show itself, even worded it this way , speaking about Chip and Joanna. They also act as part-time counselors. to clients who can't see a structure's beauty beyond the blemishes. Combined, Chip and Joanna save homes that look hopeless, renovating the imperfect and revealing them as what they were always intended to be. My friends, that's the gospel. That is the power of the kingdom. That's the authority of Jesus. that we see in a glimmer, in a breadcrumb, in a picture pointing us to the work of redemption that is bought and accomplished in Jesus Christ. He announces the kingdom, the curse of the fall, the afflictions of the body, the effects of sin upon me and you, this world. Will be refurbished, remade, renewed by and through Jesus. The power of the gospel is to forgive sins, and that's accomplished by his life and his death and his resurrection. And that by his perfect life and his sacrificial death, he makes atonement for sin. So though in the moment, technically you can say, okay, where's the sacrifice? Jesus knows. Jesus knows what's going on. to happen. The scribes are actually foreshadowing what's going to happen because what's the penalty for blasphemy? It's death. Jesus can forgive sins because he knows that he is going to pay for his sins. He knows that he is going to go to the cross and suffer death. To make atonement so that this man can be forgiven. So that this man can experience healing. Now, it's wonderful that this man gets to experience healing then But the gospel is expansive. The gospel is moving forward, and God is showing pictures of what's going to be. And there will be a day where there will be no sin and there will be a day when there is no cancer. When there is no paralysis, when there's no fear and no anxiety, no abuse. We will be living in freedom in God's kingdom. So though our lives get interrupted, the good news of the gospel is the place we must go. And Jesus is that good news. We must take our paralyzing burdens to Him, our marriages that are falling apart, our Our jobs that are weighing us down and not giving enough money to make ends meet, and we're just working even harder to get that promotion Our sick bodies, our frail spirits. Friends, brothers and sisters in Christ, what are you doing to get to Jesus? Is someone carrying you to him? Are you carrying someone to him? Are you unroofing roofs to get to him? And when you get to him, hoping he will solve your greatest problem. No, no, Know with full faith and confidence in him that he is beginning a work of showing you what is your greatest need. Jesus is never too busy. Your needs are never a disruption to him. Nothing is too small for him. The power of the gospel is in his authority. His authority to teach and how he demonstrates it with his actions. He even has the authority to perceive man's thoughts As far as we know in this passage, the scribes never asked him that question, but he perceived it. He knew their need, he knew their questions. And embedded in Jesus' power to heal is his desire to forgive sins. So, friends, simply the power, the power of the gospel is to forgive sins. That you would be made clean, that you would be renewed from the inside out, and that you would be restored to the glory that you are as an image-bearer. Made to reflect God's glory, made to be about the flourishing of everybody around us. That we would be light Something that Jesus even calls us. He doesn't call us to make sure you be a bright light or your light's too dim, you should brighten that up a little bit. He's saying something about our identity. You are light because you are in me and I am light. And through forgiveness of sins, you have a relationship with me. May God grow our faith to see Jesus. And by receiving his forgiveness, may we experience this new life in him. Let's pray. Father God, would you come and meet us? Would you disrupt us with your gospel? Would you then free us? From our burdens and from our sins. May we come to you confessing our need. Help us. to even confess that we would know that the safest place is to be on a mat being lowered through a roof to you. May we come to you knowing all the while that it is you who has come to us. We give you praise in your