Good morning. Contrary to popular opinion, I wasn't avoiding Tom on the platform. Some of you who were here last week, you know what that's all about. But I would not avoid my friend and uh brother elder. So anyway, there you go. Um it is good to be able to uh conclude the thought that I believe James starts in his uh first chapter. Of course you know in in the Greek there's no chapter distinctions, but in this uh uh initial thought in the letter that James is writing to the uh Jewish believers of the dispersion It's James, the half-brother of our Lord, who's prominently featured in Acts fifteen and prominent again in Acts twenty-one, who is a pillar of the church has shepherded those uh early uh believers and then after stephen's uh martyrdom uh they were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria. And James still wanting to shepherd them, pins this letter. And we made the point last week that this is the same James who uh stood and fought for the gospel, the freedom that we have in Christ. That we would not come under uh the yoke of slavery to in order to keep the law, in order to get God to uh be pleased with us James knows full well that Jesus Christ has kept the law on our behalf, and there is nothing you can do To make God show you his favor, there's nothing you can do then in the gospel to make uh him lose favor. To make you lose favor with God. That's the good news of what it means to be secure in the finished work of Jesus Christ. So James, I believe, writes this letter with that fully in view. So there's not two different gospels going on. There's not a James kind of a works-based system There is the gospel of Jesus Christ wherein the law of God points us one and all to the fact that we are lawbreakers and Shows us that Christ the law keeper has fulfilled the righteous demands of the law, and then the law serves to point us And how we can please God, how we then should live. And that's what James is doing. He writes this letter to believers. And he just wants to remind them , walk like those who have received the gift of life. For you and for me, he writes as well. And so let me pick up the uh the second half, what I believe is the second half of this first thought. out of uh James's letter. And that's uh we're gonna start the reading in verse twelve and read through verse eighteen of James chapter one Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire, and then desire when it has conceived gives birth. It gives birth to sin, and sin, when it's fully grown, brings forth death. Do not be deceived. My beloved brothers, do not be deceived. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. What a what a powerful thought this is. And I hope and pray that the Lord would make it clear what James is saying to believers just like you and me who struggle with all kinds and various kinds of sin. Last week you remember we talked about trials from without. This uh same uh root core word in the Greek that's used in verse 2 in the noun form, uh referring to those circumstances, those uh adverse uh things that come our way, the the trials of life, the the suffering of living in a sin sick and sin twisted world Those trials from without, James says, they're they're meant for a purpose, and you can trust that God, who is the gracious giver of all things, will complete his purpose in you. Sorry for this air thing. James Says that those trials that come from outside of us also resemble the trials that spring from within, the temptations. It's the same word, and that's why I think it's all c one connected thought here. Same word used in verse thirteen in the verb form saying, when you are tempted Lest we forget the enemy is afoot. And we have a threefold enemy. And you've heard it preached from this pulpit. Alan and Steve laid this stuff out. The scriptures are very clear that the world The world that hates God and everything about God and the people of God, that world mindset that Paul advises the Romans not to be conformed to the image of this world That world is an enemy of the things that are good and pure and holy. And Satan, the ruler of the prince, the powers of the air, is also an enemy. Not to be trifled with. Scheming, cunning, deceiver. Those two enemies without, right? Join forces all the time, working in tandem. We don't even know where the lines they're so blurred we don't know where the distinction lines are. But there's a third enemy, and that's what James points us to today. Third enemy. Not from without, but an enemy from within. Our flesh, our own sinful nature, our own evil desires, the the corrupt uh nature that you and I inherited from Adam because of the fall, because Adam represented all of humanity and because he represented all of humanity he repres represented us Because we are part of humanity. So we inherit this original sin. We inherit this fallen, corrupt nature, and in our minds And our affections and even our ability to choose is all radically corrupted because of the fall And that is a seriously distressing truth, isn't it? And James writes because he doesn't want you to be enslaved any longer to that enemy or any of those enemies, quite frankly. And so he uses some terms, and he wants us to see clearly the battlefield and the Lord triumphant in the battle. A couple of um weeks ago, maybe it's been a month now, I can't remember, the uh Flora family was able to enjoy two weeks vacation right in a row And I this is the first time we've ever been able to do that at Columbia and I recommend it if it's a if an opportunity arises for you, um do it because you really get a chance to relax after the first two or three days of um this thing is bugging me. After the first two or three days of uh decompression, then you can relax. And we were able to go to the shore, you know, and I was born in Baltimore, so we went down the ocean. For two weeks on the seashore, beautiful weather, and the place that we were staying has this little canal that runs behind so boats can leave and go out and fish and and ski and all that stuff and our kids had access to two fishing poles. And man, when there was there were a spare moment they were out there either dropping the crab pots in the water or throwing the fishing poles. Now we're not big fisher people Or hunter people or whatever. We're grocery store people. But we learned some important fishing lessons That if you throw a bear hook into the water, not much activity. But if you attach to that bear hook a oily piece of Nathan's all beef frankfurter You virtually got within a seconds a feeding frenzy. Fifteen, twenty fish, you know, grilled chicken. Remains of a Bubba Burger. They love that stuff. And they will flock to that hook, not realizing what's in store. And each of my kids had the wonderful opportunity to see the bobber go down, to jerk back on that line, and to bring up these little small green slimy fish onto the dock. And it was real fun. Now we weren't catching these so we could cook them up on the skillet or anything. Um we we fried no little Nemo 's, but We practiced probably the worst version of what the Department of Natural Resources calls catch and release. Because not being fishermen by trade We uh were pulling these hooks out and tossing them back in and I apologize for the graphic nature of this illustration, but after a while we realized that we had uh One-eyed fish here and fish with hook holes through their soft palate there. And it started to dawn on us how stupid fish really are. Because it didn't matter how many of these grievously injured, traumatically, severely deformed fish we threw back into the water, if we put a Nathan's all beef frank on the end of that hook, they came flocking to it. Why? Stop the madness. What you know, so eventually we just stopped fishing. We couldn't live with ourselves But I tell you, the illustration that James uses here is just like us. How foolish, I wouldn't call us stupid fish, but how foolish we are to see the pain of sin all around To taste that bitter herb of failure time and again. And to continue, continually ignore That lure, that enticing pleasure of the flesh that is dangled right before us, forgetting that there's a shiny hook waiting to Severely damage our walk with Christ, our joy of salvation, our marriages, our parenting, our relationships with others, our witness at work. How long will we continue in that, brothers and sisters? Stop the madness That's why James writes, he wants us, he wants me, he wants you to be full. aware of the schemes of the devil and the world that hates God, but mostly, I think in this reference at least, to be aware of the enemy within The heart is deceitfully wicked. Who can know it? Jeremiah says. I the Lord search the heart and know its purpose. Right? How long? Last week uh uh we talked about trials from without and how none of us has got the opportunity to to give blame to God When wisdom is not ours in the midst of those trials. Remember, James says, don't blame God. God is a good gift giver, and he wants to give generously to all who ask without reproach. So if there's a blockage of wisdom coming our way, the blockage is ours to figure out. A double-minded man, and I just want to make one thing, if I can, try to make it clear. I don't think it was very clear last week Well one thing clear about this double-minded man of James 1 8, and that is it is someone who says, I believe you, God. And simultaneously, in the same breath or so, turns around and says, I really don't believe you, God. I must fend for myself and set up with uh set myself up with uh um some contingency plan and leave my options open because god might not be good enough God might not be trustworthy to come through the way he says he will in the Word. And so the double-minded man is one who believes and doubts. And sets himself up with the contingency plan. I'm going to make sure that if God don't come through for me, I've got it covered. And that's different from that father in Mark 9 24 who says My daughter is is dying, and Lord Jesus, I believe you can heal her. I believe you've got the power to do it. But he recognizes in that prayer his deficient faith and the fact that he's a weak man. And so he prays, I believe, Lord, help me in my unbelief. There's a distinction. But I think we kind of we go back and forth between those two kinds of uh experiences And I I don't know if I can release you to you know, it's all right if you float back and forth between those, but I do know that one of those is good and the double-minded man of James one eight isn't our it's not supposed to be our experience. To believe, to trust God at His word, to believe that He's good enough to accomplish all that He said He would. That's what we're called to. And that's what James said, remember last week, to stand fast in. Brace yourself. The trials of life are rough. It's tough and every single trial, whether from without or from within, It's a battleground. It's a battleground for your soul. It's a battleground for the glory of God in your life. It's a battleground for the honor of Christ. displayed through you, and it's a battleground for the your your very eternal existence. Never lose sight of that Remember Peter, he said, do everything you can with all diligence to make your calling and your election sure. Don't don't don't sit easy on something that happened in the past. Stand fast and walk and walk and cling to Christ. So James uh begins this second part of this same thought. Brings the temptation, brings the trial from within. And again he says to you and me, I I really don't want to hear this. He says, don't blame God. Don't do it. Let me take you back in time to the very beginning of where we came from. Remember the garden? Before sin ever entered in, before there was ever any taint, before there was ever any shame, Adam and Eve stood righteous and upright before the Lord And the environment in the Garden of Eden was perfect. You gotta hear that because there's a lot of talk out there about if you can just make the environment good, we'll get good people, right? Throw that away. Because they had the very best environment. It was pristine, perfect, and they could eat of any tree in the garden except for one. Because God wanted, through his command, to have a relationship with his creature, whereby his creature would submit themselves willingly To the role of the Lord, to the Lordship of their Creator. And the tempter came in The serpent. Cunning. Wicked. Deceitful. Remember those qualities about him, okay? And when Eve saw that the fruit was pleasing to the eye, and it offered the promise of satisfying this quest for knowledge. She took it and she ate it. And then she gave it to her husband Adam and he took it and he ate it. And you guys know the story, right? We can probably all stand up and say it. God came walking in the cool of the evening, calling out, Adam, where are you? You remember? Adam jumps clean from the bush. Lord, I am here. I have committed a grievous sin against you. It is my responsibility. I will take Everything that's coming my way as a result of my sin against you and you alone. No, he didn't do that. He did not do that at all. He did what you and I do most often, I think. He shifted the blame. He shared the responsibility. He slid it over to his wife. Lord, the woman you gave me, Lord, shifting the blame, sharing responsibility, comes to Eve. The serpent deceived me and I ate. Shifting the blame, sharing the responsibility. James wants us to be clear. That's what we do. We shift the blame. We want to share the responsibility. Someone please join me in this. It can't be all my responsibility. Now make no mistake, there are contributing factors to everything. There's a lot of things out there that uh that uh but too often they get the they get the full brunt of the responsibility. My parents, my upbringing, right? The environment that I was raised in, the neighborhood that I grew up in, my current work situation, whatever it is There are contributing factors to all that, but none of those can claim primary responsibility when we make the choice and we sin against God. And that's what James is trying to say. Don't blame God. In fact, uh this uh this whole uh Presentation here is to remind us of who God is and who we are. He's holy, he's blameless. We're sinful and corrupt. And James says, God will never entice his children. to destruction. And that's why he he cre he uh goes through this entire anatomy of a temptation. He uses two illustrations, one's from the uh the world of hunting and fishing. He uses these words that are power-packed, and in the in the first century or two in the Koine Greek, this word enticed And lured. It's got the idea of drawing fish out from the marshes so you can snag them. It's got the idea of baiting a trap just so That when the animal comes along, boom, they're yours. That's the kind of language that James is using. He says, don't make a mistake here. When that happens, it's because something in you has been drawn to that. There's a book that I've found very helpful in a discussion of the flesh. It's called The Enemy Within. It's written by a man named Chris Lundgard. And what he does in this book is present a modern kind of a presentation of the Puritan John Owens uh uh mortification of the flesh, like this enemy within. And Lundgard exposes us again to the schemes of the devil and how Everything in us that's corrupt that needs to be restored by the Spirit of God, our mind, our affections, and our will Can be used for obedience or for disobedience. I want to read a quote from this book, The Enemy Within. He says, the mind serves as the sentinel, the sentinel of the soul by questioning, assessing, and making judgments. Will this please God? Is this according to God's word? If the mind determines that the action is right, the affections should fall in line with that, and desire for and long for and cling to that which the mind has said is good. Lastly, then, the will puts the soul into action, carrying out what the mind says was good and what the affections hunger for. When each does its job, you are obeying God from your heart. That's what it looks like. Mind, heart, emotions, and will all working together under the Lordship of Christ. You can see, however, what a mess deception makes of obedience. I'll continue to quote here. What a mess deception makes of obedience If your mind is persuaded to believe that a sin is good for your soul, then your affection will work up an appetite for it. It's been labeled good after all. If it's been labeled good, your affections work up an appetite, your will gives consent, the dominoes fall into place. And your flesh will bear the putrid fruit in your life. Anatomy of obedience, anatomy of disobedience. James knows that. So he wants our minds to be sentinels. Ever watchful, ever washed with the water of the Word of God, so that we can be aware of the schemes Listen, I've told many of you young people and some of you old people too, if the if the enemy would come to us, if Satan would come to us in a red suit with horns sticking out the top of his head and a tail and a big pitchfork with smoke coming out of his mouth, tempting us to evil, and we'd join with that. We'd never go. Maybe once or something just to see what it was like. But that's a really scary image, and the Apostle Paul says he doesn't do that. He disguises himself as an angel of light And like he did in the garden so many centuries ago, he does the same thing with you and me. He takes the Word of God pieces and he twists it up Well I I I n I need to lie here because I I I I want I want to make sure I keep my witness uh going there. See how that works? Twisted. Twisted truth. There's a quote from Thomas Akempis I want to read out loud too. The uh It's this idea that when a when a thought passes over our minds, that's not sin. We're being tempted. That's why we can see Jesus in the wilderness being tempted. But if we entertain that thought and we uh uh uh mull over it and cause it to take a little root We've probably already sinned at that point. Akempus writes this: First there cometh into the mind a bare thought of evil. Just a thought. Then a strong imagination thereof, and afterwards a delight in, and then there's an evil motion toward. And then Consent. That's consent of the will to do that thing. And so little by little our wicked enemy getteth complete entrance. For that he has not resisted at the beginning. Make no mistake, the world, the devil, the flesh, they all work together to bring you death. That's what James talks about here. He uses this one illustration of hunting and fishing uh uh words, and then he switches like abrupt. And I hate this illustration. Cause it's weird. It's um not supposed to use this reference, but you know the Seinfeld show they used to have on TV? Well there was an episode in Seinfeld where everybody was carrying this baby and they were showing this baby, but the baby apparently was just really grotesque looking, really ugly. And so whenever they'd say, You want to see the baby? and they go, Oh yeah, yeah. Ha uh why don't you cover it up? Maybe it's cold or something. You know, remember that? If you didn't then that's what the episode was about This is the kind of illustration that James uses. He uses a baby illustration. He says, when we're tempted, it's like that this desire in us Is conceived. This is all childbirth language. The desire conceives And then it it grows, it matures, and it gives birth, birth to sin. And then the little the little sin grows up and it gets bigger and bigger until it brings forth death. Listen, beloved brothers and sisters, the end goal of every tempting thought that comes your way and my way is death. Why don't we believe that You know, it's like the fish. Stop the madness. The tempting thought is not to be entertained, it's not to be uh cajoled and softened and buffered It's to be put to death right there. It's to be brought under the Lordship of Christ and to take it captive and to make that thought obedient to Christ as Lord Because the end goal of every tempting thought is death, not, well, it'll be easier if I do this. Or, well, I need some kind of stress relief. Or well, you know, fill in the blank. You've you've been through that rationalization, I'm sure, just like me. And so James says, don't fall for that lie. In the active present imperative, he says, Stop being deceived. And don't blame God for this stuff. Recognize who you are and your desperate need of Christ And watch it turn. Watch it turn when you recognize who you are and recognize again who God is. Because James doesn't whip out some phrase here that's all heinous and nasty. He doesn't say, stop being deceived, you wicked, stupid sinner. He says, stop being deceived. Stop buying into this lie, my beloved brother. He wants to bring them right back to where you and I need to be brought back to. He wants to say, stop, stop buying the lie. You're related to the God of heaven. You have a relationship with the one who made you, my beloved brother. This relationship is based in love. It was bought with love So stop buying the lie, my beloved brother. And then he goes into this presentation. Again, he's not trying to vindicate God. He's not trying to, well, I need to make sure you You know, here's the argument that I would use in order to convince you that you really are a sinner. He just says, look, you, like me, need a reminder. Let me tell you again about God, who established a relationship with you through Christ. He is a good gift-giving God. He's a good God He's a generous gift giver. See that? Every good and every perfect gift. Generous. Overwhelmingly so. He is a gracious gift giver. See the phrase? Gracious God had in his condescending way came down to be on your level. Jesus Christ, from above. Came to you, to me. So he's a gracious gift giver. He chose to give. He's a good gift giver. It's a perfect gift. It's the same this all there's all these themes running through this first thought there. But when James uses in the first couple of verses that your that your um that your faith would be perfect and complete, lacking nothing Same kind of reference here. The perfect gift that God wants to give you in abundance is that which is completing you, bringing you into wholeness, and fulfilling the promise that he is. uh said is sure because of who he is, not because of who we are. And it's a guaranteed gift. He's a guaranteed gift giver. In him there is no shadow or variation due to change. It's an interesting phrase, and I can't develop it, I guess, time-wise, that James would say that he is the father of lights You know, we just sang this hymn for the beauty of the earth. Sun and moon and stars at night, right? And that's what James wants to reference, that God as creator, sovereign over all, even controls The course the stars in their courses at night. And the sun as it comes up and goes over and goes down. But just as you can imagine that sun coming up And as it comes up, it casts a shadow here, and then at noonday it's a little shadow, and then the shadow gets longer. What James is saying is, where there is perfect light In Christ, there is no shadow. There is no variation due to change because God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And because he is, his word is trustworthy. Because his spirit will accomplish all that he said he would. Amen. Why don't we do? Why don't we believe this? I think that we believe God, we don't believe God is good. Last night, I'm going to close with this illustration. Just last night One of our children came into the kitchen and we'd had a long day and everybody was kind of tired. And uh They came in and they were holding this uh broken thing, this little wooden thing. And uh it used to be a circle. Now I come to find out this is an embroidery embroidery circle or something. What's it called? Embroidery hoop. This is an embroidery hoop. I'm not an embroiderer. So I didn't know. And this person is holding it and they say to me, Dad, someone broke this. Well, I say. Big whoop. That's that's all right, honey, we'll we'll get another. You can throw it in the trash if you want. Don 't bother me. I'm not concerned about that broken hoop. I am concerned about her heart though. And so I say, hop hold on just a sec When you say someone, who do you mean? Huh? And you know what she did? She gave me the names of two siblings out in the other room And I said, well, was it X or was it Y that stepped on it and broke it? And she was not talking. I I didn't care about the embroidery hoop. Man, I don't embroider. I want her heart and I want my heart to know Daddy loves you. And whatever you've done, sweetheart, it's not going to cause me to love you any less. But you've got to be honest with what you've done. Because if you're not honest with what you've done, you're not gonna know that Daddy loves you. I so desperately wanted her to be honest. Not because I was Gonna ream her out. And you know what she did? By the grace of God, she said, I I stepped on it. I broke it. Tears flowing, man, I'm telling you. It was great. It was cool because I was able to bring her in and say, that 's all I wanted. Honey, I thought you may have stepped on it when you said someone out there stepped on it. But I wanted you to come to that. I wanted you to say it. Don't you see that, brothers and sisters, that's what we're in As children of the living God, he brings to us confrontation, challenges, conviction of sin. He wants us to own that, be responsible for it, because in owning it, there is freedom. There's freedom that's only offered to those who confess And that's what I told her. I said, look, there's a word that God uses in his Bible, confess. If you confess your sin, God is faithful and just and will forgive you your sin. And that word confess means to say the same thing as. And so God, who knows all things and nothing can be hid from God, knows what our reality is. He knows your sinful well anyway. He knows your heart better than you know it. And so all he wants from you and from me is to agree with what the reality is. And if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Let's pray to him. Father, you are the triumphant conquering king. You've destroyed the works of the devil. That's what you came to do, Lord Jesus. The devil who has been a liar from the beginning, you came to destroy those works. And I pray, God, that you'd help us in the fight. Cause us to know full well that you are good and that you are trustworthy. We pray it all in Jesus' name. Amen. I just remembered as I 'm going to