Uh uh on on what I could share with you this morning. Um it it is always uh a a challenging thing for me and uh I really speak for myself here not for uh Steve Green or for Tim Flora, but uh when um because I'm never given a a a a series of five Sundays to do it uh to do a a a series of sermons um and given one, it's always tricky exactly what what do you preach on? What do you do? Um the um the last uh several months or so um as I have been in conversation with a number of you as well as people outside of CPC, on three to four, almost five different occasions, uh people have uh made references to a very well-known story It's the story of Abraham and the sacrificing of his son Isaac. This caused me to go back and to reread and study that passage again. And as I was studying this passage, I mean the Lord really ministered to my own heart. And I thought, no, this is something I think I'd really like to teach and to preach and share with you. And so if you'll turn with me now to Genesis chapter 22. I'm gonna read from verses one to uh fourteen. So Genesis chapter twenty two Verse one verses one to verse uh fourteen. Sometime later God tested Abraham. He said to him, Abraham Here I am, he replied. Then God said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the region of Moriah. Sacrifice him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains I will tell you about. Early the next morning, Abraham got up and saddled his donkey. He took with him two of his servants and his son Isaac. When he had cut enough wood for the burnt offering, he set out for the place God had told him about. On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place in the distance. He said to his servants, Stay here with the donkey while I and the boy go over there. We will worship, and then we will come back to you. Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and placed it on his son Isaac, and he carried and he himself carried the fire and the knife. As the two of them went on together, Isaac spoke and said to his father Abraham, Father, yes, my son, Abraham replied. The fire and the wood are here, Isaac said. But where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham answered, God himself will provide the lamb for the burnt offering, my son. And the two of them went on together When they reached the place God had told him about, Abraham built an altar there and arranged the wood on it. He bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Then he reached out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. But the angel of the Lord called out to him from heaven, Abraham, Abraham! Here I am, he replied Do not lay a hand on the boy, he said. Do not do anything to him, for I know that you fear God, because you have not withheld from me your son, your only son Abraham looked up and there in a thicket he saw a ram caught by its horns. He went over and took the ram and sacrificed it as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called that place, the Lord will provide. And to this day it is said, On the mountain of the Lord, it will be provided. Amen. This is um always a very uh challenging text to preach on. Whenever you sh uh uh you share a sermon, I believe, on something that is well known Especially something as well known as this story of Abraham and Isaac, it's always very, very tricky. Uh theologically it's tricky People come in with certain expectations as I'm sure you have all heard a a Bible study or a a sermon radio. Somewhere in your lifetime, I am sure you have heard some type of teaching on this story. It's very challenging even linguistically. The Hebrew there are some very interesting peculiarities within the original text. Uh but even emotionally, it it's it's a bit tricky Uh it's always a very difficult story to share, something very, very unique in terms of the many stories that we have in the Bible. There's nothing here a boy meets girl, they fall in love and they live hostile happily ever after. There's nothing like that here. It's rather bleak, it is rather dark, it's startling. Abraham is commanded by God to sacrifice his son Uh in one conversation that I had with an individual, this individual who I believe m may not be a believer, I honestly don't know, um, has no concept of faith in Christ, which always makes studying passages like this tricky, um, was saying that uh he just could not get over the fact that God even made such a request It's true that Isaac was spared and his life was redeemed and he lived, but the fact that Abraham had to go through this trauma, he just could not accept. And such struggles is is clearly understandable. I mean, th a story like this affects all of us, whether we are parents with children Whether we are young couples with no children or whether we are singles, it really doesn't matter. You read a story like this and it it just startles you, it it shocks you, it it surprises you that our God would make such a request. And for that reason, it shakes the very foundations of our understanding of who God is. And for that reason, you could say we are very much a part of what is going on here in this story. It affects who we worship, the God that we worship. Worship the God that you worship as of this very moment as you walked into this building today is the God of Genesis 22. It is the God who commanded Abraham to sacrifice his son. For that reason, we have a lot at stake in understanding, and we are very much a part of what is happening here, happening here in this story. And when we read about Abraham, um, you know, e every bit of us, every part of us looked at this story with pity. We pity Abraham. We feel badly for him. And deep down inside, where we may not share in conversations, we are thinking to ourselves, we are thankful that that is not us. That we are not in that situation. I'd like to suggest to you this morning that Abraham is not to be pitied And in fact, I'd suggest to you that Abraham was truly blessed by God. And he was blessed by God because he went through this event, not in spite of it. He was blessed by God because he endured this ordeal, not in spite of this ordeal. The first thing that you read about of the faith of Abraham as he is looking towards God for some solution and answers to all of this, the first thing that you read about is in verse 1. Sometime later, God tested Abraham. Now I don't know what you take away by reading that, but verse 1 here really kind of sets the tone for the rest of the passage. It sets the the approach in which we look at this story. This is a test. And you could say the way that the original Hebrew talks about it, it emphasizes the fact that it is God who is doing the testing. It is God who is testing Abraham. It is not some demon, it is not Satan, it is not some impersonal deity, it is God, the living God, the Creator God, who is testing Abraham. And when you read later in Deuteronomy 8, verse 16, it helps us to understand what in fact a test is all about, where it says that it is to do good for you in the end. A test is for your good. It says that it doesn't say that God tempted, which you could say is for evil. It is a test. It is for good. Now, we go through tests all of the time. We go through trials in our lives all of the time. And sometimes I kinda wonder what it is the hope that we can pull out of these difficult times that we endure through. Folks, I don't know what is going on in your life, some of you. I don't know if you are going through some trials right now that is similar to this. I don't know if you are going through bright periods of life in where there's nothing but darkness around you. I don't know anything really about some of you, but this I do know it is a test It is for good. And that much you can at least walk away with with confidence. As Abraham looks onto this even further in this passage, you see that Abraham's faith is immediately put into crisis. He is called again by God to sacrifice his son. Now the nature of this crisis and the magnitude of what this crisis is about is huge I mean for Abraham alone, he would have to endure the loss of a son, of a son that he had been waiting for all of his life. A son that is very special and precious. to him. Now you could say in one sense, the promise of a son to Abraham was even there in Genesis chapter 12. And you could say from Genesis chapter 12 to Genesis chapter 21 when Abe when Isaac is finally born. The tension of those passage of those nine to ten chapters of the book of Genesis is in fact whether or not God would provide this son. That is a fifth of the book of Genesis is trying to deal with this idea whether or not God will be true to his word and give to Abraham this promised son. And in fact you could say one way that Abraham dealt with this promise of God that he wasn't sure if God was going to do, that is the whole uh Hagar story of Abraham not going through Sarah, but going through his her handmaiden Hagar in order to get the son that he did. He wasn't willing to wait for God's time. He took matters into his own hands. And all the things in between, Genesis chapter 12 and the 21, is for that very end until finally Finally, God gives to Abraham his son in chapter 21. And then the first thing that you read about after the birth, the supernatural birth of Isaac, is Genesis chapter 22. This son that God gave to Abraham, God is now going to take away. He is going to shatter. He is going to destroy this dream. You know, um It it's uh with my children, um my my oldest son likes to play with Legos and what he does is he makes these castle like buildings with Legos. Um and now my youngest son, Micah Whenever he says his older brother building these house of Legos, you know, I don't know what it is. you know, and destroy. And you know, even even me when I see him with this house of Legos or him building a house of cars, I mean I I feel it even in the deepest part of my heart to kinda go up there and just kinda, you know shatter or destroy. And you know it, and I'm sure you feel it, and don't tell me you don't. I know that you're thinking the same exact thing. Your heart is just like mine, so don't tell me that you're not feeling the same thing when you see that. But you know something? This is something trivial like Legos and uh a house of cards. For Abraham, it was his son A promised son. This isn't trivial. This was life to him. This was family to him. This would have been traumatic for him. But not only for Abraham to go through the trauma of losing the son, in his mind God would now be a liar. God promised to him that he would be the father of many, many nations, of many peoples. He said that his descendants would be like the stars in the sky the the the sand on the s on the sea on the seashore that that would be what his descendants are like. But all of these descendants and all of these nations would come through the one son of Isaac If Isaac is gone, there are no descendants, there are no nations, and God is not true to his word, in Abraham's mind he would be a liar. And you could say then in Abraham's mind, it is God's own glory that is at And so with the nature of this crisis, with all of these things at stake, the question is now posed to Abraham. Will he take matters into his own hands? Or will he trust in God? And so I ask the question to you who go through trial, who do you take matters into your own hands? Or will you trust in God? In one sense, you could say Abraham failed an earlier test. He went to Hagar, a handmaiden, instead of Sarah his wife. And in that sense you could say Abraham failed. God now puts him in a position in the beginning of Genesis 22, an impossible task. Something that is completely out of his control to assure Abraham once again. I am in full control. I know exactly what I am doing. You don't need to figure it out. All you need to do is trust. For Abraham, this took of course a very sensitive form in this in in this trial, in this faith in Christ's uh ordeal. It focused around his son. And notice the way that Isaac is described in verse 2. It says, to take up your son, take up Isaac and to sacrifice him. To take Isaac and sacrifice him. Now God could have stopped right there and said nothing more, and that alone would have been traumatic. Sacrifice Isaac. That's enough to cause us to stop and pause. But he says more. He says to sacrifice Isaac, your son. He now identifies Isaac personally, and to say that out loud your son now brings I Abraham very emotionally involved in this passage. But not only is he described as your son, he is described as your one and only son. Now we know right away that's just simply not true. He had Ishmael. But in terms of the promise, in terms of the promise that God made to Abraham, it would be through Isaac and Isaac alone. For that reason you can say that he is his one and only son. But God says so much more. Not just Isaac Not just your son, not just your only son, but lest you might think that Abraham is some emotionally distant father who had no care for his children, he specific God specifically says the son whom you love. Folks, this is like pouring gallons of stinging lemon juice over an open wound. He didn't have to go that far, but he did. To almost tighten, you could say, the sorrow and the pain at Abraham's heart just a little bit more There is a great transformation in this passage, a great reversal of things. What looks so dark and bleak becomes really a message of hope and of life. And he can only do that because of the grace of God. You could say because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Look at verse 8. As Abraham and Isaac are walking up this mountain, as they are walking up, Isaac notices that he has the plane, the torch, that Abraham has the wood, that he has the knife. The one thing that he doesn't have is the lamb. And so Isaac asked his father, where is the lamb that we are going to sacrifice? Abraham's answer, the Lord himself will provide the Lamb. This idea of the Lord providing is such an important theme in this passage that Abraham later even named the altar the Lord will provide. In Hebrew that is said Yahweh Yereh And literally it doesn't mean provide, meaning to give, to uh to sustain. The literal Hebrew reading there is actually very rough. It's literally said, verse 8, you could say, the Lord will see to a lamb. And the see to in the sense of providing, but that is really rough English, and that's a hard way to translate that. But truth be told, that's a hard Hebrew thing too. The Lord will see to a lamb And so you could say the name of the altar is the Lord will see. And the reason why I think Moses is working with this image of God seeing here is because of the tradition that is built on that place that is described to you in verse 14 On the mountain of the Lord, he says, the Lord, on the mountain of the Lord, it will be provided. I think a better way to translate that is to literally say, not it But he not will be provided, but will be seen. On the mountain of the Lord, he Meaning Yahweh, meaning the Lord, will be seen. And notice the tense as well. In Abraham's mind, this is not something that's happened just recently in the past. This is something that will happen in the future. In the future, on this place. Something is going to happen, the Lord will be seen. He will appear. And that is what Abraham is saying. That is what his hope is built on. That is how he finds a favor in this passage. And that is how he is able to overcome these trials and speaking. Because he knows that the Lord will be seen. And so on this mountaintop, what happened? When is the Lord seen? Moriah, you could say, is just the name of the region on this mountaintop from tw uh second Chronicles chapter three verse one. We know that this is in fact the city of Jerusalem. The city of Jerusalem, you could say, this area is the is the uh plot of land That David bought in order to build the temple of God. You could say that this is the vicinity of a temple of God that becomes destroyed. And by the New Testament time, this vicinity is within this area, there is a mountain that goes by. Now a different name, not Moriah, but Golgotha. And on that mountain, there is in fact the Lord who does appear It is the disciples, in fact, in John chapter 1 verse 14, who said that we have beheld, we have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only, begotten of the Father, full of grace. and truth. You could say in the far horizon, in the history of God's plan of salvation, as God designed things to go Far in the horizon from Mount Moriah is a far greater mountain, and that is Calvary. You can almost see in Genesis 22 a early reenactment of what in fact is going to happen if in that area, maybe 2,000 years later. And on that mountain range, 2,000 years after Abraham's days, another father would be called to sacrifice his son. His one and only Son, the Son whom he loved. Only this time there would be no voice from heaven to still his hand There would be no divine intervention to keep him from thrusting his wrath. You could say that his son Took upon himself the full force of punitive judgment. And in that sense you could say that Isaac was spared because Jesus was not. And in that same way you could say we are all spared because Jesus was not. Because our Heavenly Father had enough love for us to give his one and only Son. reenacted, you could say, in a pre-early stage in Genesis 22. And in the same way that Isaac, you could say, according to the book of Hebrews In Hebrews chapter eleven, as a Hebrew writer was thinking about this story, and he points to the faith of Abraham, and he says to him and he says in that passage how figuratively speaking, Isaac died And figuratively speaking, Isaac rose again from the dead. The difference is that Jesus actually died, and Jesus actually rose from the dead. And so that we also by faith in Jesus Christ. We'll spiritually die in a sense of our sins, if Jesus died on the cross for us, but with Christ, you could say, we'll be raised from the dead to eternal life. And that is the glory that you could say comes to Abraham, who believed in this and had hope in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. But as I think about this y I think about it a little bit more. Um it's not enough. Um I still am gnawed a bit on the individual who uh just could not get over the fact that Abraham had to go through this ordeal as God forced him to go through this ordeal of of uh of the torment. The horrid idea of having to endure the thought of sacrificing his one and only son. Notice the way from Abraham's perspective how this is portrayed. He needs to offer up his son. It is his one and only son whom he loves. It is a three-day journey And in Abraham's mind, you could say, at the point of the command, his son in his mind was already dead, figuratively speaking. He had to endure the death of his son for three days. He pictured as the picture that you have in chapter in verses six and seven is the picture of Isaac carrying his the wood of his sacrifice on his back as he climbs up the mountain. It's a Image you could say of Jesus carrying his own cross before the sight of his own father. It's as if our heavenly father is saying to Abraham Share in my sorrow. Share in my pain. You want to know what it was like for me to see my one and only son hanging a criminal's death. Innocent and free, dying on the cross for people like you. If you want to know what I had to endure to see my son dying like that Know my pain. We oftentimes again look at Abraham and pity him. But I would submit to you folks this morning that he is not to be pitied. He is in fact blessed. And the reason why is because Abraham, perhaps more than anyone else. Can understand the father heart of God. The heart of God as He was watching His Son on the cross at Calvary. And that type of transformation, you could say, to overcome the penalty of sin, which is death, in Jesus' resurrection, to overcome the power of sin in the trials in our lives. To now see the good to share in his sorrows. This is why God is worthy of our worship. This is the reason why God is worthy of our praise. A faith purified and holy that allows us to see Jesus in full majesty and awe. To allow us to see that in Christ by faith we can overcome death. In Christ by faith, we can overcome adversities and trials. Our faith may waver a bit, but it is strong, and it's not because of who we are. Our faith is strong because of the object of our faith. Because Jesus is strong, because God is strong. And as much as we can look outside of ourselves and see the eternal, everlasting faithfulness of God to us. We have a hope that will also be eternal and undying. Let's all pray together. Father, thank you for Jesus Christ, our Lord and our Savior, our King, our Master. We give our lives fully, O Lord, to you. And maybe we, many of us, Lord, need to confess that we just don't understand exactly what you are doing in our lives. Perhaps, O God, we come to you with some confusion. Perhaps, O Lord, we come to you even with doubt. Fear, maybe even anger. Lord, I pray that you will wash all these things away and allow us, O Lord, to see you with a purified faith, to be able to see you, Lord, in glory and in majesty. Give us the grace, O Lord, to trust. To trust in you. That is what we need. Not in ourselves, not in our family, not in our friends, not in circumstances, but to trust in you. And so God give us that type of strength May you be with all of us, O Lord, as we uh struggle through life, that we will always find an eternal hope that is found by faith in Jesus Christ. Allow us our hearts, O God, to worship you freely and openly and wholeheartedly because of who you are and what you have done. And so, God, hear the prayers of your people, for we pray these things all in Jesus' name.