Is my microphone working? Mark, did I break something? Okay, I'm good. Having some problems and I know that when there are problems it's often me If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 9. As Wayne has mentioned, we're going to be looking at a very well known passage of Scripture. It occurs in all three of What Wayne called the synoptic gospels, that's sin, is then S Y N with optic view. Matthew, Mark, and Luke are th Three Gospels that have a very similar perspective, so we call them the synoptic gospels. Um all three of those gospels have The account of the transfiguration following Peter's confession of Christ. All three of these Descriptions of this transfiguring event culminate with a voice from heaven saying, This is my son. They're about identifying Jesus, but that's not all they're about. Let's discover together what more there is as we look at this text together. Let us pray. Almighty God, we ask your blessing on your word. Father, we thank you that you are God who has spoken. You've spoken in a way that is accessible to us, that can be translated into different languages, that can be made sensible to us, whether we are uh Stone Age or Rocket Age, Lord, whether we uh uh come from one part of the world or another. Lord, we we marvel at your wisdom and your grace. But Father, help us to consider your word rightly. Help us to consider the Scriptures as that one rule for faith and life. Help us to hear it by your Spirit to understand it. by your grace to have the wisdom to heed it, to obey it. Father, we pray that this reading of your word will be blessed. And that the preaching that follows, Lord, in as much as it is faithful, we ask your blessing on that as well. We pray in Christ's precious name. Amen. Luke chapter nine, beginning with verse twenty-eight, the word of God Now, about eight days after these sayings, he took with him Peter and John and James and went up on the mountain to pray. And as he was praying, the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became dazzling white. And behold, two men were talking with him, Moses and Elijah. who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. Now Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep But when they became fully awake, they saw his glory, and the two men who stood with him. And as the men were parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, Master. It is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you and one for Moses, and one for Elijah, not knowing what he said. As he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud. And a voice came out of the cloud saying, This is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent and told no one in those days anything of what they had seen. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, if you ever come visit me in my office, you'll know that there are a lot of books. And there are a lot of piles of books because I use the books and I read the books, but it looks a little bit haphazard sometimes and perhaps unkempt, but I'm working on the kempedness of my office. So give give me grace. A lot of those books are commentaries. A commentary is a book written by a pastor, a theologian, a Bible scholar, in which they do deep dives. A whole commentary Some of them might be two or three inches thick, and they will deal with nothing but the Gospel of Luke or the book of Isaiah. And one of my favorite commentaries on the Gospel of Luke, because needless to say, I've been reading a lot of commentaries on Luke lately for some reason. One of them talks about this transfiguration, and he begins his discussion with this sentence. The transfiguration in the Gospel of Luke is an enigma wrapped in a mystery. That's not an encouraging start to your studies. But I want you to think about what we just read for a moment because There are two apparent non sequiturs, things that don't follow in this text. It's almost as if it's an act and three scenes, and the scenes have different characters to some extent. you don't really see how one follows the other. You see, the first scene, if you will, is Jesus on the mount We don't know for sure what what mount. There's a lot of debate about which mountain it was. Probably Hermon, but we don't know, and it doesn't matter. It's a mount that is either in Galilee or just north of Galilee. And he goes up there to pray, as was his custom, and he brings three of his disciples with him. And as he's praying, his face begins to shine and glow. And not only his face, but his clothes become dazzling. And suddenly there are Moses and Elijah, and they're talking with him about his exodus. Did you know that's what they were talking about? That word departure is the word exodus. The book of the Bible, Genesis, Exodus. Exodus is a Greek word, not a Hebrew word. Exodus is the name of the book that was given that name. by the Greek-speaking Jews in the Septuagint. That is the seventy elders, Septuagint, who gathered to translate the Old Testament from Hebrew into Greek. And the word Exodus means departure. But in Jewish literature, up to the time of Christ, that word Exodus was explicitly used to refer to the great Exodus under Moses, the great departure of the people of God. From slavery to freedom. So here's Jesus shining with glory Dazzling clothes, the word is used of lightning. And Moses and Elijah appear and they talk about the work Jesus would do. In leading people from bondage to freedom and this work that he would accomplish at Jerusalem. The disciples, much like they did at the Garden of Gethsemane, evidently fall asleep or get drowsy enough that we're told they were sleeping. And here comes Scene two in this enigmatic, mysterious act. We don't have any sense that they are following the conversation per se, except for the hint. Found in the word tents or booths. You see, that also is a technical word used for the Feast of Tabernacles. in the Old Testament, when God's people would celebrate the fact of their deliverance from Egypt and the way God sustained them in their journey to the Promised Land. They celebrated that for eight days by creating booths or tents and living in them And so in scene two of this act, the disciples we read, led by Peter, the intrepid, if not befuddled, spokesman. They are heavy with sleep and kind of become fully awake, apparently catch on at least to the broad theme of Exodus, and they say, It is good that we're here. Aren't we fortunate? We get to see Jesus in this glory, and that's Moses, and that's Elijah. Imagine how you would feel if you walked into a room and there's Cal Ripkin and Jim Palmer. These guys think they have just achieved all that they could have hoped for. And they say, let us make three tents, three booths. One for you, Jesus, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. And we're told by Luke speaking at the Spirit's prompting that they had no idea what they were talking about. Not knowing what he said, Peter made this suggestion. And he doesn't, that that's scene two. And Jesus doesn't respond to him. A cloud comes and descends, the same idea of the cloud on Mount Sinai, the Shekinah, the glory cloud, all this language that takes us right to the work of God. creating a people for himself and rescuing them from Egypt and establishing them in the promised land and all that fell in between. This cloud comes, they're frightened, and a voice from heaven says It's not a good time to build tents, guys. No, that's not what he says. He doesn't say anything that appears to directly respond to Peter's suggestion. Instead, he says, this is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. I can well understand why the disciples didn't really say anything about this to any of the other nine. These three are left perhaps a bit befuddled still. They stop and they think, well, we we we we saw this happen. Jesus was talking about his exodus from Jerusalem that he'd established there with these two great representatives of the people of God. The paradigmatic prophets, the great lawgiver, Moses and Elijah Then we suggested that we prolong this experience and celebrate the fact that we have been created a new people, that the great deliverer has arrived. And then God told us to listen up. And that this is his son, the chosen one. And what do those things have in common? Well, in order to understand what the Spirit is telling us about this event through the Gospel of Luke, we're going to look at what God said and then work backwards from there. And the reason we're going to do that Is this whole of chapter 9 in Luke is really about who is Jesus and what is his mission? And we saw earlier that Peter says After a time of prayer, we read that in verse 18. Now it happened that as he, Jesus, was praying alone, his disciples come, and Jesus says, Who do people say I am? Then he says, Who do you say I am? And Peter speaks for them and says, You are the Christ of God. Now here again we have a scene of praying. Jesus has taken three of his disciples with him. He's praying alone, secluded on a mountaintop. And the voice of God tells them, This is my son, my chosen one, listen to him. And as we look at this text We're going to look at those three statements and why God says those three things about Jesus from that cloud of glory on that mount that has witnessed the glory of the Son of God. First, Jesus is the Son of God. And as we look back at that, we can see there are five prevailing theories over the last 500 years of preachers dealing with this text for what was wrong with Peter's statement, Master, let us build tents. One of them is that he calls him Master. Master is probably the barest, most minimal term of respect you could have conceivably given Jesus. It would be sir with a lowercase s. And Peter has just confessed that he is the Christ of God. Peter has just seen Jesus in all of his glory, a prefiguring, if you will, of the glory that would be his after his resurrection and ascension. It is a glory that is markedly different from the glory that Moses had in Exodus chapter 34. You see, the glory Moses had is because he was speaking with God in his reflected glory. He causes his face to shine. It has been common in the tradition of the old English preachers, the Puritans, to note with care here that Jesus glowing starts with his face and shines through his clothes. It is his own glory. Indeed, it is his glory. That is exactly what we read. We read that they became fully awake and saw his glory and the two men with him. The glory of Jesus is not a reflected glory. It is a personal property of the eternal Son of God, shining through his incarnate form, his human nature. Jesus is not simply your master, dear friend. He is the chosen one, the Son of God, which means God Himself. The Son is God He's not just another prophet. Another major theme that's picked up in the tradition of preachers over the centuries is that Peter seems to suggest that, well, there's this parody of individuals. We'll build you a tent, you a tent, and you a tent. As if to put Jesus in the same league as Moses and Elijah. Moses was a lawgiver. Jesus is the lawgiver. Moses and Elijah together were prophets. Jesus is the prophet. The one who speaks with the authority of God, because he is God made flesh for us. See, Jesus is the Son of God. And it is easy for us when we have our spiritual experience in our mountaintop moments to think of God in terms that less than fully embrace the majesty of the divine being that is Jesus. It's easy for us to begin to think of Jesus as if he is merely a therapist or a life coach Or a kindly uncle that gives you candy bars for breakfast. That's this guy. Ask my nephews and nieces. That's why I'm their favorite uncle. Jesus doesn't fool around with merely the lesser things. Although I assure you, he gives us sweeter things than we could ever buy from Nestie or Hershey Company. Jesus is all of those things, but behind and above and throughout all of those things, he is God. And he is not simply to be adored. You are to be in absolute, utter awe of him He is the one by whom and through whom all things were created. He is the author of life. He is the captain of salvation. He is immeasurably mightier than you could imagine. He is to be feared above all things and loved with more intensity than you have thought you were capable of. This is my son. That's what the voice of God the Father is saying to us And may we never forget it. You see, it's easy to forget it when you're in a courtyard after Jesus has been arrested and people think you have an accent and want to associate with you. It's easy to forget that he's the son of God and begin to act all too human and to deny him, to be ashamed of him. And we see hints of that in what has immediately preceded these things. Look at verse 28. Now about eight days after these sayings, one of these sayings was, Do not be ashamed of Jesus, lest he be ashamed of you. And it's easy to forget that he's the Son of God in those points of discomfort and pressure and persecution. But I'll tell you another time when it's easy for us to forget that Jesus is the Son of God. When you're doing really, really well spiritually. It was after we have an account of all of King David's great victories and the peace that he secured through the power of God's plan and providence. That we discover that his eyes fall upon Bathsheba. And he yields to temptation. You see, it's a theme throughout scripture if you look for it. That oftentimes after we have our mountaintop experiences and accomplish great things, we become like Nebuchadnezzar, a little bit full of ourselves. And we fall prey to temptation. We begin to think that we are all that. We got picked to be one of the three to spend time with Christ and see his glory this way. Let's just stay here and enjoy it. It's good that we are here. And thinking too much of ourselves is simply another way of thinking not enough of Jesus. When I think rightly of Jesus, I am like David reminded that I am a worm and not a man. I am but dust. Thank you, Lord, that you know my frame and know it full well. Your Jesus is everything. He is God who took on flesh for you. I wish to God I'd never forget that. But he's more than that. He is God's chosen one. This is the only time the voice of God speaks this particular name over the Messiah. You are my chosen one. And in the Gospel of Luke, that's particularly significant. In the Gospel of Luke, chapter 23, verse 35. as Jesus is being crucified. It is the teachers of the law, the chief priests, who say, if he is the chosen one, since he is the chosen one, let him save himself. You see, it was a loaded term The chosen one, again, echoes that language of the Exodus. Israel was God's chosen people. Israel was the son, as Hosea chapter 11 tells us, whom God called out of Egypt. But they failed in all of their wilderness adventures. They yielded to just about every temptation that came their way. Jesus is the faithful Son, in whom the people of God have surety, because he succeeded where people failed. He succeeded where Adam failed. He succeeded where even Moses failed. And even Elijah failed. He didn't quarrel with the rock. He didn't wish for death as Elijah did. Jesus was faithful in every circumstance. He is the true Son of God, the fulfillment of all that God's people could and should be, and it is in him that we have our freedom. He is the chosen one of God, and he had an exodus to fulfill. He had a departure in which he had to perform the role of God's people. Sinlessly, perfectly, completely, personally, render obedience to God the Father in our place. And that meant he had to go to Jerusalem. And he had to do what we could not do, short of forfeiting ourselves for all eternity, and experiencing the separation from God that is hell itself. His mission was to perform a saving act after having lived a perfect life to deliver us from bondage, not a bondage from socio-political oppression, economic woe. physical disease, but to bring us a freedom from the guilt and the power and the stain of sin. To put death itself on trial and crucify it together with himself, that we might be set free forever from the fear of death. This is his mission, to win a people for himself for eternity. Jesus is the Son of God. He is the chosen one with an exodus to perform. And he is to be heard. This is my son, my chosen one. And then perhaps the greatest statement, understatement in all of Scripture, the voice of God the Father speaking in the cloud, then says, listen to him. Isn't it a sad commentary on our human race that we can be told this is the Son of God, this is the chosen one of God, and then have to be exhorted to listen to him? It should follow. But the non-sequiturs that appear in this text find their fulfillment here How often is it the case, dear Christian, that your pastor acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, the chosen one of God, and yet your pastor sins? How often do you think that happens? Awkward silence. How about you? How often do you who know that Jesus is the Son of the living God, God made flesh? the God before whom the angels sang in glory when creation was called into existence from nothing. You know this is who Jesus is Who was born of a baby? Who suffered under Pontius' father? You know all of this. You know that he is the chosen one of God, in whom you have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. And yet you sin. You snapped at your spouse. Tell me I'm a liar. You were impatient with your kids. You know you wanted to direct one of your fingers at someone on Route 29 this morning. You struggle, don't you, with listening to him. And you need to be reminded just like I do of this fact. The Jesus, whose name I bear as Christian. is the Lord of glory, whose majesty shines forth in ways that would level me to the ground. And yes, it would be good to just make a little tent and act as if my redemption is so accomplished that I have nothing left to do. And just bask in that one moment. It would be easy for me to forget that the deliverance, the exodus that Jesus came to perform is from this world, from Jerusalem, not to it or for it. It would be easy for me to over-realize my eschatology in terms of some kind of nationalism, whether that be uber-progressive or uber-conservative. I care not which, both are mistake. It would be easy for me to think that the redemptive work of God is aimed at this world rather than bringing people from this world to himself. To be with him in a new heaven and a new earth. It would be easy for me to want to be as comfortable as possible here Without a thought that Jesus yet has a way for me to follow him. He would lead many sons to glory, many daughters to glory. And that glory, though it will be tasted here, will be experienced there in the full It is easy for us in every respect from the small things like how disgruntled we are when we're out of cornflakes. To being disgruntled because the economics of our particular moment don't suit us It would be easy for us to forget the Lordship of Christ and to be estranged from the wonder and the joy of the presence of Jesus. By the diseases I carry in my body or the heartaches I experience without it. It would be easy for me to be distracted into a sympathetic and understandable partnership with the world, in which I accommodate all of my weaknesses and humor my temptations. It would be easy for me to make peace with the sins that beset, rather than cut those entanglements loose. I am called because Jesus is the all-glorious one, and you are called because Jesus is the all-glorious one. To listen to your Jesus and put one foot in front of the other and follow him off of the mountain to Jerusalem To pick up your cross and to suffer in a way that fills up his sufferings And to preach his gospel, and to love his image-bearers, and for the hope of heaven before you Serve him here. As a citizen of there, serving folk here. This is part and parcel with what the voice of God says when it reminds you, don't merely confess Jesus. Listen to him. We must accept and act on all that Jesus says. We can't be part-time listeners. We can't like what Jesus says about subjects X, Y, and Z, but choose to, like Thomas Jefferson, cut out the parts of Jesus that deal with A, B, and C. We must pay attention to what God speaking through his holy word incarnate in Christ says about our relationships. About our goals, about our gifts, about our attitudes, about our values, about our money , about everything Do we acknowledge Jesus as the Son of God? It's very clear that Peter, who confessed that Jesus is the Christ of God , In chapter 9, verse 20, he still has things to learn about what that means That the Christ of God, the Messiah of God, is God in the flesh, is the one in whom and through whom we have a redemption that leaves Jerusalem. that he is to be listened to before and above and after all other voices. Do you struggle with that the way I do? Pretend you're Baptists for a minute. Do you struggle with that the way I do? Yeah, you do. Yeah, you do. Isn't it good that the Bible reminds us? Do we want to be delivered from the world and from our sins This delivery is very this exodus is described so particularly that he speaks with Moses and Elijah of his exodus, of his departure, which he is to accomplish at Jerusalem. At Jerusalem is where he's going to be doing his leaving, his departing. That's where the Exodus is going to be from, as if from Egypt. And what is that saying about the world and our values and our associations with it? James in chapter 4, verse 4, and I want to urge you in your community groups to spend some time reflecting on this. James, the brother of our Lord Jesus says that friendship with the world is enmity with God. And there's a sense, and we have to recognize that as Christians, you are delivered from this world and its power structures. To live a heavenly life in a worldly context, with a heavenly wisdom instead of earthly, as a citizen of heaven, and that's a hard thing to do. But you can do it, brother and sister. Because if God calls you, he also equips you. And for all of us here, whether we have seen the face of God and long to see it Whether we're curious and would like to, or whether, as Wayne Coke mentioned earlier, we haven't and don't, we have a crisis, which is to say an opportunity Whenever the Bible speaks to us with the voice of God and says, listen to Jesus, the Son of God, Savior of mankind, and then says, listen to him. You have a choice to make. Will you? Will you listen to Jesus? The one who, beyond any other being you could imagine, has the right to be heard and obeyed. Will you listen to him when he says, follow me? Will you listen to him when he says, stop worrying about all these other things? Who of you by worrying can add a single day to his life? Will you listen to him when he bids you let go of resentments and love your enemy? Will you listen to him when he says, Forgive the one who sinned against you? Will you listen to him when he says to you, Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand? Will you listen to him when he says, Let not your heart be troubled? Will you listen to him when he says, I am preparing a place for you? And you know the way. Will you listen to him when he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life Oh dear friend, Jesus is worthy of your attention, your affection, your loyalty. He is worthy of you. And isn't it a wonder that so great is his love for you? That he went to Jerusalem and performed that great Exodus event and broke death itself that you could live. Dying in the place of sinners, that by repentance and faith we could live and know the Son of God. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise. Lord Jesus, we ask that you would bless us. Lord, we pray that you would keep us close. Lord, we pray that you would help us to remember every day that you are God's Son, the chosen one, and we are to listen to you. And Lord, our prayers are with all of those who are yet curious or seeking, all of those who are struggling, all of those who are on mountaintop experiences. Lord, help us never to settle for it. It is good to be here and try to stay, but Lord help us to follow, to follow, and to follow wherever you would lead us, because that is where you are. And help us to listen well. Bless us in every way. We pray in the precious name of Jesus our Savior. And all God's people said.