Well welcome and good morning. My name is Pastor Bob. I'm the pastor here at Columbia Presbyterian Church and it's hard for me to walk up here this morning and not think about Alan Harris, our first pastor. As most of you know, he's the pastor my wife and I grew up under. He's the pastor who preached a sermon in which I gave my life to Christ. He's the pastor who Together with Steve Green, officiated at Mind My Wife's uh marriage, and uh a very, very significant person, not just in the life of this church, but in our life. I couldn't help but think about how in God's providence all of the songs we sang, all the scriptures we read would have been so relevant. To his ministry and to his heart and desire for this church. In particular, that song that the Chapman girls must have picked out weeks or a month ago. One of the deepest desires of Alan Harris's ministerial heart was for revival. He organized prayer meetings. pastors across the county throughout Columbia for revival. He prayed for revival in his prayer walks. He talked about Jonathan Edwards almost incessantly in some of our staff meetings when I was an intern here. He longed for revival. And what is revival? But the coming near of Christ and his abiding with us as we abide in him. with a deep and sensible experience of his majesty, his holiness, his beauty. And as we come to the Word of God this morning, it is my prayer that at this moment we will give thought to those things. And we will join our own personal prayers to the prayer sung by the Chapman sisters. Revive me. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn me to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. We're going to read for us, beginning with verse 17. Let us pray. Almighty and living God, we come to you this morning, and Lord, we are. A church that in in some respects many of us may have heavy hearts at the news that uh Alan Harris, one who is a father in the faith to so many, uh, is is now gone. He's with you. He's not with us Lord, we pray that you would comfort us and his family as Elder Swann prayed earlier. Father, we pray that you would help us to attend to your word. Because the best solution for us not to have our hearts troubled is to remember that Jesus went somewhere particular after his death and resurrection and told us the way. And Lord Jesus, we thank you that in this word that is about you from Genesis to Revelation And how you are the mediator of this covenant of grace by which through repentance and faith we can have life even though we die. Lord, make us mindful of the holiness and the majesty of your word Help us to give it pride of place in all of our thoughts about everything we have an opinion on. Lord, help us to be men and women, boys and girls of your book as we seek your face. And bless this reading of your word to us. And Father, I pray that the preaching that follows And as much as it can be used by your Spirit to draw us to you, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said, Lord, we pray your blessings on that as well. We ask in Christ's name. Together we say, Amen. First Corinthians chapter eleven, beginning with verse 17, the Word of God. But in the following instructions, I do not commend you, because when you come together, it is not for the better, but for the worse. For in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and I believe it in part. For there must be factions among you, in order that those who are genuine among you may be recognized. When you come together, it is not the Lord's Supper that you eat. For in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal. One goes hungry, another gets drunk. What? Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you in this? No, I will not. For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way also he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Whoever, therefore Eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world. So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, so that when you come together it will not be for judgment. About the other things, I will give directions when I come. This ends the reading of God's Word. See there was a lot there, wasn't there? Paul starts out kind of sounding like a meanie, like he's showing up to straighten problems out, which is indeed what he was doing. And if you read the book of Corinthians, 1 Corinthians, the letter Paul wrote to that church, you'll see that it breaks very neatly into a section that begins now for the matters you wrote about. And there's a a series of issues that he brings up. Now for this, now for that, now for this other. One of the things he has to write about concerns the Lord's Supper. And here is where we have, apart from the words of institution in the gospel accounts of the Last Supper, we have the clearest and fullest description of what the Lord's Supper is. And we see that indeed it is a sacrament. We acknowledge that it is connected to the Old Testament sacrament of Passover. We see what it signifies seals and exhibits, and we also see in this text how we should participate in it. the Lord's Supper. So we're going to look at those things. There are many other things in this text that we could and and should look at. But remember this is a series on the church, and so it's topical in nature. So many, many issues we'll have to wait for another opportunity. First, we see that this is a a sacrament that the Lord instituted. Look at what uh uh Paul writes in verse twenty three. For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you That the Lord Jesus on the night when he's betrayed took bread, and there we have the words of institution taken directly from the Gospels. This is something that Christ Himself instituted, and it was clearly understood by the apostles as an abiding principle for the church in every age. That we are to gather together and take bread and take the cup and celebrate the Lord's Supper together. And we know for certain that it's an ordinance that, like the other sacrament baptism , shows it means something. It affects something, seals something in the life of the worthy participant, and it exhibits, it shows something to the world. We'll see that. under point three. But this is clearly a sacrament, and this text clearly identifies it as such. Now when we look at the sacraments, last week we looked at baptism. This week we're looking at the Lord's Supper We see that the Old Testament has as its great sign of covenant inclusion in the visible church, the people of God visibly, tangibly seen. We're not talking about the mysterious elect within. We're talking about all of the twelve tribes. Circumcision was the sign of inclusion into that covenant community. Baptism takes its place in the New Testament. It goes from bloody to bloodless. It goes from painful to satisfying. It goes from dealing with things that are unclean to cleansing. Everything about the coming of Christ has transformed that sacrament of inclusion into something that is beautiful, peaceful, and joyous. And it is for us and for our children. And when we look at that sacrament of baptism as the sacrament of inclusion in the people of God , We see that just as the Old Testament had the two great sacraments of circumcision and Passover, we have a sacrament of inclusion and of continuation That's what the Passover was. Remember, God gave his people in the Old Testament the Passover so that they would remember that God provided for all their needs in their pilgrimage. Not only deliverance from Egypt, but how he fed them and cared for them. We today celebrate the Lord's Supper, recognizing that it is that great sacrament. Of continuation in the Christian life. I've shared before in the two, three-minute devotional thoughts I'm able to give before the Lord's Supper is administered. For those of you who don't attend, the first Sunday night of every month we have a Lord's Supper service here. And that usually involves a 15-minute message from me or from Edward, if the our intern is uh is is sharing that evening, focused exclusively on leading us to the table. And one of the things I've mentioned several times is that for a period of about eight hundred years or so In the Middle Ages, leading up to the time of the Protestant Reformation, the Lord's Supper was called the Viaticum, which via In Latin, we have the Via Della Rosa, the Way of Tears. We have I'm going to the Columbia Mall, via Twin Knolls Parkway. It has to do with the road, the way. And think of cum as a snack, trail mix. The Lord's Supper was conceived of by the bride of Christ for centuries, rightly As a pilgrim meal, something to sustain us on the journey, something to give us a tangible, spiritual, grace-filled, powerful sacrament to urge us forwards and onwards. We've been baptized. We are a part of the visible church. We've been buried with Christ. We've been raised to newness of life. And we need his constant presence and strength to be infused, as it were, by our abiding in him. And in him producing good fruit, putting one foot in front of the other, learning how to run in the path of God's commands You see, we need baptism to set us apart from the world visibly, tangibly publicly. And we need the Lord's Supper to remind ourselves and one another and to experience anew by God's own decree this filling. That enables us to move forward. Well, how does it do that? What exactly does the Lord's Supper signify, seal, and exhibit? To signify means to mean. If something signifies something, it means something. If something signifies nothing, it means nothing. It has no inherent Content in terms of an idea or a theme. What does the Lord's Supper signify? The Lord's Supper signifies that Jesus Christ died for us. We read here, whoever uh as often, and this is verse 26, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. The Lord's death is tied up intimately with the Lord's Supper. We read in the words of institution just earlier that the Lord Jesus Christ said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And then, more pointedly, though more obscurely, in a different way. This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. Well, what did those things mean? Because if we understand what those things mean, we understand what the Lord's Supper signifies. Jesus Christ gave his body for us. He gave his body for us and put himself in our place so that he could instead of us receive the judgment of a holy God against our sin. And there's a couple thoughts there that fly smack in the face of everything this world is going to tell you, and if I may, speak particularly to you young people today. You have been raised in a world in which this world has told you there are only exceptions, there are no rules, and you are all exceptional. Let me just personally share with you, I am not exceptional in any way. And with respect to these grand categories of sin and grace and holiness. Neither are you. Every single one of us are alike sinful. And there is no exception to that rule And until and unless we wrap our heads and hearts around that fact that we are in the very same boat as every other human being since Adam and Eve themselves, we will struggle with what comes next. The only means available for us to be reconciled to God and have peace with God, and therefore to have peace in our hearts. Is for the just wrath of God to be satisfied in someone other than ourselves. I am a sinner, you are a sinner. The holiness of God is something you cannot comprehend. You can apprehend it. You can barely have a fingernail grip on the total holiness of God, the fact that his holiness is so great that sin cannot abide in his presence. Isaiah, considered one of the holiest saints in the Old Testament, in the rabbinic tradition, when he in a vision is caught up to the throne of God, he falls down and says, Woe is me, I am an unclean man. In a vision, the Apostle John, in a vision, falls down as though dead. What would it be like in real life? There's an account of a dinner party that took place in Victorian England where people were speculating What they would do if Jesus Christ entered. And they talked about all the great things they would share and As the story goes, one less well-known person said, I suspect I'd fall down and maybe even die. He was nearer to the truth. The holiness of God is something that in the deepest, quietest places of our heart we suspect if we do not know Him. That there is a standard that is immutable and perfect, and we do not measure up. That is why, dear friend, you who are far or near to Christ, That is why wherever you choose to take a shovel and dig, you will find the concept of sacrifice in the experience of human people. And you will find the concept of prayer. Because you don't need this preacher to tell you that you know you don't measure up to holy God. You know that because you're human. You know that in the same way that ancient people living everywhere from Timbuktu to Tibet, from Tier del Fuego to Oslo, Norway. All people know that. We suppress truth and unrighteousness because we would resist God. Stop wasting your energy denying what you know is true. There is a holy God whose standard you don't meet. Your only possible hope to have peace with Him is for the wrath of a holy God against the hideous nature of sin. That must be satisfied somewhere outside of yourself. But how? And here comes Jesus. The Son of the Living God from all eternity in that divine mystery of the Trinity. And he says, Here I am. And he is born in human likeness taking on our form, not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many And he lives a sinless life so that if he dies to pay the wages of sin, having never sinned himself, he's paying the wages for someone else's sin. Or, as it were, receiving the wages for someone else's sin. And because he is the Son of God, divine in every sense, infinite in being, He is therefore able to die in the place of as many as will look to him with repentance and faith. And the wrath of God is fully satisfied on the Lord Jesus on the cross. And when I take the Lord's Supper, I am reminded that this was his body given for me. He took on flesh for me and died in my place, so that a holy God could be at peace with me. And this blood of the covenant, what is the blood of the covenant in the world of the Old Testament, whether we're talking about the sacred world reflected in Scripture or the secular world that's dug out of archaeology pits in places like El Omarnah and Babylon itself. Covenants had to be sealed with blood. That's simply the way of it in the world in which God revealed Himself. And Jesus Christ is here saying that my blood is the blood of the covenant One scholar, uh uh Dr. Reverend Robertson, O. Palmer Robertson. In his classic book on the covenants, written last century, his way of describing covenants is. A sacred bond in blood sovereignly administered. That blood is essential Because it communicated to every party of the covenant that it's permanent and it involves the very nature of life itself. And when Jesus says, when we take the cup and we say that this cup is the new covenant in my blood We're saying that this is the covenant expected by the prophet Jeremiah. This is the covenant utterly fulfilled and all that the administrations of the covenant of grace from Noah and Moses and David straight on to the time of Joseph and Mary looked for. And it is sovereignly decreed and bound and ratified and finalized in the blood of Jesus. It is permanent. It is indelible. It is once for all. In Christ we have the absolute satisfaction to every hope and expectation of the Old Testament. and the desire of every human heart. In Christ we have the yes to every promise God has ever made. In Christ, we have hope for every situation we find ourselves in, because he delights in rescuing his people from calamity. In Christ, we have everything. And there is no remainder. That's what the Lord's Supper signifies: that Jesus Christ gave everything in an eternally certain unchangeable manner such that we can have an absolute anchor for our soul and foundation for our life. It signifies much And it also seals that to us. Because there is a sense in which when we partake of the Lord's Supper, we are not simply eating bread or drinking a little cup of juice. We are engaging in this solemn and sacred rite by which God has willed to feed us. And here is where we come into contact with John Calvin the Mystic. Have you ever heard that phrase before, John Calvin the Mystic? Anybody? Probably not. When John Calvin was pressed, Because the nature of the Lord's Supper was a huge deal in the 1500s. At the very heart of the Protestant Reformation. When John Calvin was pressed on how exactly is it that we are eating the flesh and drinking the blood of Christ, as John 6 exhorts us to, and as the Lord's Supper invites and commands us to. John Calvin said very simply, this is not something that I understand so much as I experience. There are mysteries presented in the Scripture. There are subjects and themes in the Scripture that when we encounter them We ought to take off our shoes and remember that we are on holy ground. There are many things in the Bible that I don't understand The doctrine of the Trinity that we'll be looking at in some depth in the theology classes on Sunday evening starting September 14th. The doctrine of how Jesus Christ is one person in two natures, fully God and fully man. The way in which the Bible unswervingly presents, without apology or embarrassment, The absolute sovereignty of God over all things, and the reality of your responsibility to choose this day. There are many things that the Bible presents to us as articles of faith. And one of them is the Lord's Supper. That when I partake of the Lord's Supper, I am being fed by God, Christ Himself. And it is not that Christ is being brought down from heaven. He's not becoming the bread or the juice. It's that by the sacrament I am, as it were, with my heart lifted up Communing with Him in heaven. There is a sense in which our nourishment and growth in grace is signified by our participation in that Lord's Supper. It is to us a means of grace. Our union with Christ In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, that's one chapter before we read, and verse 16, we read this The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? In other words, is it not the case that when we celebrate and participate in the Lord's Supper, we are participating in the elements themselves, meaning that we are United to, communing with, Jesus. And not only that, but we are communing with one another. Look at the very next verse. 1 Corinthians 10 verse 17. Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of one bread. So not only does the sacrament signify and seal and exhibit the fact that we are united to Christ. By taking him into us, as it were, by the Lord's Supper, it also signifies, seals, and exhibits the fact that we are one with each other. Keep in mind that the Passover meal in the Old Testament was designed to be eaten by entire families. And if you had too much for your family, what were you supposed to do? Anybody? Get your neighbors. You were supposed to drag anyone you could in there with one rule. They had to be baptized. They had to be circumcised. No uncircumcised persons were to participate in the Lord's Supper, and pardon me in the Passover. But it was for the entire community. And it had to be eaten in its entirety. And if you couldn't find enough people to eat the entire lamb, you had to burn all the rest up so that none lasted until morning. You see, Christ says and he wills that we as his people are to take all of him into ourselves completely. And how often do we wish there were parts of what Christ teaches in this the Word of the Living God that we say, well, I I I'm all down for points A and B, but C and F, those points, let's look no Take all of Christ. Take all of Him. To resist some of Him is to reject all of Him. Take Christ in his entirety into your entirety together as the people of God We all of us participate together in this one redemption, this one Savior, this one great sacrifice. When we celebrate the Lord's Supper, these are all things that we can and do think about. In the evening service on the first Sunday of the month, I tend to try to focus on one aspect. Because these sacraments that God has given us, baptism and the Lord's Supper, are what uh literary scholars or theologians might call polyvalent. They have several meanings or perspectives. Just like the water of baptism can signal our burial, just like something being buried in water, that's a sign of death. Yes, our death with Christ is symbolized. uh signified by our baptism. But so is our washing. A very different picture. And this Lord's Supper, it signifies that Christ died for us, that we're united with Him, that we're united with each other, that we are growing in grace. All of those things are things that we should and ought to think on and reflect on as we come to the table of the Lord. But how should we participate in this? One of the things that is very much a part of the Christian church's tradition that is very much not part of the modern evangelical practice today is the idea of preparing for the Lord's Supper. If we were saints living at any period in church history prior to about a hundred years ago, the Lord's Supper would have been announced in advance. And you would have had special devotions to prepare for the Lord's Supper every time it was served. This goes back to the idea of Lent, because when Lent first began to be observed in the Western Church, how often do you think the laity participated in the Lord's Supper? One time a year. And in some parts of ancient Europe they only got the bread, not the cup. That's one of the reasons that John Husk got in so much trouble, because he was what's called an Utrequist. Both kinds. Bread and cup go to the laity. The Protestant Reformation recaptured what the Bible teaches about the Lord's Supper, meaning that it's not just for some people to come to. and enjoy is for all of us together to participate in. We wait for each other. We share it together in every respect. But the church never let go of its idea of preparing for it. To have a season in which leading up to the Lord's Supper you examine yourself. You see, that's an idea that comes right out of 1 Corinthians 11. It says that we ought not to come in an unworthy manner. Verse 27, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner. Will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. Historically, Christians would say then that as we come to celebrate the Lord's Supper, there ought first to be some examination that I don't sin against the table and the the Lord of the table by just coming willy-nilly. How do we examine ourselves? We have taken, especially in the modern Reformed Presbyterian Church. The idea of examining ourselves or preparation for the Lord's Supper and incorporated that into what we call the fencing of the table. I don't know if you've noticed, and if you're a visitor here on a day of the Lord's Supper, you will hear me say, the session of this church invites all of you who are baptized Christians. Examine yourself there. Have you been baptized? Publicly affirmed by water in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, that you belong to the Lord. Have you been buried with Christ? Have you been raised with Him? Are you called to newness of life? So if you're a baptized member of any Christian church who desire to live a life as becomes the follower of Christ, That you are. All of you who desire to live in step with the Spirit, following Jesus, who aren't harboring a sin in your heart, again examine yourself. Are you in out-and-out rebellion to your Lord and Savior? Are you saying, I know this is a major sin in my life, but you know what? I'm holding on to this one. See, if any of those things are the case, it would be far better not to partake in the Lord's Supper, but to, in the words of the old Puritans, somewhat crass to the modern ear, do business with Jesus. And get yourself right before Him. There is a sense in which we do prepare ourselves. And not only do we prepare ourselves, but we then reflect upon it We reflect upon the fact, after we've taken it, that we are not judged, that we are not spiritually hungry, that we are called to be the Lord's, that we are forgiven, that we are sustained, that we are well fed. It's not just a one-and-done. It's not just a sacrament that we do by rote. It's a sacrament that we look forward to, prepare for, and reflect upon. Well, we are to the part of the sermon that some of you look forward to the most, the application. What does this mean for you and for me? The first question I have is, how does it sustain me and am I sustained? Because I will be very candid with you. There are times that I participate in the Lord's Supper. And I feel a glow with the presence and the love of Jesus. And there are other times I take the Lord's Supper, and I'm thinking, is this even bread? Because it tastes like styrofoam. There are some occasions in my spiritual exercises As a servant of God, in which I feel that I am Elijah in a cave and I hear God whispering in my ear. And there are other times I feel like Job thinking, God, where are you? And I want to encourage you, dear Christian. There are times you will take the Lord's Supper, maybe most times, and you will feel that, well, We did that. There will be those other times, maybe few and far between, where it may be as if the very gates of heaven opened up and gave you a peak. At the beauty of your Savior. I've reflected a lot about that, and I've been reflecting a lot about that since I heard about Alan Harris's going to be with the Lord. The memorial service for him will be on September 13th. That's a Saturday. The time of day is yet to be determined. But one of the things that I'll be mentioning there in my comments is that Alan Harris on multiple occasions throughout his ministry from the late 70s through the late 90s when I sat under his preaching. would refer to the beatific visions that Jonathan Edwards had when he was taking his devotional prayer walks. And Alan Harris longed for those moments, and he experienced more than one. But even Jonathan Edwards and Alan Harris could count such experiences on one hand. Why is that? Dear Christian, we are not in heaven yet Do you remember what God had to say through one of his holy angels to the apostles after they saw Christ ascend into glory, after his last words to them recorded in the book of Acts? The angel had to say, Why are you still here? You have work to do. And there's a sense in which we are not called to simply be stunned into awestruck Reverence, prostate before the Lord. We are called to get ourselves up and go into the highways and byways. And on this side of heaven, I don't believe we're capable of doing both at the same time. Imagine for a moment, dear friend. If all of the feelings and the attraction and the need for proximity and attention that you experienced with your spouse the first day you were married If that continued for five years, you would lose your job. You'd be out on the street And uh in an alley somewhere. God knows our frame. Do not be troubled, dear Christian If heaven doesn't open up for you every time you experience the sacrament. Be patient. Know the truth. Be humble, embrace the truth, and at all costs, don't look elsewhere We are a people who are desperate to get a fix, whatever that means to us, whatever fixes we might desire most. I want to close by reading for you something from the book of Isaiah, chapter 55, verses 1 through 3. I thought I had a bookmark, but clearly I didn't. Here we are. These are words that Jesus echoes in John chapter 7 when he goes to the Feast of Tabernacles after something that the Jews in their day called the water pouring ceremony. And these are words that have to do with ancient culture. In ancient culture, whenever you celebrated something, say, let's imagine I celebrated a birthday. Let's go back to July 10th and it's my birthday. If we were an ancient Semitic people, I would say to you, come, it's my birthday. Eat and drink for free. And I'd take, I'd go into the marketplace and I'd put my birthday budget Say, what what is my birthday budget, Carrie? Fifty dollars a hundred? Whatever Carrie gives me, I'd slap it on the table and say, eat up And in that ancient culture, as long as there is money on that table, as many people as wanted to celebrate with me could come to the table and eat and drink at no cost. It's on me. Kind of the opposite of our idea of birthday, right? When Jesus stands up in a public place and says, Come to me and drink, that's what he's channeling. It's on me. And that well won't run dry. That pile of currency will never end. Listen to what we read, the suffering servant saying in Isaiah chapter 55: Come, everyone who thirsts. Come to the waters, and he who has no money, come, buy and eat. With my money, he's saying. Come, buy wine and milk, without money and without price. And here's the question for you, friend. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourself in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me, hear that your soul may live And I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David. What an invitation to the table of the Lord. I guarantee you that those things you spend your life chasing for satisfaction and fulfillment will leave you unsatisfied, and you're just going to need more tomorrow. I guarantee you that's the case. But I also guarantee you that if you come to Christ in spirit and in truth with repentance and faith, I can give you my own word. I have never regretted it. And I have found my soul satisfied. Even in valleys of the shadow of death. And certainly in those mountaintop experiences when I've met with Christ in the table of the Lord. You are invited. Come to Christ. Lord Jesus, we thank you. Lord, we thank you that you invite people like us to come to your table, to partake of the benefits of your life and death. Lord, forgive us for our stubborn insistence on dying for ourselves after living however we wanted. What a tragic picture. And Father, so little joy is derived from that. And yet we double down on it again and again and buy food that does not satisfy. Lord Jesus, satisfy us with yourself. Lord, I pray that by your Spirit you would aggravate the hunger and all who do not know you. That they would be past the point of exhaustion suppressing these truths. That you are a holy God and we are a sinful people. That our only hope lies in a substitute, a Savior, who will take our place and bear our burden and give himself for us forever. O Lord Jesus, open the eyes of our hearts, that we might see wonderful things in your word, and none more wonderful than that. We ask these blessings in Christ's precious name. Amen.