Carl is the son of Marjorie and Elmer Dorsbach, and those of you who were here in the eighties when they served in our church were deeply blessed by their loving care, their wisdom, and their examples of godly living. Carl and uh Debbie went to Wheaton, and Carl, through his own admission, was socially illiterate when it came to dating In his first effort to date uh Debbie was uh turned down. But we all, uh we Presbyterians know that uh our sovereign God does prevail And through working together in in various activities he brought them together as husband and wife After school, they continued their uh studies. He graduated from Westminster Theological Seminary, and Debbie gained experience as a registered nurse in the field of public health. They served an internship in Eritrea and it was in Eritrea in a hospital where Debbie and a co worker in 1974 were kidnapped by members of the Eritrea Liberation Front. The co-worker was murdered But Debbie uh was in captivity for twenty-six days and God brought her back uh safely For a number of years, Carl has worked with Mission to the World in Kenya, planting churches and training up pastors. For about ten years, he has worked to develop uh in an effort to uh turn over to uh uh Kenyan leadership a uh training program for pastors He has more recently been seconded to Peacemakers Ministry where he is developing a program in conflict resolution to be used in BA and MA programs in seminaries throughout the world. Carl, it's a pleasure to introduce you. And a pleasure to be here, to be back. As I said earlier this morning, I have not been here since uh This building was actually erected. When I used to visit mom and dad, they lived here in the Potter House. Um I think half of them was upstairs and the other half downstairs. I can never I can't quite remember it, but uh is that the way it was? All right. Anyway, it's changed. Uh life has changed, but I I do bear you greetings from them, those of you who may remember them. Uh they are doing well. Dad doesn't have any more sight. That doesn't surprise any of you. Uh mom is still going like the ever ready bunny and that doesn't surprise you either So uh we are blessed to have the occasion once in a while to be able to visit with them to see them And this morning I want to talk about uh virtuality, not virtuosity, but virtuality. And besides being a social illiterate, I I want to do something that I've wanted to do since I was in junior high school, and this is in honor of the upper basketball team. You know what I did? I just hit the other basket from this end, and it was the winning point in our team. I always wanted to do that. And I just did it virtually. I'm sure you were impressed. Nuts. I was never able to do it really, so if I can't do it really, at least I can do it virtually, right? That's the trouble with our virtual lives. And we live much of our lives virtually. So I am still in Africa virtually. I still work in Africa virtually. And um I still love Africa really. Now, how do I live and work in Africa virtually? Well, I uh like many of you, I use my Skype And I can talk to my colleagues and I do multiple times in a week that are in Nairobi or perhaps uh one who is uh in Liberia, another one who is uh helping to set up a program in Eastern Europe and so forth and so on. And it's exceptionally helpful to be able to jump over the passage of time and of space and to do it virtually. I I I was in preparation for this, I I did a little bit of research to find out how to help myself virtually. And I discovered that uh you can actually get all kinds of computer software uh for virtual offices. So that you can have a virtual secretary and a virtual office setup and you can log into your office virtually Uh it's just really wonderful. And I and I discovered also, this probably a lot of you kids already knew this, that you can get a game that's called the Virtual Village I haven't a clue how it goes. I don't know if you make friends or you have fights or you get out of the fights or you get rich or you get poor or just what you do, but maybe some of you kids know how to uh to play the virtual game. For myself, I found that most of my life has to be lived in the real world. And the virtual world is this funny thing that I just learned about every once in a while. But our world has sort of become a bit virtual. This week, however, we've come to discover the realities of the virtual world that we live in. I was listening to an NPR um uh reflection on the market crash. Uh that uh uh correction, sorry. uh that happened this week. Depends on how much money you had in it, whether it was a crash or a correction. But uh in any event the word was that uh all of the Chinese grandmothers who have been seeing this booming Chinese market uh decided that they could make money virtually by getting into the market. And so they sold whatever they had to sell and they got into the market and the market was so virtually oversold And there wasn't really any virtual product that it really went down. Nine points I guess in a day or nine percentage I don't do very much with money. Um I do uh understand though that when I listened to the one commentator who said, Yeah, I was there, I went back to my desk and when I looked up the board, uh the numbers had gone down three hundred percent. Uh , Well, I don't know a whole lot about the stock market, but I know 300 points in a matter of a few minutes is significant. Why did that happen? Well it happens because we had virtual sales, and the virtual sales gave way to virtual profits, and virtual profits went on a virtual market. And all of a sudden, reality hits. Now, what I what I want you to think with me in this next few minutes as we go through scripture and we're going there is What would happen if God had come virtually to earth If Jesus just decided he was going to go on a mission trip, he was just going to check things out. And uh and he did a A one-week mission trip to Bethlehem, you know, put in a virtual presence , find out what really happened. Then he went back to heaven Supposing God were to come every generation virtually and just put in an appearance, maybe. Maybe you wouldn't even need to do that, just sort of beam in. You know, you put your little eye camera on him and let him enter into your virtual home, just you and your computer. Supposing that's what God did. Had he done that, then forgiveness would be virtual too. And hope would be virtual. And it wouldn't be real. The problem with our world is that pain is real And actually, God put the receptors in our body to give us pain so that we might wake up to the reality of something going wrong. No, God didn't come virtually. God came really. And I want you to see that as we go through the text in John chapter 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made, and in him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in darkness, but the darkness has not understood it. It's a real God, in other words, a real source, a real creator That created a real world, a global village, not a virtual village, a real global village And the real God brought real life. And real life is real light that shines in real darkness. None of it's virtual. It's all real. And he did it so that we wouldn't have to live in pain. That's our real God. Verse 6. There came a man who was sent from God. His name was John. He came as a witness to testify concerning the light, so that through him all men might believe. He himself wasn't the light. He only came as a witness to the light A real witness, not a virtual witness. What's a virtual witness? Well, a virtual witness is somebody who says, Yeah, well I I think I saw I programmed it in I've been through this before, and I know that there's there's some secret passageway to get to the lower world, or the upper world, or whichever way it is you're going in your game A virtual witness is one who says, Well, I think that I believe in Or I think I've experienced, but that kind of a virtual witness isn't one that really counts, is it? John was a real witness. To a real light. He wasn't the light, but he was a real witness to the light. Now what's a real witness? We sang today And we often say that often our witness may be a witness of silence. Consider that for a minute. Sometimes silence, if there is a situation of injustice, may be to continue the injustice. Sometimes silence may be a way of protecting, but it all depends on what the reality is that lies behind the silence. I shared one story about Rwanda this morning. I want to share another one now. A couple of years ago I had the privilege of being in one of the rather out-of-the-way places in this tiny little country of Rwanda Now those of you that are at least over 20 do recall that in 1994 there was an incredible implosion of violence in Rwanda and Burundi and Congo. Uh one people group was murdering the other people group in the space of a few months, uh three months basically. Uh someplace between one and three million people were slaughtered, most of them with machetes hand to hand. And I had the privilege of working amongst God's people for a number of years in Rwanda, and one day I had the privilege of visiting the home of an old pastor. whose own family was half Hutu and half Tutsi. He was a pastor of a Presbyterian church. And when the soldiers had come to his house , they demanded to know where the Tutsis were of his congregation. He said, they 're not here. If they're here, you can find them. He said, You will find me in my bedroom I will pray for God's peace. Now, what the soldiers didn't know was that Reverend Nirakundo Had moved his his own bedroom, having lost his wife, he moved his bedroom to the guest quarters, which were in the front part of the house. And the guest quarters had a small bathroom, a small kitchen, and of course a bedroom. And when the fighting began and the house-to-house searching began He moved into that room. And he moved a large bookcase over the only door between the kitchen and the bedroom. And in that kitchen and bathroom were twenty people hiding. They stayed there for about two months. And he put himself in silence between them And those who were seeking to kill them. Had they found the doorway, he also would have been killed. They came back multiple times. They never found the room. They never found the people. His silence was a real witness because his action was real action. John was a real witness. John came not because he was the light but to bear witness about the light, to recognize before the wanting world that there was darkness And darkness needed light. And so John bore witness about that. The text goes on in verse 9. The true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world. Really. Not virtually. He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world didn't recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own didn't receive him. But to those who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children. of God. Children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision, or of a husband's will, but born of God. I'm a real son. Many of you have known my real father and my real mother. All of us here have real fathers and real mothers, or we wouldn't be here. It may be we have one birth parent and we're living now as adopted children with a parent that we weren't actually born to. But we have real parents. And even our adoptive parents are real. They're not virtual. So when I come to this and I think, well, how is it that God comes to make me his child. Am I just a virtual child? Have I ever seen God? Why didn't God come back in my generation? Why doesn't He make at least a technical prof uh appearance? Wouldn't it be nice? If uh if Jesus were to come back every generation? Just check in. Virtually. We wouldn't receive it. That's what the text says. Just like his own didn't receive it when he really came In spite of it and because of it and through it, God makes me his child, a real child. Not a virtual child. Something happens inside of me. It didn't happen because of my father's desire, not because of my mother's desire. It had nothing to do with the decision of human beings. But God's will, God's purpose, God's reality, reaching down into my world, grabbing it, coming into it. And John bore witness of that. And the text says that he wasn't the real light, but the real light was going to enlighten everyone. There was going to be a certain and a special identity of those who would be born, not of human will, not of the flesh. But of God. We would have a unique identity. Some of you have looked at me and said, I see your father. Well, guess what? If you see my sons, you've seen my father too. There are certain genetic tendencies that sort of go through us And if I take my glasses off, you can see my same sagging eyes that my father has, and my big bushy eyebrows that my father has, uh my same hairline that my father has. And guess what? I'm I'm a child of my father. And I'm a child of my father God. Because He's done a real work in me. Not a virtual work. Let's go back to text Verse 14 through verse 16 actually starts to contrast the story that John is weaving for us, the history. And all of a sudden we find ourselves in that history. So notice the shift between the he and the we. The word became flesh and lived for a while among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only Son, who came from the Father full of grace and truth. John testifies concerning him. He cries out and he says, This was he of whom I said, he who comes after me has surpassed me, because he was before me. From the fullness of his grace, we have all received one blessing after another. The real dwelling. That's what verse 14 is all about. He actually came and he took on, God, that is, came and he took on human form. He walked as we walked. He suffered as we suffer. He felt pain as we feel pain. He understood betrayal as you and I perhaps never understand betrayal. He showed mercy as we often fail to show mercy. He loved as we can't begin to love. He was real. And he dwelled among us. He didn't come and do a one-week short mission trip. He dwelled among us. Yeah, it took me a number of years in uh East Africa before I was fluent enough, and when I started I wasn't fluent, to preach in Swahili. I'll never forget that day. I had been going for many weeks to a very small, actually many months, to a very small church in one of the rural poor areas of Nairobi And uh my friend that I had uh mentored for a number of years used to be my translator. And on this particular day I decided I was going to start my message in Swahili. And that was probably my biggest mistake. Because once I started, he sat down. And when I got to the point where I was going to go back into translation, he just sat in the front row and he said Buddy, you're on your own. And it's not virtual. It's real. You know, you can't Google the translation. And from that point on, I began to experience the pain of trying to communicate in another language that wasn't mine. I had to live among and with a language so that I could hear it. And use it. Jesus came and he lived among us so that he knew us. He knew the pains that we would experience Now, he didn't experience the virtual world. He didn't experience computer technology. And you know, I'm very thankful that he came and dwelled among us. That's the he. Look at the we. What happens because he did that? Well, we have seen his glory. Because he lived among us, because he shared our pain, because he shared all of the evil that we experience, all of the struggle, we have seen his glory. We don't see glory virtually. We see it really And Jesus came that we might have a picture and a vision of that glory. The glory of the one and only Son who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. Nothing virtual is full. It's empty. It's not there. That's why it's virtual. It's somewhere else if it is at all. But he came full of grace, truth, and that fullness was his glory. The glory of the Father was in Jesus dwelling in the midst of men. But that's an incredible reality that I hope you get to chew on just a little bit. Because as we go on in this text and as we go on in our lives, I want you to see it. We have seen his presence. We have seen the fatherhood. That's really what the text is all about. We understand grace and truth because Jesus came and lived among us. We receive. He gave, we receive. And we receive it really, not virtually. From his fullness comes fullness. From his grace comes grace. From his blessing comes blessing. It comes out of the reality of God dwelling and being with us. But the great mystery of this is it has to do with our lives today and the witness that we bear today. Because our world is still a world in darkness. It still is a world in pain. It still is a world where we betray each other. It still is a world where we're not nice to each other. We still live in a world where we can't forgive each other, and we still live in a world where we expect certain people to have it all together. Children expect their parents to have it all together. I did. Guess what? I discovered when I became a parent that parents don't have it all together And we expect our spouses to have it all together, to never wrong us, to always lift us up when we want it. And guess what? It doesn't happen. Even for children of God, it doesn't happen. We're sinful. So our world is still broken by this darkness that invades our soul. It's not virtual, it's real. And we live in a real fallen world. So, in what sense can we say that God has broken into a real world, really, in this sense When Christ came, he was perfect. But when you go to the office tomorrow, or you go to school, you won't be. Guarantee it. When you come home from the office and you come back to your family, you're not going to be perfect either. Guarantee. So, how are we like Christ? If Christ is living in us, shouldn't I be perfect? No. My need points only to Christ, the one who alone is able to satisfy and bring light into the darkness. In other words, when I represent Christ, I recognize that I am in darkness and I need light. So although Christ came to give to me light, I come bringing darkness. Saying, I need light. When Christ came and dwelt among men, they marveled at his power and his authority. had power and authority over over the sea, over the land, over the wind, over darkness, over death, over blindness, over sickness. They marveled. And here we come. Nobody marvels. None of you applauded when I made that basket at the beginning of my message, right? Because it was virtual. You laughed That's reality. So how is it that I reflect Jesus I reflect his presence and his hope. It's when I am in despair that I reach out and I receive that which God alone can give to me and do To transform my inner despair and make it hope. That's the real presence. That is the real power. And it's lived in my life. When Christ gave, he gave fullness. He gave grace. He gave truth. What do we give? All we can do is point to the fullness, point to the grace, point to the truth. W 's last book actually released just in December. The AIDS crisis, what can we do? Intervsity press. She tells a story about a woman named Shrubb in Cambodia. At one time, Trubb was a beautiful woman. She was a commercial sex worker, a prostitute. And she had learned her trade from her mother, like father-like son, like mother-like daughter. Her mother had already died of AIDS. Chubb's beautiful body was now wasted, not only pencil thin, but wasted. Tebby saw her the week before she died. The reason she saw is because she was going with another woman who had been in a church workshop. Learning how to care for unloved people who were in darkness and despair. It was an AIDS care workshop. Now mind you, the church in Cambodia is not very big. And it's not only not very big, but it's a persecuted church So Sincuntia had gone to her church and had been a part of this workshop in which the what was called actually the church was called the Way of Hope Church. The Way of Hope And convicted by that workshop, she went out to her neighbors just to see how she could help serve. She also was poor. And she came onto this household of shrub. Now, the only one who would take care of shrub was her grandmother. And she watched first her daughter and then her granddaughter waste away. So when Sincluntia came to the house and said, Is there anything I can do to help? It's like, well yes, we need water. Grandma 's too old to carry the water, so she carried water. Anything else? Clean. So she cleaned. She came back every week. Well nobody else would come, but Secundia would come. And one day on her way to church, Secundia came. And found that Sharub had died that morning. Her grandmother was mourning. The body was covered She lost a few words of hope with her grandmother and went to church. They didn't cancel church. It wasn't a snow day. But when she took the message to church, the people left. And they went to Trubb's house And there they took what was necessary to help in the funeral process. They accompanied the grandmother to the crematorium. They watched as she did as the body went in, engulfed by flames. It came out on a little sled with a few ashes. The grandmother came to church the next Sunday. She said I was hopeless. There was nothing. Nobody would come. Everybody scorned us. But you came. I have seen hope. Really? I've seen hope And that is who we are. The children of the king. We're not the king. We're not the light. We don't have power. The only glory we carry is his. It's to say, I need forgiveness. I need a Savior. I need light. Really. I need it. That's who we are If you've come today and you're a virtual Christian, you haven't got the real thing And people don't want virtual Christianity. They want the real thing. People that have felt the pain. People that have lived in darkness and have seen light. People that know they need forgiveness and they've received it That's who you are. Go and be the glory of God in a broken world. Let's pray. Father, we're yours. You have placed your identity upon us So that in some way we actually look like you. You call us to go to broken places and broken people. Because we're broken. You call us to go into hopelessness because we have found our hope in you. And it's real. You've called us to go to marriages that are breaking because we look at our own marriage and we see the seeds of brokenness. Father, help us that we might bear your glory In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.