Together we'll be taking three messages to talk about what this is and what it involves. The first is the fellowship of the students. First passage we want to consider in this passage for this morning is from 1 John chapter 1. Let's hear that word from 1 John chapter 1, the first seven verses That which we found the beginning, which we have heard and which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at in our hands at text, this we perform concerning the word of God. The life appealed. The appeal of them testified to have a leaf oppose view to eternal life, which is with the Father and have appealed to it We propose to you what we have seen and heard so that you may have fellowship with us. Our fellowship is with a fire And with his son, he's a part. In writers to make our joy completely. We declare it , God is light. In him there is no darkness at all. If you claim to have fellowship with him, yet walk in by and do not live by the truth. But if we walk in the light, then he is in the light. And the blood of Jesus becomes purified in every thing. In plain things, it's often simply happens to money The manufacturer of the extract of money which reduces the value of any individual unit of it is something that can also happen to games Take certain words that are reading and death. Take for instance the words love. A word that's full of meaning. A word that has uh all kinds of calories It is very beautiful and meaningful to it. And good the world loves to Hollywood and to Madison Avenue and they take it and they're in Flood And more temples practically nothing. You can talk about conference because nothing without the biblical concepts. because it's been translated. And that's the way it is also with the word fellowship. The word fellowship is a word that has dense and compacted biblical meaning It's a very rich word with a very precise meaning. It's a very powerful concept in the new type of speech. What we've watered down that word fellow chips because of its positive philosophy, we've used it in all kinds of a community. And so you uh build a building and part of it always has to be the fellowship hall. And you have fellowship this and fellowship that and fellowship and use to baptize any kind of activity that people do together, especially eaters, to make it something that is very uh critical and very positive. And by doing that we have softly law the meaning of what fellowship is according to the New Testament. What is then the fellowship of the Holy Spirit Well because this word has been used and body down from us, in this period I am going to use the new words and we'll have But I'm going to use that word for the reason three clockwork the distinctiveness of what is intended when it just speaks about the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. Because this morning we're going to consider the principle and practice of Koinonia And in case you're not familiar with our terminology, colonula simply means fellowship, the principle and practice of reset and fellowship or colonel. I want to do this by looking at the five points that you see later in the bullet that I And think about it as a definition of colonialists, step along and consider the basis of terminalism, three the position and process of solar. Fourthly, how that is definition to two common problems of the idea Skipping the structure for polymer and LP2 of Bible. Excuse me, apparently, LP goes through it. Well first. First of all then the definitions of formula of television. So reading first down one, there 's three And that we propose to you what we have been heard so that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship or our coronavirus is with the father, a little son, Jesus And what does that word mean? Well quite literally the Greek word means simply before instant the desire to all have in common Because with someone think something that you both have in common. There are two elements involved in that and that's definitely both of them Well, you have to have something in common, something that you mutually possess, something that uh involves both of you. And then secondly you must actively stay in that place or in that experience. The word is mutually The Greeks concerning Bible relationships. That two Greeks can awaken up a good reflex and don't have coin and error in that reflex. That's the way the word is used in the New Testament times Uh that partnership on the website was a polynomial. It used to fall in mind in the New Testament yeah. Two people were married, they had a polynomial relationship and they're sharing life together. And you would use the word polomer to the Because for any kind of relationships, a vital service is something that two or more people have as comments. And what about the basic forex? What is the basic I think for what I understand that you must do it in the biblical background. You must first of all look at what quality was intended to do in the beginning. We create them Because in creation we see that God's original part of work economy or to fellowship. God is the original made man to fellowship with himself Get us out to consider that in Genesis 2 7 we read that God, when he made man of the dust of the earth, moved into his master as the blessed light Because God is giving to man his own life. That's what Genesis 27 says. All life comes from God. And therefore God has moved for us to share his own life. And man was to know , live in a unique phenomenon with God was created because man uniquely was given God's own life God made man to live in fellowship with himself and destroy the world that God would lead. So that we would be able to see the beauty of it. We'd be able to do it in partnership with our God I've made it also a vigilance to live in fellowship with one another. To fill the life that we have given and the world we have moved for with one another in a vital fellow Possibly with no walls in the tree, but a full and free and open fear of the world that God has made and the life that He has given to His and fellow peace is made in His image. the fall of course disrupted. Because in the fall man was cut off from God. And when he was cut off from God he was also cut off from his fellow man. You see, when we are cut off from bad, we are actually cut off from one another. Death used separation. And so isolation is at the very heart of the code They will see this in many ways. On the one hand, we see the intense isolating of architecture. People just sit and watch TV, but they don't bother to relate to people outside. of their own families, many times even to people within their families. I don't know if um any of you have seen this or some studies done on this or people who become a first to computers and use uh the downtime to simply relate to the computers and they don't relate to people anymore. It's a whole sub culture of computer libraries But people who are out of touch with humanity simply relating to the marvels and the wonders of computers allowed to do things to do. People who in many ways so no care and an inability to relate to them. The latest psychology for debate debate magazine has an article on it by Basil Marno. He talked about one time when he was using the wicked music, he was dying of He had to make some arrangements for people to stand in while he was there. And he made some to some of the uh people who were working with him that he was having to leave in order to visit his sister he was down to Well have a good time, hope you have a good book. Well, do you let me get back? No one was able to communicate any kind of people So we're not used to being able to care in one another's lives because of that alienation, that being cut off from one another. That's up in our hearts, not able to offend our heart. That's part of the truth. It's not the way God moved with his people. And so on the other hand , he is that From the seventies moving into the eighties and stuff with reflective in People who are willing to uh buy into any kind of irrational beliefs uh in order to simply form communities to feel like they're being loved and cared for All kinds of gatherings we see. We see the singles fellowship springing up all over. Of people who have said, I don't want to make a commitment to another partner, but I want to have some kind of community. We have all kinds of clubs and gatherings. Anything that will bring people together to give them some feeling of communication, some sort of a feeling of being able to relate to some other person while in their health or afraid of doing justice I love you. And that was a business. People would pay. A dollar a day. So we're not thinking the community process. So we know what we are in process. uh fards memory which uh uh we don't recommend that you see unless you're able to deal with that in terms of how the bascular process. Very difficult In that really always demonstrating how modern man has no concept of hell in the next life, but has a very real concept of hell and isolation in this life He we'll emerge from that movie now by ridiculing himself that he's not over to make funny pictures anymore. Because the utter isolation from the magnitude of human children before grave, but he can make games. And everybody petty research and ear. He talks about the fact that the only meaning that there is for life, that there isn't any meaning in life, he says ultimately, the only meaning is possible If you could find a life to feel property how to do, we could simply be able to look one morning at the face of the woman that you love while reading the story to inspire on the floor and maybe feel a sad time that we could reach out and touch it and have one sleeping moment of life. Sure rationalists with no meaning, no continuity to it. But think of the possibilities that we could have that Even moment of fear, and that's all the room. You can't help you. You can't even help yourself. Because we are the best of the alone. This is a lemon that modern man finds himself. The Bible says it politics. It's something we need not stand back from. We cannot do anything but look at straight in the face. Bible talks about the same phase of redemption. They do describe that the Well Jesus Christ himself made you for us. You and I have been reconciled to God because Jesus was alienated from God When Jesus died on the cross, he said, My God, my God, why have you persistent me? And Jesus at that point was bearing the ultimate curse, the isolation, the separation from his father. And it was because of that alienation and that isolation, that curse upon him, that you and I have been reconciled. We who are enemies made friends with our God We have also been reconciled to one another. Because if Jesus says Jesus brought a man peace of breaking down the walls of separation Jesus has created a new humanity, a new community, which is the church, the fellowship of the Spirit. You can declare the fellowship of the Spirit Our Father's world and have a common life in Him, those who would have Him breathe into us the blessed lights because we have a fellowship of the Spirit of Redemption. But those who receive a new light we see the Christ because of his gossip and his work on across and present us. Because the Holy Spirit has come within us. And He has given the true life, we have this new community whereby we are justified, whereby we receive the righteousness based on Jesus Christ on all on the same level before our God and we said. And this is what John 's talking about. This is what he says we heard from the beginning, which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes, which we looked, and our hand is touched This is what we proclaim concerning the word of life, Jesus, we can. That life appears, and we've seen it, we testify it to it, we concern it to you the eternal life which is with a father And it's a few to us. The same to you that we assume and what we assume and what we refer to, but you also may have fellowship with us. The fellowship that we have, and what is that fellowship? Our fellowship is with the Father. And it's a friend, Jesus said. God has made us to be in fellowship with us. He's made us to serve the life that He has given to us. With the Father and with the Son Jesus and suffered into 16, 13, five of the past, fellowship of the Holy Spirit. Fellowship of the Father is following This is the message that we've heard from him of his life. God is love. And in Him there's no dances at all. So you see, because that's true, because that's the nature of God, that 's we're going to have some If he's going to steal his life, the life is solution and the western, and yet we walk and dark become a law and you don't have to see it. You can't feel God's life and not reflect God's power But I will trust the parentheso of the one whom I'm in followers with But you see, on the other hand, the science , dynamic conclusion, and very confident , if we walk in the light, we do within the light. Then we have follows See how I have a diagram out in all of it so that you get some sort of a picture of what John said. You can look very If I am in point of military, if I am in politics with God and you are in a relationship with God Do you realize that John 's saying that God is saying that your relationship with you, our relationship with one another, is as vital and as intimate as our relationship with the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit because we use it to take in the same spirit. You're in fellowship with God, and I'm in fellowship with God. So you and I will like together in that same relationship that we have with the Father the Son and It can't be that same kind of relationship because With a father, I share my whole life. And my whole life is is wrapped up in my relationship to God , Father and Son and Jesus But with you I feel practically nothing. But we don't have any sharing of a common life together. Well in order to understand how that feels, we need to consider the difference between the position and the process of the terminal. See what I'm saying here is that there is a difference between our position and our practice, and we need to understand the relationship between our questions We think of our righteousness in two centuries. Think of having righteousness of person in two centuries. People think of your righteousness And by that we refer to your standing before God the Father, a God the Judge who has acquitted you and has given to you in Jesus Christ your Son his own righteousness. That righteousness that you have is an objective, finished, complete righteousness called by the New Testament, justification. It is something that happens outside of you. It is ha it is happening because of a verdict of God with respect to you. God called you righteous. He defends you righteous. And therefore you are innocent. And nothing can take that away. In fact, no way we speak of righteousness. We also speak of our righteousness in our obedience to God in our lives We stop if we talk about a person living righteously or a person living unrighteously. That's not referring simply to his presence in Jesus Christ, it's referring to his practice. When we talk about our living in our experience latency, we're not talking about just completion, we're talking there about false completion Let's look at this exactly telling us. There are positions refer eternal life in Jesus Christ. DLRs have polynomial in lights. Officers have polynomial insights by virtue of the relationship with these attempts. the light, slam walking the night, then you have time in the one with the night. Slam does not say you ought to have it. C doesn't say you could have it. C doesn't say work it up down. C distinct says it is a static fat. You have it Now notice the ultimate with this we have. Usually a couple of there are a couple of illustrations used in the scriptural. In my romance, there's an illustration of Romans chapter 11, verse 33, Paul's been talking here about the Gentiles who have lasted into the promises of the Jews, promises that God gave to Abraham. And in Romans eleven seventeen, he says this, if some of the branches have been broken up, some of the branches of the Greece have been cut off because of their hardness of health And you, Gentile now, that are wild olive treats have been drafted in among you. We've been drafted into the green promises given to Abraham You and I have now received those promises, he said. You've been granted in in Jesus Christ among the others, and now fail in the notion of the all of you. The word word care in verse seventeen is the word common atmosphere. It means fanatics. It's the same word used to declare our relationship with one another It's a word you see that can be used can can refer to the relationship of branches that serve a common stuff from a reef. Branches that are bound together in one common life in that sense. And Paul there is saying that you saw the north and cast from the roof, and you and I, you see according to John 16, are the branches of Jesus divine. And Jesus says that you and I have still flight. As the branches and he is divided and therefore we are turned together in that common life. The Bible also uses the illustration of the battle to the Christ Hebrews chapter 2, verse 14, talking about Jesus gendering humanity. Hebrews verse 14 children The children of our talking here about the children that God has given to Jesus. given to Jesus have flesh and blood, then he Jesus Christ saved in their humanity. Where they're saved is again that word pointed out Talked about the fact that Jesus came with us in a common human state. He took a body just like we have a body. New Testament tells us what we in fact he talked about are the body That's right. But that we have the common relationship of being one body in Jesus Christ. And therefore we share the common life that you bought in Jesus. They notice that when Jesus asked him, he asked the demonstrators. Jesus, remember, most of his disciples I don't talk about Jesus living with his disciples and talking so long. He's calling of the disciples. He ate with him, slept with him. He lived with him in order to claim them. That's true. But we must it we we must say we must make sure that we don't miss the Jesus in doing that is not only calling the disciples He was establishing a prototype for a New Testament community. He was preparing his life to the disciples And of the purpose of sharing their lives with one another. The prototype of the mutuality of the fellowship of the Holy Spirit The people and dying later does the purpose. God is that both. Did he have the season? Then we realize that you and I are quoted to Jesus and God will have to you and I are Jesus in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. Jesus remember you have to say. And the hope is Jesus going to defy us to be because of the fellowship of the Holy Spirit to live our lives as well. Please tell us that this relationship is so intimate with equal analogous to the relationship that we can do the parents where we can We read in John 17, 11. I remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world. And I'm coming to you, Holy Father. Jesus goes here now. Because you have to touch them by the power of your name, the name that you gave me. So that they may be one , power, that they may be one even as we are one Jesus prayers that you and I would share the kind of harmony or have the kind of fellowship that's analogous to Jesus' own relationship with the Father Goes on in verse 20 to say, My prayers not for them alone, I pray also for those, all those who will believe in me through their message. All of them may be one Father, just as you are in me. And you are in you. I've given them the glory to give them you, that all may be one , even if you are one I am them, and you and me. May they be brought to complete living and let the world know. Our one and our units our Christians in our converting and we disappear with a malady even to that of the Father Is this something that we could do to say the absorbed aspiration to do it for the church? Is it nothing more than secret life? In order to want to say entirely flood, we must see the relationship between the position of polynomial and the process. All that I described to you so far is what we are, whether I like it or not. It's the way you feel my life and I feel your life if you are in Jesus Christ, whether you like it or not, regardless of how you feel or not. But now the New Testament goes out to say that that conviction could be worked out in our experience. That old principle because that the employees are based on the indigenous, you know? And saying that that means the employees are based on the indigenous New Testament glamour, the glamour of the kingdom. What does it mean to say that the imperial is based on the indicatives? Imperities of command. Indicotes are statements of fact And the genius of the New Testament, the gospel, the describing the people like that every command in the New Testament is based on a statement of fact In other words, the Christians God never tells us to be anything that we already are, except that we already are that in Jesus Christ. The Bible tells you, be holy. Why? Because you are holy in Jesus Christ. The Bible tells you to put to death sin in your life. Why? Because you've already died to sin in Jesus Christ. The Bible tells you to be righteous, why? Because you are righteous in Jesus Christ Jesus. In fact, you can sum up the Christian life, as I told you on times before. You can sum up the whole Christian life by saying that the Christian life is nothing more am I working out in my experience that which is already told me in Jesus Christ. And the part of the past is What you have. You are saying a common life by virtue of your relationship to Jesus Christ The command work out thy coin and your experience of the relationship together. If you understand the implications of the science Our command to live in fellowship is based on the fact of our fellowship in Jesus Christ. Then all of a sudden we have the key to working through keep having problems and take life again. This you see is the solution. The two common problems, two misunderstandings we often have. First of all, we see now why fellowship is not an option. Why there is no choice in our fellowship today. You and I are not at liberty to part this fellowship or not passive fellowship is we feel like results according to whether I benefit from it, whether I get a blessing from it, or whatever other reason But you and I do share a common life and therefore defected with holiness, a friction cannot claim to be holy in Jesus Christ and not have any concern to work that holiness out of his life Neither can a Christian claim to be in fellowship with the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, and therefore in fellowship with his brothers and sisters and sons, without any desire to work up that fellowship in his experience. This is the very thing that we look at you every time we take the nose cover. That's why in this case is we use one note. So first movement ten, fifteen, and seventeen characters But the reason we use that one note is to witness to the fact that we are one body in a relationship of together. So if you break that piece of God out of that motion To perfect of the Lord's presence. You are witnessing by that if you're taking from that note in the same way as your brother and you took the mess to you or taking from that. And that piece of bread is wrapped up with those other pieces of bread in that one low as an entity, not losing our personality to becoming under service of us, but never the As those who are individuals in Jesus Christ killed in common license. Therefore we are under the mandate of the New Testament to work that out and our That's what that says. According to the opportunities that God gives us, according to the various relationships He causes into, of course we don't want to To the same level we need particular access, people, a group of people, or closest to those in our family. To our prayer partners, to those who are within our undersepary group, and then combat on down in decreasing levels of experience to those who are in our own first body group, to other Christians in Colombia, on our first Nevertheless, at very appropriate levels to work out in our Stereo fellow books that in fact you have the point is that you can't ignore one another. I can't ignore you and you can't ignore me about the political relationship Well that's the one part of it is a big place. The other part of it is to realize how humorous this concept is. Realize how true the principle and the process of pointing is in an employee. You see it's true because what we realize is the way we work out the fellowship with another is to realize that you and I already have fellowships in Jesus Christ. So we realize that we don't generate fellowships, we appropriate fellowships. We're not like positivity groups or other kinds of community groups that call themselves together in order to see if they can generate some kind of a feeling of warp some community together We come together because we already have in Jesus Christ that common life, and now all this simply doing is working out. Between trying to earn money in order to pay off a debt and simply drawing checks out of a bank account that's already there in order to pay off that debt. The world is simply trying to earn that money to build up the account of relationships so that they can draw on that account that they have earned to spend the relationship. You and I have an account And that account says that we have the full relationship of a life together in Jesus Christ. Now God says, yes, check on that account. Draw sex on that account so that you can work out in your spirit, walking in the life together. And having that fellowship. But of course, Lord is talking about a point is not a matter of things. You and I find you are painful very likely the fellowship that I experience is not something that automatically happens. And a lot of what he's coming from is the fluxy of the truth. Because you see, for so many years have ignored the concept of fellowship. Point a minute with the new testament described And because of that, it is not really the structures, it is inductors who are working out this points in our relationship. In fact, the churches very often have prevented points by their kinds of structures. And many times it's easy to walk in many services, we walk into our morning service and sit there. We have no time of communication with anybody else in that service You get up, you walk out, come back to the evening service, go down again, get up and walk out, and you may refer through the entire setting without you receiving one other question He had a simpler direct mind to focusing on God without any regard for the community of believers who are the Even the concept feelings exist, they're only related to the business, with the program to the truth, with our own relational kind of contact, any kind of concern for one another in our own growth and our joys and our problems and growing believers in Jesus Christ. And then we have focus in the cardious quality. What kind of structure is included the New Testament's polynomial? First of all, the most obvious thing is that we need to gather together. You cannot say that you are following Christians. No person can say that I have trusted Jesus Christ without any concern to me, you tell me, we tell us it to God with other systems in order to celebrate. Not only do we must be gathered together, but there must be sufficient plan in certain signs of our gathering for it to be able to discuss What it means to be a system. To describe some of the times that we're grappling with and all over the cycles. Farms and still, to just hello on it. To be able to see each other in various context, to see each other in our homes and our family units. Of course, the structure of this might also be small enough So that every person who is anybody has an opportunity to be good. Everyone is able to make their contribution, even though it is by nature or their quiet. They won't be ignored in the structure of the fellowship Because that group is a group where we know everyone, where we care for everyone in our group, where we can be flexible enough, besides we're small enough, and have a little So we all don't have everything programmed out and planned out so we can just sort of go through the routine of the program. But we're in our relationship together with our participants. And that's smallness. We can relate together as reading because we say Jesus Christ and say on earth. Because this means discussing us we relate together the audience. It's not simply passed audience. We don't simply go through a meeting in order to establish the agenda on the meeting. But the agenda is the people The agenda is the fellowship of the Spirit in the worship of our God. The agenda is where we care for one another, where we're ministry to one, rather than program more than us. So we have opportunity to exercise our spiritual gift towards one another. Where we have opportunity to love one another. And therefore pray that God will give us the gift we exercise that That might that we talked about last week. Finally, these community clusters must have a commitment to one another as communities. There must be commitment within this cluster so that we can feel stressed with the series of trust You can argue, you can fight, you can scabble, you can do all kinds of things if you know that you'll come back together again. You know that it's not something that's based on convenience but it's based on commitments. It's based on the new person capable of community to care of our life Because we interact with a scriptures together as a covenant community bound together in Jesus Christ that are confirmed to form the image of Jesus Christ in each other's lives. And you next up a week for the running tomorrow of the city because that means is he reasoned. And let me just say now, during this part of it's just reasonably quite set up a good reason for that process in this thing. The reason for that is the underceptor. The underceptor groups are designed for five with all the things that we just described. led by a free leader. A person who can help us to experience time and earth in our discipleship and in our work together in Christmas. What I want you to understand from this. If you undercep , if you hear that song, undercepted me, this is the first time you hear that. Really the uh the acumen force with artists, you know. What kind of inventions has this post come up with I want you to see that other separate groups are not simply some new ideas that we put together at Columbia Constitution State in order to do something different Koinonia under separates are nothing more or less than the structure that we have set up in order to work out these testaments pointia in our experiences today. That's all it's intended to do, to help us to grow in our discipleship and in our worship of Jesus Christ as a fellowship of the Holy Spirit So what is the C Considering C four point to three slaves and divided into two application , the first thing you would need to ask yourself is are you in pointing with the father of the son of you? If you have not come into that relationship with Jesus Christ, then you assume your own lead as a If you are alienated from God because of your own strength, because of your own desire to live independently or go your own way of life from God Then you will never be brought into the community of the Holy Spirit. There's no other instance except in Jesus Christ and the very reconciling reconcile. Because it's easy to reconcile using God, it's easy to reconcile us to one another. And that 's very close to your left with you. But you come into that relationship with fellowship, you would say , you have a supreme So to be alienated from the living God is an Secondly, is the intelligence for the part of the government here. And the question of your working with that in your relationship with his relationship Are you burglaring with a medium? He professors to love and told Jesus Christ the both private mindset , never rather do believe, the worship of his palaces, but we feel that he knows Jesus because he knows the promises of God is so easy. And I have to try and challenge her. But her relationship to you decides to directly related to her desire. Whether she wants to go. No person can be part of God's family and not have any desire to live in the family. No person can claim to love and deserve Jesus Christ and not want to get with his people. Do you know people like that? If you do, I build you to warn you. More than it's the good name. Like people could collect But you know. And so you speak to them. You speak to them on the basis of the scriptures. Not on the basis of the fact that this is a state growth campaign, on the basis of what that word says that they must go to the believers. Some further the second part of that. And you see it very useless to whatever separate feet. What I mean by that is if you consider this to be your first home And what I'm saying is if you cannot consider this to be the body of the leaders to do a face materials and find other set of these to be some sort of an object, a dispensable structure So you see on the basis of the identity of the church with the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. This structure is indispensable for your working up that fellowship, that family. And if you are in that position and are not committed to another technologies, I would ask you too free after the wake-up discussion to talk about, come with you could look at to find out what that means to be involved in that level of time And it's like the group for last people to the people for me. So part of the being of the Are you working out these polymers with one another some default polymers with your bath? And this is something that I must do by journeys. When we come into that relationship whereby we realize the importance of our fellowship with one another, there's another danger. And that danger is that we make the fellowship with other Christians to be prior to our relationship with Christians. Notice what John says, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we're walking with him in fellowship, then we have fellowship with one another. It doesn't work to read If you and I are in fellowship with one another, that will not Israel are walking in the light with our father. Too many Christians seek to have all their spiritual input from other Christians And they neglected like starve their own walking in fellowship with the Father and with his Son Jesus in the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. If you neglect your own cultivation of your relationship with Jesus Christ by failing, spending your time in his word And walking with him in that intimate relationship of a growing love and adoration for him, your fellowship will become super -sipper Your spiritual life will become depressed and you begin to reject God. You say, Lord, I'm I'm involved with so many things, and humans doing so many things. Why is it that I don't have spiritual power? Why is it that I'm depressed? Why is it that I don't have victory in this and that all God is saying because you build the relationship with my people to be silently relationship with me. The according to it must always flow from the Father and the Son and the Spirit to his people and never the other way. Our Lord our God. How would that be? Calling us into that one and speaking. But we need the relationship with yourself. Where are the life that he's given to us? The life that is given to us when you made it. The life that is given to us. Well in control, any who are do this money, who don't know that. Who are not in point of followers of the father to the family of free presence? Who have never lessened in the full life of the presence Father and sins of you. Fair and the unconsciousness, not in the case , being separated from you. It is the only outside of us to us, and we studied it. Other amazing. No, it is even in a film like Father Blender, then you use the furthest glimpse of the other power of second isolation to be texted. Be pray father to the men to that community of Jesus. Give it together to raise the care for the lines given to me the work of Jesus by the Holy Spirit. Father is hopeful to do what we say for us. We told Father that we help us if we think of people that we know, who call themselves Christians, but have no concern We gathered with other Christians in fallacy , perhaps father perhaps a poem that yet we cut words for them from years without the fellowship of the spirit. We can no longer claim we can no more claim to have the righteousness of Jesus and not work out that righteousness and we can claim to have a fellowship. I think if I might work out that one how to be fairly took that and realize and help us with the other and it's civil to do a few things. The part of that new team believes , the point of what it would be like, for the video in heaven, in an unbroken spell of the system Maybe that we have a ball to watch ourselves, watch our lives, that we might also always seek to proceed from our fallacy with you, from our fallacy with one another. Remember to replace that. To somehow let our fellowship with one another replace the initiative of our energy we depend on one another in an unhealthy way. So that we post along And physical activities become so hollow. And where our fellowship with you becomes something that is stale and something that is displaced for and full of disease Thy Father remove you , we remove these fellows, with peace, that fellowship with your face, that intimate love and following you, that knowing that you are given to the real life The nice people so much time with you. And if our fellowship will be deep into Saturday, that we know then I Father we know these things before you are still in the city , the learning between two and the two lines and be the same All of things about things for him.