I've used this parable before, so I apologize, and I know I shouldn't begin with an apology, but there you go. It's such a good parable that I want to use it again. It's a parable written by a Dutch philosopher who is explaining What our sickness unto death is. Our sickness unto death is the power and presence of sin. But Kierkegaard would write about what has Jesus done for us. And this picture was given from him through this parable of an emperor and a day laborer. I can't read all of it, but I'll simply summarize for our hearing this morning. In this parable, the day laborer is working in the countryside. He recognizes the high and exalted place of his king. An occasional encounter with the emperor, the king would be delightful. Enough so that the laborer could keep his own comfortable life, keep his friend, keep his identity, and yet have it embellished by the honor of the king. A little favor, just a little favor now and then from the king would make total sense to this laborer. But the king wants to make this laborer his own son The prospect of adoption is of such an essence because it is so close. It is of a closeness that requires giving up one's own identity. Yes, it is a high and exalted act. Might it make this laborer, this common poor man, the laughingstock of his village? Maybe. Wouldn't he lose all that is precious to him if he were to ascend to be the king's son? Maybe. And so Kierkegaard says, such a thing is too high for me. I cannot grasp it. To be perfectly blunt, to me it is a piece of folly. It would be wonderful if the king would just give me some money, a letter to cherish as a relic, to frame and place it on my wall. But the king is asking so much more of me. The king is asking more than just to be an accessory to my life. The king wants me. To be fully identified in my entire life as his son. He wants to exalt me to be the child of the King. This is the drama of adoption. It is not God as an article of faith. simply to come alongside our already well-lived lives, it means to make us completely and utterly new. Hear now the words of Paul in the book of Romans and its parallel passage in Galatians chapter 4. Hear now God's word. Therefore, brothers, we have an obligation, but it is not to the sinful nature to live according to it. For if you live according to the sinful nature, you will die But if by the Spirit you put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live. Because those who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received the spirit of sonship, and by him we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. Now, if we are children, then we are heirs. Heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings, in order that we may also share in his glory. And now Galatians. But when the time had fully come, God sent his son, born of a woman. Born under law, to redeem those under law, that we might receive the full rights of sons. Because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts. The Spirit who calls out Abba, Father. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. May God bless the preaching of his word. Paul, in these two sections of his letters, uses very directly the metaphor of adoption to represent salvation itself. Salvation, the gospel is a diamond, and that diamond has different facets, but they are the same diamond. That diamond is that God has brought those who are sinners. Who have fallen short of the glory of God, to be united to him as his children through the work of the body and blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he unites us to him by faith. This act, this gospel, this diamond has different facets through which to see it. And one of those facets is adoption. And it is the drama of adoption. Because it has characters, it has also an incredible punchline. But it also has an invitation for us to join that drama. You see, in your outline, it is a Trinitarian act. It is double grace. And it invites us from fear to freedom. Trinitarian Act, double grace, fear to freedom. Trinitarian Act. The beauty of this facet of our union with Christ, our salvation is Christ, is itself adoption. And in this work of adoption, it is. A Trinitarian act, meaning all of the members of the Trinity, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, are intricately involved in this act. It's right here for us in the full section of these verses. We hear the Father because it is the one who is God the Father that we call our Father. It is His will to make children out of those who are once His enemies. We heard it when we read this morning from Genesis chapter 3. That though Adam and Eve were his children, meant to be in union with him for all eternity, said we Do not want you as Father. We ourselves want to be God. And that fellowship, that union was broken, and therefore the need of reconciliation. But that reconciliation could not just be the will of Adam and Eve. It must be the desire of the one who has been offended against, the Father who has created us, his desire, his will. And so we heard it in Genesis 3. Though in the midst of judgment Of both Satan and Adam and Eve, his children, God gives the promise that through the seed of the woman, the son of the woman, which would point to Jesus Christ, It is not men, it is not children, it is the child. It is singular. The seed of the woman would what? Crush the head of the serpent, though the serpent would bruise his heel. That is pointing to the work of Christ. That has always been the will of the Father to reconcile his creation to himself, most principally in those who are the crown of his creation. Son and daughters, Adam and Eve and their descendants. We are their descendants. It is the will of the Father. Through the words of Jesus Himself, through the words of His apostles, we would hear that we have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. The glory of God, the Father, his holy and righteous self. But it is the Father who comes. And this passage tells us it is the Father who we call Abba. But the agency through which the Father would draw us to himself is Jesus Christ. Jesus here is the agent because it is through the work of Jesus Christ Paul tells us in Galatians, when the time had fully come, at just the right time, God, the Father, sent his son, born of a woman, born under the law. Jesus, giving up his glory and his place at the right hand of God the Father, became flesh and walked among us. Full of grace and truth, John tells us. But he wasn't just born of a woman, he was born under law, meaning he took himself and he placed himself, though the righteous son of God. Put himself in our place as those under the weight of the law, all of its righteous requirements, all of its holy purity And Christ obeyed the law in every way that we are supposed to, but cannot. Because we fall short of the glory of God because of our sin. Christ was born under the law. To be what? To be our righteousness. Through Christ, born under the law, that we might receive the full rights of sons, so it would be what? It would be through Christ. and his being born under the law, living under the law, presenting himself as a righteous sacrifice in our place. Through the agency of Christ, we can be made sons. Now, why is sons always mentioned? It is because in that culture, to receive an inheritance, you must be a son. If you were a daughter and had no brothers, you could not receive the inheritance But it is not, it is this that Paul continues to use the word sons because he would then write in Galatians, in Christ there is neither Slave nor fee, Jew nor Gentile, male nor female. In other words, men and women alike become like sons, full recipients Of what God has done for us in Jesus Christ. So the Father's will, the Son's work, but then also the work of the Holy Spirit In both, we hear that the Spirit comes and testifies in the spirit of those who believe by faith that you are indeed a child of God, the spirit of sonship, he calls it. Through whom? By the Spirit, by the Spirit we call him Abba Father. So the Spirit comes in as the one who is enlivening, enabling, and indeed uniting us to Christ. It is a mystery. It is hard to come up with any analogy or any metaphor. But it is a father who looked out and said, I will draw children to myself. The means by which we become children is through his son. And when we receive his son, we become sons and daughters of the king. And when we do, we receive the Holy Spirit as a guarantee. As a down payment, as a recipient of those of great gifts of God, Himself, His presence by the Spirit. And it is the Spirit. Who prays for us when we don't know what to pray? It is the Spirit who enlivens our desire to want to know the Lord. It is the Spirit Spirit who brings the word and writes it on our hearts. It is the Spirit that gives us grace and power to walk in the way. It is a complete Trinitarian act. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit to give us this great gift Double grace. I borrow this phrase from the great theologian John Calvin. Because he says in adoption, in the gospel, we receive this double grace. The double grace is twofold. First, we looked at it last week and the week before, the act of justification. God is the one who is both the justified and the justifier. As we looked at, because of our sin, the law of God does nothing for us except tell us where we fall short. And yet, God does not remove his righteous requirements. He doesn't forget them. He doesn't bury them under the bed. In fact He brings out the law of God and it stands before us as one that says, we before God, who can stand? And yet, Christ, instead of forgetting the law, Christ came as one under the law. It is what theologians call a forensic act. We have sinned against God the Father, the judge. And yet God, in a legal act, Brings justification. What does that mean? It means simply that Christ came under the law to receive what? To receive the wrath that we deserved. See, he obeyed the law Completely. And yet, there needed to be a sacrifice for our failure before the righteousness of God. And yet, Christ, before God the judge. Received all of the wrath, and that wrath was poured out on him on the cross. God doesn't forget his wrath, rather, he poured it out. That's this great word propitiation, meaning that when God poured out his wrath on the Son, therefore, when Christ says it is finished, his wrath has been satisfied. It has been poured out. The payment for sin is done. That's why when Jesus says it is finished, meaning the righteous requirements of the law are finished. The righteous judgment that comes from the failure to obey the law has been satisfied. This is justification. But then the beauty, the beauty of the work of God, is that that then means that when we receive Christ as Savior, That righteousness which was Christ's is now given to us. It is imputed to us We are then in Christ declared righteous. That's what Paul means, co-heirs with Christ. All that is his is ours. He is a son, we become sons and daughters. He is righteous, we are declared righteous. But that's justification. That's just one half of the double grace That if this is what Christ has accomplished for us, then what do we receive? And that is the beauty of adoption. We become children. Children. Now, this word when Paul uses here in Romans, he says that when we receive the spirit of adoption or the spirit of sonship. He's using a legal word that was used during that time for adoption. Now adoption during that time was for the sake of providing for an orphan, a means by which they would have some but they would have an heir to be able to give their uh life to But also that they might have parents, and if if this was a need to be able to prolong one's family line, was largely seen as a legal act, Though Paul uses a very legal word, he uses it in a profoundly personal and tender way Because he says, For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. But you receive the Spirit of Sonship, and by him we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. He doesn't just say, therefore, we're children. He brings out the tenderness of it. Now, you've heard it before. I recognize perhaps if you've been in church or you've heard this. passage before you've heard the word Abba is often translated as daddy. While I have no particular objections to that, that's not the best translation. We actually don't have a good translation in English for it. That's as close as we can get. Something so incredibly personal, so close That goes to the very heart of every woman and every man and every child, whether we know it or not. We long to know that there is a Father who loves us unconditionally. Who does not fail? Who does not fall asleep? There is no shadow of his turning from us. Who does not forget his promises? For whom there is no darkness that his light cannot pierce. There is no corner that his comfort cannot reach. There is no loneliness that he cannot turn into fellowship. There is no sin that he cannot wipe clean There is no distance that God cannot bridge the chasm. Because in Christ. He calls you. You are my son. You are my daughter And the best we can come up with is daddy. But while it is so tender It is also beyond imagination that Paul, a Jew, who would never have uttered the word, the name God Prior to his conversion is now saying that in Christ we can not only call him God, we can call him dad, Father. Who loved me and gave himself for me Christian, if you sit here this morning and you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and this truth has become distant for you. And you find your heart not enlivened and cold. This is a day to be renewed In the beauty of the fact that your father already knows that. And he calls you his own. And he wants to draw you near this morning. I wish I could sing. If I could, I would sing you a song. Because this week I found this song. I really wish I could sing it, but all I've got are the lyrics. But it was such a picture of what God does for you, Christian, this morning. Written by Leon Bridges. New album, Young Man from Texas. If you listen to his music, There is no doubt in my mind that this young man knows the Lord Jesus Christ, but it is not a Christian album. But he wrote this song called River. Just a few of the lyrics. He says, I've been traveling these wide roads for so long. My heart's been far from you. 10,000 miles gone. Or I want to come near and give you every part of me, but there is blood on my hands, and my lips are unclean. In my darkness I remember. Mama's words recur to me. Surrender to the good Lord, and he'll wipe your slate clean. Take me to your river. I want to go. Take me to your river. I want to know. Oh, I want to give you, oh, I want to come near to you and give you every part of me, but there is blood on my hands and my lips are unclean. Tip me in your smooth waters, and I go in. As a man with many crimes I come up for air as my sins flow down the Jordan. Take me to your river. I want to go. Take me to your river. I want to know. Some of you this morning, you know the Lord Well you've traveled 10,000 miles gone. And your heart feels cold to him Your Father invites you into the water again. For Christ has paid for all of it. And our sins have flowed down the Jordan. Our sins are removed from us as far as the East is from the West, and he remembers them no more. It is finished. Come, my children, and call me by my name. And it is the Spirit that enables us to say, Father, there is no sin that you bring here this morning that is unforgivable. There is no distance that he has not bridged. Come, your father invites you. But there is more. From fear to freedom Now for some of you, what I just said still seems very distant to you because perhaps you don't know the Lord. Or perhaps you do. But there is a freedom that is promised here when he says, For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received the spirit of sonship, and by him we cry, Abba, Father. He wants to invite all of us from fear to freedom. He compares the two The spirit of fear and the spirit of sonship. What does he mean by the spirit of fear? By the spirit of fear, great theologian John Murray. I think rightly understood it as this. He's talking about a dangerous disposition, a dangerous frame of mind. A spirit of mind that is so prevalent that wants to push God to the margins. And what that looks like in every succeeding generation may be quite different. But there is a cultural and generational moment for our day that this dangerous disposition, this frame of mind, this spirit of fear actually shows itself. And it is a spirit of mind that requires conformity, that somehow that if we follow and conform to the ways of this mindset, we'll find freedom. But there is no real freedom in it. There's just slavish conformity. And here's the idea, here's the frame of mind: that either one, God does not exist or be an equally worse. That religion is just self-defined, self-driven, and private There are many in this generation who believe that Christ or religion must simply be pushed to the margins and held only for the weekends and only then for an hour and a half. That it's disconnected from the rest of our lives, that it's simply there to make you feel good about yourself. It's just a form of therapy. That God just wants you to be happy. He wants you to simply be a good person. He wants you to be good to others He wants you to somehow really just, if you need him, call him. But otherwise you're good. Do the best you can. If you don't believe me that this is a spirit of our age, Christian Smith did a vast study nationwide. In his book, Soul Searching, and asking emerging adults, and yes, that's an actual stage of life, emerging adults, about this kind of frame of mind. That God is just there when we need Him and He simply wants us to be good, with the illusion that if we believe that, it will bring freedom. Over and over again, not just one interview, but thousands of interviews, this is what he saw and heard. He said, emerging adults are determined to be free. But they do not know what is worth doing with their freedom. They work very hard to stand on their own two feet, but they do not really know where they ought to go and why, once they are standing. They lack larger visions of what is true and real and good. Many know that there must be something more and they want it. Many are uncomfortable with their inability to make truth statements and moral claims without killing them with a death of a thousand qualifications. But they do not know what to do about the given crisis of truth and values that seem to have destabilized them and the culture around them And so they simply carry on as best they can as sovereign, autonomous, empowered individuals who lack a reliable basis. For any particular conviction or direction to which to guide their lives. The idea that we simply create our own destinies Our own direction, our own meaning, our own values has the illusion of freedom, but really just makes us slaves to the conformity of this age, which really cannot deliver on the freedom that this mindset promises. Because instead of being able to do whatever I want to do with my life, I find in my own generation, in those who are younger than me, are not finding themselves going, look at all the choices I have, but rather find it fearful thing to say yes to anything because I'm afraid of what I might be saying no to. That to stand on this truth means I have to come up with a thousand reasons or a thousand qualifications. I'm afraid to utter the name of Christ, because if I do, it will mean I'm judgmental or unkind or narrow. You see, conformity to this disposition is so dangerous because it promises freedom, but in reality it is just slavish conformity to the spirit of the age. And it treats God as a lifeguard. Who's there to come along when we're drowning, when we need him, pop us out of the water, and we're okay. Thank you, God. Good to go. But talk about freedom. To go from fear of not knowing where to go and on what grounds to stand, God offers us. Freedom, and that freedom is becoming children. It is a journey to nonconformity. It is learning how to be a child again Paul tells us here when he says the Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. What is he telling us? It is the Spirit who enables He's the one who testifies. He's the one who confirms. He leads. He prays. He mediates on our behalf. It is the Spirit who leads us. It is the Spirit who empowers us. It is like the father picking up a child by the hand into his arms, enabling him to see, putting him on his shoulders. To be able to see what he could not see for himself. The Spirit enables us to see who the Father is and to see the vast vision for what it means to be human, means to become a child. A child of a father who loves us, who doesn't want us to conform to this age or that age, but to know him as a loving father. Becoming a child is not just knowing the enabling spirit who testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. He also says, now if we are children, then we are heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. Becoming a child means learning what promises we receive. What promises we receive. All the glory. All the beauty, all the incredible benefits that Christ has Will be ours for those who believe and find themselves to be children of God who receive the gift of salvation. All the promises of Scripture, it says, is yes and amen in Christ. But you know, do you remember perhaps you heard the story last week of the surfer who, in the middle of competition, got attacked by a shark never before in pro surfing? I watch the video. I love watching pro surfing, and Mick Fanning is three-time world champion, great surfer. But when you watch that video and you watch when he gets up on the back of the jet ski when he's been rescued, he gets on his knees and he's just completely blown away by what just happened to him. And you're caught up in the emotion. And he's done numerous interviews. But here's the crazy thing. Those lifeguards are worthy of so much praise, and they did a great job. But I'll guarantee you, not one of those people who rescued Nick Fanning will put Nick Fanning in their will. He will never inherit all that they have. They're friends. They help each other. But they're not united God wants to be more than a lifeguard. He's our Father who gives us the kingdom. Finally, it needs giving up and giving in. Becoming a child means giving up and giving in. When he says Here, after he says we become co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings in order that we may share in his glory, to share in his sufferings means we need to give up. Meaning we can't just enter into this without saying no to self. No to our self-directed lives. Coming up with our own agendas, believing we know what is right, being our own God Because Christ gave up his glory that we might be united to him. To be united to Christ means giving up our life. But when we do, we receive life. Because we give in. Because the Lord draws us in and makes us his children. This is what is on offer. This is the promise. This is the invitation. This is the drama of adoption. And the Lord says to each of us this morning: regardless of where you are in your journey with the Lord, or whether you know Him or not. He invites us in. No matter how many miles you have traveled, no matter what crimes you are guilty of. He wants us to come in, and our Father will make us his children. Wipe our slate clean, and we will know him as Abba, as adopted children May the Lord do that in you. May He do this in us and make us a community of children praising our Savior. In Jesus' name. Let's pray. Now, Lord, take this word you have given us. May you write it on our hearts. May you call us to yourself and make us your children, that we might rest in learning what it means to be children. Lord, help us to give up and to give in. Lord, we thank you for what you have done for us in Jesus Christ. And by your Spirit. We give you thanks and praise. In His name we pray. Amen.