If you have your Bible with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter ten. I'll be reading for us beginning with verse 17. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word and that it is true. Lord, we thank you that in a world in which we uh we wonder what's true, we're surrounded with so many competing narratives about every single subject under the sun. It's so easy to do deep fakes and uh and put spin on things and uh Lord uh we we are cautious to receive testimony, but Lord, we know that your word is true, because it comes from you. It has been established. It has been tested. It has been studied for millennia. And Lord, your Holy Spirit bears witness even in our very hearts and minds that this is your word. Lord, help us as your people. to see your word as that one fixed point of revelation in which we can see you and know ourselves. Father, we pray that you would help us, as your word is read this morning, to receive your word as truth. Lord, that it might guide us and protect us and lead us closer to you. And Father, in the preaching that follows. And as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said, we ask your blessing on the preaching as well. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 10, beginning with verse 17, the Word of God. The 72 returned with joy. saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. And he said to them, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. Nevertheless, Do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. This ends the reading of God's Word. Joy is something that we all want. And the more we want it, the more we chase it, sometimes the more difficult it is to experience. This passage is, in many respects, preeminently about joy. We look at a text like this, and it's easy to think about eschatology or the last days or what exactly is it that uh causes Satan to fall from heaven. When did it happen? Is this something about the end times here? Or we think about things like snakes and scorpions and spiritual warfare and We begin to look at this passage through those lenses, and we might miss the whole point. The whole point of this passage is that the 72, remember Jesus had sent twelve out two by two to Pursue a mission in his name at the beginning of Luke chapter 9. Here at the beginning of Luke chapter 10, he sends out 72, a number that corresponds to the understanding of how many nations there were and language were spoken in the world at that time. The idea of prefiguring the spread of the gospel everywhere to every nation, tribe, language, and tongue. But here the 72 come back and they're absolutely filled with happiness. The 72 returned with joy. Jesus says to them, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. Like a bookend on either side of this business about Satan falling from heaven and serpents and scorpions, we have The 72 rejoicing that the spirits were subject to them. And Jesus Christ saying, don't rejoice in that. Rejoice in this. That's instructive to us. You know, we know that joy is important. It is, after all, the second part of the fruit of the Spirit, love. Joy, peace, patience, kindness, you know the rest, I hope. Joy is important. And it is okay to be really excited about different things in your life. But as in so many other cases, We know that having the right order of joys, having the right Organizational principles behind what our joy is dependent upon is of great value. In fact, it may be essential. One of the reasons when we get married, we say in sickness and in health, is because a marriage in which you are only committed as long as there's health It's not going to prove to be much of a marriage. A marriage in which you're only committed as long as there is plenty. It's not going to be much of a marriage. Because see, you're attaching your happiness or contentment in that relationship to the wrong thing. You're not attaching it to the person. You're attaching it to the accidental qualities of plenty or health. And sometimes as Christians we do this. Sometimes as Christians we find our joy in being Christians. And the, properly speaking, accidental qualities of success or health or wealth or seasons of plenty The reality is that if we rejoice in those things, if those things become for us the grounds of the source of our joy, our joy is going to be like a puddle. That'll last throughout the rain and maybe for a day longer, but the hot sun of regular life will evaporate it soon enough. How can you have a deep well of joy? How can you have an ocean of joy? How can you have a joy that survives even something like a scorpion bite? Or a snake. Well, that's what this passage is about. And Jesus is encouraging his disciples not to grieve the success they've had, but not to attach their joy to it. Notice that the first thing that we might draw from this text is that our success is not to be the source of our joy. Our success, even in ministry. Do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you. That's what Jesus tells them. And that's precisely what they were rejoicing in. The 72 returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. So they're rejoicing and declaring this to Jesus, and he's saying, Don't rejoice in that. That's the effect, not the cause. That's like rejoicing in the wrapping paper, not the gift. Oftentimes we in ministry attach our joy to the things that we see God doing in or through us. And that's putting it in the most pious way possible. Our Christian joy, our contentment, our happiness in the Christian life. is attached to whether or not what we are doing for the Lord is being successful. And that's a trap that reveals something about our hearts that is a little bit off-center. Does ministry always go well? No. Sometimes goes very, very poorly. Does every church grow all the time? No. Does every church go through continual, unceasing seasons of revival? No. Does every every church have seasons of Large excesses in the budget? No. At least none that I've pastored. And if my joy in ministry is attached to whether or not what I am doing is manifestly being blessed right now. What is my joy really being attached to? Is it being attached to my perceptions of your perceptions of my kingdom giftedness? Or is my joy being attached to the fact that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, loves me and died for me? You see, if my joy is attached to whether or not what I am doing works, that becomes like the lacrosse coach who only cares about his team when they're winning. Or only thinks coaching is worth his time if he won the game And think about how easy it is in ministry for us to get terribly discouraged, because we all have ministries, whether we're ministering to our families, ministering to a Sunday school class, ministering to our neighbors. If you have no joy in ministry unless you perceive that it's working, ministry will not be joyful. You see, you have to attach your joy to something other than the results or your perception of the results. And that's at the heart of what Jesus is getting when he says, don't rejoice in this. Because if that is your joy, if that is that deep foundation of your happiness in life, that what you are doing works, the day will come when it will not work. Sooner or later, time, energy, health, it'll pass you by, and the things you're good at now you will not be good at then, but will you still have joy? Here we have descriptions of spiritual victory and kingdom advancement in the most radical terms described most powerfully. Look, before Jesus says, hey, don't rejoice in this, he explains to them how what they are doing is even more significant than they might have thought. They say, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. And he said to them, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. And that is put in a very particular way. Some of you are linguists, some of you work in places where you've studied languages. And the Greek language, the Koine Greek, had more tenses than just we do with past, present, and future. They had other things going on. And this is a form of of the Greek I saw that could be translated and I was seeing. While they were out there healing, preaching, casting out demons in the name of Jesus, Jesus is saying, and I was seeing. As if in every instance of one of those seventy-two in their tandem pairs going out, declaring the kingdom, drawing people closer to the God of the covenant. In each of those instances, Jesus is saying, I saw Satan fall like lightning. Like lightning in a flash, suddenly, powerfully. Isn't it remarkable that before Jesus tells them, don't rejoice in this, he says, let me tell you something. What you were doing was more significant even than you thought. You didn't just herald the coming of the kingdom to some small dusty town in Galilee or Judea. You did something. That is indicative of and representative of the fact that Satan himself has fallen. You did something that was a powerful, significant kingdom Value. You struck a blow for the living God. And it was effective. But don't rejoice in that Don't rejoice in the fact that the little things you do are even more glorious and more meaningful and full of power. Than you ever dared imagine. But don't rejoice in that. Your lives and your ministries, whether they go well or poorly, have so much meaning. And we will not begin to recognize the full import of the things that we've done and attempt in the name of Jesus until we're in heaven itself. That fact notwithstanding, that is not what we rejoice in. We also don't rejoice in our comfort Notice what Jesus then says. Behold, he's getting their attention. Focus up here, he says to 72. I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. Nothing shall hurt you. Boy, that's a comfortable state of being, isn't it? How many of you are dealing with pain this morning? Yesterday I went out and I was going to be a good husband. I try that once in a while And uh I went I was gonna go get the mail, but it was dark out, and I have uh part of my eye disease is night blindness, and my um Beloved uh brother parked his car right behind Carrie's V vehicle in the in the in the driveway. which in the darkness I did not see, and I kicked it, and I have one of my uh well, my big toe on my right foot is large and purple. And it hurts. And today's a good day. Think about all the pain and the hurts and the bumps and the scrapes you have. You're going out trying to do something good, not just to please your wife by getting the mail on a sort of rainy dark night, but you're trying to do something for the Lord of glory, and you go out there And you bump into something and fracture a big toe spiritually speaking. Now, here Jesus had given these 72 a wonderful provision. He had told them in ways that he doesn't guarantee to us that they were going to be free from all harm during their missionary trip. That is not an abiding eternal promise to everyone who engages in ministry. I assure you there are missionaries who have been bitten by scorpions stung by scorpions and bitten by snakes. And not all of them, like the Apostle Paul, were able in Malta to shake the viper off their hand. You see, the scorpion and the serpent are symbolic and they're used symbolically in scripture. The first time we Encounter this pair, the serpent and the scorpion, is in Exodus chapter 32, where Moses is urging God's people not to forget what God has done for them. Saying, don't forget that God led you through the wilderness and protected you from the serpent and the scorpion. We associate certain things with certain animals. We think of the fox as being crafty. We think about uh the the the snake as being crafty and even maybe a little bit evil. We think about the lion as being noble. We think about the dog as being faithful In the ancient world, they thought of the scorpion and the snake as symbols of suffering and persecution. And even evil. Think in the book of Numbers. The serpent, the fiery serpent in the wilderness that would bite the people of God, and they would even perish. Think about in 1 Kings chapter 12 when Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, is uh becomes king after Solomon's death and his counselors, the young counselors, Tell him that he should threaten the ten northern tribes and say, ah, my father went easy on you. I'm going to be tough. And he says, my father beat you with whips. I'm going to beat you with scorpions. The image here of being protected from serpents and scorpions is a promise that they are not going to be defeated by the calamities and persecutions and sufferings that this world brings upon them. Nothing shall hurt you. It's similar to the great keeper psalm that we find in Psalm 121, how the Lord will keep us from the sun and the moon, night and day. In our comings and goings, both now and forevermore. Nevertheless, don't rejoice in that. Don't rejoice in your comfort. Don't rejoice in the fact that you're free from all harm. Because, beloved, harm will find you at some point in this life. You too will fracture your big toe if you strike an immovable object with it at speed. There are going to be difficulties in your life in your ministry. But you need to have a joy that isn't so connected to your comfort that your joy evaporates when the suffering arrives. You see, it is possible to have great joy, even when you're hurting, and even when you appear to be failing. But how? How could you have such a joy as that? Only if you do this. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven. Throughout the Old Testament, some six or eight times we find references to God's book. with the names of his people written in it. With the hope that our name won't be blotted out of it, as we find in Psalm 69, verse 28. Throughout the New Testament, we find references to God's book, perhaps most significantly, at the very end of this creation cycle. When we all stand before the throne, and books are open, and the dead are judged according to what they've done, and all are cast into the lake of fire, except for those whose names are written. In the Lamb's Book of Life. You see, we should rejoice in our salvation. We should rejoice, and think about this verse very carefully. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven. That your names are written. That's something done by God, not by you. It's done for us. It's your name that's written And it's of eternal consequence. It's in heaven. It cannot be affected by this life. It can't be touched by the predations of the thieving, killing, and destroying that Satan is all about on this side of heaven God has done something for you that is permanent. And He's done it for you in Christ. The same Jesus who tells his 72, don't rejoice in these wonderful things you've done, and they are wonderful. But rejoice in this, that you are safe for eternity. And that joy That joy survives a rainy day. That joy survives a broken toe. That joy survives, dear friend, whatever you're dealing with. King David in a prayer famously says, Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. And I have found that on dark days in my life, and like some of you, I tend to have a somewhat melancholy disposition, and as the Puritans say, I have to preach the gospel to myself regularly. But that prayer has become something of a friend to me. You see, when I am experiencing a lessened degree of joy or a heightened and overwhelming degree of sorrow, what I need is a reinfusion of that joy in my salvation. A reminder that fills my head and warms my heart, that my name is written in heaven. that my sins are forgiven, that my eternity is secure, that this too shall pass, whatever it is that's bringing me down. And that I ultimately have no idea what God is going to do, even through my apparent failures and my deepest struggles. And if I can focus myself on who God is and what he's done for me in Christ that is of permanent abiding value I can begin to feel my heart beating again, and my mind quicken just that little bit more. And I'll invite you, Christian, to consider this same opportunity. Don't rejoice in all the other things. And by that Jesus is saying, don't find in them the source or the grounds or the power of your joy. Let that only and ever be firmly rooted to what God has in Christ done for you that is of eternal significance, and that your name is indelibly recorded in heaven. And he keeps his own forever. And that joy, boy, that joy can survive some pretty tough spiritual conflict. That joy can involve you triumphing over snake bites and scorpions, things alike. Because though they will scratch and burn, they will not harm. Not the children of the living God. Krishna, do you make your joy dependent upon your comfort or your success? Remember when I was pastoring in St. Albans, Vermont, this small church. When I first got there, it was about 45 people or so, 50 on a good day. And they were desperately trying to, they really wanted to figure out how to serve their community. And so we put together a committee, and when you have a church of 45, the committee ultimately becomes the entire church. And we were talking about well what can we do? What can we do? And they we we we went to the town hall. St. Albans had about St. Albans is funny. There's a there's a St. Albans city, which is about four or five thousand people, and then St. Albans town surrounds it like a donut, and together it's about eight thousand people. So at the time we went to City Hall to find out what's going on here, and they discovered that the largest demographic in that area was single moms. And so the ladies in the church decided, let's have during the Christmas season free day care so that moms can go Christmas shopping. And they put it together like a VBS, planned activities for the kids, had gift bags for the kids, and they advertised it. Guess how many people showed up? Zero. And the church was heartbroken Absolutely heartbroken. And I can remember saying to him, don't be heartbroken. We ultimately did this for the Lord. And he saw And we don't know what God did through this. Maybe somebody saw that ad, wanted to come, and thought differently about the church, and ten years from now they're going to give their life to Christ and they're going to pray for their grandchild, and their grandchild is going to become the next Billy Graham, we don't know. We don't need to attach our joy to whether or not we think what we're doing is succeeding Because our God is bigger than our perceptions. And we don't need to attach our joy to what we are experiencing. One of the happiest people I have had the privilege of pastoring and getting to know in my life is Johnny Erickson Tada. I was her pastor for 16 years. Some of you know her story about a diving accident in Chesapeake Bay at the age of 18 and paralysis and The joy that she carries with her is because her name is written in heaven. What about you? If you have lost the joy of your salvation, will you join me in making that a regular part of your spiritual disciplines that you pray that God might restore not just your joy? But the joy of your salvation, that joy from which all other happinesses come naturally. I want to invite each of you to consider as well whether or not your names are written in heaven. You might say, well, Pastor, how can my name be written in heaven? How can I accomplish that? How can I get my name written there? I say it's very easy. All you need to do is recognize that the Lord Jesus Christ is the one who holds that book and inscribes the names in it of all who come to him with faith and repentance. Acknowledging him as the Son of God who died for sinners like me and sinners like you, that by believing in his name we might have life. He loves you so much that he paid the penalty for all of your sins by dying in your place. He loves you so much that he The power of a life incorruptible and the power of a holy God was raised again that you might have an assurance of the fact that Jesus accepted the payment. And Jesus loves you so much that he we even dare to say to you, his beloved child, don't rejoice in this. Rejoice in what I've done for you. knowing that you are eternally secure because of who I am and what I have done What a blessing and what a hope. And what a great cause for joy. Amen. Almighty God, we thank you and ask that you bless us Lord, bless us with joy, joy indescribable, joy that endures and persists, a joy that is grounded and rooted in what you've done for us. cannot be taken away. Bless us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.