So we come this morning again to 1 Peter. We're in chapter 2. This morning I'm going to begin a new section, verses 11 through 12 And I want you to know that this new section 11 through 12 is actually a section that will continue to chapter 3, verse 7. And it is an instruction from Peter how the Christian is to live in an age of unbelief. Now, by unbelief, I want to be clear. I am not suggesting, nor would Peter suggest. That the world, speaking broadly, specifically those who do not believe in Jesus Christ, that they somehow don't believe something I I want you to see this morning as we go through this that it is not Peter's contention, nor is it mine, that somehow those who do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ don't believe things. They very much do. In fact, I my argument is Those who do not believe in Jesus Christ exercise faith as the Christian does, but it's faith in something completely different. But the instruction from Peter is: how is the Christian to live in an age where Christ is not believed in, where he is not the center? Now, wonderfully, there is a much closer connection between the context in some ways that Peter writes in our own. This was not a context or a culture where Christian values were, or Christian virtues were upheld, or even were an informing power in the Roman Empire. As you will see, in fact, the practice of Christian virtue, the following of Jesus Christ as the disciple openly, would brought about persecution. To the point of death. But the instruction is, and the similarities are, that what he's instructing these Christians to do is very much the same as what those who now this morning profess Jesus Christ ought to be doing in this world. And so we turn to 1 Peter 2 verses 11 through 12. Hear now God's word. Dear friends, I urge you as aliens and strangers in the world to abstain from sinful desires which war against your soul. Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. Will you pray with me? Lord, by your spirit and power, we would ask that you would open up your word this morning that we would see wondrous things. In your word, that you would instruct us with the wisdom that we are to live by in this age and in every age. So we pray for that wisdom, and we pray for the guidance and direction of your spirit and your word at work this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. So this morning, what I want you to see is that Peter is instructing these Christians to two things: new life and new ethics. New life and new ethics. Recognizing that Pastor Halley led us last week from verses nine through ten, as well as touching on these two. But Peter wants to tell them that it is out of this new life that they are to live these new ethics in the midst. Of a culture that does not praise, recognize, or respect these ethics, these virtues. So let's together look then at this new life and the new ethics that Peter is calling these Christians to. You'll notice that the first aspect of this new life has already been unpacked for us, but that he describes now in shorthand in verse 11, where he says that he calls them dear friends. But he gives them a title. They are aliens and strangers in the world. He's reminding them of the new status that they have. Now, this new status is this: that they are Once and the same, natives of the country that they were born in, that they were raised in. But they are no longer native to its practices, to its beliefs, but they are now pilgrims. They are aliens. They are exiles meaning that they are living out what it means to follow Jesus Christ in a culture that does not recognize their faith. So they are dual citizens. They are both citizens now of those who belong to the Lord Jesus Christ and his kingdom, but they're also members of an earthly kingdom. Now, what's interesting about this is to recognize that this new membership is not something that, you know, it's not like they were what was taken from them is their Roman citizenship. And that they were somehow, when they became Christians, given new physical or legal documents. They weren't. What he's talking about here is something that begins on the inside and works its way out. It's a spiritual reality. And I think that while Peter doesn't use the word kingdom here, I believe it is certainly behind his thinking. Now by kingdom, when Jesus speaks of kingdom and when the disciples speak of kingdom, it doesn't mean in a spatial sense. It's talking about in the spiritual sense that they belong, heart, soul, and mind, to a new king. We hear it in the verses before, do we not? When it says, But you are a chosen people, a royal peacehood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you. out of darkness into his wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are a people of God. Once you have had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Do you hear their new status? It's not as though they were not a part of a people. They very much were. But they were a part of a people, a kingdom of darkness. That has a rival king. That is Satan who is set over against the king of heaven and earth. So two kingdoms Once they were in bondage to this old kingdom and to the king that led them to belief that their only way of salvation and regeneration was the pursuit of pleasure and self and false worship. But now they've been called out of that darkness into the light of a new kingdom with a new king who is royal, who has called them a royal priesthood. A new people who have now received mercy. That though they were held in bondage in this other kingdom, living according to their own understanding, Living to fulfill their own flesh, instead of receiving wrath and condemnation, they received mercy, called out of darkness. into light. He's pointing to in these very sort of reduced, simple ways, exactly the gospel itself. That the gospel comes as truth, telling the human heart, you have been pursuing not God, but yourself. And this is what it looks like. It looks like sexual morality. It looks like idolatry. It looks like the exalting of what seems right to you that leads to death and not to life. And instead of wrath, God by His gospel through Jesus Christ has poured out mercy and has drawn you And here he's echoing again the words of the first verses of chapter one, where it says, To God's elect strangers in the world scattered throughout Pontus Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ in the sprinkling by his blood, and then these wonderful words grace. And peace be yours in abundance. This new status has been enacted. This new life is enacted by God unilaterally, pouring out His grace His mercy on the human heart, drawing from darkness of self into the light of a God who loves and into a whole new way of living. That's their new status. But what's interesting is there's still this problem, right? They're still living in a physical world that doesn't acknowledge or recognize or respect this new Christian faith. He says, but nonetheless, you've been called into this new life, this new status, and you need to know that you need to have a new posture. Isn't that what it says? Verse 11 continues where it says, Dear friends, I urge you, as aliens and strangers in the world, to abstain from sinful desires which war against your soul. This new posture is there is a new way of looking at living Recognizing that as these Christians pursue Christ in this new way of life, they need to recognize that there is a battle Now here I want to be clear. I do not believe that what Peter is talking about here is that there is a battle going on between soul and flesh. No, I believe what he's talking about is there's two ways of living. One that is the following Christ and one that is following the world. One that brings life, one that brings bondage. And in so doing, he's saying that there's this new posture. This new posture is you're living in a world that does not recognize nor exalt Christ Nor respect the ways that he calls you to live. So you need to recognize as those still living in the world and following Christ, you need to be wise. No longer passively taking in what the world and the culture tells you is worthy of honor, respect, and worship. Because you need to recognize that there is this battle, these two ways of living, that are going to wage a war on you and is going to want to pull you from one to the other. And this new posture is one that he's saying to these Christians. be aware. And isn't that what we just read about earlier in the service in Colossians? Where Paul writes, Since then you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things. By the way, he's not suggesting, Paul here is not suggesting that you sort of walk through life and just not engage the world around you. But to engage the world around you with the mind of Christ and the Word of God. He continues He says, For you died and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, when you also will appear with him in glory. So then he tells them. what to put to death. He says, whatever belongs to your earthly nature. This is why it was read this morning in the service, because there's enormous parallels. Paul in more detail than put than Peter. But they're talking about the same things. Notice one way of living. There's the kingdom of earth and there's the kingdom of Christ. Listen to the ways in which the kingdom of the world says you ought to fulfill yourself. Notice one. He says sexual morality, impurity, lust, evil desires, greed, which is idolatry. Now that simple list We oftentimes want to reduce to a discrete list of things that we ought not to do. But I want to tell you, while I believe it includes that, I believe it is inclusive of something much larger. And it is this. That the things which are that belong to the earthly kingdom is this, that you, human being, you are the center of the universe. You are the center of your own attention. And that the way you find fulfillment is through sexuality, through success. Through the desires that well up within you, if only you can get them fulfilled. The problem is not your desires for more. The problem is the things that get in the way of you experiencing. Yes, it's a discrete list of things like adultery and greed and lying and Deceit, anger, and malice. It is those things, but don't you see that those things are the fruit of the pursuit of self instead of God? You see, the problem is not first and foremost malice, greed. Lust. The problem is it is the dethroning of God the Father, Christ the Son, and God the Holy Spirit from the center and putting us at the center. That's the foremost problem. That leads us to believe that the kingdom of earth, and ladies and gentlemen, if you can just for a moment Leave this room and imagine we're in a great big living room with a huge flap screen. Can you not agree with me? That the kingdom of earth is all about getting us to serve ourselves The culture and the world and our hearts, whether you're a Christian this morning or you are not a Christian, I will tell you the Christian and the non-Christian have the same ache, they have the same desires, they have the same wants, and I will tell you there is no distinction. The only difference is the Christian, not by their own decision, but by the work of God's Spirit and truth has said, That ache, that longing, that desire is for me. But the world says the ache and long and desire is not for God, it's that you are not fulfilled. And if we're sitting before this great big screen, what is being offered to you? New drugs, new groups, new techniques, new exercises. That will satisfy the ache in your soul. This morning my daughter and I were waiting for my wife to come down for breakfast, and we were Given the newest version of pursuit of self, that the greatest problem as you age, and here they had a group of gray-haired folks In front of a pool. And some, they show this nice little older couple, maybe they've been married for 20 or so years, and they're walking with their arms around each other. They're just smiling. Things are just great. Why is it? Because they have the new chair gym. Now walk with me. For the one moment you have this couple who's on in years, maybe the kids are out of college, they're all in their own ways, now you've got all this time, right? You're just walking down the sidewalk, woo-hoo, you're loving each other. It's great. And the next moment, you see this woman. About the same age, next to a pool with the chair gym. She folds it out, she's doing those exercises. For $14. 95, it can be yours. But do you know what they're saying can be yours? It's not the chair gym that can be yours. It's the smiling fulfillment of the couple that you just saw the slide before. The problem in your relationship isn't moral. The problem in your marriage isn't relational breakdown and selfishness. The problem is you just haven't experienced life to the full. And here's one way that you can. For $14. 95, send your money in to order today and we'll give you two for the price of one. Do you see? And these Christians, he's calling them to be wise and recognize that as you live in this world, your posture ought to be for the Christian. That there is a war going on, one that says, follow this way, and it leads to fulfillment. That is the fulfillment of self. Whereas the other through Jesus Christ, follow me and I will give you life abundantly. Your problem isn't just relational. Your problem isn't physical. Your first and foremost problem is moral. Because you have dethroned me. And he's saying, Be wise. Be wise, therefore, abstain from sinful desires which war against your soul. Abstain from thinking that you are at the center. And not Christ. Because everything coming at you will lead you to believe that you're at the center. That's the new posture. But recognizing that there are two kingdoms at war. And he leads them then in the midst of this war, this between these two kingdoms, from this new life to new ethics. Where he says to them, verse 12, live such good lives among the pagans. Now Kiri's not merely meaning Gentiles. He's meaning those who do not acknowledge Christ as Savior. He says, Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. I believe that what he's calling them to in verse 12, live such good lives, the word their good can also be translated as beautiful. Live such beautiful lives among those who do not believe. What is he telling them about this new ethics? It means it is the pursuit of virtue. Pursue Christian, unique Christian virtue, he's telling these Christians. What do I believe he's telling them? I believe he's telling them to pursue the norms of the kingdom. Why do I say that? Where do I get that from in this text? Because notice what he says. Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong. That is a very familiar kind of way of phrasing, something that Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5. Listen to what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 5, verse 16. He says, in the same way, let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven. So Peter, like Jesus, is now telling this group of Christians to pursue this virtue. The norms of the kingdom. And do you know that what Jesus said there is coming as a summary of the virtues of the kingdom? Listen, listen to these virtues. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are the meek. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Blessed are the merciful. Blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed are those who persecute but persecu Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. What Peter is calling these Christians to is to live out the norms of the kingdom But do you notice to live out the norms of the kingdom not in private enclave of righteousness? The inference, what is understood here is that they're to live these beautiful lives of pursuing the norms of the kingdom. Through the power of Christ and by his grace, not privately inside the walls of the church. Or in your homes, or in your fellowship groups alone. But the Christian is called to live these lives In the world, wherever it is that God has placed you as an employee or an employer, as a neighbor. As a friend, whether at work, leisure, whatever it may be, that to live out these kinds of virtues, these kingdom norms In the midst of the world. You see, the understanding is that the Christian isn't sort of Walled off from the world, or pure from it, but rather in it, but not of it. You see, Christian virtue is a fine thing, right? As long as it's in the walls of the church. But Jesus did not intend for us to live these lives. By ourselves, but to live them out. And even though he recognizes, even Peter recognizes, in doing so, they will accuse the Christian of doing wrong. They will accuse the Christian of doing wrong. Well, what is it that they will accuse the Christian of not doing? Well, right during the time of Peter Roman historians have recounted that Christians were considered loathed because of their abominations. That Christians' worship was considered an abomination. Abomination to whom? To Caesar. They refused to participate in the worship of Caesar the king. They refused to participate in the public worship services and all that attended those parades that were full of idolatry and debauchery and immorality. So much so that they were considered those who were loathed, hated. Even during Nero's persecution, Christians were considered a class quote, a class of people animated by a novel and mischievous superstition That the way in which they lived was considered not worthy of respect, but of suspicion Because they were not plunging in to the kingdom of the world. Rather, though they were in it, they refused to participate in it and of it. But they continued to work out their virtues of peacemaking, love, compassion, mercy, caring for the poor. Caring for the sick, loving one another, even while being persecuted You see, that is what the praiseworthy lives are about. This passage assumes that the practice of the kingdom norms is to happen in among the culture. The church and the Christian are not to hold up, as I said, in enclaves of righteousness, but rather living out these kingdom ethics. Even though it may cost respect, even though it may bring persecution, even though it may look to the culture to be just superstition, And false, lacking reason. But the Christian still loves. The Christian still shows mercy. The Christian goes back to the King, Jesus, where he says, love your enemies This is a powerful way of living. But I will tell you That if you're a Christian this morning, I believe that the world is hungry. Longing for this kind of life I close with this illustration and then a quick application. Albert Camus, the author of many books, but one of them is called The Fall. In this book, there is a central character who is an attorney. He was a very honest attorney. He sought to even seek to feed the poor. He refused to take bribes. But on one particular evening, after an evening out with his mistress, he was walking home. And as he was walking home, he had to go across a bridge. And as he crossed that bridge, He passed a woman who was looking over the side of the bridge into the water. And he passed her by. As he got past her, he then heard the sound of a thud of a body hitting the water And he heard someone cry, he heard gurgling, and then he heard nothing more. He realized what had happened in that moment, and he tried to put it out of his mind. And when he got home, a thought crept into his mind. The thought was this: Could I have done something? And he began to think about that question and he pushed it down. He ignored it In fact, he tried so much to ignore it, he did anything he could. In fact, the problem was, in ignoring it, it only made the question come louder. And what began to happen was guilt began to take hold of his life, that he could have done something but didn't, to the point where he could no longer cross a bridge. His world was becoming smaller. He then wondered this. He said. I felt and feel as I need to confess, but to whom do I confess? He then came to this conclusion. Our faces are dirty, but we have no soap. All we can do is wipe one another's noses. You don't have to wait for the judgment that is coming. The judgment, that judgment, takes place every day The reason why I say that the world longs is because the world is full of judging itself Even in the past 48 to 72 hours since the massacre in Aurora, Colorado, there have been so many voices trying to answer why this happened. And in the coming days and weeks, there are going to be so many confusing voices in the world. And they're going to be trying to ascribe guilt and understanding, but people are going to disagree with one another. This therapist or this attorney or this idea will come out and try to explain. But it will not be able to remove the guilt, it will not be able to remove the dirt. All we have left among all these voices is confusion. What we need is we need the gospel of Jesus Christ to come in and to say The problem with this man was not video games. The problem with this man was not a film. The problem with this man was not his upbringing or his intelligence. Or whatever you may have. The problem in this world is not from the outside. The problem is on the inside. The problem is sin. And the only answer to sin, the only clear message, the only message that can truly bring comfort is to believe and to understand that this sin is first and foremost, not acted and perpetrated on others. The first sin is acted and perpetrated upon God that dethrones him. And puts myself at the center. And what we need to come back to is the simple Yet profound, deep gospel that does not do tricks to try to answer the problem of brokenness in the world. It tells us the truth That it is God who has come to say the problem is you, yet I have had compassion on you, and I've sent my son. To call you out of the darkness, the darkness of violence, the darkness of the human heart. That all it can do is simply wipe the noses of one another, but we have no soap. We cannot remove our guilt. Only Christ, whose blood, who's fully God, fully man, whose blood was spilt for us, who told us the truth, and died as a sin offering for us. Who stood before the world as a man who is condemned, though we deserve to be there. And God says, I will condemn my own son that you might have life. You see, there is forgiveness for everyone, and I will say to you, do we believe there is even forgiveness for the man who perpetrates such violence as we've seen? Do we believe that? And if we believe that, we will have been willing to go into the darkness of our own hearts and recognize what separates me from him. Is very little. It's just that I, by God's restraining grace, have not acted on the same selfishness That was growing up within him. My only hope, your only hope, our world's only hope is Jesus Christ. And that he, that he, Christian, may have his way with our hearts to dethrone even you, Christian, even me, Randy Lovelace, from the throne of my own life That Jesus Christ may be re-enthroned, and that by him alone and his grace he might work out in me the kingdom norms of peace. Love, mercy, and compassion because God have mercy. It is not natural to us And may He work us out to be a people who live not by our wisdom, but by his grace. To experience and extend that same grace Those of you this morning who do not know the Lord Jesus Christ, I call you. I invite you come off the throne and know the one who knows your deepest desire. Who knows your most profound and perverse selfishness. And yet he loves you. And he will show you that your deepest desire will never be met. Unless you find your home in him. Christian, by his grace alone. He sends us out. He sends us out by his grace to live out these norms. To be the Christian. In an age of unbelief, will you pray with me? Have mercy, O Lord For I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips. I confess my own selfishness. Father, I confess my own heart is not wise about the war that rages between these two kingdoms. But your word has come like a mighty voice. May your spirit come as a mighty rushing wind, renewing the people of God. To be your children and your people in a world that is longing for grace Father, we ache, but only you are the healer. We are hungry, but only you are the one who satisfies. Come, Lord Jesus, come. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.