It's good to be with you again. I've been uh way at camp this week, out in nature. I'm not uh always that prone to agree with nature, but it it was a good week. Uh the Lord blessed us with some good weather at French Creek Creek and uh I've enjoyed that. We're going to be looking at another nature passage, not the verdant trees and water. and loveliness of a camp like French Creek, but the wilderness. So we'll look this morning at Paul's first letter to the Corinthians, 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verses 1 through 13. 1 Corinthians 10, I begin reading at verse 1. I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea. And all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to the test as some of them did, and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that It is so profitable to us, not only for doctrine, but in instruction in righteousness and the practical affairs of our daily life. We thank you that it shows us Jesus, our only hope, our strength, our consolation, our comforter. Our advocate. We pray, Lord, that you'll help us now as we think about this passage and that you would speak to us and that you would give us ears to hear. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. Some of the fun memories I have of our family vacations were not all that fun when they were actually happening We never had big cars, I think, uh uh one or two exceptions, and one of them was a real lemon. And we sometimes would pack up the little Toyota Corolla and imagine driving from here to Omaha, Nebraska. in a Toyota Corolla, two parents, two kids, and then deciding after you'd done that and visited family for a while, driving another 400 or 450 miles to go to Colorado. And then after you're done driving all the way back to Baltimore. Well, occasionally to add to the joy of a ten hour drive. And uh kids asking, are we there yet? Stuff like that. We would run into car trouble And I still remember having this dream, having this great desire to see the Rocky Mountains, and I couldn't wait to get there And just as we were about to get there and we were at the KOA campsite, car trouble. And we had to put the car in a garage. To have it worked on gas lock or something like that, I don't know. And there we were, and you could see them, but we couldn't quite get there And yet it's a memory. And it's now kind of a neat memory We had to get close to the earth. We had to walk. We had to walk into Estes Park, walk back out. I like to eat. Probably you can tell. But in any event, the food never tasted so good As it did after walking into town and walking back out and going into that restaurant. And we were forced to spend time with each other, for better or for worse And we have a memory. And we finally got to get into the mountains, and we did horseback riding, and there were all of those things Seeing God's wonderful creation, but there was testing. And there were not always A's when it came to those tests. I think I got a few F's on those tests in terms of patience And things of that nature. I'm sure nobody here can relate to that. Israel is the church in the wilderness that we see here in First Corinthians chapter ten, and they're being tested. Now they were set free. A glorious liberation, and you'd think they'd be happy to be free. But once they got away from Egypt, they weren't in the verdant nature. They weren't even in the Rocky Mountains where there is some water flowing from some stream. streams, but they were in a wilderness. And they were the ones that were supposed to be tested, but we read in our text Verse 9, we must not put Christ to the test as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents. God took them out of Egypt. He took them out of the corrupt surroundings of that culture and the idolatry. To test and see what was in their hearts. And it is true that sometimes in our struggle With sin. And in our testing, we need to get away from some of the things that tempt us and influence us. But even if we escape into the wilderness and don't have the surrounding Egyptian culture, even if we were to become pillar monks As some people tried to do, I think, in the fourth century, give or take a few centuries, and to just sit on top of a pillar and be all alone. Would that take care of the heart? Would that remove the impulse to idolatry? Or would we find our own imagination And our own desires putting something before God, putting something before Christ. That was the test. You're out of that bad environment. You're away from the idolatry of Egypt. But instead of taking the test and passing it, they put God to the test. We really like those flesh pots of Egypt. We like those leeks. We like the diet. Yes, we were slaves, but it wasn't that bad. Oh really? I'm sure it was bad when they were going through it, but we forget We can forget how miserable life was before Jesus Christ. Came and made that transforming work of grace in our heart. And if we're not careful, some people can begin to dream, well, wouldn't it be fun to be able to do this again or do that again? Some men, as they get into middle aged decide wouldn't it be nice to be young again and they do some very stupid and foolish and sinful things to try to recapture that youth And if they're a true believer, they find out how foolish they have been. And they find out that it's not as much fun. And they can't be young again. And there are some advantages to growing older. Hospital bills are not among them, but there are some advantages Hopefully you grow a little wiser and you become a little more homesick for heaven. Because you begin to realize that this here is not what it's all about. Home Where is home? Well, I've lived several places on the earth. I grew up in Omaha, Nebraska. I'm not sure where home is on the earth anymore. anymore, but I know where real home is. You've been displaced. You're in a different building right now. And perhaps it's like a vacation adventure. There's some new experiences, there's some good experiences. You can all be together as one congregation. And there are some amenities here, but I'm sure there are things you miss and are looking forward to when you get into your new building. And you can begin to think of, well, it'll be good to get home. But you know what? When you get to that home, you're not going to be home. You'll be at your sort of home But not your ultimate home. Because the church ultimately is not a building. And I think you see that here in 1 Corinthians 10. You have to compare it with some other passages, but for example, Acts chapter 7, verse 38. It speaks of the congregation or the church that was in the wilderness. There was a church in the wilderness, and Paul's talking about that same church or congregation. That was in the wilderness here in 1 Corinthians 10. Now there are some people, well-meaning, I'm sure, who believe that Israel is one very, very distinct entity, and the church is a very distinct, separate entity, and the two are really quite different. But again, if you look at Acts 7, verse 38, you find that Israel is the church. It is the church in the wilderness, the Old Testament church. Because it is the people of God, and God has always had a people. He's always had a community Buildings aren't God's priority. It is the community. It is the people. That's where God's priority is. And I think you see Paul bringing out that concept that this is indeed a church. In the opening verses of chapter 10, look at those first few verses. I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers, so there's reference to some family connection, continuity, our fathers. Now no doubt some of the Corinthian believers had a Jewish heritage, many of them probably. But Paul doesn't make that distinction and say, well, those of you who are Jewish in Corinth, our fathers were all under the cloud and passed through the sea. No, he says, our fathers, indiscriminately. And then he talks about passing through the sea and says something very peculiar. All were baptized into Moses. In other words, there's some connection Paul is making between the New Testament church that has this ordinance or sacrament that we call baptism that is an outward display of the inward working of God when we are united vitally and really with Jesus Christ Christ as the Holy Spirit comes to live in us. That is the baptism in the Holy Spirit, not speaking in other tongues and stuff like that, but the reality of Christ living in you through the Holy Spirit. And Paul is saying there was something like that in the Old Testament. In the wilderness, everybody was baptized into Moses, and they had spiritual food and drink. They had ordinances like we have. sacraments. They were God's people. They had those advantages. But then he says, though they were the church, though they had those advantages, with many of them God was not well pleased. Because they didn't do very well on their test. Most of them got S And then he goes on to say, that wasn't just for them, that's for us. They were given as examples for us on whom the ends of the age have come, as a warning. So that when we face the test, we will recognize what failure looks like and say, I don't want to go there. I don't want the F. And we should expect, because we have a greater fullness Of the measure of Jesus Christ who has given us the Holy Spirit that we might well do better than these did in the wilderness. Some, I think, have erroneously equated the idea of the wilderness as a picture of what some have called the carnal Christian. I think that's a wrong understanding. It is true that the Old Testament people acted carnally. But the essence of the wilderness is testing. Jesus was driven into the wilderness by the Holy Spirit so that he might be tested of the devil. And you know, no matter how well you manage your life, no matter how many risks you manage to avoid. No matter how adept you are at arranging your environment, there's no way of escaping testing. You can't escape it. That's part of what it is to be a Christian. The word testing and temptation are very closely linked. And I think wherever you read the word temptation or test, you can read the other word just as easily. And the great good news that we have here Comes in verse 13. It says, no temptation, or we could read that as test or trial. No temptation test trial has overtaken you that is not common to man God is faithful and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape. that you may be able to endure it. Let me suggest to you that if you only have three Single Bible verses to memorize. And I'm not suggesting you combine yourself to three. Memorize more than that. But if you only had three Number one, I would make John 3. 16, so that you all remember the depths of God's love. That his love is shown in the sacrifice, so that when you're tested and you're wondering, does God love me? Why is he causing me or at least allowing me? Which is probably a better way of putting it, though he is sovereign. Does he love me anymore? Yes. The proof is not in your circumstance, the proof is at the cross. It's what he did at the cross. No greater love. No greater love. That was it If you have a second verse, well tick take your choice, but mine would probably be Romans 828. That God is causing all things to work together for good to those that love Him and that are called according to the purpose. Although you might put 1 John 1 9 in there So that you have a way that you know you're forgiven. That if you confess your sins, He is faithful and righteous. to forgive you your sins and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. But right there in third or fourth place, I think I would put, and again, who am I to make this order? You make your own assessment, pray about it, but a wonderful promise of God here in verse thirteen that you can make yours God is faithful and he will not let you be tempted above your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. If you ever said this is too much, I can't endure it, I can't take it anymore, I have to do something, you give in to sin or you get angry and spout off Say something you wish you hadn't said. Give in to some lustful impulse, whatever it may be This says it doesn't have to be if you're a Christian. There's no necessity. We know That yes, we are never perfect until we get to heaven. But that's not the excuse. This verse is still true. God has a way of escape. Now, sometimes we don't take the escape, and that's our problem Sometimes God offers us a solution, and life is a lot more complicated today We have new technologies that have become wonderful instruments that can be used to proclaim the gospel. You have sermon audio, and I understand you have people who are able to hear Alan's sermons and other sermons in China. Just think of what a blessing that is. But that same internet, that same resource allows you or your children to be able to sit in front of a computer screen and access images. That can be very destructive and lead to pornographic addiction. And it's a challenge because It's a technology that has become almost essential to the way many of us do business now. But there's that other side and there's that potential. And earlier generations didn't have the potential for good or the potential for evil that comes with that technology. It's not the technology that's evil. It's the challenge that we have. And we can try to become the pillar saint, to escape in the wilderness and escape the culture. But somehow we're going to have to devise a strategy and ask God, what is the way of escape? You've made the promise, what is the way of escape? That you've provided for me to deal with this temptation or that temptation, whatever your particular temptation may be. And we all have particular areas where we're weaker. We need to pray and ask God, help me find the strategy. Help me find the way of escape and then be willing to take it One very, very vital part of that strategy has to be your community. Your building will not help you escape temptation, but your community can have a very vital role because you see the church is a family, a community that is there to pray for one another and also to hold one another accountable. Now in a group this size you can't all hold every one of the other people accountable, but you can have your own discipleship group within this congregation People that you get together with and pray with, people who know you, people who you begin to develop trust with. And that's part of the vital life of the church. The problem is that again, modern life has some complications, and we can kind of shop around. You don't normally shop around for your family, do you? You're born into one family And that's your family, for better or worse. Hopefully for better. And they know you, and they know when you're usually up to no good And they can call you on it. But we have this situation where If I'm seeking to grow in Christ, I may be sort of accountable to this church or to this counselor, but if it begins to pinch And I don't quite like the answer that I'm getting, or that person tells me, Look, you need to turn to Christ and stop that now and quit making excuses. I think I'll find another counselor. I think I'll find another community. I think I'll find another family. We can do that. We can church shop. We can counselor shop And we can forget that part of God's strategy for helping us to avoid temptation and testing and falling is to not be in control of everything, including those who we think we ought to be accountable to. There's some element of control. We have to decide this is A church that believes in Jesus Christ. This is a church that believes in the Bible. This is a counselor who will give me the truth and is not interested in just what he can get out of it for himself. When you find that person, when you find that church, when you find that ministry, when you find that discipleship group, be willing to be accountable. Because that's part of your home away from home. That's part of the community One day we'll be in that great glorious community that falls before the throne of God, singing his praises forever. But now we are in the wilderness and we are being tested. And while we gather to worship, and that is one of the great functions of the Church of Jesus Christ here on earth, so it is to encourage one another. And to help one another, and to challenge one another when we see our brother or sister beginning to try to control things themselves There are generations in the community. Parents who've gone through the struggles that some of you young people are going through. Who found out from hard experience some of the troubles that happen when you say get in the wrong kind of relationship? Someone Who you couldn't pray with because they're not a Christian. What is it you want most of all in life? If what you want most of all in life is to be God's child And under Jesus Christ, and experiencing his love and his blessings, then you will listen. To those who have learned to experience those blessings, who've made some mistakes, and who said, I want the people in my life to love Jesus Christ. Because that's the one I love. Take this promise. This is your promise. And ask God to help you find the strategy and the way. And at the center of the strategy and the way. Of overcoming that temptation, whatever form it takes, maybe it's an intellectual doubt, maybe it's fear of people. Maybe it's the love of pleasure. Whatever it may be, at the center of that strategy is looking to Jesus Christ every day. Looking to him. And asking for his power and forgiveness, his resurrection power to help you implement those other strategies that you prayed about. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, how we thank you for your love How we thank you that you've not left us alone to be orphans or left us alone to figure out how we're going to overcome temptation, but you're there and have given us your promise. Have given us your people, have given us your community, have given gifts and pastors and elders and leaders to the church. Help us to help one another as well, that we may walk in newness of life and experience the blessedness of fellowship with you and your people. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen.