Acts chapter one. This theme we'll be looking at the next few weeks from the book of Acts. When you think about Columbia situation here, our church is about 200. We make up about one-third of one percent of Colombia. one uh much less than that of the surrounding area which we say we want to have an impact on for Jesus Christ. The philosophy of the area is so different. In many ways it can be discouraging as we say that our goal, our vision for our church is to reach this area with the gospel of Jesus Christ. But in Acts in some ways, as we op as we see the the church start here, it it was much bleaker in many ways. There was a small group of disciples together, very few of them. The gates of hell not prevail against the church, I will build it, and yet here there are eleven of them, maybe a hundred and twenty, and we see that it looks pretty bleak. And yet in Acts we see the stay and full of what Jesus had promised taking place as the gospel goes forth. I have a question for you kid. Here's the go. We're going to see in the book of Acts and especially today, the promise that Jesus said, predicted in the Old Testament, that the gospel and the church of Christ will be established all the way on the earth. But it's it's gonna happen for sure. Question parents to ask your kids sometime today, why do we believe that's certain that the church will grow mightier and stronger and bigger before the Lord Jesus comes back? about that today. It's a promise. Let's look first though at the scope of the kingdom progress in Acts and apply it to us at CPC. And then we'll look at the certainty of this kingdom progress in the world today. First the scope of kingdom progress There's a quality and a quantitative nature of the scope as we look at now. The quality, you see disciples of Christ that are sold out to him, they're not half-hearted, they're very single-minded in their devotion to Christ. Something that's uh a second part of their life, essential to their life, everything. They live not for themselves but for Jesus. You see it in those verses there in your bulletin outline. Not like I heard a preacher speaking about a fire extinguisher he bought cheap and he got He wanted to test it and he spread it and nothing happened. And he noticed a little tag on it. It said display model only, not for operational use. And he said, you know, that's the way a lot of people in the church is display models only, not for operational. As you read the book of Acts, isn't it? It's just the opposite. These were operational Christians. They were on the move for Jesus Christ, living for him. They outthought, outprayed, outlived, and out. die their generation, as one historian said. They were truly remarkable. They were single-minded in their devotion. And we're going to look at that in other weeks. But especially today, the quantity of the Christians and the scope as the gospel progresses and the church church uh progresses. We kind of have an aversion though to talking about numbers though, don't we? You know, like the one uh elder told the preacher, you're supposed to feed the sheep, not count them. And yet we see in the book of Acts that the Holy Spirit can See starts we have the eleven and the one twenty, then the three thousand, then the five thousand, and all through, you know, we read in the uh what we read through before about the church progresses and increases and we come to Revelation at the end, and what do we see? A host too great to number. So we shouldn't have an aversion to thinking of numbers. It is good that the Church of Jesus Christ Christ grows for many reasons. This is one which to me is uh Alice really brought home to me this year. You know his little square that he used on the uh for his evangelism sermon in the top part of that square, two motives that are from the Lord, that point to the Lord through evangelism. One of them is the command. Which I never thought of before is jealous worship. That we desire that people with rightfully worship and honor the true and living God and bow before the Lord Jesus Christ. As more people bow before. before him and honor him to bring his glory to his name. You know, Paul, I don't remember if he used this when he preached that, but Paul in Acts 17, you know, and he comes into the city of Athens. And what does he see? All these idols and the people bowing before the idol And it says that Paul's spirit was distressed within him. Because they weren't bowing before the truth of living God. They weren't bowing before the Lord Jesus Christ. And it distressed Paul to see that. and more and more numbers of people come to Christ. And then how about if Paul came to Columbia and he went over to the Ralph building and he said in on that little propaganda movie they got in there? And they showed a nice bike path who was across the Columbia and they uh had have the you know all the cables, you know, they show contrast to Columbia and all the cables, you know, in other places and all the all underground in Columbia. And just it doesn't say that we see the idol of man building his perfect city. that there were people racing on the bike pads and and all the other struggles that go on here and the homes that race that. But man trying to create historic city and we see what what if Paul came upon me and found out that uh there's less than thirty percent of the go to church, so I've heard And one statistics and there are much many fewer than that that go regularly, and many fewer than that that really are serious about following Jesus Christ. I think that Paul, the spirit, would be distressed and that we want numbers to come to Christ. And more people to come as we see in the But they would bow before the Lord Jesus Christ, not just because we don't think that the Columbia way, although there are many good things certainly, but that that foundation of of speculative humanism is a is uh not only does it not satisfy, not only does it not work? The roots gotta be dug up. You can't just cut the weed and deal with the symptoms of problems. The parts of that have to be changed. But we want to see people bow before the Lord Jesus Christ and honor him as their king. It's something that we want to see happen here. We as I don't want to mention, as we think about numbers, as we think about our church and growing as a church, uh, we certainly want to be careful though, that we don't want to grow for the wrong reasons. Temptation, tempt tempting, the church growth movement, just to grow for numbers' sake. But let's remember we want it for the honor of Jesus Christ. But not only do we see him grow uh in terms of numbers, but also in terms of nations. Remember the promise of Genesis? twelve that in you, Abraham, all the families of the earth will be blessed. But in heaven that host of people, too great the number, we see from every nation come, people and tribe. And in the middle in Acts, we see that begin to take place as we read as the gospel goes. forth and the church of Jesus Christ was built and it's built up more and more. The promise was back in Isaiah chapter two, verses two through four. So the word of the Lord would go forth from Jerusalem and in acts the story unfolds of the word of the Lord going forth. four. Acts one eight is the theme for grass. Read it with me. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. That wasn't too bad for the disciples. They were very monocultural. They liked being witnesses in Jerusalem. Well at first they didn't you notice in verse six there when uh they said uh Jesus, okay are we ready for the kingdom to come? Jesus says, Not so fast. A lot of work to be done. And they say, okay, Jerusalem. We'll be your witnesses in Jerusalem. The church spreads in Jerusalem, we see lots of people come to Christ. But then turn over with me to Acts chapter 8. And this is for the good end. Easy to remember. Acts 1. 8 and then Acts 8. 1. Acts eight one, about halfway through the verse there. On that day a great persecution broke out against the church at Jerusalem, and all except the apostles were scattered throughout where? Judea in Samaria. But if it doesn't Acts 1. 8 says, you shall be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria. But it's hard for the disciples to scatter especially the Samaritans. They were bad. They didn't like them. Remember John 4, the story of Jesus in the Samaritan woman. And so the Lord ordained a persecution and he scattered them out to other places. I know one shoemar being scattered to to uh up New York, yeah, Bush, God will use them there. But God sometimes does it, he's got a lot to scatter tonight. We might say, uh Jerusal uh we don't we like Columbia or Jerusalem. You know, we find it that way too sometime maybe, but are we willing to be scattered? So we see the church progress, not just to Samaria, uh, but then it goes on to the uttermost parts of the earth. We see uh Peter go to the uh Gentiles first. You know, it's hard. They gotta have to twist his arm and go to the Gentiles. The Samaritans were bad enough. But then he goes and he tells the gospel when Cornelius is uh is converted and many people there. gospel is taken on to the remotest parts of the earth as Paul goes and and it spreads out across Asia Minor and everywhere. It's uh exciting to see. You know this all does. It was hard for them to be convinced of this, even though the words only. But it's interesting that the Holy Spirit has given it each of those segments in a special sort of way to confirm. Is it for this monocultural group of Jewish Christians the the Holy Spirit in Acts two historically and then again in Samaria, you know. Suppose This is for all people. And then again, in the remotest parts of the earth, twice in Acts ten and Acts nineteen to the Ephesians, we see the Holy Spirit put out and you know they say, They're like this? This is for all peoples. So we see this as a running through acts and it just acts doesn't really end. It kind of is left hanging at the end because it's supposed to go on. And that's what's happening today. We also see if we try to apply this to CPC, maybe we'll break it down a little differently, we want internal growth, the quality. For sure. That's what we focus on when we come and gather together in our small groups. We want to see internal growth. We also want to see expansion growth. There's three kinds of that. Biological growth. We've had a lot of that lately. And a lot more of that coming up. Transfer growth. People that are Christians that move to the area and they come and they come to church and they join us. But also conversion growth. And you've struck in the book of Acts with a conversion growth. People that are converted to Jesus Christ. Their hearts are changed and they come to But not only we look in the future to expand it in numbers as a church, but extension is part of that growth. When we talk about extension, we mean planting other churches. That's part of our church's long-range vision. Because as we grow and get big enough, then to plant it up. church and see Christ Church extended in our area. But also bridging, that's mission. Going going cross cultural. We've had Gwynn and Pat they've gone to Taiwan for a year, Tito, um Carolyn, we're going. We see other people do that and then be part of the bridging of the gospel. But it's not only over oceans to bridge the gospel to other cultures. But here we see the the opportunity of the refugees, with international students, as outgrade. That's something that we want to be a part of as God's church here at CP. Not only the scope of the kingdom advancement, but we see the certainty of the kingdom advancement. So this the gospel is certain, that it's going to go forth, and the church will be advanced. Now this is a general truth. It doesn't mean in every time and every place exactly, but we can see the promises and it flesh that and acts that the church advances and that that Jesus Christ is honored as that takes place. You know this this part of the sermon as I studied it and I thought about it over the last year as we face so many Japan. Sometimes I get discouraged. I think, man, I'd rather stay here. But this gives me encouragement. This part, if this is true, it is certain that Christ's kingdom will advance. The promises from the Old Testament, the certainty that Jesus says, yes, I will build my church. I love Isaiah 45, 25, where it says, all the offspring of Israel will be justified. And we know that we are Abraham's offspring to the offspring. of Israel, the Gentiles are, we're part of that. It's an exciting thing. You know, we're thankful that the gospel came to us. It didn't we think we're Jerusalem. We're not. We're the overmost parts of the earth. Someone brought the gospel to us. And it's exciting and the certainty of taking it and seeing other people can build it and we build it uh people around us and people in other countries. Jesus said, I will build my church. There's a certainty in these promises, it will happen. And we can say and act why. There are several reasons, there are others, but I focus in on three. here. What is the certainty of the external call? When we talk about the external call, we speak of the preaching of the gospel. It's something that will happen, Jesus says. He says it in uh in chapter one verse eight. You will be my witnesses. That's kind of funny in a way, you know, but but it's gonna happen. We are. And that has happened throughout history. It's something that will happen. Some people may be bad witnesses, but uh we will be witnesses. The Church of Jesus Christ will be Remember what Jesus said to his disciples? He didn't say, I follow me and I might make you fishers of men. He said, Follow me and you will become fishers of men. It's quite a being a follower of Jesus. It happens as we grow, and that's exciting that he does that. And we see it in Acts 420 where the disciples, the very before the the uh the leaders and they say, Stop talking about Jesus and preaching the resurrection and they say, We can't stop Thinking the things we've seen and heard, it does happen. And wasn't that what Jesus said in in Matthew twenty four fourteen? That the gospel of the kingdom not might be preached to the ends of the earth, and then the end will come, he says, It will be preached to the ends of the earth. And then the end will come It will happen. And it's exciting to be in a church like C B C where we see that happen. You know, through so many ways. Boys Brigade and Pioneer Girls, people who aren't part of our church sharing the gospel. Little children, some of you had um the Bible day clubs in your homes this summer with kids from the neighborhood and vacation bible school where we tell the gospels to kids and um evangelism explosion ministry where someone takes you and you can go and learn watching someone else how to share the gospel. There are many navigators in our church who do that. Uh the second perfect movie where we uh it really helps us to to see in our friendships how we can make friends and point people to Jesus Christ. We're a church that certainly we can do better, but it's it's wonderful to be a part of a church that does. Take that seriously, that this will happen. The external call is certain. But what if nobody responded? Is that possible? But no one will respond as the external call, the preaching of the gospel goes out. No, because of the internal call. What we mean by that in theology is that God works on the hearts of people and He calls people. We do the external call. God does the internal cause. We see that in Acts a lot of kids. Turn with me there in Acts thirteen. I don't want you to turn too much here. It's hard to preach a series with a theme going through Acts and uh uh Al warned me about that uh the third book so I won't have you turn too much but I want you to look at this one and a couple others. Acts 1348. This is the first time I'm preaching from my NIV Bible. I hope you all appreciate that. Acts 1348. Notice this. When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and honored the word of the Lord and all who were appointed for eternal life believe. All who were appointed for eternal life believe. Now some people would like to take that book out of their Bible, but it's there. I was talking to a chaplain eight years ago when I was station And this is one of the verses we turned through and I didn't know Greek many, so he got his lexicon out and he looked up And I'll never forget to look on his face as he read the depth of this word, what it means. This word appointed, it's a strong word. And he he read this thing and I've looked it up uh since myself. So say to command. Command, to order, to direct. As a military superior, orderly commands and directs. Another definition I found that he did mention that day is uh just how it's very specific and precise. No options are left open what this word means. The word teso is a strong word. And he said, This here does it look like he appoints and orders and directs. See that's the hope that we have. That God does do this in the lives of people and as we go and go to gospel people but he's doing that in our hearts. We see a perfect case of it over in Acts sixteen. Turn a couple chapters over. This is a good one. Acts sixteen, verse thirteen. It was a beautiful story of Lydia and her family coming to pray. And one of verse Acts 16, verse 14. One of those listening was a woman named Lydia, a dealer in purple cloth from the city of Diatri , who was a worshiper of God. He had already been working in her heart. And then it says The Lord opened her heart to respond to Paul's message. Isn't that exciting that God is working in people's hearts? That he was the great cardiologist who did open heart surgery on Lydia and on us here today. He's worked in our hearts. He's honest in himself. And I don't know about you, but that's an encouragement to me. You know, if we didn't believe that God was doing it. And he's tender he says, people have a slight impediment. They are spiritually dead, blinding death. Other than that, they're in pretty good shape. And that's the truth. People need learning from God. And God needs to come and turn their hearts. That's the exciting that he does that. It's like a a metal detector or a metal, a piece of metal, big metal, passing over a bunch of nails. That's the external call. And the internal call, some of those nails are magnetized. And when it comes over 'em, some of 'em come up. And as God works in their hearts and we can have that hope as we tell the gospel. It gives me a little thinking of how many resistant people there are in Columbia. They think that they're the king of their own life and that they can make it on earth. They know they're inside they can't. But uh you know, Acts six seven, which we read earlier about a great number of priests came and believed. You think back in John, That the priests and the Pharisees were talking about the ignorant multitudes. None of the priests unbelieved, heaven. And here in Acts it says, a great number of priests believed, the resistant Jewish priests. That's an encouragement to us that God can change whole. He changed ours and he can change other people's hearts as we tell the gospel and as the gospel goes forth. This is so practical this doctrine. It's not something up in the sky, it's something that oughta encourages every day. When I was flying out to California on the plane, I Uh there was a Marine Stature that got on the plane in Phoenix and he um we ended up sitting together and as we talked he was a a strong picture book looking Marine, you know, and he uh these are reconnaissance marines that we got talking about. about parachuting skill bagging and all the recon skills and and it was uh we talked about an hour and I kept thinking, Loy this guy, he thinks he's got it all together. He's not interested in spiritual things. Well, I'm so bad about that, I always think negatively, you know. myself remembered God that work in people's hearts. And then he told me in the course of our conversation, I was thinking, how can I get around to the gospel that I kept saying he's not interested? And then he told me about one of his men that picked up an anti -tank round that was a moving around, blew him apart. He was alive for a couple minutes before he uh before he finally died and he said, Man, that really affected me and I asked him, Man, have you come to the place in your spiritual life and you know for certain that you would have died a day And he said he said, you know, I'm not sure, but I've really been thinking about it a lot. Turns out there was a guy in his unit, a sergeant underneath him, who uh was a committed Christian and had seen the effect this guy had had on his life and other people's life and now he's getting from the captain's from the boat. And uh he was open and for an hour I had a symbol that he wasn't. God is at work in people's hearts. And he had he had friends, neighbors, uh that he's he's work if he hasn't put X's on their back. We don't know which nail we're magnetized, but we have to pass the medal of the gospel over and people uh will respond as God does that. And we pray for that. That's why we pray for revival, because God is the author of salvation. He is the one that works in their hearts, and that's an encouragement. But you know the greatest encouragement of these three certainties is this one. The certainty of the king's rule. Now you know the uh the title here today, The Kingdom Strikes Back, is a lousy title. The more I think about it. But you know what? We get an exam. Uh it's on the page and you can't change it. But what is it about it? Because it's not the kingdom that strikes back. It's the king. And it's not that. It looked like he was striking back. But he was, you know, striking back in cries, beaten back, and then you come back on the cross it looked like he wasn't in charge. It looked like Satan did won. But that was part of the victory. That was all planned. It came was in charge. And we see in the book of Acts that Jesus Christ, the risen kingdom, in perfect control. Look at back to Acts 1. Last time I'll have a turn here. Back to Acts 1. Notice the very first verse. I'm in referred to In his prayer. Luke talking to Theophilus. I learned about all that Jesus began to do and to teach. The implication Jesus began to do it in Luke. Luke wrote the Gospel of Luke and the Gospel of the Louis. And what is Jesus doing now? He's continuing to do these things. It hasn't stopped. Notice the theme at the top of your outline on the other side of the page. The theme of the series is the Lord Jesus Christ advancing. His kingdom by his spirit through his church. We'll be looking at the church. And there's a part for us to play in this because God does it by his spirit through his church. But we see that Jesus Christ is a risen king. We see in verse 1 that chapter one verse nine. And he said as he was taken up and and he said this, he was taken up before the buried out. The ascension. Where did he go? To go to heaven to kind of fold his arms and look back and say, well I hope it works. No, he reigns as the king. He sits there and thrown in heaven. King, Jesus. And we see this as a pray in acts. We'll see as we talk about prayer in weeks to come and other things the church did. They weren't praying to an important king. They might be able to help or who might not be able to help. But they prayed to King Jesus who was in charge. We see in Acts two. Well I I didn't tell the truth, I believe we should turn it one other time. Uh over chapter two, uh verse 34 and 35. We see them throwing Psalms 110. For David did not ascend to heaven. Acts 234. And yet he said, The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand. And so don't make your enemies a foot struggle for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. In modern English. We would say, Listen guys, you know all those prophecies in the old testament about this king who's gonna reign and rule? He's gonna step on you. You're gonna be a foot, foot, foot, foot if you don't turn to him. That may sound harsh, but you know this is a war. The title I hope of the series. doesn't turn you off, but as we prayed earlier, there's there is a kingdom war going on, the kingdom of Christ against the kingdom of Satan. And we see this spiritual kingdom advancing because Jesus is king and he is in charge. It seems his disciples confidence. It's a practical doctrine. We pray to a very quick thing that is powerful. The special argument in Phoenix again on the plane. We see all three certainties, don't we? The Lord would work in his heart, internal works. You see, Dan Iverson, slow to learn, but finally got around to being willing to share the couple me. Drop it my rat, you know? So the external call. But did all of that happened by accident? It was no accident. The Lord Jesus Christ became in heaven picked those circumstances so that we came in contact with each other and that he could hear the gospel. Now Now, maybe some of you here today, you've seen circumstances fixed. You've felt your heart strangely warmed as you've learned about Jesus Christ and the good news that He offers us forgiveness of sins. You've been resisting it, but you just you can't explain it, but something's going on in your heart. Maybe that open heart surgery that Lydia had. I pray that God will open your heart and she'll talk to somebody about what it means to turn to Jesus Christ. That's the way doing that. It is wonderful to know him and walk with him. He is wonderful as our God and our king. One other thing about Acts, all through Acts, we do see Christ as King, reigning. We see his providence. John Calvin says this in a little bit. Acts everywhere shows forth the providence of God. See, it's not the acts of the apostle. That's a bad name. In some states the acts of the Holy Spirit, yes. But really it's the acts I like the scene that I put there itself, I think the acts of King Jesus Christ by his spirit through his church. And we'll be looking at that in the coming weeks. And that's a precious thing. As you go to your work, you feel persecuted as a Christian, or people look down on you, or you kids at school to realize that King Jesus is in charge and that he is directing the end. So there's no organization that's gonna do it, the C P C, the OPC, the PCA, C C I Z, you know, we got all these uh letters for all these Christian groups. Come up and they go down. Over the last two thousand years, don't they? But the kingdom of Jesus Christ marches on and it will until he comes again. You may have heard the story of Don Richardson, who was a um missionary. with his family and as they came to this village it was uh really hard. They finally learned the language after a long time there. And as they were uh finally got he had a bunch of the men around in the little hut and he was telling them about Jesus And you know, several years, it may have been a couple of years, and finally he had getting telling the gospel. And he got to the part about Judas and how Judas betrayed Jesus and they all started laughing. And he and he said, Uh what are y'all laughing for? So But in our culture, that's funny when someone pretends to make a friend and then betrays him. And he went back to his hut and was so discouraged, you know , it seems he was embedded in the culture against the gospel. And a war took place between a neighboring tribe and his c and the tribe where he lived and little brothers closed by. And this war went on for a long time. And many and his wife were so discouraged from war they wouldn't you know, they thought Jesus was the hero of the story. Uh one bad thing after another. And finally he went to the chief and they were discouraging his wife. They'd been praying for a victory but saw nothing and he said, Uh, listen, folks, you either stop this war or we're leaving. Somehow stop it. People were dying right in front of the streets. there and uh there was being his wife was a nurse and they wanted him instead because his wife was a nurse, they brought medicine, they brought access in and to and so uh later that afternoon or shortly after he gave that ultimatum, uh he heard a scream and went running at him. And here was the wife chasing her husband. She was hysterical and the husband carrying their little son out across towards the other roof. Well, uh he didn't know what was going on and later they you know, people came out and put the wife back hysterical. And he came back later a man and Don Richardson met him and he said, Yeah, what do you do? What's going on? And the man said, Well you said you didn't if we didn't bring peace. And we have in our culture that if someone gives your son to be a peace child, But there can be peace and there must be peace as long as he lives. Don Richardson yet thinking said, It seems I heard this story from where the book And as he he he spent his next weeks learning. everything he could about that little cultural uh whatever you call it and he learned more about it and he and then he got the men back together again. And he told them, he picked up where he left off, about how Judas had betrayed the peace child. one who God sent, all these people have rebelled against God, but God loved us enough that He sent the peace child, to pay the penalty for our sin, and to come and live and and take us and be His own, to make us new creatures. And they said, Oh You mean Judah it was the peace child that Judas betrayed. So why didn't you tell us that before? That's the worst thing in our culture for someone to betray a peace child. And many, many people, a large percentage that built which became Christians, the whole New Testament was translated into their language and a strong church was established. I'm sure during that difficult period, Don Richardson might have doubted, that Jesus was really the king and really in charge. But we see him doing Let's thank him and praise him together. Lord Jesus Christ, we do praise you that you are the King. But we do things like that, not only in Papua New Guinea, but in Columbia, Maryland, other cities. Our county, the United States of America, in Japan, in Muslim countries, in Vietnam, all over the world, Lord. And we look forward to that day when you do come back and gather your people see yourself. In Jesus' name, Amen