I 'm excited about the way God, I believe, is teaching us through the book of Nehemiah. I believe that God is really using this part of His Word to speak to us at this time. In fact, uh, last week, I believe we set, and I'm I'm sure we set an all-time record of responses on gray slips. Um many of you, man I was really encouraged how many of you said on the gray slip uh count me in on the wall uh One family said uh count her in on the wall. Uh but you know, it was uh just an overwhelming response about uh people saying, I'm wanting to be involved and then A number of very specific prayer requests. Pray for me in this regard as I seek for God's will and ministry. Pray about this area of my life. A number of personal requests. Thirteen of you indicated that you would like to have a meeting with someone, a manasedono, or someone from Howard County Citizen Services To find out more about the needs, and I'll be pursuing that. But there was just a sense that God is speaking to us. He is mobilizing his people for us to be believing that God is going to use us to rebuild the walls in this area. The walls out of the ruin and the rubble. And I was reminded this week as I was praying for you that many of you are already on the wall. And I thought that I didn't indicate that last week, but I understand and I know and we as elders are very aware that there's many of you who don't need to be called to be on the wall. You're already on the wall as much as you can be on the wall at this point. And God is using you powerfully. Now, for any of those of you who don't quite catch that image of, you know, what is this? These people are all on the wall, you know. Then in case you've missed the last couple of weeks or have a short memory, let me review and clarify that image. We've been looking at how Nehemiah's heart has been broken. Because God's heart was broken over the ruin and the rubble of broken walls and broken lives in Jerusalem in 446 B. C. right after the exile And we have seen that as Nehemiah went to Jerusalem, he then called God's people to look at the ruins. They had gotten used to the ruins, but in chapter 2, in verse 17 of Nehemiah, we read that after Nehemiah had spent some time looking at those ruins, that Nehemiah then says to the people, You see , The trouble that we are in. Jerusalem lies in ruins, and its gates have been burned with fire. And then after he specifies the ruins, he shows them evidence. That God is in this project to rebuild. And so he says in verse 18, I also told them about the gracious hand of my God upon me. And what the king had said to me. He tells them that this artist Xerxes, that had twelve years before burned the gates and had put an end to the very project, he's the one who's now financing it. He's the one who sent Nehemiah to be able to lead this project, and he's the one who's going to supply the timber and the goods and even some of the guards to be able to do it. And so he's saying, God is doing something here in answer to prayer that gives us an indication that he wants this building project to go on and that it's his intention that it succeed. And then, of course, Nehemiah calls them in their own response to be part of that. In verse 17, he then says, Come, let us rebuild the wall of Jerusalem. And we will no longer be in disgrace. And you remember the response of the people at the end of verse 18 was they replied, Yes, let's start rebuilding. And so they began this good work. And we have seen that in our age of the Spirit, what this means for us is that there is a new Nehemiah who has come, Jesus. And this Jesus is in a new building project. And this building project is not a physical city of bricks and mortar. He is building a living city of his people, his covenant people in relationship with God. That is the meaning of Jerusalem, God's people in relationship with Him. And so this Jesus has come to His people, and He is mobilizing us to be part of that project to build a new city in which there is a temple, that temple which is the living temple, being Created out of broken lives, transformed by the power of Jesus Christ. And so this new Jerusalem we read of in Ephesians chapter 2, consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens But fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Jesus Christ Himself as the chief cornerstone of this building project. In him, the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him, you too. Are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit. So Jesus is mobilizing his people as we've talked about from Ephesians chapter 4. Then he has equipped us so that in verse 12 we see, after he has provided the pastors and the teachers and others to prepare to equip God's people for the works of ministry, so that the body of Christ may be built up. That's the building project today, the body of Christ, until we all reach unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. And so from him the whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. And this is what we've been looking at. You see, Nehemiah is the case study in Old Testament language of what the risen Jesus is doing through his people today. To build the body of Christ, the living temple of the Holy God in our midst. And so I'm excited about the potential that I see I'm excited about your response. I'm excited to believe I'm not, you know, I may not always get the most vibrant amens in response. Sometimes I gotta catch you off a beat. You know, I need to give you about five seconds to warm up to it. I don't know what it But you know, sometimes I'll say you like you never know when it's gonna come. You know, you get it from the drummer here and there, but you know, you gotta get it from people who, you know, aren't percussionists necessarily But when we get this, you know, I I don't know what's going on, but then when we get responses like last week, I sense God is working. And you know, the there's there's so much potential. You can imagine if every Christian In our congregation and in the other congregations in Central Maryland, in Howard County, in the Columbia area, were to be involved in using our gifts. Involved in this building project, what would happen? I'm excited about the potential of you kids. Those who are singing in the children's choir this morning. There's thirteen I have in the current kids' communicant class. They're uh there every week and there is so much potential in these kids. I meet with them and we get together and we talk and I d I am genuinely I'm not just saying this to make you feel good. I mean it's family and all that, but you know, I am really impressed with the potential, the giftedness of the kids that we have in our body and of the solid stability that they have in their lives, growing up with understanding of the scriptures and lives that are whole and balanced and eagerness Some of you kids share with me some of your desire to serve the Lord. And I'm excited about what we're seeing happening. I'm excited about the ministry center that we're seeing continue to proceed over on 108. As a base of operation for much of our ministry. Not all of it. Much ministry will be continuing on in homes and neighborhoods, just as it always has. But as the base of some of our ministry , And just in the last couple of weeks, Diane Brown from the Columbia Flyer has contacted me to do an article on this. The Baltimore Suns contacted me to do an article on this. And so God is beginning to bring some profile to the fact that there are people who witness to the fact that there is a living Christ in our midst who wants to transform lives. And that we believe this. Amen? See a little preparation, that's all you need. But it's at this very point That we need to be reminded of principle number five from the book of Nehemiah. Principle number five is so important here because it reminds us that inevitably When we begin to come boldly against the strongholds of Satan, there will come a two-pronged attack upon us as his people. And that two-pronged attack is as old as the church from Pentecost and on even before that and since that. Opposition from without, that's point one. And then discouragement from within, and that's point two. And here you see principle number five from the book of Nehemiah. We must frequently refocus our gaze from the opposition and the rubble back to our God. We must frequently refocus our gaze from the opposition and the rubble back to our God. First of all, look at the opposition from without in Nehemiah. There are five stages of this opposition in Nehemiah's day. We look at each one and how Nehemiah handled them because you and I are going to receive the same kind of treatment. Satan doesn't love us any more than he loved Nehemiah and his project. The first stage of the opposition was ridicule. That's A there. A lot of these words out of context, so I'll give you the first letter. Ridicule. You see that in chapter 2, verse 19. Pick it up at verse 18. I also told them about the gracious hand of my God upon me and what the king had said to me, and they replied, Let us start rebuilding. And so they began this good work. But verse 19. As soon as this happens, you see, soon as these people become serious about getting in on God's project and lining up with his agenda, when Sandbalat the Horonite Tobiah the Ammonite official and Geshem the Arab heard about it. They mocked and ridiculed us. What is this you're doing? They asked. Are you rebelling against the king? You see, said Balat the Horanite was the governor of Samaria, which was the nation just north of Judah and hostile to it. And here you see a very important principle of spiritual warfare that we're seeing in our own day. And the principle is simply this: secular culture Will always tolerate a weak, ineffective, privatized Christianity. You see, Jerusalem to this point had been no threat whatsoever. Jerusalem had been occupied with its own survival. It had built the temple, and so they were worshiping God. But that worship Was a worship that was no threat to anyone else around them. It was entirely contained within the confines of Jerusalem. They were a weak, discouraged people hanging on to their faith. But when Nehemiah comes, and there begins to become a sense of this group of people forming a sense of influence Beginning to become a threat to the nations around as they begin to exalt the fact that Jesus Christ, their God, Yahweh, at that point, as He was known to them. Is a God of all heaven and earth. That is unacceptable. You see, the same thing is true today. American civil religion enjoys Christianity in a patronizing kind of way. I mean, let's face it, we add meaning to Christmas. And Easter and weddings and funerals, right? You gotta have that stuff. You know, it's just part of life But when Christians begin to say Jesus Christ is Lord of this culture, and when we begin to say that his principles are principles by which he judges nations, And those principles are absolute truth, not simply as 67% of Americans say today, that my system of truth is entirely to be decided by me with no outside influence. According to my circumstances and preferences. When Christians begin to then say there is a right, and there is a wrong, And we are judged by that. And we are seeking to live by that. And we are seeking to act as citizens according to that. That's unacceptable. The current issue of Christianity today is an illustration of this. Uh the culture wars turned violent. And here's this woman with a Bible about to belt this guy over there that's got his uh placard, you know, and two of them are gonna go at it. And there's a number of articles in there about the increasing hostility. among Christians and the secular agenda that we're opposing today. Now how was it that they expressed this ridicule? Notice Two things that they do. First of all, they say, basically, are you guys serious? I mean basically they're saying, you don't really expect to impose this pro-life and anti-gay moral agenda on us, do you? Are you really serious about this stuff? You really want to bring this into the public arena? And then the second thing that they say is: you don't even have approval. You notice verse 19? What is this you're doing, they said? Are you rebelling against the king? What authority do you have for this? We're going to take you to court And so one of the articles in this Christianity Today magazine is move over ACLU about the Rutherford Institute and a number of other uh Christian legal firms that are now beginning to express and defend the rights of Christians to be able to uh simply practice or express their beliefs in a public forum such as prayer on High school graduations and things like that. Now you notice how Nehemiah responds to this. Nehemiah's answer, summed up in one word, is confidence In chapter 2, verse 20. Confidence. You see, he says, I answered them by saying, The God of heaven will give us success. But his servants will start rebuilding, but as for you, you have no share in Jerusalem or any claim or historic right in this. Uh historic right to it. First of all, you see he's got confidence in God here. I love this answer. Basically, Nehemiah is saying, yeah guys, we're dead serious about that, and what's more we're going to win. You know, uh what's more, he says something that's very politically incorrect. He says, it's not simply that we got a good strategy, we're mobilized, we got a good uh PR system or you know what management or he says, no, the God of heaven who does whatever he pleases. He's in this project. I've seen his hand at work. And I have enough confidence to go on record with my reputation on the line to say, our God is in this. How many of us are willing to do that? Be able to say we believe that our God is now bringing this culture to its knees in the increasing alarm over violence and the other things that are going on on, the breakdown of the family, the trashing of the current culture. And we believe that our God is humbling us to show us that only He is able to save us from the mess that we're in. How many of us are willing to go on record? I find this increasingly easy. Maybe it's just because I'm a preacher and people expect that from me, but people are saying more and more, what is the matter with our society? Nehemiah says, our God is our hope, and he's going to give us success. And then he says, secondly, and what we're doing is none of your business. Now what he's saying there is, you know, take a hike. We don't want to talk to you. He's basically saying, this is a project for believers And so only believers are part of his church to build in this project. There's got to be a demarcation between belief and unbelief. And so he's saying, you don't have any part of this. And what's more, he says, we do have the authority. I can just see him pulling out those letters from Artuserxes. Remember what he asked for back there? He fought ahead. He 's him pulling out those letters. He says, Go ahead, take us to court. The law's on our side. And that's what's happening with the Rutherford Institute and a lot of other agencies now. They're saying, we have the laws on our side. Thank God that there still is enough of historic value within our culture that has protected not only the separation of church and church. State, but the establishment, the fact that there is, in fact, freedom for us fully to practice what we believe as Christians. So Nehemiah says, go ahead, take us to court. We have the authority, and you and I have the authority to do all the things that we dream about doing and dare not be ridiculed. And then the second thing that he moves on to, of course, after the ridicule doesn't work, is the intimidation. Second is intimidation. No one of the task force that I'm most excited about that Ministries that are just beginning is one that you're going to start hearing about. You haven't heard anything about it yet. It's just now getting formed. But it's a group of people We're going to line up with some of the focus on the family agencies and a new brand new agency called the Chesapeake Research Institute to bring Christian values to bear on public issues, whether civil or moral or whatever they are. To help us as a congregation to mobilize on some key strategic issues and know how to make a difference. And that's there's a task force that's now within our body being formed to help us to do that But you see, when when the ridicule doesn't work, intimidation begins to move in. So you see that in chapter four. Now chapter three, you remember, just simply lists all those that are mobilized on the wall And so you move on to chapter 4 to pick up the action here. In chapter 4, verse 1, we read that when Sanbalat heard that we were rebuilding the wall, hey, we really are serious about this thing, he became angry. He was greatly incensed. He ridiculed the Jews. And in the presence of his associates in the army of Samaria, he said, What are these feeble Jews doing? Will they restore their wall? Will they offer sacrifices? Will they finish in a day? Can they bring the stones back to life and those heaps of rubble burned as they are? And Tobiah the Ammonite, who was at his side, said, What they're building, even if a fox climbed up on it, he would break down their wall stones, wall of stones. You can count on it. Tobiah and Sand Ballard are now beginning to write editorials in the Washington Post. And a beginning to say , you guys really think you're gonna make a difference? You know, it reminds me of some of the recent boycotts that we've seen about television, violence and sex, clear TV and some of these We've seen a number of people begin to back down from the advertising and support of certain shows because the boycotts have been very effective. It's very interesting to read what the secular press has responded to that. People have basically said these boycotts don't make a difference at all. You know, you can make it dent. In fact, we're going to thumb our noses at you guys by pushing the limit on Phil Donahue and starting NYPD Blue. We're going to respond to show you you can't make a difference in this culture. But of course, the other side saying, well, we got letters from these people saying, okay, this is offensive to you, we'll stop it. And that's been documented. A number of advertisers and companies have said we don't want to have these major boycotts and this negative press. And if this is in fact the value system of this culture and you guys are going to speak to that, we're going to listen. But there's always going to be the intimidation it says, even if a box crawled up on this thing, he'd break it down. You see. It's to kind of put us back in our place. Whatever ministries we start, as soon as those begin to exalt Jesus Christ, there's going to come the intimidation. Now it's very interesting how Nehemiah answers this attack. Very interesting. Look what happens in verse 4 of chapter 4. You see, Nehemiah says, hear us, O our God. Now, what's interesting to me of that is he doesn't even answer them. There's no indication he entered into the debate. He didn't say, Oh, yes, we are. We're going to make a difference. He said, hey, you know, let the fruit show. Either we do or we don't. But his response is prayer. His response is prayer. Hear us, O our God, for we are despised. Yes, we sure are. Turn their insults back on their heads. Give them over to plunder in a land of captivity. Do not cover up their guilt or blot out their sins from your sight. For they have thrown insults in the face of the builders. This is your project, God. You take your vengeance. We're not going to bother to enter into that. And so they go right on building. Sometimes, sometimes, not always, sometimes the best response is for us simply to pray and get on with the work. Because Satan wants to distract us by defending ourselves. Third attack then becomes more aggressive, and so the third attack is aggression. Now these guys are really torped, and they begin to become irrationally angry. Verse 7. But when Sanbalh, Tobiah, the Arabs, the Ammonites, and the men of Ashdod heard that the repairs of Jerusalem's walls had gone ahead and that the gaps were being closed, they were very angry. They all plotted together to come and to fight against Jerusalem, to stir up trouble against it. So now you see, they say, okay, no more talk. Now we're going to attack. And so now there is the all-out anger displayed. I still remember back in 1983, when we as a congregation got caught up in the turmoil of all that debate as we were leaving the meeting house and we simply said that we understand that in a place where we share a facility with Jewish people that it is offensive for us to say that you need Jesus as Savior and Lord to avoid the wrath of a holy God. That there was then such a backlash. And I remember still that day that I was in that room with fifteen clergy from Howard County, and I was the only person in that room who believed that you needed Jesus Christ in order to avoid the wrath of God. And I remember how one liberal pastor came to me after that meeting and said, those guys wanted to tear you limb from limb. I was glad he didn't say we got. He wasn't going to get me in the hall afterwards there, but there was the sense that he saw there was hatred. because of the sti the stand that you guys take about Jesus Christ. And we have got to understand and not fool ourselves to think if we are simply reasonable people, we will get a reasonable response. Unbelief can become irrationally angry, and you cannot deal with it on rational terms. They don't say, oh, well, the building's going forward. Well, you know, you guys have a right to do this. Our Xerxes is authorized. Oh, I guess go ahead. They say, we're going to destroy this thing. We don't care what it takes. And that may happen in certain of the ministries that we'll be involved in if we're going to stand for Jesus Christ. Isn't that exciting? I mean, you don't have to go somewhere else to be in the battle. All we've got to do is act like Christians. And to do that radically. Now you notice how again Nehemiah responds to this, verse 9. Once again, prayer. But we prayed to our God, and we posted a guard day and night to meet this threat. Christians lock their doors. We don't just say, well, we'll pray and that's it. There is biblical basis here and in many other cases to say that as Christians we take precaution. The emphasis is on our praying for God to vindicate himself and to quell the opposition, to enable us to do what he's called us to do. But we also sometimes have to post a guard, and sometimes we have to lock and take particular precautions because of the hostility that we recognize. Then, because this doesn't work, they move into a new approach. D is lies and lures. Lies and Lures in chapter six. When the word came to Sanbalat, Tobiah, Geshem the Arab, and the rest of our enemies, that I had rebuilt the wall, and not a gap was left in it, though up to that time I had not set the doors in the gates. Sandbalad and Gesheb sent me this message. Come, let us meet together in one of the villages on the plain of Uno. But they were scheming to harm me. He recognizes that what they're doing is they're trying now by any means to get the leader out of the way. Okay? We're not going to intimidate you and threaten you out of this, then let's talk. Let's see if any way we can induce a compromise or remove the leader from the midst. But Nehemiah recognizes that it's all simply a ruse. Simply lies they're telling to lure him out of the position of influence. And so his response in verse 3 is: so I sent messengers to them with this reply. I'm carrying on a great project and I cannot go down. Why should the work stop while I leave it and go down to you? Four times they sent me the same message, and each time I gave them the same answer. He simply refuses. That's the R. He refuses, and he then, of course, prays. He refuses and he prays. He says, I'm involved in a great project. I can't be distracted by this. And there's going to be things that Satan will do to distract us. One of the things that churches that get involved in this become distracted by is church discipline. And so I tell you right now, as we are on the threshold of these areas. One of the things that you can do in this ministry to advance the cause of Jesus Christ is in your own walk To walk straight with the Lord Jesus. Because when someone, some family, some marriage, when something happens Where there has to be discipline and there has to be rebuke and there has to be a special attention given to something that's crumbling. That distracts from energy that can be given as we're mobilized together in other areas. And we as elders need to do that. You cannot ignore that But when you, as the people of God, are walking with Jesus Christ and you're seeking to follow him, then we are not distracted by that. We're not caught off to have to talk. But we're able to continue to encourage and to help one another in the great project that Jesus has called us to be involved in. Let the enemy always be on the other side of unbelief. Not something we have to get caught up in in our own congregation. And when that doesn't work, you notice they slander them. Verses five to seven. They say, then the fifth time Sam Balat sent his aide with me, to me, with the same message, and in his hand was an unsealed letter in which it was written. It is reported among the nations, and Geshem says that it is true, that you and the Jews are plotting to revolt, and therefore you are building the wall. Moreover, according to these reports, you are about to become their king, and have even appointed prophets to make this proclamation about you in Jerusalem. There is a king in Judah. Now this report will get back to the king, so come, let us confer together. Didn't you love that? I mean they're just gonna watch Nehemiah's blood pressure begin to rise and the veins stand out on his neck, you know. We got him now And they think that they can do this, and somehow this is gonna have to get his response. But again, I love his response. Look in verse 8. I sent him this reply. Nothing like what you're saying is happening. You're just making it up out of your head. What a hop in the balloon, huh? They were all trying to frighten us, thinking their hands will get too weak for the work and it will not be completed. He sees it for just what it is: simply another distraction. And so he goes on with the work. He discerns it, then prays for perseverance into verse 9. But I prayed now. Strengthen my hands. God, give us perseverance. I remember a time that the enemies of Billy Graham tried to slander him by Placing a prostitute right next to him in a public photo so that he could be seen with her and they were going to posture her hanging on him in a way that that one instant snapshot would be able to be used against him And some of Billy's friends who saw that anticipated what was going on because they saw him just a few seconds before that what was happening. And they were able to get him out of that situation, and they anticipated what the enemy's roost was And God protected him. And we need to pray that God will protect us from slander, from misunderstanding in the things that we're doing as believers who are engaged in the battle here. And finally, when none of this works, they finally tried to discredit him. Look at chapter 6, verse 10. One day I went to the house of Shemaniah, son of Deliah. the son of Mahetabel, who was shut in at his home. And he said, Let us meet in the house of God inside the temple, and let us close the temple doors, because men are coming to kill you. By night they are coming to kill you Protect yourself, basically, they say. Nehemiah says, verse 11, Should a man like me run away? Or should one like me go into the temple to save his life? I will not go. He simply stands. They try to discredit him, but he stands. He said, No, this is a great project. There's times when we're going to have to lock the doors and we're going to be We're going to be tempted to protect ourselves as soon as we begin get involved in the lives of unchurched people who have particular needs. There's going to be some threats. There's going to be some danger. Things may get stolen. Things may be abused. We're going to have to take that risk because we're going to say with Nehemiah, should somebody like us run away from this? What do we think we were building this thing for? To indulge ourselves? I remember Francis Need the Schaefer saying that five years after they began the work of LeBrie, every single wedding present that they had had had been either stolen or destroyed by people who were moving through their home. And there's going to become that temptation to protect ourselves. Nehemiah says, I'm not going to run away. I'm in this for keeps. Now, beyond all of that, there is very briefly even more dangerous the discouragement from within. And you see the problem stated back in chapter 4, in verses 10 to 12. Meanwhile, the people in Judah now, not the opposition from without, but now the people in Judah said, the strength of the laborers is giving out, and there is so much rubble that we cannot rebuild the wall. Also our enemies said, Before they know it or see us, they will be right there upon among them, and they will kill them and put an end to the work. And then the Jews who lived near them came, and they told us ten times over, Wherever you turn, they will attack us. And so you see two things here. You see burnout and you see fear. They're saying basically there is so much rubble. Far more than we thought. Now the interesting thing is that they're halfway through the project at this point, so there's only half the rubble that there was before. And when they started, they didn't talk about the rubble. Now they're overwhelmed by the rubble. You know, they 're talking like Jerusalem is the Arab landfill. But it really isn't. You know, the nations are not using Jerusalem for a landfill. There's less rubble, but their eyes have shifted from God to the rubble. And when we're involved in the lives of people, the temptation after a while is to believe we're not making a dent. I mean, look at all that there is to do here. It's an unending stream of need. And it's at that point that Nehemiah then, in brilliance inspired by God does what is absolutely necessary that you and I are going to need to remind ourselves again and again and again. Verse thirteen Therefore I station some of the people behind the lowest points of the wall at the exposed place to Posting them by families with their swords, spears, and bows. Again, there is the guard, there is the protection. He takes care of their safety. But then secondly, he refocuses their gaze back to God. After I looked things over, I stood up and I said to the nobles, the officials, and the rest of the people, don't be afraid of them Remember the Lord who is great and awesome, and fight for your brothers, your sons and your daughters, your wives and your homes. Remember the God who is the great and awesome God. You remember back in chapter 1, verse 5, he prayed, O God, God of heaven, the great and awesome God who keeps his covenant of love. In chapter 2 and verse 20, he had referred to him as the God of heaven who's going to give us success. Nehemiah says he hasn't changed. He's still the same God of the heavens. Jesus Christ is still the one who has risen from the dead. He's mobilized us to this work and he's still going to be with us. He said, I will be with you to the end of the age, as you heard earlier to the this Uh in this worship. So therefore persevere. God's calling you to a great project. And whatever discouragement he's going to use in your life, maybe to attack your marriage. Maybe to attack your job security, your finances, your health, whatever it is. Remember that Jesus Christ is still with you. And He has called you to the great project. And he will never leave us or forsake us. And the gates of hell, not us, or who are in for a bad time ahead. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you will remind us of the times when we need to hear it from you. That you are with us. And you will refocus our gaze from the rubble and the opposition back to the risen Christ. To see that you have called us to this project and you will not ever abandon us. Help us to believe you and to trust you and to persevere as weak people in the strength of Jesus. Amen.