And good morning. My name is Pastor Bob and I'm going to put my Bible right side up here. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter eleven. While you're turning there, I want to again specially welcome all of you and those of you who are visiting, special welcome to you. So glad that you are here with us this morning. As we go through the Gospel of Luke, we're coming to what is both one of the most familiar passages and least familiar at the same time. Because we're all very familiar with the Lord's Prayer. If you grew up in a Catholic Church, the Paternoster, our Father. But we're familiar with The Gospel of Matthew, the longer version. Here, in what is very likely a separate occasion, we can imagine that the disciples on many occasions said, Hey, teach us how to pray. Help us to pray. And he comes back to this, and this shorter version we're going to look at focuses us in a way that is especially appropriate. So keep that in mind. You're going to hear a lot of things now that you've known for, well, perhaps for decades. But maybe you'll hear something new as well. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your word. And Lord, we pray that you would bless it to us. And Lord, illuminate your word to us in the reading of Scripture. Lord, help us to remember that in Scripture you speak, and this book is unlike any other, and that it is from you and for us. Lord, we pray that you would help us to exalt in our minds, in our imaginations, in our hopes, in our worldview your word and what it says. Lord forgive us for sometimes thinking of it merely as good advice or simply a source of truth. Lord, make us a people of your word. And Lord, bless the reading of your word to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, we ask your blessings on that as well, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 11, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. Now Jesus was praying in a certain place. And when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray as John taught his disciples. And he said to them, When you pray, say, Father, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us, and lead us not into temptation. This ends the reading of God's Word. So here's Jesus praying all the time. And evidently his disciples either didn't pray for as long or weren't praying at all, and Jesus finishes up and they say, Hey, Jesus, John the Baptist taught his disciples to pray, teach us to pray. And perhaps he's already taught them. Perhaps he's already shared with them, as the Sermon on the Mount happens early in Matthew, he's already gone over the Lord's Prayer as a pattern for prayer It seems to be introduced as a pattern for pray in this manner, but here he's telling him, you say these words specifically. So the Lord's Prayer should be used both as a pattern and as a prayer itself. We are On solid ground to use the Lord's Prayer in both of those ways. But the disciples come and they say, Teach us to pray, whether it's for the tenth time or the first time. And Jesus teaches them in a manner that is remarkably consonant with what he said before. And when he teaches them to pray, He says, say these things, preach this way. Keep in mind the question that the disciples come to him with, or the request: Lord, teach us to pray. So as we look at this text, we're going to look at what this passage teaches us about prayer. Not simply the words to say, as if they're some kind of an Eastern mantra. That we don't need to necessarily understand, just need to repeat as if it's a a spell. But what is Jesus getting at in emphasizing these same things he'd emphasized in Matthew? In the Sermon on the Mount. Well, in both cases, Jesus begins, Father. Matthew says, who art in heaven. The fact that the Father is in heaven is a given in late Judaic thought, and the eighteen benedictions of the rabbis that were prevalent at the time of Christ. Four or five of them refer to our Father who is in heaven. In Matthew, we read, our Father who is in heaven. And this wasn't lost on the early church. In both Romans and Galatians, Paul is able to appeal to two very different ethnic groups. The more Latin-speaking people in Rome and the people of Celtic derivation living in Galatia who had come down at the end of the Bronze Age. Both of them understood clearly that they were to call out Abba Father when they pray. It's in Galatians 4 and in Romans chapter 8. So, when you think about this pervasive notion that in the day of the early church there was a clear understanding that we pray to our Father who is in heaven, that's fundamental about prayer. You pray on the basis of a relationship, and that relationship is specific. We come before the living God as his children. He is your father. And that meant something in the early world of Christianity. Because we understood that we were adopted into the family of God. And it was the Greek language that dominated the Mediterranean world of Jesus and the apostles, but it was Roman law that dominated. And that emphasis on adoption is very important to note. You see, under Roman law, if I were the head of my family. the Paterfamilius, the father of the of the whole family, I had the prerogative of life and death over everyone beneath me. Going back to the days of the Roman Republic. That's a terrifying thought today And the laws were such that as a father, under that Roman scheme of things, I could own or disown or even institute capital punish against my own kids. There is one exception. If I adopted a child into my family, that adopted child could never be disowned. Ever. That adopted child could never be punished with cruelty. That adopted child had to be included in the will. And it's remarkable how often Paul refers to the fact that we are adopted What does it say in the Gospel of John, chapter 1, when John, coming from a thoroughly Judaic context writes that to as many as believed he gave the right to become children of God, not through natural means. But by being adopted. The word isn't used, but the meaning is implicit. We are, and we have to hear this when we think of the New Testament's call to us to see ourselves as children of God, we are permanently. Permanently owned, beloved, cared for by the Father to whom we are invited to pray. He is your father. And he's in heaven. This idea comes clear from the the Judaic background of the prayers and those rabbinical benedictions that we pray to our Father in heaven. This comes through in places like James where we understand that it is uh the Father of lights in heaven who from above gives us every gift good and perfect gift. This idea it comes out, it's it's almost a perfect echo uh with the idea, certainly the theology of say Psalm 115, verse 3, the scripture that is engraved in a cornerstone in this church building Our God is in heaven and does whatever pleases him. Your Father is in heaven. And that can't be separated. That can't be separated from the concept of our Father, even in the shortened form of the Lord's Prayer. You are inseparately, permanently engaged by the living God to be his child, and he has power and authority, loving you to hear and answer all of your prayers. Pray on the basis of that relationship. Even when you're overcome by guilt or shame, even when you're overcome by fear and hopelessness. Especially when you're overcome with joy and gladness or gratitude, pray to your Heavenly Father. That's not to say that we never pray to the Lord Jesus or in a prayer to the Spirit say Come, Holy Spirit, fall fresh on us. That is entirely consonant with the scriptures and appropriate. But as we think about what prayer fundamentally is , We should be thinking of ourselves as the children of God coming to the God who is permanently for us and Almighty to save. So the first thing I want to observe about teaching us how to pray is that we're to pray on the basis of our relationship. And as you have your community groups, and if you're not part of a community group, I want to encourage you. This church has community groups. They're like small groups. Different churches call them cell groups. We call them community groups. And they are instances of deep and real community and fellowship with one another. And as you gather in those community groups, um Take a look at the Sermon on the Mount. How often the word Father shows up in the introduction to the Lord's Prayer. I think off the top of my head it's eight times in like five verses. He is your father. And by the way, if you're interested in a community group, talk to Jeff Gropp or see me at the Welcome Desk. Love to have you involved in one of those. That's the first thing we notice about prayer. We pray on the basis of our relationship with God. Secondly, we pray with a commitment to his glory. And this is more subtle, but it is essential to growing in our concept of what prayer involves at the teaching of Jesus. Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Now, how often in your Bibles do you read the word hallowed? Anybody? Yeah, the answer would be two. Once in the Lord's Prayer as it occurs in Matthew, and once here. At the root of that word hallowed is the hagios, the Greek word that means holy or sacred For example, those of you who travel, and many of you do, the Haggia Sophia, the great uh Byzantine cathedral, which I sadly understand is now a mosque. Hagia Sophia, holy wisdom was the name of that church. What does it mean, Hallowed , be your name? To translate that out in simpler language, we could say, may you be called holy. I want you to think about what it's not saying. It's not saying, our Father, you are holy. He's not saying, Our Father, I believe you are holy. It's not saying, Father, the church perceives your holiness. It's a prayer request. May your name be called holy. May you be hallowed and think about the longer form of this on earth as it is in heaven You see, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven in the longer form of the spirit on earth as it is in heaven, is connected necessarily to each of those three clauses. Hallowed be your name on earth as it is in heaven. Your kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. All of that is what is implied clearly in the Matthew version of the Lord's Prayer. What does it mean that we would pray, hallowed be your name? Well, in heaven, every single angelic being in heaven hallows the name of God. Not so on earth. Not so on earth at all. The name of God is used as a curse word, a swear, an expletive. He is laughed at, he's denigrated, he's despised. I recently saw a clip on YouTube of Justin Bieber in a concert telling people he had met a man. Who had saved him, who had died on the cross for him. And I don't know the details of Justin Bieber's life or his theology, but I heard in that clip he was professing faith in Christ. And the camera panned to the audience. And I was intrigued to see some people with tears and looks of joy and rapture and thanks to God. And some people looked about as hostile as you could imagine. You see, the name of our God is not hallowed on earth as it is in heaven, but it is the prayer of God's people that it would be. This is a missions prayer. And it is a prayer in which we are committing ourselves to that great cause of being agents of a gospel message that invites and compels people to join with us in hallowing the name of God. And it is the first thing we pray for. The first thing we pray for is that more and more people Would join us in declaring the beauty, the glory, the majesty, the authority, the holiness of the Creator of the universe and the Redeemer of the elect. You can't pray that meaningfully without pledging your own commitment You can't continually pray, for example, that someone would help your wife do the dishes if you never do the dishes. If you are going to commit yourself to praying, hallowed be your name, you are saying, Lord, I want as a first thing more than anything else for more and more people to know you and love you and praise you. Do you? Is that true? Is it true if we were to take a long, hard look at our own life? Is it true that the fundamental desire I have in my life for the people that I meet is that they know and praise the living God? Or am I more concerned that they seat me at my table in a timely manner? And Don't put a lemon in the water if I don't want it that day, and do put it in if I do. I'm a fickle man Think about how many other cares we have. Are we more concerned that the person we're doing business transactions was with? Are we more concerned that they give us a fair deal Or are we more concerned that they are praising the living God and won't be in hell for eternity? See, that's a real question Would that we as the Church of Jesus Christ had our very first prayer. May your name be hallowed. May your name be hallowed, not just by me. May your name be praised on earth as it is in heaven May the knowledge of the Lord cover the earth as the waters do the sea. The prayer that his kingdom come Is another commitment. Because if I pray, Lord, may your name be hallowed and may your kingdom come The idea of that is on earth as it is in heaven. Now, and think about why that's necessarily the case, even though those words which appear so clearly in Matthew don't appear here in the short version in Luke. Is it not true that God is the King of the universe? Yes. Y'all, I'm training you. One day you're all going to know the answer and say it. Okay. So he is. So is there any sense in which he can be more of a king of the universe than he is today? Think about that for a minute. Correct. He is king in every sense of the word. However, his kingdom, when I pray for his kingdom to come Kingdom in the New Testament, in particular, when God says, repent and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand. He 's not talking about some concrete objective societal set of values that are about to be imposed. He's talking about his body growing. Through people coming to know him by being redeemed and declaring him hallowed You see, the kingdom of God grows one soul at a time, not one statute or law at a time. The kingdom of God grows by winning families to Christ. Not by in some financial or societal or merely ethical form taking over a new zip code. The kingdom of God grows as the church grows. The kingdom of God grows as those who acknowledge the kingship of Christ grows. His kingship, in this sense, is his exercised and received authority in the life of his subjects So when I pray, your kingdom come, I am praying that it become more and more evident in my life and in the lives of others that you are the king. It is not merely in the fact that good things are being done. If good things are done without the name of God being hallowed, what is the end result? Everything about this world and universe is going to be rolled up as a scroll and burned in a fire. I can remember having a little bit of a crisis as a young man in high school when I first discovered in a earth science class that at one point the sun was going to burn out. And for some reason, as I was like 15 years old, that really troubled me. Now, as I'm now at the ripe old age of 57, I'm thinking, what does that have to do with me? That is so far away that it is profoundly irrelevant to me. But the fact remains, everything we care about Whether it's the ecology or environment, whether it's architecture or our latest dreams for finishing the basement , Those things are so temporary in light of eternity. And we attach so much meaning to them. That we are willing to do anything to accomplish such things, and we'll hate people who disagree with us when all of it's destined for the fire. And that's from a purely secular materialistic point of view. What will it matter that this world lasted for a couple billion years if there is no God and at the end of the day it's nothing but a cold lifeless cluster of elements spinning aimlessly? In the darkness of space. You see, when we think about our life and the ways we can bring about temporal earthly good, if we uncouple that From the hallowing of God's name, we dissolve it of all eternal meaning. They say that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. It's also paved with very good works It is important to notice that we pray for the hallowing of God's name before we pray for his kingdom to come. Because the ultimate priority of the Christian is that another person near us know Christ. concomitant or by association with that and as a means of being heard and demonstrating kindness and grace. We feed, we heal, we care, we love. But those things are never ends in themselves. Because by themselves they accomplish nothing We are committed to God's glory in both how people think of Him and how they receive His blessings. We're committed to seeing people know Jesus Christ and through Jesus Christ, having peace with the God who made them. And through prophets and apostles, creation and scripture invites them to come to Him with repentance and faith. Take the gospel out of any organization, and all you're left with is secular secular truth. The gospel is in a sense everything because if you have it, it will compel you to do the good things that apart from the gospel are pointless. Pray with a commitment to his glory. And lastly, pray in dependence upon him. I want you to think about these three phrases. The first one is give us each day our daily bread. It's worded a little differently in Matthew. It would be better translated in Matthew. Give us this day our daily bread, but the meaning is exactly the same. And forgive us our sins. And lastly, lead us not to temptation. Those three phrases are pretty much identical. That first one focuses on provision, the second focuses on peace, and the third focuses on preservation. And I'm not a very good Presbyterian minister because I don't use these kind of alliterations often enough. But these three P's should be memorable. Provision, peace, and preservation. Provision. And I want you to notice the emphasis of this. A lot of academic ink has been spilled on exactly what do the words mean, especially the word translated daily bread. Does that mean ration? So is that sort of minimalistic? Because it has to do with the it's used to describe the food that a Roman soldier would have eaten. Kind of basic. uh appetite satisfying source of calories and protein. It's not like a smorgasbord or a feast. So should we pray for like a minimal scanner? That's not the point. The point is the twice repeated notion of daily. That occurs in both Matthew and Luke. Give us this day our daily bread. Think about how different that is from me saying, Lord, uh Give me my daily bread. Because let me tell you exactly how I think. And I hope this doesn't cause you to want to transfer churches. I am a shallow, fearful man. And I want God to give me my daily bread in like twenty year blocks And I want that in the bank, well, in the freezer so it doesn't spoil And I want to have that confidence of knowing that that food I need for that day, that's there. I'm good. I don't need to worry anymore. And lo and behold, I don't even need to pray anymore. Jesus teaches his disciples to pray this day for our daily bread. The rhythm, the pace of the Christian life is daily. Don't worry about tomorrow. Each day has trouble of its own. Give us this day our daily bread. This is the day the Lord has made. Today is the day of salvation. The emphasis on living your life as a Christian today for today is something we miss out on way too much, especially in our world where we have retirement calculators. I'm not going to ask you to raise hands if you've looked at a retirement calculator in the last year, because probably eighty ninety percent of you. We are almost obsessed with our retirements and our retirement accounts and saving for the future. Those are good things to do. The problem is the obsession. And together with that, the problem is the fact that we are not Positioning ourselves to authentically seek from the Lord daily what I need today. Jesus invites us to pray in a way that reflects a deep self-aware Understanding of our absolute dependence on God for every good thing. Every good thing. Pray that way. And if you pray that way and commit yourself to the discipline of praying this way, you will find that gratitude creeps in more and more. Humility becomes more a state of mind, a freedom from mere worldliness and worrying about what you will wear, what you will eat, where you will live. becomes easier not only to deal with, but to commit to God. Pray daily for provision. And pray for peace, peace with God, and peace with man. Forgive us our sins. Keep in mind that this is a prayer that Jesus clearly intends to be offered on a daily basis. Every day ask for forgiveness for your sins. Never let a day go by when you are not reflecting for a moment on the fact that you are a sinner saved by grace. That your heart be humbled before the Lord, and that on a daily basis you are reminded of the beauty of grace. This isn't simply to beat Christians up. It is by God's design to keep us grateful and humble and be constantly reminding us of his great love for us. Forgive us our sins. And to use our word concomitant again, we acknowledge that there's a connection. It's not causal. We do not ask for forgiveness because, after all, we've forgiven others, so you owe it to us, God. Pay it forward, buddy. That's sacrilegious. We acknowledge in this prayer, forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. For we recognize what this lived-out grace looks like, that we are quick to forgive those who owe us. And think about sinning against someone as incurring a debt against them that has to be satisfied. You can either find a way to make atone for the sins against your spouse or your children or your parents or your neighbor or uh someone sitting in this room with you. Or you can forgive them. And you you can either egg exact an ounce of their flesh or you can say, you know, I am gonna myself out of the Huge amount of grace I've received, I have enough to give you grace and forgive you. The matter is settled. The debt is gone. To walk with Christ means to be forgiven and become forgiving. It is not conceivable by New Testament logic for you to have experienced the grace of Jesus Christ, the fact that God has sent his son to die for you, to pay the penalty for your sins, to completely forgive you of everything. that all you can do is to that faith, that empty hand of faith, to receive the gift of God. And both repentance and faith, remember, are both graces. They're both things that are given us by God. They're not things we manufacture or do on our own, apart from the divine influences that move our conscience and inflame our will to do so. We are thankful in every sense for all of that. And it is inconceivable to think that we could experience the grace of God But then fail to be gracious to someone who has done so much less against us than we ever did against the God who is. And this prayer puts that logic directly into our heads and hearts. Forgive us our sins. For we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. Forgive us our sins because we are your people who have tasted of your grace and pass it on, and we forgive others too. And that in itself is a commitment, is it not? That you are going to be forgiving. You are going to be at peace. It is the glory of a man, according to the book of Proverbs, to cover over an offense. That word for cover and a very happy homonym is the Hebrew word kaffar, usually translated atone. You are going to look at the sin committed against you and you are going to wash that with the blood of Christ. You're going to say, I can love them and forgive them. Don't think for a minute that God's forgiveness of you is based upon the fact that you forgive others, because you don't, not in a corresponding manner. How much of your sin has God forgiven you of? Can any of us here honestly say that we have completely and utterly forgiven anyone of all that they have ever done against us? You see, everything we do is imperfect. Everything. But we are growing in being forgiven people because we've been forgiven. And we delight in the observation of the baby steps in our own heads and hearts. Say, Lord, I am yours. Forgive me, even as I am forgiving others Preservation. It's hard to keep stuff. It's hard to hold on to stuff. Lead us not into temptation. What a humble prayer request A recognition of the powerful influences to lead us astray from the world, the flesh, and the devil. This ugly Trinity is constantly trying to draw us and pull us and so many times we find the world, the flesh, and the devil so attractive. That's why we sin. And we understand that about ourselves, and we see some of the deep resonances that yet remain within us and what is wrong. We say, Oh Lord. Guard me, protect me, lead me not that way. Seeing ourselves as subject to the sovereign influence of God and pleading with Him to protect us and keep us and guard us. And he has promised to do so. And that doesn't mean that we are not sometimes going to willfully waltz right into the door of sin. But wouldn't our life be different, Christian, if we were committed to praying daily? Lord, help me to remember, by virtue even of saying this prayer. The temptation is to be avoided at all costs. It is evil. It is wicked. It is attractive. It is real. Lead me down into it. And then avoid the street on which the sin lives. Proverbs chapters one through nine Pray on the basis of your relationship to God. He is your Father forever. Pray with a commitment to his glory and a deep desire that his name be hallowed and his kingdom come. Pray in absolute dependence upon him for bread. for forgiveness and reconciliation with both the living God and your fellows here on earth. And pray that God in His grace would preserve you and guard you and keep you to the very end. Amen. You have a lot to talk about and pray about in your community groups. Amen. And I want to exhort you. I'll use the old-fashioned language. I'm going to mightily exhort you. Talk to Jeff Groff about community groups. He's going to be doing a community life later about community groups. Not this week, but later down the road. Sign up. Hey, Christianity is a team sport. And be a part of a team where you know and are known. Do we pray for these things? Do we take them for granted? Perhaps God is calling you to put the gospel above works in your relationship with others. Maybe He's calling you this morning. To forgive someone who's hurt you. Listen to the voice of God as he speaks in Scripture and sometimes uses sermons to be goads towards a new obedience But my main passion and concern whenever I walk onto this stage and speak behind this platform is: do you know Christ? And have you been adopted into God's blessed family? This morning I would invite you to pray with me to a father who loves people like me And people like you, such that if we will turn to Him and receive and accept and rest on Jesus Christ who died for our sins, everything is different. Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. Lord, we pray that you would help us to remember that you are our Father and that we are your children. And Lord, even when we are petulantly trying to hide from you in the gardens of our life, because we know we are Tangled up in sin, Lord, help us to know that your deep desire is for the return of prodigals like us, and that you would even use those who are spiritual in the family of God to restore us gently. Almighty God, your love for us is beyond description. Lord, help us to seek the spread of that knowledge of you as a holy God. Who has shown his great love in the sending of Christ and the acceptance of his sacrifice. Father, bless us, strengthen us We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.