Well, good morning. It's great to be with you this morning as we gather together to look at God's Word. And we continue in the book of Acts. If you're visiting with us, we are nearly halfway through the book of Acts and what will take place over the next number of weeks is this. We will um take a break from the book of Acts uh for The season of Advent and return to Acts in 2015. But this morning we turn to the 14th chapter. It's important because it marks a real turning point. Last week, when we were together, we were looking at Paul's first recorded public sermon. And this is not too long after that sermon, and this, however, is a sermon which has a very different audience a radically different audience than the one that he was preaching to that we looked at last week. The one that he was preaching to last week was a Jewish congregation in a synagogue. Along with those Jews were also Gentile uh God fearers who were following uh in the way of Judaism but who were Gentiles and In that sermon, Paul took great pains to look at a number of different psalms to show that those psalms prophesied and found their fulfillment. in Jesus Christ. He talks about the law of God. He talks about the nature of God's leading of Israel. In this sermon, he's not dealing with Jews, nor with God-fearing Gentiles. In fact, this is, as far as we know, the first recorded sermon that was given to a group of pagans. And by that, that is in no way derogatory. It was a group of people who had absolutely no framework for the God of the Bible. Who had no framework for what God had done in the nation of Israel. Or prophecies, or of the law of God. And so it is, in fact, a great picture For what much of our modern day is. And we are in a polytheistic, a pluralistic world, pluralistic society, for sure, in the United States. And there is very little distance, or very little difference, between the audience to whom Paul was preaching And many of us. I hope you will see that. And I hope you will see the message that is here for us. Hear now God's word, Acts chapter 14, verses 8 to 20. Now at Lystra there was a man sitting who could not use his feet He was crippled from birth and had never walked. He listened to Paul speaking, and Paul, looking intently at him, seeing that he had faith to be made well, said in a loud voice, Stand upright on your feet. And he sprang up and began walking. And when the crowd saw that Paul had done this, They lifted up their voices and sang in Lyconian language, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men. Barnabas they called Zeus and Paul Hermes, because he was the chief speaker. And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was at the entrance to the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds. But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their garments, rushed out into the ground, crying out, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like nature with you, and we bring you good news that you should turn from these vain things to a living God. Who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them. In past generations he allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways, yet he did not leave himself without witness. For he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. Even with these words, they scarcely restrained the people from offering sacrifice to them. But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium. And, having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead. But when the disciples gathered about him, he rose up and entered the city. And on the next day he went on with Barnabas to Derby. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me as we ask for God's blessing? Father, we do ask for your blessing, because you promise that when your church gathers there you are also, mysteriously, by your Spirit. Your word is living. It isn't just ink on a page. And we ask that you would take this your word and help our minds to understand, but most of all, our hearts to see. Who Jesus Christ is, and how He meets us and satisfies us in our deepest longings. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. It is a remarkable thing, I think, for this to be recorded for the Church of Jesus Christ, the earliest happenings, the events of the early church of Christianity are haul here for us in all of their difficulty and detail, and what a blessing it is because it's so easy since some two thousand years of church history, how many things get added on to the thing that is called Christianity. But here we turn back to these earliest pages and we see how the church is working, how it's growing, what it's saying, how it's responding to the world around us. Because the church, as I've said before, by no means was at the center of culture. They held no power at all. They were just going about preaching the word, and they came across many different audiences. But it's this audience that grabs my attention Because I recognize that we're in a community that is 80 plus percent of those who do not attend any church at all. Who have no framework for who God is, or perhaps who Jesus is, or who the God of the Bible is. And I see that as a great opportunity. Because Paul was faced with that very same reality. And I don't presume everyone here has any framework for God. Some of you do, perhaps many of you do, but not all. And we need to be mindful of that. And this is great instruction. If you are a Christian, I must tell you what a blessing that this is here, because it gives us At least an understanding for how the early church wanted to explain who God is, who Jesus is, to those who did not believe. But who also didn't have a framework for understanding who God is. But more than that, it also is a message for every Christian. Because it reaches down and reminds us that we are a people of deep longing. And those longings will not be satisfied. Aside from the living God. So let's look together in this passage. And here you will see in your in your bulletin, you'll see the outline, the miracle in the aftermath, the gospel starting point, and the dangerous call of evangelism. Miracle and aftermath, the gospel starting point, and the dangerous call of evangelism. The miracle and aftermath. Clearly, Paul was speaking. He was perhaps preaching. We do not know the content of what he said. But we know that it was gaining a number of people who were at least paying attention to what he had to say. And so Paul, in the process of teaching, he sees the man in the crowd, looks him in the eye And I would say, uh, from at least how the Bible explains it, I believe Paul understood that something intuitively was going on with this man, that he was listening intently. There was something he wanted. He was clearly a man who was handicapped, who was not able to walk. And he could see perhaps in this man's eye that he was wanting. To be free of this in his life. And so Paul performs a miracle. And that miracle is healing. Very clear. No argument there. This man is healed, and it clearly caused a great uproar. This man was well known. It got the attention. Who knows who he told? And so it was on, people were paying attention. But let's look at this healing for just a moment. I'm very thankful for others who have preached this text over the years, others who have certainly written about it. And one of the things that certainly helped me to understand, and I hope can help us understand, it's very easy to look at this passage And see that the early church, when there was preaching and activity of the Holy Spirit, having miraculous healings were not uncommon. We've looked at that in the early chapters of the book of Acts. And here is another case. It would be very easy for us to now read this to simply see it. Oh, there we go. There's one of the apostles doing a miraculous healing as they were empowered by God to do so. And it would be very easy for us to sort of dismiss that and say, oh, there's a miraculous healing. But one of the things we cannot deny is that was definitely the case. But beyond that, there is something there for us to receive. And that is, when the early church Was teaching and preaching. When they were gathering together for worship, one of the things that they did was they didn't just live out the gospel by word alone, they did so by deed. You remember, as we've looked at the chapters previous to this, that when they gathered together, they cared about whether or not the widows who were unable to provide for themselves were they receiving the care and the sustenance they needed. They cared about it so much that they made sure they had people who were specifically ordained with the task of caring for those who had need. We hear in chapter 2 and chapter 3 of how the Christians, when they gathered together, what did they do? They shared with one another. And Christians were known for this. In fact, Christians have been known throughout the centuries as a people who shared everything except one thing. If they were married, they never shared their wives. But they freely gave. Gave of their hospitality. It was not uncommon in the ancient world in the time of the early church, if you were traveling from northern Africa. and traveling from what is now southern Italy up up into other parts of Europe, you knew that regardless of your background, if you did not have a place to stay, there was one place that you could find a refuge. That was in the church. It was doors were open. There was a vacancy sign, if you will. And so when the gospel goes forth here in the early church, what also goes not just the ministry of word, but also ministry of deed. And watch What takes place. What takes place is the aftermath of this healing. And one can only sum it up in this. Hope. Why did they respond in this way? The text tells us what they did. The crowds saw what Paul had done. They lifted up their voices. in their own language, and they said, the gods have come down to us in likeness of men. What they did was simply see someone they cared about, someone they knew who was healed of a lifelong ailment. And they simply look out and said, I want more of that. Now it's very easy, of course. Perhaps to look back from 2014's vantage point and perhaps look down our nose just a little bit and say, Well, you see they're just They're just so wrapped up in this ancient religion. And so before we think about that, let's look at something very simple, and that is what they were experiencing is something you and I experience on a regular basis. It is a profoundly human response. That in the reality of brokenness and messiness of our lives, when something comes across our path that brings Healing, comfort, or joy, our response is: I want more of that Now, they responded, of course, what did they want to do? They wanted to offer sacrifice, they wanted to offer worship But let's set that particularity aside and let's look up what's underneath it. They didn't live in a cash economy. They lived in the economy of stuff that they owned. They wanted to bring that which was valuable to them, to the disciples, in hopes by giving it to them, they would get what this man got. Now I generally pick on Barnes and Noble is because it's largely the last bookstore we can actually go and go into. But I want you to imagine, are we any different? Go into the library, go into Barnes and Noble, go into any of these places, and you will see the most rapid, the most quickly growing segment is the self-help section. Why? Because we as a culture always want to be better, faster, stronger, healthier. We have a hope. We have an itch. It's there because we sense the brokenness in ourselves. We see the brokenness around in our world. And ma we may not be bringing heifers and cows to barns and noble to sacrifice to find the answer, we do bring the sacrifice of our money, do we not? We want the same thing they wanted. We want to see healing for what is broken That was what was taking place in this miracle. This is how they're responding. And I simply ask you, are we much different? I don't think we are. But watch what happens after that happens. Then we see Paul say, okay, here's the gospel starting point. As I said earlier, in front of another audience, he began with the Psalms, or the law of God, or God leading the nation of Israel out of Egypt in their slavery under Pharaoh. Talked about the prophets. But now he starts with the same gospel But at a different place. And that place was where his audience was. He didn't start from where he thought he should start. He started from where they needed to start. And what did he do? He began with their longings. Now here's what he does. He responds, he and Barnabas are frightened by the fact, wait a second, as Christians who only worship the Lord Jesus Christ, they are blown away and they are scared that these people are trying to worship them. So they rip their clothes, which was in that culture a way of saying, okay, time out. They were trying to get, they ran into the crowd with their clothes open, saying, please don't do this. And what's interesting, they don't draw a distinction. They say, we're men just like you. Just like you. We aren't any different, but we do have something. And here's what they say. They say, verse thir uh verse fourteen, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like nature with you. We bring you Good news that you should turn from these vain things to a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them. I want to argue this morning that what Paul does is he begins by deconstructing their longings. Here's what I mean. When he looks at them and instructs them not to worship him, he then turns to them and says, We bring to you an evangelion, the good news, the gospel. And when, without breaking that open, he says this, that you should turn, that's the same word that we get the word repent. He's asking him to turn from what? from these vain things and to the living God. What is he saying? He recognizes their longing for healing. He recognizes their longing for something more than what they have. And so the good news, the gospel for them, begins by saying. Turn from what is translated as vain things can also be translated as idols. But the best way of describing both vain and idolatry is this. Turn from things that appear to have the answer but cannot deliver. Turn from things that have the appearance of providing healing and hope and joy, and turn to that which can really deliver. Turn to the living God. So what he's doing is he's breaking open their longings and appealing to their hearts. And when he appeals to their hearts, He doesn't start with Jesus. He doesn't start with Israel. He starts with where they are and says, guess what? What you long for will never be met by these vain things. And then he goes more. He then points to something beyond their longings. He then says, guess what? I'm asking you to turn from these vain things to the living God because guess what I want to tell you about the living God? He is the Lord of channels of joy. Now here I want to borrow the writer C. S. Lewis when he writes about channels of joy. So he takes the gospel, he appeals to their longings, tells them, turn from that which cannot deliver. Now let me tell you about the living God who is the channel of joy. Now, this is what he says. He says, the God who made the heaven and the earth, and the sea, and all that is in them. And then he says, in past generations, he allowed all nations to walk in their own ways. Yet he did not leave them without witness. What he writes here, he would write later in the first chapter of Romans when he says. What may be known about God, his invisible nature, his eternality, may be seen by what has been made. He's looking at the world and he says, there is a God who is behind it. He says, For he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons. And then this wonderful phrase. Satisfying your hearts with food and gladness He pulls them up close and he uses this phrase, satisfies them with food and Gladness. That word translated gladness can also be translated as cheer. It is also the same root word that we get the word euphoria. In other words, that which gives you that euphoric, that turns on the neon signs of your heart and your soul, those things, those joys. That wonderful food, those replenishing reins, the beauty of all creation. He's appealing to their eyes. He's appealing to their lived, embodied experience. He's saying, Do you see all of that stuff? Guess what? There is a God who is behind all of it. And He is the one who is the source of joy. You see, what they were interested in, they were just interested in getting the gift. They wanted the gift. But he's saying, No, no, no, no, no, no, no. The earth and all that has been made, and all the things that swim in the sea. Those great meals, those great moments, those deep, profound, cheerful Joy in the heart, gladness moments, those are beautiful, but those are things that are channels of joy and not the joy themselves. It is the living God who is the source of all joy. This is something about which C. S. Lewis spent a great deal of time writing on. In his sermon called The Weight of Glory, he writes about music and books and art as channels of joy, but not the source of it. It's always to point us to something farther back. Farther in and much deeper. This is what he says. The books or the music in which we thought the beauty was located will betray us if we trust in them. It was not in them. It only came through them. What came through them was longing. These things, the beauty and the memory of our own past Are good images of what we really desire. But if they are mistaken for the thing itself, they turn into dumb idols. breaking the hearts of their worshipers. For they are not the thing itself. They are only the scent of a flower We have not found, the echo of a tune we have not heard, and news from a country we have not yet visited The beauty of creation. That moment, and I know perhaps you've experienced it, that moment When everything seemed to fall into place, perhaps it was the first time over the hundredth time you've heard that one song that every time you hear it, it sends goosebumps up your arms. Maybe it was that meal or those people around that table in that setting at that hour where you sat back and you said, ah, this is life. Or maybe it was that moment you had an experience that you've been working so hard for, something you had been trying to achieve, and you get to that moment and you achieve it and you get done and you're like, yes. That was it. And what's so interesting is our world is so full of those moments, but here's the challenge. The challenge is many of us Spend so much time trying to capture and recapture those moments. And that's simply what they were trying to do. They were trying to put healing in a bottle. We want more of that. They've been trying to get it from Zeus and Hermes. Where are you trying to get it from? Where am I trying to get it from? One of the ways is I remember the last time that I trained really hard for a bike race and I won. And I relive that moment every time I get on my bicycle. And do you know what I'm trying to do at times? And I have to remind myself? That will always be elusive. Why? Because the one win wasn't enough It's not that I don't enjoy cycling. It's not that I don't enjoy training. It's not that I don't enjoy the competition. But I recognize I can't mistake the gift for the giver. Is what we want so different? Paul says, absolutely not The gospel starting point is this. It starts with our deepest longings, our desire to find rest. And peace, security, hope, healing, comfort, truth, those things are good longings. But Paul says to his hearers, as I say to you, we will not find them unless we go to the one who is the source of them all. The one true and living God. But they would have none of it. You see what happens, they text tells us even those these words, they could scarcely restrain the people from offering sacrifice to them. And then we see the dangerous call of evangelism. When you begin to do the kind of things that Paul was doing. Which was challenging the idols of his age. When he began to preach Christ and challenge the deeply held power structures. that were trying to keep Jesus at a distance, that when you do that, either in individuals' lives or in a culture, there is going to be the result. And the result was they pursued Paul and they stoned him to the point that he was unconscious. Or at least seeming to them that he was dead. The dangerous call of evangelism is this: there is a suffering for the name. That when you seek to testify that your deepest longing is not found in a bottle of wine or in a concert. or in a relationship or whatever it may be, but you recognize that your most profound joy is found in Christ alone, know that there will be suffering for the name. And it may not be stoning But it may mean that you're not invited anymore to those gatherings. It may mean that you don't get a phone call back. It may mean that you're ostracized at work. It can look like a whole host of things. And that's where our deepest joys are challenged. But what's beautiful is this, right here in this passage, is the only way that Paul and Barnabas And any Christian can really seek to faithfully testify to the true source of joy in life is this. Right here, early on in the passage, after they see Paul do this, the crowds say, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men. Isn't it interesting that they would say that to Paul and Barnabas? Because I will tell you, the only way That suffering for the name of Jesus has meaning. The only way to testify to the deep source of joy that is the living God. is to recognize that he was the God who came down. Jesus was given the name Emmanuel, God with us, clothed in flesh, the song says, the Godhead see. God came down and made his dwelling among us, and he was full of grace and truth. The beauty is this Suffering for the name of Jesus has its meaning because God in Jesus Christ gave up his glory to suffer for your name, my name, which is the only way you can have power to suffer for his name. Jesus doesn't just say, go witness, good luck with that. He comes and goes before us. And he died on a cross, which Paul seemingly wasn't able to get to that part of the sermon. But isn't it interesting what the passage tells us? He gets up and the next day they go back into the city. Why in the world would they do that? And why in the world would they then pack up and go to another city that they may face the very same thing? Why would two Jewish men do that? It's because God came down and he was raised on the third day. And now they want to tell of the deep, deep joy of Jesus Christ. This morning We will take the opportunity and we're going to worship the Lord in what we call the Lord's Supper. What does that mean? You see, the Lord's Supper is patterned after the Passover. The Passover was on the night in which God took Israel out of Egypt and was protecting them. He gave them a meal and a sign of his faithfulness and his care and his redemption. This meal replaces the Passover meal. But the Passover meal, every time it was celebrated, was to be a celebration. If you're a Christian this morning, I want to encourage you. This isn't to be a dour celebration. Why? Because what we are celebrating in this bread and this juice. Is that God came down and made his dwelling among us and helped us to know That we can work with all that we have to try to pursue the joy that we long for, but will never be satisfied until we find, as Augustine says, Until we find our rest and home in God alone. And this is something that we are called to celebrate. Why? Because the word tells us. That because of Christ we have been set free from idolatry The vain things that have the appearance of truth but do not satisfy, the appearance of gladness but cannot fill our cup, and to turn to the one who meets us in our every need, our deepest longing. Reconciliation with our Heavenly Father. He offers that to you. If you do not know the Lord Jesus Christ, I encourage you to consider the invitation. That Jesus makes to you in your deepest longings, in your deepest joys. And he says, Come unto me, and I will give you rest If you are a believer, in this meal, find your rest in Jesus Christ Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we ask that you would give us a real experience. Of the grace of Jesus Christ, who came and suffered For our sake, for our sin, that we might have salvation And that grace would be the source of our deepest joy Because grace is not an idea. It is a person. The person of Christ. Now, Lord, we thank you. Now feed us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.