John chapter nineteen, reading the first thirty verses Then Pharaoh took Jesus and had him clogged. The soldiers twisted together a clown of thorns and put it on his head They clothed him in a purple robe and went to him again and again, saying, Hello, king of the Jews. Smuck him in the face. Once more Palace came out and said to the Jews, Look, I'm bringing it out to you to let you know that I find a basis for a charge against him. When Jesus came out wearing the robe of the crown of thorns and the purple robe, Alice said to them, here's the man. And as soon as the chief priests of their officials saw him, they shouted, Crucify! Crucify! The palate answered, You take him and crucify him. As for me, I find no basis for a charge against him. The Jews insisted, we have a law, and according to that law he must die because he claimed to be the Son of God. When Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid. And went back inside the palace. Where do you come from? He asked Jesus. But Jesus gave him no answer. You refuse to speak to me, Pilate said. Don't you realize I have power either to free you or to crucify you? Jesus answered, You would have no power over the Lord that without giving you from above. Therefore the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin. From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free. But the Jews kept shouting, If you let this man go, you're not under seizure. Anyone who prays to be a king opposed to seizure. When Pilate heard this, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judge's seat in a place known as the Stone Pavement, which an Arab man is Gabbatha. He just obeyed a preparation of Passover about the sixth hour. Here's your children, Pilate said to the Jews. They shouted, Take Him away, take him away, crucify him Shall I crucify your king? Pilate answered. He had no king but Caesar, the chief priest answered. Finally, Pilate handed him over to them to be crucified. And so the soldiers took charge of Jesus. Carrying his own cross, he went out to the place of his skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. And here they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, and Jesus in the middle. Pilate had a notice prepared and fastened it on the Fars. He read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this sign, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and the sign was written in Aramaic, Latin, and Greek. The chief priests of the Jews protested to Pilate, Do not write the king of the Jews, but did this man claim to be the king of the Jews? Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. This ram it was seeds, woven in one piece from top to bottom. Let's not tear it, they said to one another. Let's decide by law who will get it. This happened that the scripture may be fulfilled, which said, they divided my garments among them and cast lots for my clothing. So this is what the soldiers did. Near the cross of Jesus stood his mother. His mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Opus, and Mary of Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother there, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Dear woman, here is your son. And to the disciple , Here is your mother. And from that time on, this disciple took her into his home. Later , knowing that all was now completed, so that the scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, I'm thirsty. Held of warm vinegar was there, so they set the sponge in it and put the sponge on a sock of the hyssop plant and lifted it to Jesus' lips. When he received the drink, Jesus said, It is finished. And to that he bowed his head and gave up his spirit Let's look to the Lord be today. Lord, as we come to consider This awesome passage of the crucifixion of our Lord Jesus. We pray, Lord Jesus, that you would hold yourself before us In such vividness that we would know you and see you and understand you and recognize your reality before us. Grip us with yourself. Lord, you know that with my weak power, with words and the inability that we have to place thoughts in one another, that I cannot make Jesus appear uh real and vital uh to these brothers and sisters. But you have promised that your spirit can do that And so we call on you now to glorify yourself by holding up Jesus before us. And we will see Him That our concentration of our attention, from the youngest to the oldest, would be riveted upon him. And if he would speak to us of the greatness of his love, he may sacrifice for us. Lord Jesus, show yourself to us. That we will love you more and serve you more faithfully. Amen. What I would like to do for you this morning is to prove to you something that may surprise you. To show you that the real truth is that Jesus did not die from crucifixion. The real truth is that Jesus in fact did not die in crucifixion. You know, we say as part of our basic feed, I believe Jesus Christ who was crucified, dead, and buried. Now I don't dispute for a moment that Jesus was crucified. I don't dispute for a moment that Jesus was dead, that he died. What I do dispute is that he died of crucifixion. I believe, in fact, that a close reading of Scripture will show us that the Bible goes to some lengths to prove to us. That Jesus did in fact not die from crucifixion. What then did he die from? I would suggest to turn to John chapter 10, which tells us. And I want to take a look at two verses in John 10 as kind of a basis for what we're going to be considering the next two weeks. In John chapter 10, beginning with verse 14, Jesus made some astounding statements. He says in John 10, beginning with verse 14, I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep, and my sheep know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. And I lay down my life for the sheep. I have other sheep that are not of this sheep tent, I must bring them also. They too will listen to my voice. There shall be one flock and one shepherd. Now, notice. The reason my father loves me is that I lay down my life only to take it up again. No one takes it from me. But I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. This command I receive For my father. Hey, think about that for a moment. That's an absolutely astounding thing. Jesus is saying, I am the Lord of life and death. And no one can take my life from me. In fact, part of the Father's love for me is involved in this fact that I come. To lay down my life for the sheep. No one takes it from me. Of my own accord I came and I am going to lay it down, and of my own authority I'm going to pick it up again. So this week I want to look with you at John 1930 to see how Jesus laid down his life by absolute sovereign authority. And then next week we're going to look in Matthew to see how he took it up again by absolute sovereign authority. We're going to look then at one verse particularly this morning, John nineteen, verse thirty. Okay to John nineteen, verse thirty. For there you see, John tells us that at the end that Unspeakable ordeal of crucifixion. But Jesus, when he received a drink of wine delivered, said, It is finished. And with that, he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. I want you to notice two things about that. Two things about that one word in the Greek. It is finished. The Greek orators had as one of their goals to be able to give a sea of matter In a drop of language. And certainly this word is a prime example of that. It is finished in the Greek one word to telesphine. It is finished. And we'll take a minute a minute to see what in fact is involved in that statement. But before we do that, I want us to notice how he said. Before we notice what he said, I want us to see how he said it, because it's vital in understanding what he's getting across here. John alone does not tell us exactly how he said it. But if you look in the other Gospels, you see clearly how he spoke it. Now don't turn to these because I'm just going to refer to them very briefly. But in Matthew chapter 27, and you're told that uh after they got the sponge and put it with the wine vinegar, put it on a slip, off the Jesus to drink, and then they say, Let's see if a lion comes. It's the same instinct, you see, it's the same circumstance. Right there at the end End of his life. Matthew doesn't tell us what Jesus said. He only tells us how he said it. And so Matthew 27, 50 says, But then when Jesus had cried again in a loud voice, He gave up the spirit. But chapter 15. Reverse 3 and 7 Tells us that Jesus with a loud cry breathed his legs. Luke chapter twenty-three and verse forty-six. He gives us also the same incident. And Luke tells us that Jesus called out with a loud voice. And he said, Father with your hands I commit my spirit. John simply says, Jesus said, It is finish, an explanation, to telescide. And then gave up his spirit. And what's so significant about his speaking crying with a loud voice at the end of his life? In order to understand that, you need to understand something about crucifixion. When a person was crucified, as you know, they were laid down on a wooden cross. Spikes were driven in the soft parts here in the west. So that they would miss the veins in the arteries so that the person wouldn't lead to death too quickly. The Romans were experts at doing that. They have been up driven in the hands, they were driven in the wrists. so that there would be some more support. And after that was done, then the nail, one nail, was driven through the two feet. The left foot was placed on top of the right foot, and they were placed on a very small kind of a piece of wood that was nailed to that cross. And the feet were pressed backward on that, the left foot on top, and one strike was driven then through the arches of both feet. And then the Frost was raised. Dr. C. Truman Davis, a medical doctor, has written what then happened in the crucifixion process. The victim is now considered crucified. As he slowly sags down with more weight on the nails and the wrists, excruciating fiery pain shoots along the fingers and up in the arms to explode in the brain. The nails and the wrists are putting pressure on the medium nerves. As he pushes himself upward to avoid this stretching torment, he places his full weight on the nail through his feet. And then again, there is the searing agony of the nail tearing through the mirrors between the metaparcel bones of the beet. At this point, another phenomenon occurs. As the arms fatigue Great waves of cramps sweep over the muscles, nodding them in deep, relentless, throbbing pain. With these cramps comes the inability to push himself upward Hanging by his arms, the pectoral muscles are paralyzed, and the intercostal muscles are unable to act. Air can be drawn into the lungs, but cannot be exhaled. Jesus fights to raise himself in order to get even one true breath. The pile of carbon dioxide builds up in the lungs and in the bloodstream. And the cramps partially subside. Spasmatically, he's able to push himself upward to exhale and to bring in shorter and shorter breaths. You need to understand That the whole dynamic of crucifixion was based on how the body breathes. You don't use any muscles to breathe in. All you do is expel air with your diet thing. But in order to Expel that air, you need to push this muscle that compresses down the lungs to push the air out. If you're hanging on a cross, you can't expel that air unless you lift yourself up to do it. And so a person who is dying by crucifixion would die of one of three causes. They would die either by dehydration, a phenomenon that took usually a day or two. But through all of the shock in the body, the fluids of the tissues would dehydrate, and it was learned that some men would be hanging on a cross for three days still alive in the hot burning sun And they would literally sweat to death, and their tissues would dehydrate. Another cause of death and crucifixion was through shock and exhaustion. Simply the shock to the body of all the uh trauma that was taking place in there, and the person would go into shock and they would die. The third Cause the death by crucifixion. Cas the world that was almost always the cause if it was a short crucifixion And that was suffocation. The person dying of crucifixion, if they did not hang long on the cross, would die of suffocation, simply the fact that they could no longer pull themselves up on the nails and expel the air from their diaphragm. And so they would die, not because they couldn't get air in, but because they couldn't get air out. And they would simply hang there with their lungs full of carbon dioxide and die of suffocation. What we need to realize is that Jesus could not have died of dehydration. He was only there for six hours. The scripture makes it clear that he did not die of shock and exhaustion. Because if you're in shock, you no longer can think and speak coherently. And the scripture goes to great pains to let us know, even in verse 28 here. But Jesus know that all was now completed. He still had his full faculties. He was able to say, I'm thirsty He was able to say, it is finished. He was able to say, Father, into your hands, I commit my spirit. He certainly did not die of shock and exhaustion. And what's most important of all is that he certainly did not die of suffocation. Because in order to make a loud cry, the one thing that you need is air You cannot make a loud cry if you have no air that you can expel from your lungs. And the scripture in Matthew, Mark, and Luke tells us quite clearly that the last thing Jesus did. Was to make a loud cry. Jeremy Lone tells us what that cry was. And it was simply a cry of victory. It is finished! And that's what Jesus cried at the end of his life. Why? To demonstrate, John 10, 17 and 18. To demonstrate that at that point in his life He was laying down voluntarily his life. He was not dying of crucifixion. He was not succumbing to dehydration, to chakra, to suffocation. Jesus, still with air, still with fluids, and still with his faculties, was saying at the last point on the cross, I am given, laying down my life for my sheep. I am giving up my life for you. In case there's any lingering doubt, notice what John says in verse 30 after he says this. And he received the thing Jesus said in his face, and with that he bowed his head and he gave up his spirit. And what does that mean? Youth understand it has very unusual language in the Greek. That kind of language was never used if a person died The word there to give up is a word which means to voluntarily hand over or hand up something. It's the word that Paul uses in 1 Corinthians 13:3 when he says, if I were to give over my body to the flames Clement uses it in a letter that he writes in which he says, I give over myself to imprisonment. Paul uses it in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 19, when he talks of those who give themselves over to debauchery. And we see the same word used right up here a few verses before, where you notice that Pilate, in verse 16, handed Jesus over to be crucified. It's a voluntary giving over of someone or something. And so what John is saying here in verse 30 is that when Jesus bowed his head, He voluntarily gave over, gave up, or laid down his spirit. Small less, the spirit of his life. Jesus here is demonstrating what he had said in John chapter 10. The reason my father loves me is that I laid down my life only to take it up again. No one can take it from me But I lay it down of my own accord. Even on the cross, Jesus was lowered. Do you see that? Oh, how we need to see that when we worship him on this Passion Week, the beginning of sacrifice for us. Even on the cross, Jesus was willing. Preacher, Dr. James Carroll, I believe, has uh entirely missed the point when he has spoken in an Easter sermon on the death of Christ. When he says in that sermon, we cannot forget his death as we celebrate his resurrection. His words too folded. They couldn't stem the tide of hatred that engulfed him. They could not convey his vision of an upside-down world where love is the strongest force and service the mark of authority. And he died defeated and alone. Hanging in awful silence atop a lonely hill. No. No, no, a thousand times no. That's not how Jesus died Jesus died with a choir of victory on his lips as Lord, it is finished. Now I lay down my life It's one thing, you know, for you and for I to be committed to some situation in which we determine to sacrifice ourselves for someone that we love. It's hard enough for us to enter into that kind of thing. To think that I would put myself in a situation in which for a certain death But imagine yourself in a situation even in that circumstance of certain death in which you could simply, by a word, deliver yourself And then say, well, in order to save this person that I love, I will, by a sheer effort of my will, give up my life. I will take life precious as it is I will take all the things that I love, and all of life and its beauty, and I will simply give it up. I will lay it down right now at this moment, voluntarily. In order to save that person that I love. That's what Jesus is doing, doing it for us. Jesus laid them his life for you and for me. And he made it down with a cry of victory. And what was that choir victory saying? It is finished. Simply means that Jesus is proclaiming that everything that he came to heaven to earth for is now done. It's all done. The full price of your redemption and my redemption has now been painted. It is finished. We can never say that. The word here, it is finished in the Greek, is a word which means that you have accomplished a resolve. You have completed an obligation or a task that was given to you. You've fully done it. That's what it means. When you or I say something's finished, you never mean that. We never mean perfectly and absolutely. We always mean it's finished given the constraints of time, energy, and motivation that I had to do the job. Given all the realities and limitations of life, I did the best that I could do, and now it's finished. Especially if you're working on a car, you know, and trying to fix something around the house. Just a couple weeks ago I did some paneling on one of our rooms and I got that to where now I can tell you it's finished. And you might walk in and you'd look and you'd say, I don't see any seats, okay, and it's all right. I know where the cracks are. I know where I had to fudge a little to get things around the corners and in and out, but I say it's finished. What do I mean by that? I mean I'm not going to put any more help on it. It's got all it's going to get in my priorities. It's gone. That's not what Jesus meant. Let's understand that. When he used this word, he means it's done absolutely and perfectly. There is nothing left more to be done. If I had the rest of eternity to work on it, I couldn't do it any better than I've done it. It's done perfectly. Every scripture has been fulfilled in the completion of redemption You see that because of the two verses before that that's what he meant. Look at verse 28. Just before he says this, the Bible tells us that later knowing now that all was completed, it's the same word as in verse 30. It is finished. Then it's a tell us. Knowing now that all have been finished, completed, fulfilled, so that the scripture would be fulfilled, that word fulfilled is a closely related word, in the same root word as the word finished in verse 30 and the one just before verse 28. Knowing that the scripture would be completed, build up. Jesus said, I'm thirsty. One more thing it says to be One more thing to complete this, to put the cap on it, so everything is perfectly grown together. And so we believe that Jesus gives expression to his face. Now why do you do that? But first of all, you need to understand what excruciating thirst he was undergoing at that time. You and I say we've been thirsty. Sometimes we may say I'm dying thirst. But we don't know what Thirst is in contrasting with this kind of experience. In the Middle East, Thirst was Quite a matter of concern. You see, first of water is a major theme in the scriptures. Because in the hot arid desert, water was a grave concern. And to be crucified outside of Jerusalem in a hot, blazing, cloudless day , with your tissues torn and your body going into shock And with everything in you, dehydrated , Jesus was giving expression to what the psalmist had said, My strength is dried up like a potcher. Well a potcher means a piece of clay. Absolutely dry. You can break it, it will crumble in the box. My strength is dried up like a potcha. He says that my tongue is cleaving to my jaws You have a sore throat, go to bed, or you got a bad cold, you know, so that you can't breathe through your nose and you bleed through your mouth all night. You wake up the next morning and you've got a tearing sore throat and your mouth is fly, it's dust, and your mouth, your tongue is stuck to the roof of your mouth, and it seems like there's no moisture in there whatsoever That's what the psalmist would say. Burning thirsty. An excruciating thirst. The kind of thirst where you can't think of anything else but water. And you'd give everything that you'd have for a few drops of liquid to be able to enter into your mouth to take away that that bourbon serum first. So that your tongue is cleaving to your jaws. Psalmist in Psalm 22 says, He made me in the gust of death. Jesus here is quoting from Psalm 69. David speaking of his agonies, it says that those of my enemies gave me gall for my thirst. Jesus was filling up the last little bit of his agonies, of his suffering, for you and for me. And so they know. And they give him a jar of wine vinegar that was there to serve the sponge in. He put the sponge on a spark of this plant and lifted it to Jesus' lips. Now if Jesus were about to die, why is he concerned to quench his first? I believe that the reason is because in order to be heard, he needed to be able to part his lips. His mouth was so full and his mouth was so swollen with the agony and the pain that he weeded. Some little bit of moisture, so that he could cry that victory cry. It was for the sake of being burned Not for the sake of quoting his thirst, I believe. I know. But Jesus asked for that dinner. Because this cry I thirst is a mumble, it's a difficult cry, but only a few close to a year. But when he gets that there, when he gets enough in his mouth so that he can open it in that last cry, let all around him here to tell us, it is finished, the cry of victory That sounds from Jesus' lips. The quiet victory that sounds throughout the earth down to this very day. All that I have set out to do, I have accomplished for the redemption of my people. And what have you done? He's saying in this that he's fulfilled every bit with this active obedience that he needed to accomplish for you and for me. It said in Hebrews chapter 10. Hebrews 10 gives us his attitude as he came, telling us that he came to the bottom of the book, to do your will, O God. John 6. 38 had told us that Jesus said, I have come down from heaven not to do my will, but to do the will of him who saved me. Jesus had to do that will perfectly so that he'd be eligible to be a sacrifice for you and for me. But Jesus had violated God's word and his law in any point In his thoughts, in his motives, he would no longer be an eligible sacrifice. No longer would be a perfect land. He would have to die for his own sin But he has done perfectly the will of God. In John 8, 29 he says, I always do what pleases him. In John 15, 10 he said that I have obeyed all the Father's commands. And Jesus is saying here in John 19:30, it is finished. No more testing. My probation is complete. I have been absolutely faithful to God in every one of his commands. It is finished. He 's saying also in this that his passive obedience for our redemption is finished. Now the active obedience refers to Jesus keeping the commands of God. But as you know, the law of God had another part to it, a ritual aspect, for sacrifices to be made on behalf of sinners. And Jesus is here saying, It is finished. I have been complete, perfect, in being executed as a substitutionary sacrifice, suffering on behalf of my people. I have been a sacrifice perfectly vain so that you and I would be forgiven. In Luke chapter twelve In verse 50. And Jesus had used this same word when he said, I have a baptism to undergo, and how distressed I am, until it is Finished. Completed. Same words, John 19, 30. Jesus says I have to suffer. And there's a yearning in me, a longing until that suffering is completed. In book 18 in verse 31, he shares with his disciples something of his thinking on this. Then he tells them he took the twelve aside and said, we're going up to Jerusalem. And everything that's written by the prophets about the Son of Man will be fulfilled. Again, it's the same word used in John 19, 30. Everything will be finished. All of what the prophets have described concerning the sufferings of Christ that you heard earlier here this morning in Isaiah 53, all of that will be finished. He says it again in Luke chapter 22, in verse 37, where he again refers to these sufferings. He says, who is greater? The one, excuse me, uh verse 37. It is written that he was numbered among the transgressors, and I tell you that this must be fulfilled. Yes, what is written about me is reaching. Now, it's fulfillment. So you come to John 19, 30. Jesus said, I'm no longer going and looking for that something. I'm no longer awaiting its completion in me. Now the point has come. It is finished. Satan is defeated. The victory is born. Satan has lost the battle. We've lost these people that God has set us level. Nothing ever can then take them out of Jesus' hand. Jesus is saying, You're mine. For all eternity you will be mine. And nothing can take you away because the redemption is finished. It's completed. Hallelujah! He's done it! He's finished it for us. Think of that this week. As you meditate on Jesus' sacrifice again, see the perfection. Others love for him. There was a Christian farmer who tried to lead his neighbor to Jesus Christ, and his neighbor was a carpenter. And in order to demonstrate to him the fact that Jesus' work was absolutely finished on the cross, yet his neighbor wrote him a gate. The carpenter formed a gate, put his best efforts into it. Then the day came when he delivered the gate. Alma took the gate. And he hung it on the fence and had the carpenter come and take a look The farmer was standing there with an axe. And he started hacking away at the geek. The farmer said, What are you doing He said, I'm just uh finishing your work here. And after a few more strokes, he had chopped the gate in three or four pieces, and then he went on to demolish the gate and it lay there in splinters. The carpenter was horrified. And he said, What are you doing with my work? And he said, I'm doing exactly what you've been trying to do, as we've talked to Jesus working. And he tried to add to it. You trying to make it better with what you're going to do, with your life and with your offerings, with your sincerity, with your religious words. The farmer said there's no way that you can improve on the work of Jesus. Which fame. The carpenter saw his error, and that day he gave his life to Jesus Christ. There's somebody here this morning, perhaps, who's still trying to add to the work of Jesus. And you don't see that it's finished. You don't see that as Lord, he voluntarily laid himself down. Maybe well of his life for you, because his work is finished. If you've never seen that , If you've never come to appreciate that, I invite you this morning to give your life to Jesus Christ and accept his finished work. And if you see that this morning, if you see something of a measure of his love for you in this, that he gave this life for you. voluntarily, but he laid it down simply because of his love for you. All of his sufferings and all of humiliation now are finished for you. How are you and I, by our lips and by our lives, expressing our gratitude to Jesus for that grave love that he loved us with? Let's bow down. And tell him about our love. Let's give ourselves to him afresh in this morning. Let's pray.