Today is Human Rights Sunday, and originally if we hadn't had that snowstorm, this would be the third message in the series on Philemon, which has a lot more to do with human rights in general, but this sermon also has to do with human rights. Rights. Because if you stop and think about it, I'd like you to do that before we turn to Philemon. Human rights are about the rights that humans have, right I want you to think for a moment about the rights that we have in this room. Rights that we have because we're in Christ. Rights that we have because Christ forgives us Gave us. Rights that we have within the relationships with each other here in this room because of who Christ is and what He's done for all of us. And in Paul's thinking, rights that we have because we are in Christ together. Those are rights. Whether or not the sermon has to do with social justice, whether or not it has to do with some broader ethical issue. Our rights that are before us as we look at each of our personal relationships, the grudges that we hold, maybe, maybe the fears that we have about rejection or acceptance And as we look at the message today, which isn't going to be the means of reconciliation, but the motive for reconciliation, I just want to challenge all of us to be thinking about the rights As humans, created in the image of God, children of God, Christians, that the people with whom we often need to be reconciled have. So if you haven't already, please turn to Philemon And today we're going to read. It's not often you get to read a whole book of the Bible, but we're going to do it today All twenty five verses. But before we do, let's uh let's bow our heads Father God, we have just sung together, open our eyes because we want to see Jesus. We've just sung that we want you to open our ears We want you to help us to listen. Lord, we have confessed that we need your help to reach out and touch you. And Father, as we've come here this morning to worship you, we have come to do these things. And Lord, we each one here who knows you and understands the truth, that we came to you blind and deaf and unfeeling. And that eyes that see, ears that hear, hands that touch, these are things you have made in us. We ask that you make them again. Lord, recreate them in us as we encounter you through your word. We pray this in the name of Jesus, our Savior and our Lord. Amen. Philemon. Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy, our brother. To Philemon, our dear friend and fellow worker, to Appiah, our sister, to Archipus, our fellow soldier, and to the church that meets in your home. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I always thank my God as I remember you in my prayers, because I hear about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints. I pray that you may be active in sharing your faith so that you will have a full understanding of every good thing we have in Christ Your love has given me great joy and encouragement, because you, brother, have refreshed the hearts of the saints. Therefore, although in Christ I could be bold and order you to do what you ought to do, yet I appeal to you on the basis of love. I, then, as Paul, an old man and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my son Onesimus, who became my son while I was in chains. Formerly he was useless to you, but now he has become useful both to you and to me. I am sending him, who is my very heart, back to you. I would have liked to keep him with me so that he could take your place in helping me while I am in chains for the gospel. But I did not want to do anything without your consent, so that any favor you do will be spontaneous and not forced Perhaps the reason he was separated from you for a little while was that you might have him back for good, no longer as a slave, but better than a slave, as a dear brother. He is very dear to me, but even dearer to you, both as a man and as a brother in the Lord. So, if you consider me a partner, welcome him as you would welcome me. If he has done you any wrong or owes you anything, charge it to me. I, Paul, am writing this with my own hand. I will pay it back, not to mention that you owe me your very self. I do wish, brother, that I may have some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I ask. And one more thing. Prepare a guest room for me, because I hope to be restored to you in answer to your prayers. Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends you greetings. And so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. Human rights, some of you might know if you look in all the Gospels, are probably most clearly presented to us in the Gospel of Luke. Many call it the social gospel. Many call it the gospel that talks about issues like uh widows are mentioned more often, women are mentioned more often in Luke's gospel, little children are mentioned more often in Luke's gospel Poverty stricken people are mentioned more often in Luke's gospel. Luke's gospel is a gospel that talks more clearly about how Christ impacts culture than any of the others. And as I think of all the sections where Luke, inspired by the Holy Spirit, writes that gospel and puts together those thoughts, those recollections. that he's researched and talked about and he looks at in fifteen, for example, we see all those parables grouped together of the lost. I think of human rights and I think most about Luke chapter 18 Because there we start out, and Luke tells us a parable about a persistent widow who's being socially persecuted Then about a Pharisee and a tax collector praying, then about little children who are being kind of kicked out of the door, and then the rich young ruler who's commanded to love the poor. And I want you to think for a moment, since we're talking about motives for reconciliation, about motives for general. You see, that's kind of the first part of your outline here. And I want you to think in particular for a minute About Luke chapter 18, the second parable. You don't have to turn there. It's very familiar. About the Pharisee and the tax collector. Remember they're praying And as they're praying, the Pharisee, the Pharisee gets up and he says, Lord, thank you that you did not make me like all these other people, these sinners, these uh dirty people, these unwashed, uncircumcised Philistines. He doesn't use those words, but that's the idea. And then we have a tax collector who beats his breast, I believe the Bible says there. Kind of a self-deprecating thing, and he says, Lord have mercy on me, a sinner. And I know that when I look at that, when I look at that parable, it's easy for me to say, Well, the one guy offered a prayer that was kind of lame and the other guy offered a prayer that was pretty good. But if you look at why the one stands condemned before God and the other does not, it has to do more with their motive and what they said. To believe it or not, it is not a sin to be grateful that God has spared you the depths of some sins this world has to offer. But it is if your motive for praying that is to exalt yourself over your fellow man And if you think about what God requires of us, and ethics, that idea of what does God require of you, O man, is the backdrop for Philemon in this whole series. We get perhaps the most to the point answer in all of Scripture in Micah chapter 6, verse 8, where we read, Act justly, love mercy, and walk humbly before your God. And when Paul writes to us elsewhere in Philippians chapter 2 that the one thing we should do is nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in everything consider others more important, better than ourselves. We have a picture of that in Luke 18. We have a picture of one person who was humbling himself before God, regardless of the prayer. And we have another picture of a guy who is exalting himself over the people around him, looking out for his own interests. I want you to think for a minute about ministries you're involved in Think about all the different things that you do, whether here at church or in your small group or anything. And the reason I'm going to ask you to do that is because we have something, seeing as how we're Orthodox Presbyterians, and most Presbyterians, a lot of churches have these things. In fact, I want you to turn with me to it. Something that kind of rocked my world and troubled me very, very much back in 1988 Turn in your hymnal to page eight hundred and fifty-two. We're gonna read something together. And as we read this, I want you to think about your motives for doing things that are good. I was going to bring uh my copy of this, but I figured it would cause my father difficulty in worshiping here because it looks like his copy, and he's always accusing me of making off of his theological books, and uh I didn't want to give him a stumbling block this morning, so I'm using the hymnal too. Okay, the Westminster Confession of Faith. Look at chapter six, part five, verse the fifth paragraph. I want you to read that with me. And this is talking about sin, you see in the Old English there, of the fall of man of sin and of the punishment thereof. And the corruption of nature just explained that that's not our sin per se, meaning the things that we do, but our sinfulness the state of sin in which we are. So let's read that together. This corruption of nature during this life doth remain in those that are regenerated, and although it be through Christ pardoned and mortified, yet both itself And all the motions thereof are truly and properly sin. And you know, I read this in 1988. I was just turning, I was turning twenty, and it bothered the daylights out of me. It bugged me so much. You know, I was going through a uh a spiritual uh regeneration in a way, in a sense that I had had some difficulties. Many of you know about them. The Lord brought me back And I can remember thinking, well, first thing I'm going to do is get straight with the word of God. Second, what is the secondary standard business? This Western is a confession of faith. And I read this, and I can remember thinking, I'll put this in my older brother Doug's terms, who's kind of come up with a uh a kind of uh a Texas style of common sense biblical theology, which you know kind of is just as good as this is if not better. And he says um This is talking to my brother Doug. This is how he explains this. You know? We're Christians, yes, but we're still basically yucks. Think about that, kids. Still basically a bunch of yucks like Paul. You know, here's Paul, here's a guy who talks about how uh the good things I want to do, I still I don't do them. And yeah, there's debate about whether that's before or after regeneration But there's a struggle. A struggle with who we are still. And what this confession of faith and what we believe as a body is that we are still yucks. But Through Christ, we're pardoned yucks who are having our yuckiness mortified. That means kind of put to death. But now look at this next part. Now, so although this is true, that we are still sinful, and although we are pardoned in Christ, and that sinfulness is being taken care of, yet Both itself, our sinfulness, who we are, and all the motions thereof, everything we do are truly and properly sin. What a thought. And maybe you like me will have to struggle with this and say to yourself, well, it's just in the back of the Trinity Hymnal, and you know that's not the inspired word of God But the sinfulness that taints everything that we do doesn't stop with acts which are good on the surface. And if all of our motions and everything that we do is affected by our yuckiness, by our sinfulness, indeed everything we do is therefore by definition a sin. Even preaching a sermon on January twentieth. And I can remember as I struggled with this, I said, well, you know The ministry I'm involved in right now, someone uh roped me into being a middle school Sunday school teacher and that that was the beginning of a career which some of our seniors in high school have never managed to escape because I moved up to high school with them Been their only Sunday school teacher for their m modern life in the last seven years. But I want you to think about any ministry that you're active in, and just write that down. Any ministry. In your bulletin. Any ministry that you're active in And then I want you to think about why you're doing it. And be honest with yourself. Because this was a test case I did with myself. I said, why am I doing why am I teaching these kids uh middle school Sunday school And it wasn't because I'd get bright colored stickers that said property of Bob at Christmas. That had nothing to do with it. You know what? As I thought about that, and you know, I started with the good stuff. I love God I made vows to do everything I could to be a part of the upbringing of the covenant children in this particular body. I take those vows seriously. I thought of all these good things. Then I was thinking there and it don't, you know, this was in the front of my mind Trying to push it in the back and in the front. You know, two of the guys in this class have older sisters my age that are pretty good looking Now some of you are gonna try to figure out who they were. They're both married now. Not to me. But you know, it was a motive And as I struggled with Duismo as a confession of faith, I couldn't deny it. It was true. You know what I wanted? I wanted people to know that I was a spiritual man. I wanted people to think highly of me. I wanted people to know that I had gifts. And as I think about how my sinfulness and my pride and my self-indulgence and all these other words kind of are a factor in everything I do. The door was opened wide to look at every area of my life. And that's a humbling thing. I want you to think for a minute about Paul's ministry. You've thought about yours. I've shared you about some of mine. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, Paul describes his ministry. And he describes it two times in the space of three verses as being a ministry of reconciliation. That's what it is. Where he spends his life trying to reconcile people to God. And as we look at how he is involved as the pastor evangelist with all of these churches, some of which he never visited We see him constantly, diligently at work as a minister of reconciliation, even within the body of Christ. And it's one thing for you and for me to think that if we do manage to affect reconciliation, we've done a fine good thing. And you know that's if In and of itself, if we like Philemon can accept our runaway slave who wronged us Anesimus, we just read about him in the letter And if I can let him come back and live in my house, if I can let him worship in my house, church, I have been obedient, I've done the right thing by him, I have been good We've kind of missed the point. Because Paul's next two commands hit us right in between the eyes regarding our motive for doing that. Our motive is just as important as what we do. And as we look at the reconciliation that we need in our relationships, in our life, we can't separate the what from the why. This is what you should do. And Paul setting himself up as Christ says, when you look at that person, see me, the mediator. And when you think about what they owe you, charge it to me, to whom you owe your life. So that you can put it into perspective and truly forgive. And for you and for me, what that means is when I look at people that maybe they have truly sinned against me. Maybe I just feel that they have. And when I look at them, knowing that, as Paul writes in Colossians, Christ is all and is in all within his body, he is the head, he is the one who is in every one of the members thereof I need to look at that person and I need to say, no, instead of looking at that person, that yucky person who yucked me, I need to see Christ. Whenever I think of what they have done wrong to me, I need to be willing to charge it to Christ's account. And when I do, I'll notice that I owe him my very life. And everything will come into perspective. And I will be able to be obedient to his command, to forgive as he forgave me, to love as he loved me, first, not second, and fully, not provisionally. I want you to think then about these motives, these commands. Yes, I did bring another book. Before you do My prayer is that this does not become historical trivia. Just as kind of a stark contrast here, I want you to think about how the same action that you do can be radically different because of motive. This is a letter written by a guy named Pliny, who is a Roman. Less than a hundred years after Paul wrote the letter of Philemon About the exact same thing. A slave has run away , slave named Sabinianus. And he ran away from his owner, and the slave caught up in this same vicious ancient world where a runaway slave was a nobody and was in big trouble. Thought to himself, hmm, if I get in good with Pliny, Pliny will write a letter, much like the letter of Philemon, to my owner, saying, Be as fort, let him back into your house Accept him, have some reconciliation here, don't kill him or cut his nose off or anything. And so we have this letter, and I just want you to think about the motives here. These are just a short excerpt from this letter. Pliny writes to the owner, I know you were angry with him, this runaway slave, and I know too, it is not without reason. But clemency can never exert itself more laudably than when there is most cause for resentment. And if he should incur your displeasure hereafter, you will have so much the stronger plea and excuse of your anger as you show yourself more merciful to him now. And you know, sometimes when I look at the literature of the world and I compare it to the literature of Scripture, I find myself strangely convicted. Because think about how what Pliny is writing is actually trying to affect the same thing, reconciliation. But it's not God's reconciliation. It's not a Christian reconciliation. It's a very worldly reconciliation. Because much like the prayer that I had you all consider in the beginning of this sermon in Luke 18 Pliny is saying to the slave owner, this is a chance to exalt yourself. Clemency Your forbearance and patience and willingness to forgive never looks better than when the wrong done against you is huge. This is a chance for you to take straw and make hay This is a chance for you to take this lemon and make lemonade. This is a chance for, and notice the pronoun, you Think about the temptation that we have as we think about the reconciliation we need to affect in our lives and relationships, to see them as opportunities for us. Because look at what Paul says in this next command, the motive for reconciliation. After he notes that, Philema, you owe me your very self, he says I do wish, brother, that I may have some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. And the command there, the imperative, is refresh my heart. Refresh my heart. It's not refresh Onesimus's heart. What Paul is not saying here Is, you know, I like Anesimus so much that I'm going to command you to make him happy Refresh Onesimus's heart. Onesimus, this runaway slave who probably stole from you, who did all these bad things, make that guy happy. Paul says, no, make me happy. Because I should have some benefit from you because of what I've done for you. I want you to think about this back up now. Back up and think about this in the bigger picture Paul is painting, because he's painting a picture of himself. He is playing the role of Christ. He is showing us what it means to be Christ-like Think about when Jesus sends that letter to whatever your name is And it says, you know, with regards to my son whom I love, whom I begat on a cross. With regards to my daughter whom I love, while I was your servant dying for your sins and hers. Accept them as you would accept me. Charge any sin they commit against you to my account. And why? Because I want you to refresh my heart. Last week we looked at the word accept, and we noticed that it's the same word used in Romans 15, 7. The context there is accept one another then, just as Christ accept you, for the glory and praise of God. And the reason that we accept one another, and elsewhere in Scripture, we do see that we are to lift one another up for that reason. But the ultimate reason is that it brings glory and praise to God when his children get along. Christ's prayer in John 17. I pray that you would be one that the world may know. What? Who I am and that you sent me. The reconciliation is not to make you look good. It's not to make the person who sinned against you feel better. But it is a Godward, humble service. And it is a ministry. Refresh my heart, Paul says. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I ask. And one more thing. Now this one more thing is literally a one more thing. And it's kind of I maybe I shouldn't be so amused by this. It's a character flaw maybe, but you know, as I'm reading the commentaries and studying I some people will look at that and say, you know Clearly this Paul is a manipulative guy. Paul is a you know, this is obviously an uninspired, very uninspiring text, but doesn't have any place in the Bible, because here's Paul basically saying, and if you don't do it, I got this big sledgehammer here I'm gonna hit you with. Think about what Paul's saying. One more thing, just an afterthought now. I've given you some commands. I haven't told you exactly the fullness of what you're supposed to do, but these are non-negotiable. Accept them Charge what he's done to my account, refresh my heart. Now, what is the mechanism by which Paul's going to make sure these things happen? We don't know until we read off one more thing. Prepare a guest room for me, because I hope to be restored to you. Literally, I'm coming You know, if I leam it, I'm gonna know what happened. I'm coming back And some people note that according to the and and rightly so, according to the the travel plans we have of Paul and Scripture, we don't actually have for sure any s Paul, perhaps, never set foot in the actual city of Colossae. We know that he brought Philemon to Christ. We know that he brought on Esimus through relationship with Christ, and he might not be using the word restored as in return literally, but just the idea of you're praying for me. To be freed from this prison situation, and I hope and answer those prayers that I will be able to come visit with you. I'm gonna come And when we read Paul, we notice that there's this strange collection of three ideas which go together all the time. All the time. Three ideas I think that are so essential to your life as a Christian that I I think someone someday needs to pay some serious attention to this little uh group of three. And they are love, faith, and hope. In Paul's mind, those three things are three cords, three fibers that run straight through your life. And if you read all of Paul's letters, you will see those three things present, I guarantee you. Except for if you read Pray Lemon, all you see is faith and love. All we see at the beginning in the description of the Christian life that Paul is so pleased that Philemon is living is, you know, I I think about you, uh Philemon And I thank God because I hear about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for the saints. The bedrock of all this is always hope, but it's not here. We don't come across that word for hope until this end part I want you to think about time. I want you to think about ethics. What is right and wrong? What should you do in the here and now? And I want you to think about Christ's summary statement of his preaching. Some of you are thinking summary statement. I wish Bob had a summary statement of his preaching. We could be gone and out of here by now When the gospel writers summarize Christ's preaching, they say that he went about preaching, repent, an ethical command, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near. In Matthew's gospel, the kingdom of God is near in Mark's and Luke's. And what do you think about that time? Repent. Do the right thing because in terms of time here, this kingdom is upon us. I want you to think about Matthew chapter 18, not Luke chapter 18. There's a parable in there that we referred to briefly last week, where there's this servant It's called the parable of the unmerciful servant. There's a servant who comes to a rich man who's lent him ten thousand talents, which is like millions of dollars. And the guy who has lent all this money brings this servant before him and says, Hey, come on man, I want that money now. And the guy falls down on his knees, oh you know, hey, I can't pay you, I don't know what I'm gonna do. I I And the guy says, Okay, I'll just forgive your debt. And then this servant who just had millions of dollars worth of debt forgiven him We read that he goes along and he finds this other guy who owes him a couple hundred denarii. Now, thinking about a good way of explaining how much that would be worth, we're talking like change for a soda pop We're not talking anything, maybe a few dollars. Nothing even close to being significant. And he takes this fella and he says, hey, pay up. I want to go buy soda And the guy falls to his knees and pleads, be patient with me and I'll pay you back. I can't pay you now. And the guy says, Not good enough. And he throws him in jail and he says, You're not coming out of debtor's prison until you've paid me And the guy who just forgave him millions of dollars is sitting here going, What in the world's going on here? And so he called him before him and said, You wicked servant, I canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me to. Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant just as I had on you? In anger, his master turned him over to the jailers to be tortured until he should pay back all he owed. And I guess that as you and I think about the context of this parable of our Lord and how this parable is a response to Peter's question How many times shall I forgive my brother when he sins against me? Up to seven times? I think that we need to think long and hard about the words of Jesus This is how my heavenly Father will treat each of you, unless you forgive your brother from your heart. This is what Jesus says. The one who says, I'm coming back. And as we think about what it would mean for you and for me to one more thing, prepare a room for me, to our Lord Jesus, to whom we owe our life. And as we think that preparing that room for Jesus might mean, might mean accepting somebody from your heart who you have every reason to hate. As you think about what that might mean. When that debt that they owe you is so great As you think about what it might mean, that you are pleasing God, pleasing God, refreshing the heart of Christ, when you welcome that person back freely and fully. I'd like to again ask you to think, is there anyone with whom you should be reconciled? Is there anyone in your life, maybe in this room, with whom you need to be right before the Lord? And you're not, and you know it And I want you to examine your motives for why you're not reconciling with them and for why you should. Because Paul's commands aren't just behavioral. They don't just say do XYZ and then be happy. They say do XYZ for these reasons. And for those of you who don't know the Lord and are runaway slaves yourselves, fleeing from your Creator, your master, your king. Know that He is a forgiving God, and that when you, like that runaway lost son in Luke chapter 15 Return home to your Father to live in his house, that there is much rejoicing in heaven, and the very heart of God is pleased and delighted. Reconciliation is, in many ways, the message of our ministry We preach a reconciliation with God that is had in Christ and what he did for us on the cross. And as we think about ethics and human rights, as we think about the rights of the humans here in this room with whom we share so much. Let's not forget that our ministry begins and ends with reconciliation. I'm not sure that it ever leaves in the middle. Let's pray. Father God, we just thank you that you have given us Christ, the Messiah. We thank you that you indeed are the author and the perfecter of our faith, and that we might fix our eyes on you. Lord, that we might be like you. Holy Spirit, we thank you that you are in us, that you move us. Lord, that you uh you grow us. We ask that you would do this work in us, which is so difficult for some of us to come to grips with, so difficult for us to imagine ourselves doing Lord, as we think about people who have genuinely hurt us and hurt us deeply, we ask that you give us grace and strength to be like Christ. To be forgiven sons and daughters who know how to forgive, loving sons and daughters who know how to love. And we ask that you would help us So long for that day that you return, and in the meantime prepare a room for you. We pray all these things in the name of Christ, our glorious Savior and our Lord. Amen.