These last few weeks, God has been addressing us from Ephesians chapter four to see what the church should look like. It's so easy, isn't it, to read your Bible and not really make a connection with life You know, we we read it and we don't ask, is that the way things look? And so we can read Ephesians chapter 4 And assent to it and say, yeah, I believe that. You know, amen. That's good. But then never really ask, is that what the church looks like? Is that what we're doing? Is that what we see when we look at the church in America? You think about what you see if you walk into and you participate in the typical evangelical church in the United States First thing, of course, would be the Sunday morning service. So you go to that and you know sing hymns, hear a message. There's usually a Sunday school class, adults and kids. Um there 's probably a nursery if they're going to stay in business need to have a nursery, you know, and uh maybe a youth group, uh maybe a midweek service Uh there will be a number of meetings, surely. Lots of meetings. And there'll be committees. Lots of committees. Uh in fact As you look at it, you begin to wonder if the church doesn't sort of orient itself around budgets, boards, and buildings Uh you have uh the buildings for everybody if you know we've got to fund that, we've gotta build that, we've got to maintain that And uh then there are the budgets to carry out the programs and the buildings, and then there are the boards. The elders often operate like a kind of board of trustees to keep the operation functioning keep all these programs going. We need to recruit for the programs. We need to fund the programs. We need to maintain the programs. And you go on and on and on with this and at some point you may stop and realize I could be part of this thing for 15 years without my life changing. I could be in this thing for 20 years. And still be dealing with the same basic sins in my life I was dealing with 20 years ago on the same level, the same guilt. My faith hasn't grown. I have not shared Christ with anyone that I since I can remember. In fact I've kind of given up on evangelism, feeling like that's just not my thing and something for other people who able to do that better or something like that. And my life is utterly stagnant spiritually. But I'm in all the programs, I go to the meetings and I serve on three committees. And then you read Ephesians chapter 4, and all of a sudden you realize you're in a different world. There's nothing here about buildings. About meetings, about programs. You read about Jesus Christ, the risen Lord, who's given gifts to leaders Who equip? Restore, remember, from sin and suffering, supplying with faith and obedience, and training by the word and by example. Restoring, supplying, training, equipping God's people so that you do ministry And what is that ministry? It's serving, involving yourselves in one another's lives so that you are built up To become what? Well, verse 13, to know your Bible, to know your Savior, and to reflect your Lord. Three blanks? Anybody remember what those are? In that little outline there? Know your Bible is your what? Hello? Notify those your what? It was a it was a word we were using. I can I don't hear it yet. Huh? True with truth. Yeah, that's the word we use. That's right. That's not this one. You're right. That was one of the blanks we used. We talked about knowing the Bible and know as knowing truth. But it has to do with your Begins with a scene. Ah, heck with this message. We'll go back to the one two weeks ago. Oh wait, come on back to verse 13. No, forget it. Convictions. Remember, know your Bible. Those are your convictions. You're growing in your convictions Know your Savior. You are growing in your what was the second word? Does that get you on a roll now? Affections. Affections. Heard it. You're growing in your affections. Verse 13. Let's start at verse uh the end of verse 11. Uh talks about Jesus who has given these gifts, some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers in order to prepare, to equip God's people for works of service, that is, for ministry, so that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith. That is, we're knowing our Bible. Unity of faith is the content of the faith, our condition. And in the full experiential knowledge of the Son of God. That's the affections. That is that intimacy with Jesus Christ. It's not simply head knowledge. It's that affection for him because of who he is and what he's done for me. and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ, reflecting your Lord, which has to do with what's the third word? Anybody remember? Character, thanks Lisa, you came through. Alright. Convictions, affections, and character. That's what we're talking about. We use cells As the means, simply the structure to fulfill the purposes, so that we are forced as a church To not become bound in the programs and in all the external things, the meetings That can so occupy the attention and the energies and the finances of a typical church That's simply what we are seeking to do, so that we as the leaders are able to equip and evangelize The cells are the structure for the equipping. The cells are the vehicle for the evangelism. That's simply what we're doing. We're simply seeking to work out the principles of Ephesians chapter 4. That's what we're talking about here, okay? cells also the structure of the celebration like this morning and the seminars for training. Paul says that if you are not moving in that direction, verse 13 so that you are not moving in your convictions, your affections, and your character. Then verse 14, you will remain this way, no longer like infants See if you are growing in verse 13, you will no longer be this, but if you're not, then you will be infants tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there by every wind of teaching. And by the cunning and craftiness of men and their deceitful scheming, two groups that we talked about there, unstable children who are always just attending things but never growing in character and life change in their love and trust of Jesus Christ. And if you don't, there is always somebody out there that is ready to give you the shortcut or able to tell you something that is a good substitute for the gospel. Just this week in the Flyer, another one comes out. I don't know how many of you saw this. Religious science multiplies its popularity. Church in Columbia called the Church of Religious Science. And uh this church uh believes in uh it's based on this book, Science of the Mind believes that Jesus Christ is a human through which the divine personality expresses itself on earth. We are teaching individuals how to change their lives through a mind-body-spirit connection, says the pastor Well, you see, there is a another example, you know, how to change your life through the mind, body, spirit. But what does it do? It uses all Christian terminology. It says that it's within the Christian tradition, you see And so they talk about the Bible. They talk about Christian terms so that this thing sounds like it's within the realm of a kind of an updated, uh a new version, kind of a you know a nineteen nineties high-tech uh in touch with spirit kind of uh version of Christianity. That's what Paul's talking about here. Either you are moving in your maturity of your convictions, your affections, and your character Or you will be vulnerable. Maybe you say, hey, then you know the people in the church of religious science aren't going to get me, but something more subtle will divert you ever so slightly, and then more and more, from the center of Jesus Christ in your life. Now we come to verse fifteen. And in verse 15, what Paul does is he comes back again, another contrast. Instead, he says Speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is, Christ. Now, understand that this is very similar to verse 13. He's talking about truth, he's talking about love and growing, and all these things, very similar ideas. The difference primarily is that verse 13 states the goal, and that's its emphasis. Verse 15 focuses on the path to the goal. And that's what I want to look at for a few minutes with you this morning. Verse 15 is the path to the goal. Speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head. That is Christ. The Greek literally of that beginning phrase there, instead, the word speaking does not appear in the Greek. Literally, it is instead truthing in love. Truthing in love. And that idea, truthing in love, I think contains three parts to it, three ideas that I want to unfold for you this morning. The first of those is the idea of holding the truth in love. A is holding the truth in love. Both John Scott and Martin Lloyd Jones believe that holding the truth in love is the best bottom line translation of that phrase. It's in contrast, of course, to verse 14, where you are not holding the truth. You're not hanging on to the truth, but you're being tossed back and forth. And so he says, instead of that, verse 15, holding, hanging on to the truth, you have that as a standard by which you can judge new ideas. You need a standard to judge new ideas. Let's suppose, for instance, that I say to you, I think, I feel like my nose is six inches long And you say, Al, I've noticed that that's rather prominent feature of your face up here there when you speak week by week, but I don't really think it's six inches And I say, oh yeah, man, this thing is is at least six inches. No, I don't really think so. Well, you see we don't have to debate that very long because there's a standard. There's a Bureau of Weights and Measures and Standards. And they had determined what six inches is. And so all you have to do is you get a copy of their standard, you see, and here it is, and you say, okay, this little thing is six inches long. And so you hold it up to my nose, you see, and you say, nope, out, you know, it's long, but it's not that long. In fact you could measure it this way and it's not six inches this way. In fact it's not even six inches broad. Anyway you look at it out your nose falls short of six inches. Well you see you got a standard so it's objective. You can measure it Now that is why the church throughout the years wrestled and sweated through creeds and confessions like we just recited in the Apostles' Creed. Because the church was saying it's not enough to simply say, I believe the Bible, but I have to have some distillation that says to me, what is it that you believe that the Bible teaches? Because if you ask me, what do you believe that Christianity says? What do you believe the gospel is? I don't start with, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth and wind up all the way to the book of Revelation. You know, the person's long gone. passed out, died of hunger, whatever. But you know, they don't want to hear me read the Bible. They want to hear what is it that it says? And so the church came up. with a simple standard, the Apostles' Creed. And they said, this is a distillation of what we believe of historic biblical Christianity. As you then proceeded, and there were various attacks, there was the Nicene Creed, the Athanasian Creed, you come to the Reformation, and the Reformation proliferates with creeds. The Episcopalians come up with their 39 articles. The Lutherans come up with the Augsburg Confession. In Europe you have the Belgic Confession, the Helvetic Confession. And then you have kind of the NIV of the confessions when everybody had debated all these things after a hundred years, 1643, a bunch of guys sit down They produced the Westminster Confession of Faith, which is the confession of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. What is it? It is simply a means of attaining some standard for holding on to the truth. That's all it is. So that when a new idea comes down the pike, whether it's the Church of Religious Science or anything else, you can say, What is it that the Bible teaches? Now the Bible's the standard. The creeds and the confessions aren't the standard. They are kind of like, you know, the little plastic thing. They're they're trying to simply say, we're going to take a part of it, we're going to have something you can carry around, because you won't want to carry around, you know, the the final weights and standards and measures which are contained in some room somewhere. And somebody has that and that thing is measured and kept. But we have something to help us to hold on to the truth. Now, I mention that because I find that for many Christians there is a resistance to the idea of creeds and confessions, as if these things are inherently deadening. But rather what Paul says in verse 15 is that you and I, instead of being tossed around, are to hold on to, to hang on to the truth. And that we need means by which we can distill that and understand that in our own understanding and our own thinking, but also notice that we are to do it in love. Hold on to the truth, he says, in love. That is, that you do not simply hold on to the truth in itself and being correct is all that matters Rather, it is a matter of the balance of holding on to truth in love. I think the best statement of that balance was uh given with by John Stott in his comments on this passage. Let me just read uh a few sentences of what he says there Stott says, speaking the truth in love is not the best rendering of this expression, for the Greek verb makes no reference to our speech. Literally it means truthing in love and includes the notions of maintaining, living, and doing the truth. Thank God that there are those in the contemporary church who are determined at all costs to defend and uphold God's revealed truth. But sometimes they are conspicuously lacking in love. When they think that they smell heresy, their nose begins to twitch, their muscles ripple, and the light of battle enters their eye. They seem to enjoy nothing more than a fight. Others make the opposite mistake. Truths of Revelation. Both these tendencies are unbalanced and unbiblical. Truth becomes hard if it is not softened by love. Love becomes soft if it is not strengthened by truth. The apostle calls us to hold the two together. Which should not be difficult for spirit-filled believers, since the Holy Spirit Himself is the Spirit of truth, and his first fruit is love. There is no other route than this to a fully mature Christian unity. Perhaps you've heard the story that in heaven One of the angels was introducing one of the newcomers to the groups that were there, and they were noticing that Some of the Church of God people were having a real party and the Baptists were having a real party and everybody singing and shouting. And then they got to his door, it was closed, and they opened it up And they said who are and the newcomer said, Well who are these? And he said, Uh those are the Presbyterians. And they said, Why do you keep the door closed? He said, Well, they think they're the only ones here. I remind you again, OPC stands for the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, not the only perfect church. We need to hold the truth in love, in humility, never letting go of the truth, never feeling arrogant. And as if we've got the final statement of the truth and don't need to listen to other people. Paul says, holding on to the truth in love. But it's not simply, and by the way, I urge you to think yourself, which tendency do you have? Every one of us have a propensity. My propensity to hang on to the truth, you know, I read this verse holding on to the truth in love. Other people read it holding on to the truth. In love! Every one of us have our own particular way we like to read that verse. And need to examine ourselves and ask God to give us more of a balance. Holding the two in equal tension, the truth in love. But it's not just a matter of an intellectual holding on to it The word truthing or the phrase truthing in love also has the idea of living. And so B, the second point, is that we are to be living the truth in love. Again, the emphasis is on both words: living the truth in love. Here, the idea is not so much creeds as integrity. Living the truth, which means that it's not just what I know, not how much I'm able to impress you with my theology. But what my life looks like, what I am like when no one is looking, as Bill Heibel says in his new book. I still remember, and I shared this with some of you at least before, how bizarre and humiliating was my own experience when I entered the Cub Scouts. I went to the first meeting and they gave everybody a few paraphernalia and then they gave us the Cub Scout manual. Boy, I really I love books and so I thought it is on Newton. Boy I had pictures and drawings and just really was great. Remember it had this great cover on it, you know, and they said now take this home and when you have finished this Then come back and there will be a series of badges and you go on to the next stage. I took that thing home. I read it all Friday night, read it all Saturday morning. I finished that book and I went over to the Scoutmaster two days later and I said I have finished the book. What do I do now? Test me on it. Anything. Ask me anything. I know it. What is it I still remember the look in her eyes. She looked at me and uh uh yeah, I think it was it was a woman, I remember, Mrs. O'Connell. She looked at me and she said, You finished this book? I said, yeah. I read it all last night and today. He said, no, no, no, no, no, wait a minute. You are supposed to do the book, not just know the book. And I remember my shock and my amazement mirrored the same look in her eye. Do you expect me to do all that stuff? I think I went to two more meetings. You know, and that's the way we look at the Bible for some of us. You know, ah man, I know this stuff. And the Lord legently comes and looks at it and says, But are you doing this stuff? It's living the truth in love, not just knowing the truth. I think of a fellow by the name of Charlie Olcott. He was president of one of the largest fast-food fan franchises in America. And another company was Proposing to buy them out. So the chairman of the board came to him and said, Charlie, I want you to redo the financial projections of our sales in the next ten years that we've been talking about. I want you to upgrade those a little bit, make it look a little better as we go into this meeting. And Charlie said, I can't do that. I know what the projections are and I can't change them. He said, Well you go think about that Better think about it long and hard. Came to the morning of the meeting. Chairman of the board said to him again, just going into the meeting, said Charlie, be come up with those projections He said, sir, I've thought about this all night. I can't change the projections from what we said. Chairman of the board looked him in the eye and he said, Charlie, you're off the team. Twenty years he'd been climbing the corporate ladder, moving, working, sweating, sacrificing to get to that position, and in one decision, he was fired. He called up his wife. He said, Honey, I've just been fired from my job. He said, Good, come on home. Blessed is the man who has such a wife at such a time When I read about that, it was two years since that had occurred. And he said, it hasn't been an easy two years. But he said, I can look myself in the mirror. And he said, I recognize that I don't part the Lordship of Christ at the end of the Sunday service. Living the truth In your relationships, and your work , your citizenship , integrity. That's what Paul's talking about. Living the truth in love, not with brittle self-righteousness But simply seeking to do what the Lord tells you in every area. First, the Lord speaking to you this morning about living the truth. Following him, trusting him, that he'll take care of you if you really follow the truth in love. Finally, the last thing that he speaks about here is this idea of speaking. Speaking the truth in love. And he said, well you just told me it didn't say speaking. Well that's right. It does not use the word speaking. However, why is it that the NIV and most other translations translate this phrase, speaking the truth? The reason is quite simple. The phrase appears only one other time in the New Testament, Galatians chapter 4, verse 16. In Galatians 4. 16, Paul says, Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth? It's the same phrase. Basically, it's literally, Have I now become your enemy by truth in you? Clearly, what Paul's talking about there is telling them the truth. And so the word has the idea not only of holding, the phrase has the idea not of holding the truth and living the truth, but also speaking the truth. In fact, if you look at the book of Galatians, it is the classic example of speaking the truth in love. I commend that to your study, perhaps this week, using it part of uh for the meditations or just on your own, to see how Paul models speaking the truth to one another in love. In the book of Galatians. He says that we are to do this in all things. Look how he modeled it. First of all, you notice he was willing to speak the truth in a very difficult situation. One of his closest friends After he had become a Christian was the Apostle Peter. He had found in Peter one who had known the Lord Jesus up close. Their relationship, I'm sure, was a very close and intimate one. And yet there was a certain point where Paul says in chapter 2 of Galatians that Peter began to compromise. And those who were parties of the circumcision said you had to be circumcised to be a Christian, would separate themselves from the Gentiles and they would eat together, and Peter became intimidated by that. Peter began to back off. He was not ready to stand for the gospel. And so he began to separate himself from the Gentiles, and he began to eat with these people. And Paul said, I couldn't stand by and say, well, you know, I'm I'm not a person that likes to confront Somebody else can do that. Um maybe I should jot him a note. Maybe somebody else will speak to him. Maybe he'll just pray that he'll read this Bible and he'll understand that he really oughtn't to compromise at this point. Paul says in Galatians chapter 2 , verse 14, when I saw that they were not acting in line with the truth of the gospel. I said to Peter in front of them all, You're a Jew. And yet you live like a Gentile and not like a Jew. How is it that you force Gentiles to follow Jewish customs? We who are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners know that a man is not justified by observing the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by observing the law, because by observing the law, no one will be justified. Paul said , verse eleven, he opposed Peter to his face because he was clearly in the wrong. You 're willing to do that with someone that you know and that you love? And you're more willing , you're more concerned. for the effect of compromising the truth, then you are to be liked. You're willing To undergo the comfortableness, uncomfortableness, to speak the truth to that brother or sister. You notice how he exposes the Judaizers in this epistle. He exposes them not simply to say, I don't agree with their position on this. I mean, we all have our preferences, we all have our understanding of this, but Uh my understanding is simply different from you guys. Paul was an apostle. That makes him puts him in a different category from us. Paul was one who had the truth, divine revelation given to him, and so there was more assurance. But you notice he exposes the Judaizer, chapter 6 and verse 12. And he speaks right to the heart of the issue Those who want to make a good impression outwardly are trying to compel you to be circumcised. The only reason they do this is to avoid being persecuted for the cross of Christ. It's a lot easier, you see. It's more acceptable to men to do something rather than to rest, you know, our realizing our own Righteousness is filthy rags and to rest solely and completely in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Not even those who are circumcised obey the law, and yet they want you to be circumcised so that they may boast about your flesh. disciples after themselves. Paul was willing to call it what it is. Recently there's been a debate about the gender-neutral Bible that Zondervin and International Bible Society had proposed publishing And whatever was right or wrong about that, World magazine, in seeking to bring that thing to the fore, said they were castigated for that because they had brought up an uncomfortable issue. They said, in today's world, it seems like our feelings and affections and unity are more important than what's true. We're all infected by that kind of virus. And we need to be careful that we don't sacrifice what is true when the stakes can be so very high in a person's life. You see, Paul, even to the Galatians themselves, how he warns them passionately. Chapter 3, beginning in verse 1, you've Foolish Galatians, who's bewitched you before your very eyes? Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. I would like to learn just one thing from you Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Why are you so foolish? After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort? Have you suffered so much for nothing if for really it was for nothing? Does God give you his spirit and work miracles among you because you observe the law or because you believe what you've heard? In chapter 5, mark my words, I Paul tell you that if you let yourself be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all. Again, I declare to every man who lets himself be circumcised, he is obligated to obey the whole law. You who are trying to be justified by the law have been alienated from Christ. You've fallen away from the principle of grace. And yet you notice how he does this in love. You notice that in chapter 4, he speaks passionately to them of the relationship he had with them. How he had come to give the gospel to them because he was sick, and he says, You would have given me your own eyes. It was an eye problem, apparently he had. You would have given to me your own eyes if you could have done that. Then he says in verse 19 My dear children, for whom I am again in the pains of childbirth until Christ is formed in you. It's like a mother giving birth. I'm longing for this work of God to be formed and fully in you, growing up into Him who is the head. How I wish I could be with you now and change my tone because I'm perplexed. About you, speaking the truth, uncomfortable, willing to confront, but always in love, tenderly. recognizing that you and I are so vulnerable to the sins that particularly afflict us in our own character. You notice the goal of all of this is that we would grow up into Him Three things very briefly. The goal is not being correct but Christ-like. Not a matter of my demonstrating to you, I am right, I've got the truth It's a matter rather of recognizing our own spiritual bankruptcy. And coming every day to the cross and recognizing my own heart is so evil and so deceitful. Lord Jesus, keep the cross central. My goal is simply to become more like my Lord Jesus, to demonstrate, to reflect him. And this is done not in isolation, but in community It's done with one another. Speaking the truth to one another. Verse 16. All parts of the body functioning together. More on that next week, so I'll leave that at this point. Then finally, this is to be achieved not by determination, but by faith. You can't do it in your own strength. Remember, this whole section begins in chapter 4, verse 1. As a prisoner, then I urge you to live a life worthy. Bring your life into equilibrium with the calling that you receive by faith. working out the truth that God has revealed to you. Not by determination, but by appropriating What he has said. Verse 25 states that therefore each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor, for we are The imperative, speak truth, because the indicative, we are members of one another. We belong together. Therefore, we must be willing to speak truth to each other. Holding the truth, living the truth, speaking the truth. Let's pray. Lord our God, in conclusion, briefly, we just want to bring ourselves before you and ask you to reveal to us. Where is it that we need to learn how to grow up into Jesus, who is the head? coming into a fuller experience of our union with Him in our holding the truth In an area where we have been unwilling to live the truth, or Lord, in areas where we are not willing to speak the truth in love Reveal this to us. Equip us. Show us Jesus. And give us, Lord, the strength to follow you in what you are saying to us this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen