Even older than the Names of God series that we've been going through is another series on messianic prophecies. that we have been going through for the couple of weeks after Thanksgiving since nineteen seventy nine. So this year we are up to the fifteenth messianic prophecy. We began back in Genesis three, and uh we are now up to Isaiah. We come this this year to consider what is probably one of the most often quoted of all the messianic prophecies of Christmas time, and yet I believe one of the least understood of the Messianic Messianic prophecies concerning Christ's birth. It's Isaiah chapter seven, verse fourteen. Let me read it to you. Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son and will call him Emmanuel. And this uh particular verse has the advantage of combining not only the messianic prophecies but also the names of God, you see, because there is a unique name of God which referred to in this verse, Emmanuel, which we'll consider, and so I am able to discard two series in uh one message this way. uh this week and next week. But what does Isaiah seven fourteen mean? You hear it every Christmas time. It's on Christmas cards. It's all over the place. But what does it mean? Who's the U that the sign is for? And then uh what if if this U is uh referring to somebody During Isaiah's time, how is a birth of a child to a virgin over 700 years later going to be assigned to this person? And uh why is this the sign that's given? What does this mean for the hearers? What does it mean for us? And I've been excited about this passage for a number of years. I was really looking forward to nineteen ninety-two to finally come around so I could preach on it because this really has an exciting message for And it's one that uh I particularly need and one that perhaps you need in your own life because it's a very encouraging message if we understand what Isaiah is really saying here. But we need to look at it carefully to understand that. In fact, we need to look first of all at the historical situation to understand what he's saying. Then we need to look at the sign itself and ask some questions about that and then thirdly you'll see there we need to look at the significance of the sign. First of all, what's the historical situation that Isaiah 714 came into? We see it alluded to to there in the first 12 verses of Isaiah 7. It takes place around the year 735 BC. Now in the year 735 BC, Israel had been long divided into two hostile camps. You had the ten tribes that were called Israel in the north. And then in the south, you had two tribes, Benjamin and Judah, that were called Judah. And those two tribes did not live very much at peace with one another. And in the year 735, around about that time, three things happened of great significance to you and to me. The first is that at that time Ahaz came on to the throne of Judah. Ahaz was not a godly king. Chapter seven verse one says when Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Isaiah, was king in Judah. Ahaz was like a lot of American political leaders. He was eclectic. He would say that he was a Christian. That is, he would say that he was a believer in the God of the Bible, the covenant God of Israel. But on the other hand, he was much more broad-minded than to be captured by any narrow, one-way kind of religion. And so while I has a worship of the temple He also would worship at the high places and offer sacrifices to the Baals, the fertility gods of Canaan. In fact, Ahaz, on at least one occasion, offered A son of his as a sacrifice to the wretched satanic god Malach by burning his infant son alive. On the altar. And so Ahaz was a mixture of God talk and evil practice. He was a man who tried to mix biblical religion with civil religion of his day. Ahaz was also a very pragmatic fellow. While he said that he believed the doctrine of the covenant of Israel. When Ahaz was in trouble, he depended on his own wits and on people, on human and resources to get him out of that trouble. And so while he professed to have a faith in the God who could take care of him, when it came down to it, he really didn't trust that God when he was in difficulty. Now the second thing that happened in 735 BC was that Israel, the ten tribes in the north, joined with Syria which was even further to the north and to the east in an alliance because they were being attacked by Assyria, which was a large powerful, warlike, aggressive nation. And in order to defend themselves against us Syria, they joined together. Israel, who had been dying God's people who had departed very much from the worship of God, joining with Syria, a heathen nation, in order to protect themselves What's more, they wanted to force Judah into that alliance. And so they attacked Judah. And verse one says when Ahaz, son of Jotham son of Aziah was king of Judah, King Rezin of Aram, that's Syria, and Pekah, son of Remaliah, king of Israel, marched up to fight against Jerusalem, but they could not overpower it. So here you have Israel now, part of God's people, attacking the other section of God's people as they're joined with Syria to do that. Now this was a very bloody battle that they fought. In one day, a hundred and twenty thousand soldiers were killed, more than any battle in the Civil War. And so 120,000 soldiers killed in one day, but they could not overpower Jerusalem. And it's in this kind of crisis that Ahaz now begins to to pursue Assyria as an alliance against Israel and Syria. And Ahaz is beginning negotiations to join together with Assyria In an alliance of Assyria and Judah against Israel and Syria. That's the political situation in 735 BC, just after Ahaz, at the age of 20 has become king of Judah. The third thing that happened in 735 BC was that God called Isaiah to speak to the situation. God called a young prophet Isaiah to go to Washington and to speak to the president and to his cabinet concerning the national policy of Judah. And to have the boldness and the effrontery to come to the president and his cabinet and say, you need to base your policy on God's And so Isaiah comes and we read in verse 2 that now the house of David was told, Abraham has allied itself With Ephraim. And so the hearts of Ahaz and his people were shaken, as the trees of the forest are shaken by the wind. They're scared to death of this alliance. And then the Lord said to Isaiah, Go out, you and your son. Shir Jashab, to meet Ahaz at the end of the aqueduct of the upper pool on the road to the washerman's field. Now Sheer Jashab, Isaiah's son , has a name, Shirjash , that means a remnant shall return. Now that name, a remnant shall return, all of Isaiah 's sons had very similar Symbolic names connected to his message, but a remnant shall return has a kind of double meaning. It's a meaning of both threat and promise. It's a meaning of threat because it's saying a remnant is going to return. That means that most of the people are going to be cast out of the land. There's going to be destroyed But the promised part of it is that there will be a remnant that will return. In fact, that name, a remnant shall return, kind of sums up Isaiah's lifelong Message. And so he takes along his son. The son doesn't say anything. We don't know how old he is, but he just comes along with his dad to this upper aqueduct. Here is Ahaz is probably surveying the water supply and seeing what he can do in case of a siege and all the rest of that. And he brings them along to Ahaz and his company, his cabinet is there. And that name in itself becomes a confrontation to Ahaz. It's a point of decision. Are you going to not believe God and be part of that large group of people that are going to be cast out of the land and judged? Or are you going to be part of that believing remnant that God's going to have grace on and he's going to bring back into the land and save and deliver. And so as he goes out, he gives a message to Ahab. message. And that message is in verses four to nine. Now notice what the message is because it's the context you can't understand verse 14 without this message. Again, just like the tapes we've been listening to, no text sort of sits in isolation, part of a flow of thought. Now notice what the messy, the whole message Say to him, verse four, be careful, Ahaz, keep calm. Don't be afraid. Do not lose heart, because these two smoldering stubs of fire Because of the fierce anger of Rezin and Aram and of the son of Remaliah. Aram, that's Syria, remember, eat Ephraim, Ephraim 's another name for Israel, Syria and Israel, Aram and Ephraim, and Remelias ' son, Remelias' son, have plotted your ruins saying, let us invade Judah. Let us tear it apart and divide it among ourselves and make the son of Kabil, who is probably a traitor in Judah, ready to uh conspire. with them, make the son of Tabil king over it. Yet this is what the sovereign Lord says it will not take place. Very interesting. God says, be careful. Keep calm. Don't be afraid. My word outless All circumstances. It will not take place. Five simple words that outweigh all the national Crisis. It will not happen. For the head of Aram is Damascus, capital of Syria Is Damascus. And the head of Damascus is only Rezin, King Rezin. Who's he? He's a human. Who is he against me? The sovereign Lord. Verse 7, who speaks. Within seven Sixty-five years Ephraim, Israel, will be too shattered to be a people. The head of Ephraim is Samaria, the capital of Israel. Samaria at that time. And the head of Samaria is only Remeliah's son. He always refers to Pikah as Remeliah's son to show that he was not a son of David, and so he was a usurper to them. the uh head of Israel. If you do not stand firm in your faith, you will not stand firm. You will not stand at all. Isn't it good to know in your life and in my life, whatever your circumstances, whatever my circumstances now, God's word outweighs it all. When God says it will not happen, it will not happen. When God says, be calm, trust me, that will outweigh everything that can take away your peace. And so God says through Isaiah, if you do not stand firm in your faith, you will not stand at all. I've given you a message to comfort you. These are my people. Judah cannot be destroyed. The Messiah is going to come through Judah. I will not let this nation destroy Don't worry, Ahaz, you don't have to go to Assyria for your help. I will protect my people. In fact, he says in verse 8, in sixty-five years Israel is not o even going to be a nation with a distinct identity. And in fact that happened exactly as Isaiah predicted In fact, within 13 years, Israel was no longer any kind of a force to be reckoned with. And in 65 years, it was removed. Uh Assyria came in and captured uh that Samaria and the capital there and they over a period of many years Reduced Israel from a strong, powerful, threatening nation to a nation that was so scattered throughout the nations beyond that that its identity has never been recovered. covered to this very day. No Jew to this day can trace their lineage to the any of the ten tribes of Israel. They've been lost. God says, don't worry about Israel and Syria. I will protect you. But the point is, who do you trust? Are you going to trust your own defense? Are you going to trust your own schemes to get you out of this? Or are you going to trust my promises to David that I will protect my people? So again the Lord spoke verse 10 to Ahaz. Ahaz apparently doesn't respond to this. He's not very impressed by this narrow-minded evangelical. He thinks that this fellow Isaiah should keep his faith to himself and keep it out of public policy. But God speaks again to him. And he says, Ask the Lord your God for a sign, whether in the deepest depths or in the depth Now that is an amazing verse. Because you see here you have the sovereign Lord coming to this king, who's not a godly king, who Is a pragmatist in his religion, uses God's talk to deceive the people, and yet he's a son of David. And because of God's promise to David, he He wants to draw back this wandering son, this fellow who's lost his faith, and he tells him, Take comfort. I'm going to protect your nation. You don't have to go to the heathen. You don't have to go to the other nations to protect protect you. It's not a matter of military prowess, it's a matter of whether you're with me or not. And Isaiah doesn't bother. And so God says, okay, Ahaz You name it. Any sign you want to build your faith in the highest heavens or in the deepest parts of the earth, you name it anything you want to happen within my universe, I will produce it to build your faith. Can you imagine having such an offer from a holy eternal God such as that. What a condescension, what mercy, what tenderness. And what does Isaiah do? He said, Wow, what a chance. God, will you really do that? Will you really show me something that I can pick that will help me to believe that you're going to really protected. Verse 12. And Ahaz says, I will not ask. I will not put the Lord There's a classic illustration of Ahaz's nature. He refuses to have a direct dealing with God. He wants to use God talk, but he doesn't want to confront the living God. And then he quotes Scripture to justify it. He quotes from Der Deuteronomy that says you want will not put the Lord your God to a test. to And so he says, oh no, no, no, no, Isaiah, I'm not going to test God. And what he's really saying is, hey, I don't want to deal with this. Get out of my face. Keep your religion to yourself. I don't want to have to be uh have to wrestle with the fact of changing my policy of going to Assyria. I'm gonna Trust the Syria. I'm not trusting the God of the Bible. I say I trust Him, but I don't. How many of us are in that kind of situation? We say we trust Jesus Christ to handle our life. And when it comes down to it and the pressures are on, we look to what we can do, because that's the only thing we really ultimately trust. And Isaiah's forced with exactly that. And so look how Isaiah now responds to that. Verse 13. Then Isaiah said, Hear now, you house of David, is it not enough to try the patience of men? An appropriate comment to a politician. Will you try the patience of my God also, my Elohim? Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. You see, this is a sign to Ahab. And God is saying, okay, you're not going to pick a sign, I'll pick a sign. The Lord Himself is going to choose the sign. And here it is. The Virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son and will call him Emmanuel. Now that is the sign that God gives. So let's look then particularly at the sign itself. And immediately, if you understand what's been going on here now Now you see a problem, don't you? And the problem, in case it hasn't occurred to you, let me tell you, is that if the sign here simply refers to Mary and Jesus How's it help Ahaz? That's not going to happen until over seven hundred years down the road. How's that a sign to build Ahaz's faith? Well, on the other hand, if it's a sign that's going to be fulfilled in the day of Ahaz, how's it refer to Mary and Jesus? But how can you have it both ways? That's a real problem when you try to understand understand it and that's no minimal problem. Who cares? Well who cares? Your and my confidence in Scripture depends on whether this is really a prophet prophecy and whether Jesus really fulfilled this that Isaiah said because Matthew chapter 1 verse 23 says it was a prophecy. Now then what is What does it mean? Well, there's two ways historically this has been understood. There's a number of different ways, but for time, we can only boil it down to two primary Interpretations. The one is that this refers only to Mary and the Messiah. That's it. It refers only to Mary and Messiah. The argument for that is simply that, oh there's several arguments. But the basic arguments come down to the fact that this word virgin can only refer to a virgin, and there's a lot of word studies, a lot of books been written on whether that's W word virgin can refer to a married woman or only to a virgin. But what it basically boils down to is that they're saying that if this is not a supernatural event, it's not Not a sign. a supernatural event You see, uh, what Isaiah is saying here is pick anything in heaven or on earth. Now God's gonna pick the sign, and here it is. We're not just talking about a woman having a child. We're talking about the virgin having God's son. That's the sign. And what Isaiah is doing is he's seeing that as the prophets sometimes In the distance. And that sign which he sees in the distance simply becomes a means of measuring the span of time that God is going to deliver Israel at this time, or deliver Judah from Israel. Israel at this time. In other words, what he does is he goes on after he says Emmanuel and he says, He, Emmanuel, verse fifteen, will eat curds and honey. That's rich food That means that things are very prosperous. There's no problem. He's going to eat curds and honey when he knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right. But before the boy chooses the before the boy knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right choose the right. The land of the two kings you dread will be laid waste. In other words, in about three years all your problems are going to be over. And the span of that time is measured by the span of the virgin having Emmanuel and that child growing to learn good and evil over seven hundred years from now. Now they say before you rule that out, you gotta understand that Matthew chapter one, uh beginning in verse twenty, says uh when it talked about Mary, as the verse Virgin, who is pregnant with Jesus, and you remember Joseph was going to divorce her, the angel came and he said, Don't be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what she's conceived is from the Holy Spirit. Verse 21. One, she'll give birth to a son. And you're to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet Verse 23. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. says refers only to Mary and Jesus says this is specifically what Matthew says. It refers to Jesus. And so you can't get around that. Now the other alternative alternative is to see this as referring immediately to the to some unknown contemporary, some unknown young woman and some unknown child, and then ultimately to marry as The Messiah. So it refers immediately to unknown contemporaries and ultimately to Mary and the Messiah. Now I believe that this is the correct interpretation And here's why. Verse 14 says specifically, the Lord will give you a sign. I can't get around the fact that something's going to happen at Ahaz is going to see. It's a sign to Ahaz for his faith, a birth over 700 years later, would hardly be assigned to Ahaz. But even more so, it's the name Emmanuel that gives us a clue to its meaning. Because he says there, she will give birth to a son and will call him Emmanuel. And we can't go into all the word studies about the name virgin and what that means, but the fact is it could be a person who's a virgin now and she will very soon be married and have this child Emmanuel. But Emmanuel is referred to twice again in the next chapter. You see, the next verses after this, Isaiah goes on and And he basically says to Ahaz, okay, Ahaz, you want a Syria? You're gonna get a Syria. And so in chapter 8, Isaiah goes in and he has a son. You see in verse 3, I went into the prophetess, she conceived, gave birth to a son. Some people think that's the one referred to here in verse 14. Some say no. Can't be dog. The Lord said to me, Name him Mayor Shal Hashbaz. Now of all the names that you hear in scripture that are used by people to name their sons today. I have yet to come across one who chose Mayor Shalal Hashback. Um it's a precious name, but it is not one that I have found very frequently. at least not within our congregation. It's a name which means swift to the booty, speedy to the prey. You know? You're gonna really get rich, you know? And you're gonna plunder these people It's a promise of destruction because of God's deliverance. But notice the connection, verse four. Before this boy knows how to say, My father or my mother, the wealth of Damascus and the plunder of Samaria Will be carried off by the king of Assyria. Sounds familiar, right? Young child, before he learns good or evil, or to say my father or my mother, there's going to be no more problem here with Syria and And uh with Israel. And then he goes on to talk about you want a Syria? You're gonna get Assyria and he tells how a Syria is going to be the main concern in the years ahead Assyria, verse 7, is the mighty river, the river Euphrates, there. The king of Assyria, with all his prompt, is going to overflow all its channels, run over the bank, gonna sweep into Judah, swirling over it. Passing through it, reaching up to your neck, its outspread wings will cover the breadth of your land. What's it say? Oh. Now Emmanuel here is referring either to Isaiah who he's speaking to or to Israel as a people, probably to the people. Israel and their land. So now Emmanuel, God with us, is a name given to God's people. And then he goes on again: raise the war, cry you nation. Be shattered. Listen, you distant lands. Prepare for battle. Be shattered. Devise your strategy, but it will be thwarted. This is to Assyria and the nation Against Israel. Propose your plan, but it will not stand for Emmanuel. Now in the NIV, the translators have chosen to translate it now. with for God is with us. But it's the exact same Hebrew as Isaiah 7. 14 and Isaiah 8. 8 Also 810. Three times you had this name, Emmanuel. And Emmanuel, you see, is here referring to the idea that God will be faithful to his people. Because he himself will be with them. Now you see, you can't say, therefore, that uh Emmanuel can't refer to somebody who's a contemporary because Mayor Shal al Hashbazh is not Emmanuel, and we don't know of any other child called Emmanuel at that time, because Emmanuel is a symbolic name, referring to Israel, referring to the fact that God is with us. And when Jesus Jesus, and excuse me, when Mary, the Virgin, had a son, she didn't name him Emmanuel. The only reference to Jesus as Emmanuel is the one that Matthew uses to fulfill this Prophecy in Isaiah 7. 14. So we don't know of any per particular person whose name was Emmanuel. Emmanuel is an idea That Jesus then fills up. Now I'm going to try to demonstrate to you next week and prove to you as we continue this. Next week we're going to look at how to interpret Old Testament prophecy. And next week, what I want to show you is that Matthew chapter 2 twice refers to Old Testament prophecy. Hosea and Jeremiah, that in their immediate meaning did not refer to the Messiah. They referred to ideas about God's dealings with with his people that Jesus filled up or fulfilled in the ultimate demonstration of God accomplishing what he promised. to his people. And I believe that's exactly what you have in Isaiah 7. 14. Isaiah is 7 is saying, Ahaz, you're going to see a childborn that child before that child learns in three years say to learn to choose evil and not to do wrong To turn to choose the right and not wrong. Before that time, Israel and Samaria are no longer going to be a threat. And in fact, that's exactly what happened. happened within three years a Syria attacked and Israel and Syria were no longer a threat and it went downhill from there until the nation itself Was finally carried away into exile. In fact, he was just simply obliterated and mixed with the other nations. And God is saying through Isaiah That's just a foretaste of what I'm going to do in the last days. Because ultimately there is going to come the Virgin, the one who is truly a virgin and will in fact have a child as a virgin, and he will be truly God with us. Amen. God come in the flesh. Now, you see, this is typical of Scripture that when God gives promises in the Old Testament, He fulfills them in a way far beyond what you could have expected, could have ever even And so what God is saying is, I am going to do far beyond anything you think that I will accomplish in bringing to you Emmanuel as your deliverer. So you see, the significance of this for us is that, first of all, God is a unique deliverer. God is a unique deliverer. That's what this Passage is telling us. Verses 4 and 9. Be careful. Keep calm. Don't be afraid. If you don't stand firm in your faith, you won't stand firm at all. God is saying, my word outweighs your circumstances. Don't look to others to save you. Don't look to others as your refuge. When it comes right down to it, Christianity Is not a theoretical religion. It's not that somehow God has protected you and He's going to bring you to heaven, but you've got to work out your problems here on earth on your own. Jesus is a complete Savior for every one of your needs and my needs. If we trust Him, if we remain calm in Him, if we stand firm in Him, Him, he will show us his deliverance. Don't be like Ahaz and mix a biblical faith with a pragmatic approach to life. The second thing Is that this tells us that God is a dramatic deliverer? Nothing is too hard for him. He can, in fact, turn the course of events with head-spinning speech. In 735 BC, everything looked hopeless for Judah. By 730 BC, there was no prophet. In five years, God had totally turned the events of history around so that everything of the balance of power had shifted. Israel and Syria were reduced as threats, and no threat, in fact, at all to Judah at that point. Some Christians Christians today are discouraged. And we're saying the United States is going down the tubes. And what hope is there for renewal and revival for the course of events in our land? And I've even heard one pastor say that we've already crossed the line toward God's judgment. It is inevitable that within the next generation or so we will be judged. And destroyed as a nation. And yet, who of us can but say that God could use the concert of prayer movement, that God could use his people praying and Seeking his face to turn things around with head spinning speed in the course of events in our own generation. Russian leader once said confidently, we are traveling to a new world, the world of communism. We shall never deviate from this path. That was Mikhail Gorbachev in nineteen eighty-seven. What has happened five years later? You hear such a comment and we laugh We smile to ourselves, don't we? As we think of how God has turned the course of human events and changed the course of history so dramatically within those five years, so that now we even people within his cabinet are professing Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of their lives. God can change the course of events here. for you and for me as we trust him. Because Emmanuel, Jesus, God, is with us. The final thing then Is that our God is a present deliverer. He's a present deliverer. All depends on His being with us. It's not that he sends some forces to do his bidding. It's the fact that Jesus Christ is with us here this morning. And it's Him that I call you to, to trust, to place your confidence in, not only for your sin to be forgiven by His work on the cross, but for your everyday stresses, your And mine to be taken care of according to his power. Because you and I remember that our situation against the enemy Satan was hopeless. Death was absolutely certain. But in Matthew 1. 23, Matthew tells us the deliverer has come. The Virgin has had the Son, who is in fact God, come in the flesh with us through Jesus the Messiah. And Jesus the Messiah came and he delivered us from the enemy against which our situation Was more hopeless than Judah after losing 120,000 soldiers in one day. Our situation was utterly hopeless. But our strong man, Jesus, Came and he conquered Satan on the cross and he walked out of that tomb. And your life and my life has never been the same since. Amen. Because Emmanuel, Jesus, God, is with us. Because he has delivered us from Satan, he is the one who is with us in every need. In every trial. Do you live daily in the light of that hope? Let's pray. Lord, give to us a sense of that hope For any of us here who are discouraged, who are wondering, is your word true, can we trust it? Help us to see, Lord, that that prophecy that was given through Isaiah. was fulfilled far beyond perhaps what even Isaiah could have understood in the coming of Jesus, our deliverer. But as Matthew demonstrated, he is the filling up, completion of the promise that you would be with your people to deliver them from the enemy. Lord, build our faith that we would trust Jesus. We are such a weak and doubting people. Speak to us of Jesus' strength and of his His presence with us. Help us, Lord, to trust him now for every need. Amen.