To you I call, O Lord, my rock. Do not turn a deaf ear to me. For if you remain silent, I will be like those who have gone down to the pit. Hear my cry for mercy as I call for mercy. Call to you for help. As I lift up my hands towards your most holy place, do not drag me away with the wicked, with those who do evil. Who speak cordially with their neighbors but harbor malice in their hearts. Repay them for their deeds and for their evil work. Repay them for what their hands have done and bring back upon them what they deserve, since they stand over God. for the works of the Lord and what his hands have done. He will tear them down and never build them up again. Praise be to the Lord. He has heard my cry for mercy. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusts in him, and I am helped. My heart leaps for joy, and I will give thanks to him in song. The Lord is the strength of his people. A fortress of salvation for his a manager. Save your people and bless your inheritance. Be their shepherd and carry them forever. Last week we looked at this psalm. We saw that it was likely written in the wilderness of Zip by David, at a time when he had been treacherously betrayed by those that he had rescued, and then was trapped by the armies of Saul, with no hope naturally surprised. Speaking of escape. Looks around one side of the mountain, there's Saul's armies coming, looks around the other side of the mountain, more of Saul's armies coming, looks the other way, there's the Dead Sea behind him, and he's absolutely trapped. And we saw how in that situation of his absolute power. Helplessness, he cried out to God, Lord, if you don't answer, I've had it. God came through. So he wrote verse 6, Praise be to the Lord, for he heard my cry for mercy. In the miraculous way, he had delivered Saul's armies, he had taken them away before they could attack. And the result of that was that David was able to say, as a personal testimony, just as Mike had given to us earlier, the Lord is my slavery. My strength, I've seen him, my shield, my heart's trust in him, and I've been helped. My heart leaps for joy, and I will give thanks to my song, to him in my soul. We come back and saw how he had Seeing further a generalized way of the Lord, that he is the slave of his people. He's their workers, not just mine. But that's something we can all trust in. And then we saw his plea for God to save his people, for him to show himself as their heritage. And their shepherd. Now, what I want to do is to focus particularly on that verse 7. I would like for us to uh look at that for a few weeks from now until Thanksgiving, that we might really examine what it has to teach us about the ways of God and our relationship to it. Now you remember that last spring we spent uh the winter and the spring looking at the book of Amos, and so we covered a whole book. And we uh went through that uh sometimes a chapter in one week. And then we're going to go to the other extreme. We're going to spend a number of weeks looking at one verse. And in doing that, I want to do not only the study, but also I want you to see something about the methodology of that. But in our own study of the Word of God, both things are necessary and helpful. When you study the Bible, I hope that some of your time in quiet time is spent in going through reading a whole book at one sitting. To me one of the most uh fantastic experiences periodically is to sit down and read the book of Revelation at one sitting and not worry about all the little uh images and what's this stand for and that and all but to see it as I would listen to a symphony to get the effect as it waves over me. And we need to look at books and large portions of scripture and be able to sweep through them to get the drift. But then it's also helpful at times to take one verse to memorize it, as John Scott used to say today. suck its essence uh so that we might be able to take every bit of its connections, to look at the words and what they mean, and to be able to uh know that verse, so that we possess it, so that we know it But that's what I want to do with this verse. It's a powerful verse. It's a verse that speaks to us of the joy and the victory that we have in Jesus Christ. And so uh just as we do this in our messages from time to time, I hope you do it in your own sight. Today then I would like to look at the. . at the very first statement in this verse that the Lord is my strength. The Lord is my strength. The first thing that occurs to us when we see that the Lord is our strength is that it reminds us of our weakness, doesn't it? The fact that the Lord is my strength reminds me of John 15, 5, where the Lord Jesus said that he was the vine, and that were the branches. And remember that he said, uh, if a man remains in me and I in him he'll bear much fruit. But apart from me, you can't be fruit. Can do nothing. And so we see that the Lord is our strength. But unless you and I make the connection between those things that we're seeking to do in our own strength and the way the Lord says that he is our strength. Strength, then we'll miss the point. It's one of those things that you can look at and say, Well, sure, you know, I know it's worked by strength, big deal. That's not something I've never heard before. But how does it apply to me in my life right now? Well, if you're like me, when I think. of how I need the Lord as my strength. I think of the things that I'm trying to change. And when I think of the things I'm trying to change, I think of three kinds of things that I try to change and that I think that you and I are always struggling with. In seeking to change. The first is in changing our circumstances. Try to change your circumstances. You feel trapped in some current situation that you're in. Perhaps you feel trapped in your job, or you feel trapped. trapped in your home situation. You get trapped in something that you can't change. And because of that you're discouraged, your situation in life seems to hold no hope of change and you can't see how you'll ever be happy in the current situation. Well you see this situation is something that can speak to that because if there was anybody that was trapped, the stabian. He was trapped in his circumstances. He didn't despair of just saying, you know, life's a drudgery now. He says life looks pretty short right now. I may not be alive next week. David was certainly trapped in his circumstances. And he said, The Lord is my strength. And so he's speaking about the Lord's ability to change circumstances. The second way that you and I try to change things is when we try to change other people. Now, I I gotta say that I would I would estimate that the majority of the people who come to me in my office for some sort of advice or counseling are Because they want someone else to change. I see Ken smiling and sort of identifies with this idea. Most people come saying, I've got a problem with so-and-so. Now what they're really saying, you see, is now If they would just change, then my life would be a lot better off. But I can't make them change. So either you tell me how to make them change or tell me how to cope with them And that's something that you and I feel weakness at, don't we? People in your life that you wish would change, and you just feel helpless. How do I change that person? How do I get them to change to be what they ought to be? When I look at David in this circumstance. Here's David, and he says, Here's these people of Kema. And I've gone up to those people, I've risked my life to save them. And what have they done? Stab me in the back. They go to Saul and for just getting some of his favorite they betray me. They tell Saul where I'm hiding out and how he can wipe me out. I think Satan might have had some desire to change the nature of those people, especially when they did it the second time. He knew that there was no way I was going to be safe anywhere around as well. as these people had that kind of an attitude. So David would have wanted to change them. He would have wanted to change Saul. Here's Saul, a man who's a maniac after him with his whole army. After this fellow who's never done him any harm simply because of his Jealousy over the fact that God has chosen David as king in Saul's place. And David must have cried out again and again, oh, that I could change Saul. There's nothing I can do to change that guy's heart. I can't talk sense into him. I tried to reason with him. I tried everything. I can't change him. It's interesting to note that in the way the Lord showed himself as a stray to David was not to change the people of Gila, not to change Saul. But to remove them. I think we need to realize that the Lord's faith is not always shown in changing people the way that we would like to think that he ought to change them. But he will always show himself able to deliver us in the way that we have to be able to do that. we need to be delivered. He may remove them. He may enable us to cope with him. But he will answer. And so the third thing that we try to change is ourselves. The third thing that you and I feel a great weakness of changing. as ourselves, isn't it? Why am I like? I've been a Christian for all these years and I still am struggling with such basic attitudes and problems in my life. Why is it that I'm still struggling with those things? Look at David. He had walked with the Lord for years. And he comes to this point in writing this, and as I say, if it was written in that period of time during the period recorded between 1 Samuel 23 and 1 Samuel 26, the first Time that he is trapped by Saul's armies, and the second time he's trapped by Saul's army, there's something that goes on between those two things. Remember the story of Mabel, the fellow who had insulted David. And what is David's response to it? David took his armies and he said, That son of a gun. He says, I'm going to go up and I'm going to wipe him all out. And he says, Well may God do to me more so if I don't wipe that guy's whole house out, everything his wise family, the everything the guy's got, he's just going to leave them. Abigail comes out and remember she tries to talk a little sense into him and she apparently uh really gets his attention. In fact, uh she persuades him so well that he decides that uh he'd like to marry her a little later on. But uh she got his attention. And what must have been a thought afterwards? Oh Oh God, what a hot-headed bull I am. I could have destroyed everything that you've raised me up because of my temper, because of my not having a control of myself. And so he must have felt helpless in that. You and I are constantly struggling with those three things. Or I wish I could change my circumstances, but I can't. I wish I could change this person who's in my life, but I can't. I wish I could change myself. I can't even do that. And what happens? The Lord shows himself as David's strength. He shows himself in the way that he delivers him. But what I particularly want to focus on is that word strength. The particular word that's used here, strength, is an interesting word that is a picture for us that helps us to see three ways in which God was. David's faith. One of the things that's a big advantage of doing a study of a verse where you can focus in and spend some time, a week or a couple of weeks, just thinking about a particular verse in your is that it enables you to look at the words more closely, to get a concordance. Perhaps if uh any of you who are in dance course are getting some help in this, in how to use a Thompson chain reference or concordance or other things to help you to trace a word. Just this week in my quiet time, I've been focusing in a particular verse in Proverbs. And I've noticed from that verse as I've done a study of the word fool that there are five different words used in the Hebrew to describe fools. Five different kind of fools, because there's so many fools around Hebrew. You've got to get the sheet of the meaning on that. You know, there's this kind of familiar and there's that kind of familiar. And it really helps to understand Proverbs then. And God uses different words for strength. And the word that He uses here for strength is a word he uses a number of other places in His Word. And the first thing That it speaks about is his strength in creation. It speaks of God's strength in forming the world. For instance, in Psalm 89, we see David writing there about God's power. He says, He rule over the world. the surgeon sea, when it's raised down up, you still don't. You crushed Rahab like one of the slain with your strong arm. There it is, same word as in Psalm 287. With your arm of strength, literally. You scattered your enemies. The heavens are yours, and yours also the earth. You founded the world and all that is in it. You created the north and the south. Tabor and Herman mountain sing for joy at your name. Your arm is endued with power. Your hand is strong. Same word again. Strong. Your right hand is exalted. Psalm 68, Psalm 150 also speak of God's power in the heavens. Well, you notice that one of the ways it's focused on here in verse 19. Verse 11, Psalm 89 is that the heavens are yours. You have formed all these things. In Psalm 147, you have a picture of God's great tenderness in verses 2 and 3, where we read that the Lord builds up Jerusalem. He gathers the exiles of Israel. He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. And then it goes on to speak of his strength. He determines the number of the stars. He calls them each by name. Great is our Lord, and mighty and power. His understanding has no limit. And so one of the ways that I think we can most be impressed with the strength of the Lord is to consider the stars. To consider the heavens which he has made. Now, as I've thought about it, I thought that, you know, I I I really think, now I'm sure that um Doug McElroy could correct me on this, but uh to me one of the best uh the the cheap functions of stars is simply to show God's power. I mean what else do they accomplish? You know, give a little symmetry to the universe or something and I don't know. But wh when you look at the stars, what do they do for us? Except to display God's power. I think that's one of the things we so lack as people that live in cities and spend so much time indoors. When was the last time you just stood outside and looked at the stars and considered them? But when you consider them, the thing you're so struck with is what power this God has. Consider just the numbers of them. You know, it used to be that people thought that the earth was the center of the universe and everything revolved around us. And then came Galileo and he said, No, no, that's not the way it is. Copernicus talked about the sun being in the center. And then we had the the sun as the center of the universe. And then somebody discovered, no, the The sun 's not even the center of the universe, you had this whole galaxy. And it wasn't until uh just this century that a fellow by the name of Edwin Hugh Hubble, I understand, uh, was looking through his telescope and he realized that all those mists in the distance uh weren't just clouds, uh that to his utter amazement. Can you imagine first discovering this? He discovered that those mists were other whole galaxies, like our galaxy, which we call the Milky Way. And it came then under further discovery to find out there are just a couple of those other things out there, not just a couple of dozen. But there are as many galaxies in the universe as there are blades of grass in a meadow in the summertime. That's a hundred billion galaxies throughout this universe. What power. You consider the distances of these things. Let's consider for a moment that this piece of paper, the thickness of this piece of paper, Represents the distance from the earth to the sun. Now, if you consider the distance from the earth to the sun in light distances, light travels from the earth to the sun in a distance in a time of about eight minutes. So here's eight light. minutes. And that's the thickness. Here's the Earth, there's the Sun. That's how close they are. If you were to consider that as the scale of distance, our nearest star, beyond the Sun, which is four and a half light years away, would be seventy one feet. Up in the air. If you take beyond that, that's the very closest star that there is, and take it and consider the diameter of our own galaxy, that's our neighborhood. One end of our galaxy to the other end of our galaxy. End of the galaxy would be 310 miles if the distance between Earth and the Sun is the thickness of a piece of paper. 310 miles is the diameter of this galaxy. And if you take the distance from where If we are now to the currently known, the best I've read, the currently known edge of the universe, it would be something under 40 million miles away. If the distance between us and the sun is the Thickness of the piece of paper. The edge of the universe is 30 million miles away, nearly half the distance to the sun. And this is the God who says, I'm your strength. My power is available to you. Consider the energy that's involved in that. If you took a pinhead and heated it to the temperature of the sun, it would kill you at a distance of a hundred miles. That's how powerful it would be. And when you consider the energy of some of the quasars so far away from where we are now, I understand that some of those have the energy of over a hundred gigas. Galaxies. A hundred large galaxies could have about the same energy as a quasar pulsating. And every second a quasar would put out as much energy as would We need it for all of the Earth's electrical needs for billions of years, every single second. And we wonder if God's got enough energy for us to be able to live by it, is if God has not added it in power. To be able to create what we need as his people. And God says, this strength, this power is available to you. But David says, the Lord is my strength. Not only is that pictured in creation, but the Bible pictures it also in his redemption for us. The words used in a number of places in connection with God's strength displayed in redeeming his people, the power that it took, in fact, in Isaiah. He speaks of the creation of the heavens as his handiwork, but speaks of the redemption that he accomplished for us as that which displays his arm. You see, it took more strength, more power for creation. God to defeat Satan in this kingdom, for you and me to be transformed into the kingdom of Jesus Christ than it took him to even create the stars. Exodus fifteen is one of those pictures. Exodus fifteen, I think, may have been a song that David had in mind when he gave his testimony in Psalm twenty-eight seven. It's a song, you remember, that was written after Israel had been delivered from Egypt, the mightiest nation on earth at that time, and God had brought them out with a great outstretched hand for his people. And Exodus 15 begins, I will say to the Lord, for he is highly exalted. The horse and its rider he is hurled into the sea. Speaking of the Egyptian army. Faith and my song. Same word, the Lord is my strength. He has become my salvation. He is my God and I will praise him, my Father's God, and I will exalt him. And then he speaks of this great power. That God exercised in defeating the Egyptians on his behalf. Verse 6: Your right hand, O Lord, was majestically empowered. Your right hand, O Lord, shattered the enemy. And he speaks of this great conquest, which ultimately is only a pain. picture of the ultimate conflict between Jesus and Satan. And so when Jesus came, Jesus came in the strength of the Lord. And Isaiah interestingly portrays this to us in Isaiah chapter 51. In verse 9. Isaiah 51, verse 9, the same word strength is used where Isaiah writes, awake, awake, clothe yourself with strength, O arm of the Lord. Awake us in the days gone by, from the generation of old. Lord, exercise your strength for your people. But then he repeats it in verse, chapter 52, verse 1. Awake, awake, O Zion, clothe yourself with strength. Put on your garments of splendor in Jerusalem, the holy cities, crying out to God's people, exercise your strength, the strength that you have in the Lord. What is that strength? Then you come to chapter 53, and you're struck in the face with the strength. Because he says, now who's believed my message? To whom has the arm of the Lord and his strength been revealed? It's because this land who grew up was more like a tender sheep. You know, here's these spars that speak of his strength and describe. describe his strength in hurling the army of the Egyptians into the sea and parting the Red Sea and bringing God's people through it. He says, now come on Jerusalem, await for salvation. God accomplish what you've promised. What is it? Who is that one that you're going to send that's going to be Your ultimate strength is going to defeat Satan's kingdom. He says it look as bad. It's like a tender shoe. I think I could break them in half. And there he comes, he's like a root out of the dry ground. He had no beauty or majesty to attract this to him. Nothing that is appearance that we should desire him. He's not the he man, you know? He's not the master of the universe. He doesn't come out with his mults, muscles bulging, ripping his shirts apart as he comes to defeat. Yeah, what isn't to this guy? He's despised and he's rejected by He's a man of sorrows, a familiar with suffering. He's like one from whom men hide their faces. He's despised. They don't want to look at. But he esteemed him not. Surely he's the one who took up our infirmities. He's the one that carried our sorrows. And yet we were so foolish as to consider him stricken by God for his own sin, smitten by him and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed. For our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. Remember, as I sure that some of you that if you look at the Old Testament tabernacle and temple, what was it? It was on the altar. Sacrifice was bound to the whores of the altar. And in the I think the symbol for hordes is a symbol of God's power. Horns always speak of the power, the strength of the Lord. And so it must have been so strange to an Israelite to think that I bind a sacrifice That's absolutely helpless, that can't do anything to the symbol of God's power. Until you see Jesus. And you realize that it was as Jesus was bound to the cross, that he was the sacrifice display. At that moment of utter weakness, the most powerful demonstration of the strength of God ever seen in all human history. You want to see the strength of God? You don't look at the galaxies. You don't look at the energy and the distances of the stars. You don't look at Israel coming out from Egypt and the Egyptian army utterly decimated. You don't look at the sun standing still as Joshua. Calls out to God that he might defeat the Canaanites for a few more hours? You look at the cross. You see there Jesus absolutely helpless. And you see Jesus at that moment refusing to come down from the cross. So that he might defeat Satan and his kingdom. And at that point, the power of God was demonstrated as it's never been demonstrated before. And Jesus was raised up from the dead by the strength and the power. power of God, so that He may bring you and me out of that kingdom under which we were cursed, to know the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Do you see that? Do you see how the Lord's strength is demonstrated to us? It's in Jesus. It's in the fact that when you and I come and cry out to him for mercy, he says, Jesus. And in his weakness, God shows his strength so that you and I can be delivered. And you and I would find in our pattern Jesus, the same thing, but it's in our weakness and in our helplessness that we come to Him so that Jesus' strength might be demonstrated in us. But you know, I have to confess something. And it is that I think in my own life, as I see God's power and His strength demonstrated for me, the thing that grabs me personally so often is not the creation which produces all. It's not even so often the redemption which I I so dimly appreciate at this point in my life. But it's that third thing, my own personal weaknesses. When I see the Lord in his tender compassion, showing his strength on my behalf. in my own weakness right now, that I am particularly impressed that the Lord is my strength, and that brings his redemption and his creation into focus. Daily, Psalm sixty eight, Speaks of his weakness and uses again this word that the Lord is my strength. He demonstrated his strength on my behalf to show his power and rescue and he does in a number of other places. But the sons of Korah, in Psalm 88. Use the same word in a specially meaningful way, I think, in Psalm 84, where they describe God's power. Psalm eighty-four is a promise. Verse five Blessed are those whose strength is in you, who have set their hearts on pilgrimage. That is, there are people Who have had their hearts set on the kingdom. Their heart is on a highway toward heaven, some translations would have it. Blessed are those whose strength is in you, who set their hearts toward heaven. As they pass through the Valley of Baka, that is a valley of tears. They make it a place of strengths. See, that's their own weakness, that's their own utter helplessness, in which they find the Lord's strength. So mean. The auto planes also cover it with pools. And they go, there is the same word again. They go from straight to straight until each appears before God in Zion. The Lord is my. strength in my utter urgent need. If you remember time back in nineteen sixty nine, Kathy and I had been traveling together. I was within a varsity and we were visiting the chapter up in Frostburg. We had gone by train up there to visit the school and had been there for a couple of days, had uh dinner with the faculty advisor and his wife, and Kathy wasn't feeling real good, but we decided we ought to get back home. It took us to the station And just as we were to get out of the car to get into the train, the train was a little bit late. And as we uh were about to leave, Kathy faded again. It was the second time. And because that was the second time, we decided uh probably we ought to. to do something and not get on the train for the three hour ride back to Silver Spring where we lived. And so instead of getting on the train, we decided to go to the hospital. We went to the hospital. Immediately they rushed her into the emergency room for an emergency Operation, and we found out that she had an ectopic pregnancy and that the uh little fetus had burst the uh tube and she was hemorrhaging extensively internally. The doctor said if she gotten on that train that she would have never gotten off alive. And I can still remember to pray, there there's no time when you feel so utterly helpless is when an operation, the one that you love, is going on, and you know there is nothing that you can do. All you can do is to cry out, oh God, have mercy. God, I don't deserve it. I can't claim anything now. I can't say, Lord, I've been good these last couple weeks, you owe me one. There's nothing I can do, Lord. Lord, just be merciful. out and then to see her come out and see God's mercy and go back. And Mike's testified to the same kind of thing. Aren't those the times when you and I so particularly sense that the Lord As our strength. And then we understand what it means now. That He's delivered us from our sins in Jesus. He's shown his power and his strength for sinners like us. And how gracious God has been to us. How have you been living in your own life that the Lord's reminding you of today? Trying to do things in your own strength. When the Lord wants so much to show you his strength. And to take away your own. Maybe it's in trying to live your whole life apart from Jesus Christ. You've been trying to live it on your own, you haven't known what his sacrifice has meant, and it didn't mean finding you're not doing such a good job. And the Lord reminded you this morning, I have a strength and a power in my Son Jesus Christ that's available to you this morning if you come to him. And you come in You admit your helplessness and your weakness, and you come and let Jesus take your life. And his strength will be yours. Maybe you're trying to get rid of your guilt on your own. You've tried all kinds of ways. You've talked to people who tell you if you adjust to it. And you read articles and they say just uh you know, tell yourself that those things aren't really true. You shouldn't feel that way. And you try all kinds of ways to tell yourself you're really okay. It still comes back that gnawing voice of your conscience that says, I'm not okay. I don't need to cope, I need to be forgiven. I need to receive forgiveness. Guilt is much more profound than I've been making it out, and only the Lord's strength is going to be sufficient for me. Maybe as a Christian you're still carrying around your guilt to get rid of it yourself. Bring it to Jesus. The Lord is your strength. He's taken that guilt from Jesus Christ. If you come. We'll let him happen. Maybe in your own situation, it's the building of your career, your home. Doing something that you see that I'm going to follow the Lord, but this I'm going to do, and I'm going to set my heart on that, and I'm going to do it. You find that you're not really seeking the Lord. You're not doing it in his own in his strength because you can't claim his strength. Because you don't even know that's what he wants for you to do. You simply set him aside in that area of your life and you say, I'm going to see him ahead. And if you're in your own straight. And every once in a while you're reminded of your helplessness and your weakness, and God's trying to get your attention. Turn that area over to him this morning. So that you might see him as your strength in that area. Maybe it's in your weakness. Witnessing. How many of us are concerned for people that we want to come to Jesus Christ? That we keep trying it one way or another way, and we're so frustrated in being able to witness for them in Jesus Christ. Remember so vivid that at times when I would take people out, the same kind of thing that Dan 's going to be doing, eventually is an explosion. And we would go out in the teams at in a varsity and I always remember there was a pattern. It was a predictable pattern. You'd see it every single time. We'd all gather together to find first time to go out and everybody they'd be so nervous their knees wouldn't be knocked and they'd be bypassing each other. And everybody'd all of a sudden be talking about, oh well let's go over this again. What does it really mean? Tell me again the biblical basis for this, you know, we'd have all these interesting discussions when we're just ready to go out. Baby, nervous, helpless. And I feel the same thing with it. And we would pray and we'd pray, Lord, we are utterly helpless. We don't know what we're doing. Lord, you've got to be our strength in this. I remember one girl on a project telling me, I I have never felt so utterly helpless and washed out like a run out dishwrat, as our going out tonight to go out to talk about Jesus Christ to these people. And then there would be something always happened. God would always, always at seen in those first times, give surprises Conversations. And God would show his power the way that people would come back and say, It's amazing. And God really led me into this conversation. I remember I gone along one time on a beach with a fellow. He stumbled into this fellow. He was reading something. And uh, as we talked to him, we found out that this guy had been witnessed to on the same beach by a group of Christians one year before. Since that year, he had gotten the New Testament, he had read through the New Testament, he came back to that beach every day that summer hoping. to meet some Christians who would tell them about Jesus Christ. And that day we were able to meet him with Lord. And we would see these kind of things, but then something else would happen. We'd go back and we'd say, Praise God. And then we would pray about our next time going out. And we'd go out The next time. And almost invariably there was disappointment the next time. Why? Because you see, we have a subtle little mechanism, don't we? We pray, we say, I'm helpless, Lord, you're my strength. And when God answers, a little thing was all office and say, that wasn't so hard after it, wasn't it? You really pulled that off pretty well. I mean, you sure God talked, yeah, yeah, he was your strength, we know that. That wasn't really so bad, wasn't it? And so the next time there's a tendency to go out in our own strength. Maybe God is teaching you this morning something where you've been seeing his power, in your witness, and something else, and you found that God has disappointed you recently. Could it be that you're lapsing back into your own strength? Let's come before them as a church. As long as we cannot build up our congregation in our own strength. I just last week I was particularly I was encouraged by the fact that I had that message last week. last week and I and you know that message uh I I I didn't see anything particularly clever about it. It just, you know, it was scripture and I was just opening up scripture. Sometimes you have something sort of, you know, you think, now this one's really gonna impress it. This illustration something about this is going to really make the point. All it is is your word, Mary. I really don't have a hope of this being very interesting to people except you use it. And I remember really casting myself on the Lord particularly last week in that regard because I was nervous about the message. And a number of you, an unusual number of you, came and said how God ministered to you through that. That was a lesson to me again. His word goes forth in his power. His power in our lives. only as we trust and seek him and say, I really need him. The Lord is my strength, and I'm trusting him. Let's pray. Lord, in whatever way If any of us here this morning are trusting our own strength, and it bypassed the incomparable strength and power available to us in Jesus Christ, we We pray that you will show it to us. We pray, Lord, that you will humble us. That you will bring us to our senses that we might realize you, O Lord, are our strength. Without you, we can. back, do nothing. That's not just a super spiritual phrase. It's absolute truth. Lord, we pray that you will show each one of us here this morning how your strength Is available for our particular need, whether it's first time coming to Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of our lives, or whether it's giving over an area to you that we've been afraid to let go of because we want to hang on to it and we think that we really can pull it off. May you be our strength, individually and as a congregation, so that Jesus will be glorified in our lives. Amen.