This morning I want to talk about prayer. And when you hear that, you probably have a kind of mixed response. If you're like most Christians, on the one hand you're probably thinking something like uh prayer, well, that's good, because I could use some help in that area in my life and I hope he's going to say something that's going to help me. On the other hand, you're probably thinking, prayer, that's not so good. Um get ready for some major guilt feelings, this message. Um most of us as Christians, you know, you ask the average Christian, how's your prayer life going? And all of a sudden something on the floor becomes of great interest. Begin to shuffle around a little and they'll say, well, you know, not so bad, and then uh maybe a pause and well, actually not so good. And Well let me set us at ease at least to realize that if you're feeling like that this morning You're not alone. All of us feel that. We all have a long way to go in learning to pray. But my purpose this morning is not to make us feel guilty about how poorly we pray, rather, it is to learn what we can from nature. Nehemiah about prayer. So if you haven't done it already, please turn to Nehemiah. If you haven't guessed from what John has said all through, we're in Nehemiah chapter 1. So please turn to that. And what I want us to see from Nehemiah is at least one very important lesson, and that is that it is passion that produces prayer. It's not guilt. You know, if I uh just uh preach here to make you feel more and more guilty about how you don't pray, you'll go out this week, you won't pray anymore, you'll just feel twice as guilty that you don't pray It's not guilt that makes us pray. It's a passion. It's caring for something. And you see that Nehemiah was a passionate person. We looked at that last Week. Nehemiah was a person who cared deeply about what was happening to God's people. And he heard from a delegation that had just come back from Jerusalem in verse 3. That those who survived the exile and are back in the province are in great trouble and disgrace. The walls of Jerusalem, the wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates have been burned with fire. And we saw that Nehemiah was a person who had cultivated a heart that beat with God's heart. And because Jerusalem was on God's heart, Jerusalem, God's people, the place where Messiah would come, Was a major concern to God, it was also a major concern to Nehemiah. And the fact that Jerusalem was in rubble and in disgrace, therefore, was of great concern to Nehemiah. And it was that concern that produced prayer. Not the guilt, but the concern. And when you and I begin to see the rubble that is being generated within our country. In lives, when we begin to understand that we are a civilization that is unraveling to barbarous paganism When we begin to see what kind of a mess we're really in, that's what begins to produce praying. The tension between what God says ought to be and what we see is. And the great contrast between those two move us to lay hold upon God that we might see Him act in prayer, in answer to prayer. And so this morning uh I want for us to begin to feel that. Uh you've heard uh that uh famous article now uh by Barbara Defoe Whitehead Uh, Dan uh Quayle was right where she talks about how the American family is falling apart within our country and the uh accumulating overwhelming evidence that dysfunction, disintegration, the breakdown of homes and families and marriages produces effects in kids at least now documented at least twelve to twenty-two years afterwards in terms of not being able to do as well in school, getting into more trouble, not being able to hold jobs, uh finding difficulty in the successive generation in marriages Finding a significantly larger proportion of time spent in long-term counseling to be able to cope with stresses and relationships. In life. All these things we see, this is rubble that is being produced in our own generation. And so as Nehemiah saw that God's people were in rubble. And that something needed to be done. And he began by praying for that. So you and I need to see the rubble that we're involved in. And then as we do that, that motivates us. But even that, you see, it's not just the statistics, it's not just we what we read in articles and the newspapers. paper, but it's people that we know. It's as we see their lives being affected that we really pray, isn't it? I mean it's somebody that you care about. If you don't care about something, you won't pray about it. And just marshalling statistics probably won't cause you to care about it a whole lot. It's as you and I get involved in the lives of people as Nehemiah cared about those people in Jerusalem and his brother came back. to speak to him about what was going on there. That Nehemiah said, these are people that my life is involved with And he began to pray. And so as you and I see the families about us and care about those people who are our neighbors and begin to see what's happening in the brain , We see that those people, even with all that they're involved in right here and now, that's not the big issue. The biggest issue is that they're going to hell without the Lord Jesus Christ. That they're headed toward God's righteous judgment, that we begin to get concerned for these people, and that moves us to pray for renewal and revival and opportunities to be able to present the Lord Jesus to the people. Now, what can we learn from Nehemiah that will help us and encourage us in our own prayer lives? Well, Nehemiah, from some points of view You could say is a book about prayer. Very interesting how much stress there is placed on the book in the book of Nehemiah on the matter of prayer. In thirteen chapters, you have ten prayers of Nehemiah. recorded. Plus four more references to prayer and its effects. From prayer that goes for four months in duration in the first chapter to a prayer that's four seconds long in the second chapter. Prayer when Nehemiah hears about the rubble, the disrepair of the walls, and the despair of the people. Chapter 1, to an immediate prayer in a moment of tension as he has to answer the king, and it's a life and death situation in Chapter 2 To prayer in chapter three, where we see him also uh in descri uh well, not in chapter three, that's a listing of people on the wall, but in chapter four, uh moment of real discouragement. In chapter five, interpersonal conflicts. In chapter six, praying when he's feeling burned out and discouraged and overwhelmed with responsibility and can't go on anymore A prayer in chapter nine of confession, prayer in chapter twelve of thanksgiving and rejoicing for what God has done, and a number of prayers in chapter thirteen in daily situations of little stresses and problems that you and I can probably identify with and seeing the need, because Nehemiah was convinced that when he called upon his heavenly Father, God God heard him. And so you have in Nehemiah this record of a man of prayer and how God did impossible s things through this man and his congregation. John pointed out, he wasn't a pastor, he wasn't a priest, he wasn't a prophet, he was a government worker for a secular government. But he was a man who was part of God's people, and he led them in praying. And so we see something impossible done. And chapter 6 tells us it's simply in response to prayer. Look at chapter 6 in verse 15 and 16. Nehemiah chapter 6 and verse 15, give you a little preview of what's coming. So the wall was completed, just in case you were kind of wondering if the wall was completed. going to get built, you know, layer beers to rest there. Wall gets built. So the wall was completed on the 25th of Elul in 52 days. When all our enemies heard about this, all the surrounding nations were afraid and they lost their self-confidence. All of Howard County, all the nations around, all those that said those wackos have this These weird religious ideas and they simply want to impose their values on us and there's really nothing to what they believe All of a sudden they realize there is a God who hears prayer. They realized that this work had been done with the help of our God. And realize this was a work that had lain dormant for 80 years, and all of a sudden it's done in 52 days. That's like you and me looking at some problem. in something of God's kingdom that is overwhelming us and has been that way since nineteen thirteen. And this thing since nineteen thirteen, we've gotten so used to living with it, we've gotten so used to this being a problem in our society in our state or our county, that everybody's saying nothing can ever change that. That was the way it was when my father was around, that's the way it was when my grandfather wasn't around. Nothing's going to change that. Maybe someday God will do something something, but we probably will never live to see it. And then it's done by thanksgiving. See that 's the span of time. 52 days between now and Thanksgiving. That's the span of time. That's what God did in answer to prayer. And so when we look at the rubble in our nation, And we see the breakdown of disintegration and the movement toward barbaric paganism, we need to realize that God is also raising up an army of people that are praying in an unprecedented way. And I've given a number of examples. Of prayer rallies and mobilization, of concerts of prayer and all the rest of this. International intercessors for America for prayer in America. America, Concerts of Prayer International, a number of organizations have been growing up to mobilize God's people to prayer. And as we see this happening Then we begin to wonder, God may produce this same kind of seeking of Him and humbling and fasting and mourning and weeping as we talked about last week, and it may go on for generations. We also may find that at some point, in a matter of a couple months, God is going to do something so dramatic that would make your head spin. Think of it now. Look what happened in Russia a couple of years ago. Look at the turmoil we see occurring now, there and in other places in the world. God is the one who is sovereign over history. And he hears the prayers of his people. The book of Nehemiah is an illustration of that. It's saying, here's what can happen when God's people begin to pray. in what seems like an impossible situation. And it starts with one person who's not a preacher, one person just like you in the congregation who begins to exercise leadership in calling God's preachers People to pray and to begin to get to work in rebuilding in the rubble. Now, having said that, let's look particularly at five lessons That I think we can gain from Nehemiah's Prayer in chapter 1. And focus upon that for a few minutes. Five things that will help us in our own prayer life this week as we think about how to learn how to and to feel less guilty about our praying, to be more effective in our praying, to know how to lay And so let's read Nehemiah's Prayer again, as John read it. Let's read it again that we might notice some of these things. And I'll call attention to them after we've read it. Verse 4, when I heard these things, I sat down and I wept. And for some days I mourned and I fasted and I prayed before the God of heaven And then I said, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant of love with those who love him and obey his commands, let your ear be attentive. And your eyes open to hear the prayer your servant is praying before you, day and night, for your servants, the people of Israel. I confess the sins that we Israelites, including myself and my father's house, have committed against you. We have acted very wickedly toward you. We have not obeyed the commands, the decrees, and the laws that you gave your servant Moses. Remember the instruction you gave your servant Moses, saying, if you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the nations. But if you return to me and obey my commands, then even if your exiled people are at the farthest horizon, I will gather them from there and bring them to the place that I That I have chosen as a dwelling for my name. They are your servants and your people, whom you redeem by your great strength and your mighty hand. O Lord, let your ears. Be attentive to the prayer of this your servant, and the prayer of your servants who delight in revering your name. Oh, give your servant success today. By granting him favor in the presence of this man. Notice first of all that Nehemiah begins with worship. He begins with worship. Look there at verse 5. Then I said, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God who keeps his covenant of love. For those who love him and obey his commands. Here's an important principle I hear, believe, here for each of us, and that is that Nehemiah focuses on God before he focuses on the problem. How many of us when we go to prayer each day start, dear Lord, help me through all of dinging ding-ing-dinging you start going through and as you begin to bring those requests before God, you begin to think about those things, and after a while, you're doing what I've called in the past just pr just worrying out loud. You know, you're just kind of going through the litany of all the things that have you discouraged and depressed, and you think you're bringing them before God, but you're not. In case you think you are, I'm telling you not. What you're doing, just like me, is that you're just worrying out loud. You're sort of, you know, complaining to heaven. But there's no sense of faith, there's no sense of taking the burden and bringing it to God to leave it with him. In order to do that, what we need to do is first focus on the God that we're bringing the problems to. So before Nehemiah starts in about the walls and the despair and the rubble and all the rest of that, he begins begins by reminding himself who he's addressing. O Lord, Yahweh, God of heaven. Do you remember the theme that we've looked at in The whole construction of the ministry center. Psalm 115:3, our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And so Nehemiah is saying here, O God of heaven, you who do whatever please you You who are the sovereign God, you are the great and awesome God. And he begins to think about God's great and awesomeness. And if you think about that, all of a sudden it'll put your problems in perspective. Think of the great and the awesome God of heaven. And I've referred to this many times before, but just think just for a moment of something of the greatness and the awesomeness of the God that we bring our request to. I've said many times that there's somewhere between 10 and 100 billion galaxies of stars in the entire universe. And somewhere between ten and a hundred billion stars within our own single galaxy. Now that's something like thinking of 70 or 80 freight train boxcarloads lined up on a track And each one of those is full of grains of wheat. And that's how many stars there are in just this one galaxy, as many stars as there are grains of wheat in those 70, 80, or so boxcars. And our sun is just an average size star within all those billions of stars in that one. galaxy. But if you take the energy that is radiated from our sun, in one second our sun radiates more energy Than man has used since the beginning of time. All the oil burners, all the cars, all the fuel, everything, more has been used. More is radiated in one second. In the sun than we have used since the beginning of time. And do you know how much energy we receive from what the sun radiates? One half of one billionth of the radiant energy energy of the sun. And yet even at that rate, in just a few uh days of that radiation we receive, we would still receive more energy. than all the coal and all the wood and all the oil that we have ever burned here on earth. And pound for pound, your body generates five times as much energy as the sun. He's the great Awesome God of heaven. And before you bring your problems to them this week, it would serve you well to stop and to remember who it is that you're coming to with a Oh Lord God of heaven, the great and the awesome God. But He's not just an impersonal power pack. He's the God who keeps his covenant of love with those who love him and obey his commands. He's the God who sent his own son, Jesus. And because he realized that you and I could not keep that covenant. We could not obey him. And so Jesus obeyed the commands on our behalf, on your behalf, and my behalf, if we We're trusting him and looking to him for his righteousness in our place and for his sacrifice for sin to bake be the basis of our merit before God. He's the God who keeps his covenant of love. He's faithful to his people. All that power is focused upon you for your good, if you belong to Jesus Christ. This morning. And so this God, Nehemiah says, is a God who hears us. And this God hears me as I come to him, the great and awesome. Lord, now having understood that, let me bring before you the problem. But even before he brings his request, look what he does secondly. He participates in confession. He participates in confession. He realizes it's not his merits. He has no merit. But look what he says in verse six and seven. Let your ear be attentive. And your eyes open to hear the prayer that your servant is praying before you day and night for your servants, the people of Israel I confess the sins that we Israelites, including myself and my father's house, have committed against you. You notice he doesn't complain about those jerks in Jerusalem. He doesn't say, those guys have screwed up, Lord, have mercy on those scumbags. What he says is, Lord, I have the same kind of heart. You know, we we it's so easy, isn't it, to complain about America today. It's so easy to pla complain about DC and all the bureaucrats and all that's going on Going on in the administration and all the rest of that. But in the complaining, are we distancing ourselves as if we're more righteous? I mean, look at Nehemiah. He wasn't participating in the rubble and in the faithlessness in Jerusalem. But what Nehemiah recognizes, that you and I have got to recognize if we're going to be effective in prayer, is my heart is the same. kind of heart. I recognize the same kind of selfishness, the same kind of greed and lustfulness, the same kind of unbelief. The same kind of hardness and obdurateness in my own heart. These are the things, Lord, that I myself and my father's house have committed. We have acted very wickedly toward you in different ways. But Lord, I'm not exempt from the things that I see going on within my society. I'd like to pretend so. But I have not obeyed your commands, your decrees, and your laws that you gave to your servant Moses. And as as Nehemiah identifies with the people that he then be is able to come to a place where he can really seek for renewal and revival as a participant In the sin that needs to be repented of. I remember hearing of an evangelist who would go from town to town, and as he would minister there, he would begin his ministry in the town by drawing a circle in the dirt around himself. And say, Lord God, begin re Lord God, bring revival to this town and begin within this circle. And it says, You and I realize how we are the Obstacles to renewal and revival within our society. That God begins to lay hold of us in weeping and mourning and fasting. That God begins then to do a new work. Not as we complain, but as we Confess and repent. Notice thirdly that he argues God's promises. He argues God's promises I wish I could take a whole message on this lost art of arguing Scripture before God's throne. Maybe someday I will. It really is worth a whole message. I believe that we miss often uh the benefits of an act of faith because we have some vague sense of our need and almost no sense of any assurance Of what God has said or promised in connection with that need. We now have no real sense of what God intends to do. Don't you feel that often Lord I'm you know I'm not real clear what this is and just sort of you know help me and I've you know sort of this needs to be done and Lord I'm not really sure what you intend to do maybe you really are not gonna do anything in this and uh maybe you will but you know how what is your will in this matter? Well you see this this lost art of arguing scripture is one which brings scripture promises and the caricature of promises God to bear on a particular situation and argues, this is who you are, this is what you've said, and here's how it applies in this situation. Now Nehemiah did this. He knew scripture. And therefore he knew what he could take of that scripture in order to buttress his argument before God. And he doesn't just say, now Lord, I hope that you want to do something. Something for those guys in Jerusalem. You know, things are in pretty bad shape. The wall's broken down. They're in despair. And Lord, you're merciful. So please, if you have any care, then help them out, will you? But now what does he do? He remembers. Maybe he searched through during these weeks and months. But he brings to attention, God's attention, Deuteronomy 29, 16 64 and chapter 30, verses 2 to 5. And he brings those arguments and marshals them in verses 8 and 9. Look what he says. God, remember. Now, you know, as he's saying God now, you know, maybe you forgot what you wrote. Listen, when we argue God's promises, the purpose is not to remind God, it's to remind ourselves. And in doing that, to build our faith as we do it, so that we begin to pray with authority. So Nehemiah says, God, remember, that is, I'm bringing to your mind as I'm bringing it to my own mind, remember the instruction that you gave to your servant Moses, saying, If you're unfaithful, I will scatter you among the nations. But remember God, you said, if you return to me and obey my commands, then even if your exiled people are at the farthest heaven. He says, God of heaven, you see. He says, I don't care if you're at the next galaxy over. I'm going to bring you back. I will gather them from there, and I will bring them to the place that I've chosen as a dwelling for my name. You see, Nehemiah then is taking this scripture and he's saying, God, this is what you said you'd do. Say you didn't bring him back to live in rubble. You brought him back to establish Jerusalem. And I'm asking you, God, because this is what you promised, do it You see, that's not arrogance. That's a concern for God's glory and his name and his faithfulness to be vindicated. And so when you and I look at what's happening in our culture, in our country, and we begin to think about the fact that God has given to us, you know the scripture that is the basis of our concerts of prayer at Columbia Presbyterian Church, it's Isaiah 62. Isaiah 62, verses 6 and 7. God, you, he says, uh verse, I have posted watchmen on your walls, O Jerusalem. They will never be silent day or night. You who call on the Lord, give yourselves no rest, and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes her the praise of the earth. Now what's that saying? That's saying that when physical Jerusalem was established and rebuilt, that is a picture in the new covenant of God's people. In union and communion with Him. And God's purpose is to make His people, the church, to be the glory of the earth. That as the nations look, they say, There's the answer to our problems. You want to be able to find out how to escape from the lostness and this dysfunction and the bondage of sin. You look at the gospel. Because the church is the glory of that. We demonstrated. We're showing that power, as John showed before. We are experiencing that. And so we give him no rest. That's what God says. It's kind of an interesting illusion, isn't it? Don't give me any rest You know, be constantly nagging, arguing, beseeching me, banging on the gates of heaven, because I delight to see my children Coming with faith and exercising that faith for me to do great things that look impossible because since nineteen thirteen nothing's ever happened, nothing's changed, and I intend to do A new work in their midst. And so he argues the promises. Then not only does he argue them, but he brings them to focus the request. So that's the fourth thing. He focuses the request. He takes all this and he brings it right down to the specific. Now, generally, let's face it, our prayer star kind of vague, don't they? The problem is if we don't continue the prayer stave. God's intention is to teach us to pray. And in teaching us, what He intends to do is to help us to be able to focus those requests So that they get more and more specific as we keep on, as we keep praying that matter. And so Nehemiah gets to the place where he finally can say, Lord, they are your servants. These people are in Jerusalem. They're your servants, and your people are Whom you redeemed by your great strength, you great and awesome God, your mighty hand. These people, those people living like animals there in Jerusalem. They're your people, God Now, O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of this, your servant, and to the prayer of your servant who delight in revering your name. Let's get to the point. Give your servant success today. By granting him favor in the presence of this man, talking about King Artaxerxes. So through the time that Nehemiah has been praying, there's focusing in his mind a plan. And that plan becomes a deep conviction of his heart. And he says, Lord God, I'm going to ask him one thing: give success in the fulfillment of the Of this plan. It's a dream that I have, and I believe now that that dream is clearly from you. And that leads us to the last thing, and that is that he personally Persevered until God answered. He persevered until God answered. See, he didn't just pray this when he sat down, mourned, fasted, and wept, and all of a sudden it came to him. Because if you look at chapter 1, verse 1, you see that in the month of Keslef, that's December, in the 20th year, is when he heard the bad news and began to pray. You look at chapter 2, verse 1, and it's the month of Nicene. That's April, four months later. So this prayer of chapter 1, verse 4 to 6 is prayed for four months. It's for four months that Nehemiah is mourning and fasting and weeping and praying and arguing God's promise And looking up scripture and beginning to lay hold more clearly on those promises. And as he's applying that, and this plan is forming in his mind. Because look what he says there in verse 6. Of this prayer. He says, This prayer, your servant, is praying before you day and night. You see. So it's continuing, it's developing. Prayers ripen before God. And many of us are unsuccessful in our praying because we throw up half-right prayers and we kind of let them go to seed. And God's intending that we keep working over those prayers. We keep developing them. And as we see them ripen, they focus, and the conviction deepens that this is from God. And then as we begin two and three gathering together, and God's laid it on your heart is my heart, and that's a confirmation. And we pray together, and then more of us join together when we pray that God is going to do something. whether it was the very obtaining and the building of the ministry center or its use or whatever other things God's calling us to do that may have nothing to do with the ministry center. Politically and in a society that we live in to bring the gospel to bear, God gives us convictions. And those convictions ripen as we persevere in perseverance. Now remember again, Nehemiah was not a professional prayer. He had a busy job. He was on the cabinet of the most powerful secular nation on earth. He didn't have a lot of free time. And so this matter of persevering in prayer is not a matter of opportunity as much as it is a matter of attitude. I think what Nehemiah says is as I snatch the time, my concern My heart was on Jerusalem. And so it wasn't that he was able to extend hours upon hours every day praying for this. But it was something that was always on his heart. He was bringing To God in any free moment, as he was commuting in his chariot from his house over to the palace, you know, and all the rest. He was bringing this before God at every opportunity. Now what does this mean for us finally? It means that we're going to try to begin to experience this as a church. You remember last October we learned about Scripture. Remember it was just one year ago that we learned about Scripture. We did the New Testament on tape. And just a couple days ago you were starting getting those recorders cranking up and we were listening to Matthew, Mark, and on right through to Revelation. October, to become a people of the word. And my urging for us this year, brothers and sisters, that we learn in October of this year to become a people of prayer. And one of the ways we're going to do that is we're joining with Christians all over the world in what's called praying through the window in this month. In order to pray for 62 unreached nations that are within the 10th degree north latitude, the 40th degree north latitude. latitude section of the world. And you see that in your bulletin board. Now that little window is right there. And these 62 countries are listed right here. In the 31 days of October. Now, if you've uh you know haven't had this thing, uh we're already on day three, you better get cracking and pray for day one and two this afternoon, you know. But we're going to begin to pray for God to do a breakthrough within the strongholds of Satan in these countries. Now our church has been assigned, each church in the middle uh central Maryland area has been assigned a particular day. And so we've been assigned day twenty-two, which is very providential, as we say, because high McConan's scope from Ethiopia just a couple weeks ago. And we're going to focus, and you see there in this one little box, a little more information about Ethiopia. Pray every day this month as you set aside some time, pray for Ethiopia and for Myanmar, and pray for the countries that are listed there. Over one million Americans have said that they are going to participate in this praying through the window. One million Koreans are participating. Participating in it. One to two million Latin Americans, one to two million Africans. You know the island of Fiji has eight hundred thousand people on it. One hundred thousand of them have said they're going to participate in praying through the window, daily praying for the unreached countries of the world. That's one out of eight every Fijians are going to be praying daily and fasting for this. Over ten million mainland Chinese, it's estimated, will be participating in this. So this is something we're joining in with many other Christians To pray that God will bring through and to do what has seemed in the last generations utterly impossible. A breakthrough of the gospel in the Muslim world and in the world. that you see there in the 1040 window. Let's participate in that together, to learn how to pray. Secondly, in our personal times of praying. Let me suggest that you take through this month of October one of the five lessons that we've just talked about and seek for God to teach you in that matter. To look seriously at Scripture. And at the situation of your world, until you begin to feel a holy tension in that. And then apply one of those lessons. And as you seek to learn that, maybe in November you'll apply another one of the five lessons. But go on in that to God's teach you how to pray in that. The last day of October we'll be having a strategic prayer rally, wrapping up this whole month. Put that in your schedule right now, the last Sunday, October the 31st. Day. We'll be having a strategic prayer rally for the Central Maryland area to join together in prayer as a body of God's people. And finally, and just think about the concerts of prayer that we have as a church. Every Thursday morning over at the Potter's House, 6 30 to 725. Group of us gather there to pray. And uh George, you still meeting over there with uh Larry, on Wednesday mornings? Wednesday mornings, you talk to George. And what? Thursdays. You're meeting on Thursdays now. So either place. Thursday morning, 6:30. We not only pray, we learn how to pray. We talk about scriptures that will help us to pray. We're looking at the lessons in George Mueller's life, how to argue Prayer promises and the rest of these things. And so as we think about what God is sh showing us from Nehemiah, purpose is not that we feel guilty, but that we become excited About what God wants to do in us is He teaches us as a congregation what would it mean if people were to look at Columbia Presbyterian and say, I don't know what those guys are like, but one thing they've learned is How to pray. What would God delight to do in our midst? Let's pray. Lord, we ask that you would work in our midst. To give us, Lord, a concern to see the tremendous juxtaposition between what your word says ought to be and what you intend. And what we see around us. And the people in our family, and the people, our neighbors, and those that we care for. Lord, that we would begin to lay hold of your promises. That we would begin to believe that you are the great and awesome God of heaven, who delights to keep the covenant of love that you've made with your people and fulfill your purposes in our day. Lord, build our faith and teach us how to pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.