First week we looked at the biblical definition of the church. This week we're going to begin a look at the identities. of the church. We'll do this in three parts. First of all, we're going to look at the church as the people of God. Secondly, we'll look at the church as the body of Christ. And then thirdly, as the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. So these are the three major pictures of the New Testament business of the church concerning God Christ and the Spirit, that we are the people of God, that we're the body of Christ, and that we're the fellowship of the Spirit. So I'll be able to ask these for one passage in the New Testament which best describes the church as the people of God, in fact a passage which would most deficient and completely describe the church at all I would have to say 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 9 and 10 would be that passage. In fact that passage is so rich that we're going to look at those two verses, 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10, over the next few weeks. And we're going to redeem from them an understanding of what the church views, exploring its identity, particularly. As the people of God. Let's take a look at those two verses now and see them in the context of Paul's statement there from verses 4 to 10. So the scripture this morning, 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 4 to 10. As you come to him the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy creature. offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. The scripture says, see I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone. And the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now for you who believe this thing is precious. But to those who do not believe, that stone that the builders rejected has become the capstone and a stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message. Which is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, our holy nation. A people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful life. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you have not received mercy. But now we have received mercy. So far God's word. May the Lord give us understanding of it It's amazing to me. You know, people say that the church is not in the Old Testament. Many Christians say that Israel is not the church and the church is not Israel And what if I look at 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 9 and 10? I see here four descriptions of the church And these four descriptions are descriptions of Israel taken from two key Old Testament passages, Exodus 19 and Deuteronomy 7, as you see there listed in your bulletin. what the exact verses are. Even more precisely actually Isaiah forty-three twenty is quoted with Exodus nineteen to um describe the church here, but Deuteronomy 7 and the parts of it are also brought in. But these descriptions of the church are precisely descriptions of the very essence of what Israel was. These four descriptions are key to an understanding of Israel's identity. These two contrast That is stated here, are contrast taken from Hosea chapter 1, describing Israel. And these descriptions of Israel are the scriptures that we see here that Peter applies directly to the church. He says in verse 9, you are described by being these various things. Now the verses break down in there being, first of all, four descriptions. Person people, royal priesthood, holy nations, people belonging to God. Four descriptions, four identities. With them one purpose, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. We then see contrast Not a people, become a people, have not received mercy, receive mercy. That's the breakdown of the verses. Four identities, one purpose, two contrasts That's what we'll be looking at over these next few weeks. I'm trying to glean some of the wicked, amazing witches, in these couple verses But the first identification that he begins off with, to start off in describing the church, as Peter does this, is first of all, you are a chosen people That's what we want to consider this morning. The first identification. The church is a chosen people. Ah, you say to yourself, how's it going to deal with that one? Well, first of all, I'm not going to back off on it. Instead here, you're a chosen people. This word chosen eclecte is the word that is used to literally get our word elect It is a word that appears 23 times in the New Testament, and in every case it refers to sovereign selection. Shh. What back off of that understanding of the word. That's precisely what it means. So that this word is used in the Rabbi Greek translation of the Old Testament in Deuteronomy 14, verse 2, where God says to you, a people Showed to the Lord your God. Out of all the peoples on the face of the earth, the Lord has chosen you to be his treasured possession. God fathering season. We read that this season, of course, has nothing to do with what we have done. Nothing to do with our response. Ultimately it depends on God. For an appeasement, we read But he chose us in him, Jesus one four, son, before the creation of the world. To be holy and blameless in his faith. Now the fact that God chose us before the foundation of the world indicates Therefore, that our response was not contingent on that. God has sovereignly chosen his people. For the reason people say to me, I don't believe in predestination Uh, I just don't believe that. Well, to me that always sort of sounds like you're saying the person who says that is saying, I just don't believe the Bible. And because the Bible clearly teaches God's sovereign selection and children Now uh it sort of reminds me of the woman who was discussing with the pastor this whole concept, the conflict of predestination, and she said, in rage after this frustrating discussion on IT Do you mean to tell me that whatever's gonna happen's gonna happen? And you just look at it and he said, Do you come and didn't? You see so much of the discussion is just sort of fruitless in describing what it is Uh you can't say the Bible doesn't teach it. The Bible teaches God's season as clearly as it teaches Christ's just research. What we will disagree on is our understanding of predestination of God's choosing, particularly as it relates to the responsibility of humans. Now that I can understand, which is advice I'm having trouble squaring that, I'm having trouble putting that together with responsibility and uh understanding man's choice and all these kinds of things. That's perfectly acceptable We can wrestle with that, we can blast that out through the scriptures. But my point is clearly that the scripture does teach it. God has a chosen people. God has chosen it themselves Well, um, hopefully not to you dismay, it's not my purpose this morning to seek to reconcile God's season with our responsibilities. Uh that doesn't come under the purview of this discussion. We're talking about the church in this year. We'll talk about that some other time. My purpose this morning is simply to say that God does choose us. He hasn't chosen people. We want to understand what that means. We're not going to deal with the speaking of the reconciliation. But I'm just wanting to say I'm not going to back off on that. But on the other hand, there's a problem You see, the problem is that through the history of the church, theology develops mostly in the Western Church. And then theology's development in the Western Church, it becomes couch In the concept of Greek philosophy. Before when theology became immersed in and discussed in the concept of Greek philosophy which is a very abstract, rationalistic kind of discipline, and then very quickly was lost the biblical Hebrew notion of concrete covenant. And so when the Bible speaks of God choosing us, it speaks of it in terms of personal response and covenant. But in the history of the church the concept of chosenness has become abstracted, made rather arbitrary as a decree that sort of just hangs out there in space And somehow God sort of picking to his finger, going, Mo, I'll take this one and not that one and this kind of thing. And that is precisely not what the Bible's communicating when it talks about election or choosing. That is a good philosophical mention. It is not a biblical mention. Something in the Bible is always conjoined with other concepts In the biblical notion of covenant. I can't go into all of that right now. What I want to simply say is that choosing is not arbitrary, it is not abstract, and it can never be separated from four things. And that's what I want to take a look at. God has chosen to never be separated either from God's notice, God's Messiah, from the people, the church, or from the mission of the church. Uh M M C M there's sort of uh 2900 in Roman numerals, which I'll help you to remember, but God's purpose then in season, God's The idea of choosing in the scripture, the idea of our being a chosen people can never be separated from these four things. First of all, then the motive. Never be separated from the motive. Why did God choose into his people? But he simply says here, you're a chosen people. He doesn't tell us why. Why are we the people that God has chosen to Himself? Well, the closest answer that we can come to that is found in Deuteronomy chapter 7. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, we read the verse 6. That you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you. Out of all the peoples on the face of the earth, there it is again, to be his people Chosen in the context of the covenant to be his people. He your God be his people. He goes on to play his possession. Now why? Well, verse 7 says the Lord did not set his affection on you, he pleased you because you were more numerous than other people, so you were the purest of all people. But it's because the Lord loved you And took the oath which he swore to your forefathers, that he brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the land of slavery. We read in chapter 10, verse 15. Yet the Lord set with affection on your forefathers and loved them and chose you, their descendants above all nations, as it is today. Deuteronomy 1013. The point we see in these two statements why God chose us. Why did he choose him? Why did he choose him? Because we loved it Because he determined to set his affection on you and on me. Not arbitrarily But the reason is not only to him. It's like the man who said to the woman that he was determined to win for his wife who said that I love him. She said, but why do you love him? And with that understanding that the love in him was so before that he could not simply describe it in ways that he would understand or lift it off, but he would always be missed and come short in that he said It's because I love you. Well, why do you love me? Well, just simply because I love you. And that's as far as we can go. We can't penetrate into God's mind to find the reasons why he has loved you and me. Shh When God looking throughout all the peoples of the earth sees our rottenness, sees your coldness of heart, your disobedience, your mind. So wrestling and going our way, but God doesn't matter. Why did he see you and me? And God says, because I love you I said, but God, why did you love me? He said, because I love you. And that's all you can understand. Now that's not arbitrary. It's inscrutable. And there's a difference We are not going to penetrate it, but we must accept it as amazing grace. And God has chosen us as his people because he's loved us Well secondly, we can't separate this idea of being chosen from the Messiah Now that's very clear from this whole passage in 1 Peter. Just reflect it in the context here, in verses 4 to 8. You and I are a chosen people in Christ. Election can never be separated by Jesus We're not just chosen, we're chosen in Christ. Another abstract fact. In verse 4, he says, and you come from him Jesus, the living stone, is described in two ways there. A concept. He's rejected by men on the one hand, but on the other hand, he's chosen by God, and that's the same word in verse 9. We are chosen people, the same words used in verse 4. He's the living stone who is chosen by God. Expecting. And he is chosen and conscious. And so these as living stones have come to this new living stone and are being built up into a spiritual house. God's in the business of building a spiritual house out of living stones That spiritual house is the church. What are you talking about? So the church is the amalgamation, the collection of the living stones that come to the stone. And that living stone, he goes on to say in verse 6, verse 5 and 6, that living stone is the cornerstone. He's the very cornerstone of the church, verse 6. He says, I lay a stone, Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone. I've got a word there again, chosen. Verse 6 is the same word. Chosen and chosen people in verse 9. Here it happened again. Jesus is described, verse 4, is chosen and precious. Jesus in verse 6 is described as chosen and precious cornerstone. And the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now, he goes on to say, He's chosen to God. Then in verse seven he says, And he's precious, he's precious to God, verse four and six, and he's precious to us. Who believes? Verse 7. Not to you who believe this stone is precious. But contrast again to those who do not believe is not precious, but rather the stone that the builders rejected has become the capstone. That's our dying received. Yeah, the building exjecule is going to cast it off. Jesus is worthless for the world. And God says that my way is to make that very rejected stone be the become the capstone, the cornerstone and the capstone of it all. And the stone That causes men to stumble on a rock that makes them fall. You see, it's a stone for us to build on, but it's a stone that grinds his enemies to powder. It's a stone for them to stumble over There's a stone of offense. Before they stumble and they disobey the message, for it's also they were destined for. But contrast, you are a chosen people, he says. So that verse 9, you are a chosen people, is a quote from Isaiah 43. 20, and it's significant. It's used in Isaiah, so let's take a look at that. In Isaiah 43. 20 We have this one phrase, the one famous phrase is used in the Old Testament, chosen people. Isaiah 4320, we read that the wild animals honor me and the jackals and the owls, because I provide water in the desert, the streams in the wasteland. And give grace to my chosen people. NIV is my people, my chosen literally is my chosen people. Well, that seems there to be referring, of course, to the church or to Israel, to the people of God But if we penetrate a little more in Isaiah to find out who the chosen is, we find something very interesting. Firstly, if you take a look at Isaiah 41, in Isaiah 41, Verse 8 and 9, but you O Israel my servant, Jacob who I have chosen. Same word again in the Greek translation. Shh. You descendants of Abraham, my friend, I took you from the ends of the earth, from as far as corners I called you, and I said, You are my servant, I have chosen you, and not rejected you. Now who's he referring to then? Well, of course, take a look at it carefully. He's referring to Israel, his servant. Seems to be the people again. God's saying, My people, my whole people, are my chosen ones. But now take a look at chapter 42. In 42, verse 1, we read, Here is my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen one. Same word again, in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on. Him and see the injustice to the nations. Will not cry, shout, or cry out, or raise his voice in the street. A breeze weed he will not break, and a smoldering whip he will not snuck out In faithfulness, he will bring forth justice. He will not falter or be discouraged till he establishes justice on earth and in his law the islands. To put their hopes. Well now, if you take a look at Matthew chapter twelve, don't do it right now, but in Matthew chapter twelve, from verse 15 to 21, Matthew quotes these four verses from Isaiah And who do they pertain to? Matthew leaves us in no doubt. This is Jesus. Jesus is the one who Matthew says came to fulfill these words from Isaiah. That he is my servant, my chosen one, in whom I delight. This is the one whom I put my spirit on. This is the one who is going to bring the nation to the light and he's the one who's going to rule with justice. He's the one who's not going to cry and draw attention to himself, but he's going to be gentle in his administrations, as the chosen ones who rule with people. Jesus then is the chosen one. He's the one who set aside from the foundation to eternity. He's the one whom God has chosen and selected to be the king of his kingdom Jesus then is the chosen one. Now you can't understand chosen people until you understand that that makes no sense apart from Jesus being the chosen one. Now it's quite clear, isn't it? That Jesus was not arbitrarily selected out of all the messiahs running around in the universe. But Jesus was in an intimate relationship to God from all eternity And God says he has chosen Jesus. Jesus is the chosen one, and therefore in Jesus you and I are the chosen people. We're chosen in him. You can never talk about election, predestination, or chosenness apart from Jesus. As soon as you do, you've gotten into speculative philosophy and you're off the biblical tracks. Whenever we talk about chosenness, it must be in Christ. But what's the significance of that? So I want to show you, take a look at it later sometime at Isaiah forty-three, one to seven, you'll see how that the idea of chosenness and human preciousness has developed. But I want to just show you here these two points, what chosenness means then. Token with me under the outline there, being from Christ. Ephesians 1, 3 told us But he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. He's predestinated to be adopted through Christ Verse 4. And on and on and on in Ephesians. We're chosen in him. Revelation 17, 14 tells us that when Jesus comes in his mock-up operation to defeat and banquet all his enemies, he comes with his chosen one. They're assembled with him. They're united to him in all that he does. Secondly, chosenness is preciousness To be chosen is to be precious as Christ. This is something I think is often missed in this word. The chosen means precious. And we talk about something as being choice, where we mean it's of the finest quality, its top range. But that word in the Greek also has that kind of idea. To be chosen means to be the finest. It's the treasure. It's the final treasure. For instance, the word is used in Exodus chapter 30, verse 23, the Greek translation. You know God gave a recipe for his holy oil to be used in the temple? It's sitting here in verse uh the verses in uh Exodus chapter 30. And it begins by this Take the following fine spices. 500 shekels of liquid mass, that's quite a bit, and then go on and on and express what you use in fine spices. Now the word the fine for spices is the word chosen. It's the same word that's used in 1 Peter 3 9. What you could translate is to choice spices, the finest spices, because it's the word chosen. Or in Deuteronomy chapter 12. Where God's describing there the sacrifices. He says Deuteronomy Psalm 11 He says, then in the place that the Lord has got, notice the play on words now Then the place that the Lord your God will see as a dwelling for his name, there you are to bring everything out to manage. Your burnt offerings and your sacrifices, your prize through the special gifts, and all the choice possessions that you have vowed to the Lord Now that word choice, possessions, is the word chosen, precious possessions. Are those things that are the finest qualities that you're about to give to the Lord This is what chosen means. It needs for something to be precious. This bad idea you see that Isaiah picked up on when he said in Isaiah 28:16, Behold, I lay in Zion a choice. stone, a chosen stone, precious stone. And that's what Peter picks up on. You see when he says here Verse 4. And you come to him the living stone, chosen by God and precious. So you who are the chosen, who is precious. You see the play on the words? Now Peter says, you are precious to God. Deuteronomy 14. 2. Remember I read that before In understanding what God means by chosen. He says, For you're the people holy to the Lord. Out of all the people on the face of the earth, the Lord has chosen you for what? To be his treasured possession. To be chosen and means to be precious to God. Oh, let's never take that understanding of that concept and reduce it to some sort of an abstract productiveness. We are God's people. Somehow we have made it when we want any me mining moans. God is on the in-crowd rather than the out Uh to be chosen in the system is to be precious to God, for reasons not only to him, but we have people who are precious in his sight Christus enough. Because in God, so are you and me in our sin? Saw you and me in our rebellion against Him But he sent his chosen one, Jesus, who is more precious to him than anything. And he sent his precious chosen one To become sin, to take our sins, become the substitution and sacrifice with the God's laugh to come upon Jesus For that because of his wrath poured out on Jesus, you and I, who were precious to him, would be redeemed, would be bought To be bought with the precious blood of Jesus, of the Lamb without spot, because it's precious to him. And that's what the word means Have you ever come to Jesus? Have you ever come to realize you need? And to see that Jesus, the precious one of God, is sacrificed for you Well, the third thing we dare not separate here is that chosenness can never be separated from the word people You see, he doesn't simply say here, you are chosen ones. He says you are a chosen people. That's talking about, of course, the church Here's where we come into all of this. We've been uh building for to see how we understand the church. The church is a chosen people. Now we often see election and God's choosing of us of something which is very personal and precious. And it is. There's nothing wrong with that. God has chosen you and me individually. He has chosen us personally. He chose you and me before the foundations of the world who are in Christ. But now in our expressive American individualism, however, we have often skipped the balance and seen that as being the primary understanding of that We need to also understand that God chose us as a people, not simply as an amalgamation of individuals. We are all chosen people. The word their people that we're going to develop and explore further on in a couple weeks. There's a word which means nation or race. A group of people from a common origin. It can refer to a family. It's a group of people who are taken as a whole In fact, you can refer to any kind of things. 1 Corinthians 12, talking about kinds of tones. The word kind there is this word people. The word is confused with people. Anything that is taken as a whole And considered as a whole, this word can be used for. So we are a chosen sole group entity of people That's what God is calling us attention to here. In other words, we are an elect community in Jesus Christ. And our election is descriptive of us as a community of people in Colombia. We are God's chosen people in Colombia, as a particular congregation of his sins. And it chosen as a people, as a church, not simply as a collection of individuals. God had in mind how we would relate to one another and how we would fit together as his body when he brought us together. Isn't that exciting? You may not see how that works. Well, how do I sit in this body? Sometimes I wonder how someone else in this body sits in here. But God chose us as a people. He chose us as an entity We have corporate identity as his people here. And we're further with that in mind. We are the new humanity of Jesus Christ in Columbia. Because we belong to God and is precious to him. The local churches refers to him this way. Firstly, Peter uses that same word when it says in verse five chapter five, verse two She who is in Babylon chosen together with you. From our other church, from our local church. And he says, church over Babylon, which is chosen together with you as another entity, another physical, observable entity of God's people is chosen with you to send a gathering to because he's chosen with you. He realizes that her identity is bound up in yours And that you and I can never dissociate ourselves from other true groups of God's people. We take them together with them. We relate to them. There's a corporate solidarity of Christians on earth that we must reflect And give as much observable excuse to as we can. We live together because we have a common life. We belong to one another Finally the last one is I can't pass over this without calling attention to the fact that the churches can never be separated from the mission of the church. Can never be separated from the mission. Chosenness, you see, is chosen to be a blessing, among other things We are chosen in the scripture to be a blessing. This was the whole idea of choosing from the very beginning when God called Abraham You remember out of Ur the Chaldees in Genesis chapter twelve. We want the reference to skip over the other side of the outline. But in chapter twelve of Genesis, God chose Abraham and he sent him out in Genesis twelve we read so that he would be a blessing to the nation. Until Israel praise in Psalm 96, for example, when they praise God as their God, the God of Genesis' people, that praise is in order to be before all the nations So that the motions will see and come to Christ, come to this God, and be his chosen. And so in Isaiah 43, 20, where we read that what is quoted in this 1 Peter 2. 96, that he are his chosen people. That's in the context in Isaiah 43. 20 of what he has just said in verse 10 And Isaiah 43, 20 said, You are my fitnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen You see, chosen for what? To be a servant, but also to be witnesses. This will separate our being chosen from our being witnesses. Anything this again is something that the scripture throughout is characterized by that when we take the idea of election and chosenness and put it in the context of abstract Greek philosophy, it becomes a very possessive thing. The word chosen to God, period. But the scripture says, no, you're chosen to be witnesses. You're chosen to be a blessing to others We're the first fruit of what God is doing. Ephesians 1 tells us this, that we were chosen so that we who first believed might speak of Jesus Christ to others who would be added to his truth. The whole idea of penetrance, Isaiah 42. You're chosen is Isaiah 42 and 49. The whole idea of the servant being the chosen one is so that you'd be a chosen one for the nation. So you're doing justice to the nations, you remember. Isaiah 49, so that you would be a light to light in the Gentiles and bring the nation to myself. When you and I realize that we're chosen in Jesus Christ, we realize we were chosen not to be possessors of the gospel, but to be aggressive with it. We realize that God has called us to Himself as a church so that we might go forth and add other to His numbers, because we realize to be chosen is to be precious. And a person who realizes what it means to be precious to Jesus is a person who can't hang on to the gospel and not want to share it This person is to want to be a blessing to the nation, only than an application of all this. First of all, this Jesus is precious to you It is precious. Because every reason that for you who believe this stone is precious The contrast to that is that he's rejected. But what is Jesus to you this morning? Is he the one who is precious, the cornerstone of your life? It is the one that to you is rejected, the one that to you is a stumbling stone, a rock of offense, the one that you don't want to have control of your life Someone that you'd like to keep out of your life. You want to talk about religion. You want to talk about the church, but don't talk about Jesus being precious to me. That gets too close. Or even talk about Jesus. Or even say words to Jesus. But don't talk about Jesus who is precious to me. God says if he has chosen people, he's precious to me. He's precious to him. One that that is precious to God finds that Jesus is precious to them. Let's deliver ourselves from this abstract one intellectualizing of our faith, we talked about precepts and doctrines without Jesus being precious to us. We love him. And we look at his love for us and we're amazed and we stand in awe. And he's precious to us. Something that is Precious is treasured. Is Jesus treasure to you above all things on earth? He's the most precious possession in your life. Is Jesus precious to you? The second thing to consider. It's a humble bundle that we have in standing in the light of God's electing love. When you look at Deuteronomy 7 and Deuteronomy 10 and these other passages, you can't help but Fall down before him and prostrate ourselves on our face and say, God, why are you? Why did you love me? And we and I need to dwell on that more frequently. We need to remind ourselves of our unworthiness of his love. And express ourselves before him and more frequently realize, George, why does he love me? Allah, there's no reason why you love me except you have determined to set your affection upon me. We need to bask on that. We need to meditate on that. We need to understand our chosenness in where the scripture encloses in. And then thirdly, we need to see that when we talk about chosenness, we're talking not just about me, but we. There are chosen people. We are precious to them as a church Do you ever look at Columbia Church as being precious to God? Do you ever look at this body of people that God has assembled together as you may sometimes uh perceive as a martily true sinner? You say, We're precious to God as a body. And God finds us to be delightful to him. And that's not just because we're a collection of individuals who are in Jesus Christ, but as a body we are precious to him. We are a precious, chosen people. Well, if you realize that you are part of the body of Jesus Christ, then you realize that you're part of that people that is chosen and precious to him My quote, friends, is simply this. The church is not a voluntary organization. The church is a group of chosen people at God's initiative. But you realize Concer is the most American thinking. That the church is not a voluntary organization, some sort of a club that I can sort of pick and choose and I wander around I can And which one do I want to join? And then I join it and say, ah, sort of a drag. I think I'll move on and find a mode. And we begin to think of ourselves as independent We can affiliate or not with particular local churches. And then we have a very unbiblical concept of what it means to be the chosen people Because the church of the people speaks of us as a visible entity with which we are affiliated because of God's initiative Well, see the decision that you have to make is simply whether you're going to be obedient is giving recognition to that by becoming part of the body But the question is, do you recognize that you're part of a chosen people? By giving visible expression to that and associating with some particular local physical body on Earth. And reflecting the fact that you are part of his chosen people as an agency. Finally, therefore, last thing, the church and you in the church are chosen to be a blessing. A blessing. When was the last time that you and I shared the gospel with another person who was outside of Jesus Christ, outside of the church? Someone in your family and your neighbors. How do your neighbors perceive you? Do they perceive you as those who see yourself as chosen The elect as those who are set aside, who are religious people, who associate with other religious people, but on an inner group of people that they can't penetrate To be chosen is to be aggressive with the gospel. It's to be realized that you and I are chosen to be a blessing to our neighborhood. We're chosen to be a blessing to those that we work with, those that we rub shoulders with, who are not as far as we can see now in the church, not part of God's chosen people. But God has placed us to be a blessing so that we will reflect the fact that we are chosen people, precious to God. We find Jesus to be precious to us first. Lord God, as we come before you this morning, become humbled and easy. If a king of a God who did not move the universe, created it, and then when he grew as As we vice reasons, those who were created to rule that universe rebelled against you. Do you have no need to reveal us, to keep us, to preserve us? And that out of that host of humanity, you have chosen a people to yourself. And that you have chosen us to be your people My Lord our God, we fall before you and we cry out, whining. Why did you take me to yourself? No more righteous, no more deserving, no more inclined towards you than people that walk all around you with doing this in Jesus Christ. You have made hold of us through the gospel. And you have made us precious to you. It is as collectivists, not simply as individuals, but as a body of new people. Help us like that to see ourselves as you of an elected and precious body of your people. Do you like humbly glorified, glory in the fact that you have called us to be a peculiar treasure to yourself We praise you and bless you for your grace, for your mercy, for your favor. We praise you. Lord our God, who praise us from all eternity. We praise you, Lord Jesus, because we're chosen in you. We thank you, Holy Spirit, because you applied that work to our lives and bringing us into the church. Lord, we pray that you would help us Do I despise the work you've done by seeing ourselves as independent from the church, having no need to be associated visibly and intimately with a group of your people To see ourselves as part of the chosen people of God. God and praise we'd help each twenty. Bless me through that issue The letters do before your word and prefer you with a clear conscience of obedience, desiring to serve you, and obedient to you. Before Father could help us also to not be confessive with the gospel. And we might realize that we're chosen as a church to be a blessing. We're chosen to make known the riches of Christ to those about us. And the very fact that you've chosen us is a guarantee of the fact that you're going to add to our numbers. Because we're a first group. We thought we could not adjust perhaps that the things that you intend to do in Columbia and in Howard County might be an impact upon the society. Stowing forth your power for us because we're a chosen people to you. And we desire more people to become part of your body. Because Father, we lay ourselves at your disposal to be ready for that. The peacefully used by you to be a blessing to the nations. My God, we think of those who's gone out from our mention, we think of uh the carpenters in Egypt in uh Egypt and Alexandria And you think it would be funny to have just gone over there and was planning to now embark on language studies. tell to them the skill and understanding the language because of their kids as they enroll in the school there, that they will understand and as they do uh become acquainted and familiar and comfortable with the culture of Egypt. As if they will uh grow in their love for those people and in their uming of them. To the student that is home, help them father to make that transition of identification, to perceive themselves there as being part of Egypt. And that is uh uh revenue for them speaks and teaches in the uh student communities doing these Early months, Father, with you enable him to speak with power. The gospel will go forth with great power there. The people will come to Christ. Had a thank you for the fact that Mr. Sab, who was with us in our congregation and has gone back to Egypt, has made contact with our missionaries there. We thank you for that uh joint fellowship that he had with Bill Cottington. We thank you for the fact that he's becoming part of the Wednesday Bible study. Father, we pray that you would uh take your thirst through the tangible link between our body and that body of your chosen one over there will be uh effective in bridging the gaps between the Coptic Church and the Catholic Church and the Protestant Church. believe it in uniting three believers who love the Lord Jesus to whom he's precious and that they would um that he would be used by you and Uh whatever faith you have for him there. We pay particularly for that because it seems that he is unsure about your speech. We pray, Father, that you would help him to understand that. And whether he should get a job with some a foreign firm or what he should do. Make your will known to him and your direction to him clear. Father, face me again this morning. May Jesus be precious to us. I love you. If we want to love you more, we thank you that you've called us to be your people. We'd be blessed to you. Because of Jesus, the chosen one.