Three weeks ago, you may recall I began a three-week series on Hebrews chapter thirteen verses twenty and twenty-one. How many were not here when I began that? Let's just see. Okay, some of you. Now how many were here and don't remember anything about it? Let me see. Yeah, okay. No better than to try and do any review by questions The point that I was trying to make when I began that series was that we all have a longing to be blessed, to be verbally blessed, especially by our parents, but most of all by God. And that is why many of us find that a benediction at the end of the service is very important to us. We realize this is God's blessing. It is not simply Al Harris saying, have a great week, guys, but it is God Himself who is imparting, declaring His blessing to us. But the danger is that benedictions can become superstitious and sentimental. A benediction can become superstitious. Have you ever found yourself thinking that the week will go a little better if Al Harris closes the service with God's blessing? You know, if he says that, then there's just a better chance that uh I'll do a little better at work and won't have so many problems. Or a benediction can be sentimental It's just comforting, feels good to hear those old familiar words that I've known for so many years assuring me of God's comfort and his peace and his blessing toward me. And what I was trying to show us, to show myself and for the rest of us, is that a blessing, a benediction, depends on the one who gives it. It is therefore received by faith. We receive the benediction by an act of faith in God who blesses us. Therefore, it revolves around our believing the truth of the blessing. And therefore, it helps to understand what the blessing is saying and means And perhaps the fullest and most popular beloved benedictions of the New Testament, at least, is found in Hebrews chapter 13, verses 20 and 21. I've used it innumerable times through the years. And it occurred to me some months ago that it might be good for us to look at what that's actually saying before we get back into the fall schedule and all the things that we'll resume there. I would like to take now two more weeks for us to be looking at the meaning of Hebrews chapter 13, verses 20 and 21. the God of peace who through the blood of the eternal covenant. I'll give it to you first in the NIV and then I'll give you the Harris version which follows more directly the ordering of the Greek in the um the order in which the author of Hebrews gives it. But the NIV is made a God of peace who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep Equip you with everything good for doing his will, and may he work in us what is pleasing to him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. The actual ordering of it is may the God of peace, who brought back again from the dead, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the eternal covenant, even Jesus our Lord. Equip you with everything good for doing his will, working in you that which is well pleasing or pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. We looked looking at this in dividing it into two parts. First of all, verse 20 tells us about the source of the blessing. Who God is and what qualifies Him to bless us. Verse 21 then speaks about the nature of the blessing, how he blesses us. If you look at verse 20, the source of the blessing, there are four characteristics about God and his nature that are given to us there that qualify him to bless us. And those are taken from pictures in the Old Testament. And so the first one that we looked at a couple of weeks ago. Is that He is an approachable God. That's the first blank there. He's an approachable God, the God of peace from Numbers chapter 6. He makes peace with us. Through the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, we were God's enemies because of our sin and our rebellion. God made peace through Jesus Christ's sacrifice. And he has reconciled us to himself. But not only that, he has given us his own peace. We not only have peace with God, we have the peace of God through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us to bear the fruit of peace which transcends and goes beyond all circumstances. So he is approachable. He is the God of peace, both in our relationship with him and what he produces in us. But not only that, secondly I said that he is a mighty God. The second phrase in the Greek is he is the God of peace who brought again, brought back from the dead. referring to Jesus, of course. And I showed how he is El Shaddai, the God who is the God of the impossible, from Genesis chapter twenty-one. And you remember how we saw there that God did the impossible in bringing Isaac, a baby, out of the body of Abraham and Sarah, good as dead, near a hundred years old. And yet God produced life out of what appeared to be death in terms of reproduction. But that was just a glimmer, just a foretaste of what he was going to do in his own son. For he is El Shaddai, described in Romans chapter 4 as the one who brought Jesus from a dead body back to life. He brought Jesus back from the dead. And because he brought him back from the dead, demonstrating that he had in fact accepted his once-for-all sacrifice for your sin and my sin. He has conquered death through him, and he will one day bring you back from the dead. You have been raised from spiritual death. through Al-Shaddai. He's brought you back spiritually from the dead. He will bring you back one day from physical death in a resurrected body. He is the mighty God who brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus. That resurrection power is at work in you and me. That's the blessing. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 19 and 20 and verse 20th chapter 3 tells us that this resurrection power is at work in us who believe. Amen You believe that? That's the blessing you see. You hear the God of peace who brought back from the dead and you think He is the one who has that resurrection power that was at work in Isaac, who was at work in Jesus, that is at work in me to bless me in my troubles and circumstances. That's the God He is, an approachable God and a mighty God. We go on now to the third point. He is also a compassionate God. He is the compassionate God. The third phrase in this God of peace who brought back from the dead that great shepherd of the sheep. It's very likely that the author of Hebrews had Ezekiel chapter 34 in mind, I believe, when he wrote this. Because Ezekiel chapter 34 brings these same three ideas of shepherd, of covenant, and peace together, particularly in verses twenty-three, twenty-four, and twenty-five, just as we see here. in Hebrews 13. Ezekiel chapter 34, in case you haven't read it recently, is God's terrible indictment against the false shepherds. of Israel, the political and religious leaders of that time. God says in verse 2, Woe to them who have not cared for my sheep. But these shepherds have been false shepherds. They cared only for themselves. And God says that my sheep have been wandering, sick. Lost, abandoned on the hillsides without any shepherd who cared for them. These shepherds have not only not cared for my sheep, worse than that they've used the sheep for their own greed. They've taken their wool. They enjoy lamb chops These shepherds want only to use the sheep to consume them. God says, woe to these false shepherds who use the sheep, my sheep, for their own benefits and greed. Do you ever feel like one of those sheep? Do you ever feel like no one has ever really cared for you? And loved you the way that you long to be cared for and loved. Perhaps there's a mixed response. Some of you may be saying, Oh, yes That's so much the cry of my heart. That's so true. I've longed for someone who would take care of me, who would love me Seems like I'm always giving, people always demanding, always expectations. Seems like everybody wants to take a bite out of me. Seems like I'm just full of things that I need to try and produce for other people. How I long for a shepherd who would simply love me, who would find me special. Who would want to take care of me, for whom I be precious, for whom my happiness and my well-being would be that shepherd's concern. Of all the things that I've read in the last couple of weeks about uh Princess Diana The most intriguing article to me was, of all things, by a contributing editor to Vanity Fair. It was written in Time Magazine, just in case you think I read Vanity Fair But in this essay, she said, What is it that has so captivated women about Princess Diana? And her thesis is: in our culture, every little girl wants to be a princess, not a queen. A queen has responsibilities. A princess is pampered and cared for A princess is special. Dads when they want to communicate to their daughters, you're so special to me. What do they say? You know, princess, it's kind of a Endearing term that's often used. But she says there's an ambivalence. Because the princess is dependent And so she said, here 's a princess with whom women could identify. She's not only the princess who's pampered with all the royalty and the privilege that we can't even begin to fully Understand. But she's also like us, and she's got marriage problems, in-law problems, eating disorders. So we can relate But there's that ambivalence, for she's dependent upon men. And the tragedy is that in the most crucial hour of her life, her protectors all failed her. Her driver, her bodyguard, and her lover. She needed a shepherd Even a princess needs a shepherd. And for some of us, that's touched a very deep cord. Of identification , feeling. We need a shepherd, one who we can depend upon. But maybe there's some of you who, when I ask this, your response is somewhat negative. Sa, that's that's the talk of whiners and victims. I want somebody to take care of me Me, me, me, me. I'm so tired of everybody focusing on themselves in this generation. Why doesn't somebody love me and take care of me and lavish themselves on me? A disciple is to serve and think about other people. Stop focusing on yourself. Pick yourself up, get out there, and start thinking of other people, not who should be loving you. Maybe that's true. But let me ask you very gently. Where do you put the pain of the longing in your own heart to be loved? You see, Ezekiel thirty-four is God taking up the cry of the sheep. He doesn't say that their longing is a wrong longing. God's anger is addressed at the shepherds. He acknowledges the genuine, valid desire of the sheep to have a shepherd who will care for them. The simple fact is, brothers and sisters, we all are sheep who need a shepherd. And God says, I will be their shepherd. He promises in verse twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four. Then he will send a shepherd, David. Verse 23 of Ezekiel 34. I will place over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he will tend them. He will be their shepherd. I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them. I, the Lord, have spoken. But there's two problems with David as the archetype of a shepherd. First of all, he wasn't a faithful shepherd. Just ask Uriah. Uriah had committed himself to David as his shepherd. David stole his wife and committed adultery with her, and then had Uriah killed to cover up his own sin, some shepherd. Or as Tamar, his daughter, whom he allowed to be raped by her brother Amnon, and then never even punished him as a result of that vile act No, David is not the shepherd that we need. There's another problem with David. He's a dead shepherd. Ezek was written a couple of hundred years after David had lived and died. And so David's a very inadequate shepherd. But he points. To the true shepherd. Contrast with David, our Lord Jesus. I hold before you Jesus, the shepherd of your soul. Jesus will never let you down. He will never use you for his own benefit, oblivious to your own needs. Jesus is always there for you. Think of that old hymn: No one ever cared for me like Jesus. Jesus is not only there in every need of your life and mind. Jesus not only did not use you Jesus gave his life for you, as the shepherd who laid down his life for his sheep. Taking your sin upon him when you and I deserved to die in punishment for that sin. Jesus the shepherd Took it. And God raised him up. He's not a dead shepherd He was raised from the dead and he conquered death, the God of peace who raised from the dead, who brought back from the dead that great shepherd of the sheep. And so he's a shepherd to rule and to care for you and for me every more forevermore. And when we read Psalm 23, as Sandy read it to us just a little while ago, we read, The Lord is my shepherd. He still is. Every day I can count on him. Forever and ever. After death I will dwell in his house forevermore. He is my shepherd. And he will never fail me. The Lord is my shepherd. Kathy and I had a rather vivid experience of this in just the last couple of weeks. I told you I wasn't gonna be here a couple of weeks ago because we were celebrating our 30th anniversary. It saved up and we got some days in Bermuda. First time we'd ever been there. It was just a tremendous delight to celebrate, have a second honeymoon in Bermuda. Had a great time When we got there, I offered to pay the woman for the bed and breakfast that we were staying at, and she said, nah, and I'll just be settled up later. Uh we were there until September the first. I noticed that my credit card expired on the thirty-first, but that's never been a problem, you know. Good credit rating, send me a new card, no problem, just numbers on a piece of plastic So we went through the week and um I thought about it again the night of the thirty-first, mentioned, oh, I wish I had paid her today, just wanted to clear that thing up so it wouldn't be any problem. And uh Kathy agrees, probably no big problem, just go on. Forgot about it. Next morning, just ready to go, calls a taxi. And I said, can we settle up now? I'm gonna leave in a half hour. Oh yeah, sure. Real casual about this whole thing. That is until she stuck the credit card through the little zipper and it came back. Do not honor It's no problem, right? We live in a high check age. Pull out another credit card. No other credit cards. My wife had we had agreed she left hers home and I only have one. No checks No problem. You just call somebody up, right? I tried for a half hour. I tried the 24-hour customer service number. It was Labor Day I guess they don't care whether it's 24 hours and where you are. It took me a half hour just to find out how to dial an 800 number when you're out of the States. You want to know? I'll tell you sometime. That took me 20 minutes. My immediate response when I began to realize this woman was getting very agitated, she told us we were not leaving Bermuda until we settled this thing. And I begin to think that I am being held a prisoner here in paradise. And after a while, what happens in my own heart? I begin to look to blame, right? How did we get into this? Why didn't she let me pair when I came? Why didn't my wife get more upset when I said to her yesterday, we may have a problem here? Why doesn't the why don't these people who say they're supposed to be at my service answer the phone? Everybody's fault but mine. Why didn't I pay the bill on the 31st? I got more and more agitated, but I'll tell you something. When I told Kathy after about five minutes, and this all of a sudden dawned on me, we got a problem. I said, honey, we got a problem here Without another word, she went in the next room and literally knelt down and cried out, God, you're my daddy. Take care of us She came back, tried a couple other things. I'm trying everything with my wits to figure who can I call? Try to call friends, I'll call, you know, wire money. There's gotta be some way to do this, you know. This is ridiculous So, you know, oscillating between agitation, fear, indignation, blame shifting, trying with my wits. She saw what state I was in. I was starting to lose it on the phone. She just went back into the next room, knelt down again, started praying. She came out. She said the taxi's here. That didn't help. Kathy offered herself as a hostage to the woman. Keep me, let my husband go, he'll wire you the money tomorrow. At that point the woman said, Okay, okay, I'll let you go. Just pay me when you get back. People have screwed me on that. I'll let you go And so I gave her all the cash that I had, only enough to get out through the airport and back. And God graciously simply turned her heart. Was not my wits. Nothing I could do. It was stupid on my part. I was utterly responsible. But it was so good to know we have a shepherd. In our stupidity, in our blame shifting, in our loneliness, in the holes we dig ourselves into. He's the great shepherd of the sheep. And he is a faithful shepherd. You notice that phrase that he tacks on after there, he says, through the blood of the eternal covenant. That's referring to another picture of the Old Testament, this time from Genesis chapter 15. You remember God had promised to Abram in Genesis chapter 12. And that he would make him into a great nation, he would make give him seed, descendants, that he would make him a blessing, and that he would give him land, all the land of Canaan. Years go by, and nothing has happened. And in Genesis chapter 15, God reiterates that promise and he says, Abram, I am your blessing. And Abram responds just like many of us would. How many times has God said to you through his word , I am your blessing. Look at what I've done and promise to do. And your response like mine is. Then how come? Right? Then how come, God, this promise I've claimed for fifteen years, you don't seem like you've lifted a finger. To answer it. How come I'm going through this in my life? If you're such a faithful shepherd God takes Abram outside and he says, look at the stars, Abram. By the way, think about who made them. Is that okay, Doug? Look at the stars, Abram. Can you count them? Abram, that's how hard it's going to be to count your descendants And then God does an utterly staggering, mind-boggling thing The Bible says that God then made a covenant with Abram, just like a man would make a covenant with another man. You see, if two people entered into a covenant in that culture, the one initiating the covenant would follow a very definite ritual. He would first of all declare who he was. He would then declare what he was promising in that covenant. He would then declare the curses that would come upon him if he didn't keep that promise. And then he would solemnize that by a ritual. They would take an animal. First of all, they would dig a shallow trench in front of them. They would then take an animal and they would kill that animal and lay the two halves of that animal on either side of the trench, so that the blood of the slain animal would flow down into that trench. And the person initiating that covenant would in effect say, May I be drawn and quartered. And my blood flow as you see it here, if I am unfaithful to that covenant. And then you read in Genesis chapter 15, when God has done all these preparations. In the horror of a darkness, it's a kind of a an eerie scene to solemnize this. And you read in Genesis chapter 15 and verse 17: when the sun had set and darkness had fallen, A smoking fire pot with a blazing torch appeared and passed between the pieces of this slain animal. On that day the Lord made or cut a covenant with Abram, reiterating the promise. Do you see what's happening? In the figure of a blazing torch, God Himself is walking through that trench of blood, and God is saying, if I break this promise to you, Abram. May I be drawn and quartered and my blood flow in this trench. And you say, that's ridiculous. God doesn't have a body and he doesn't have blood. And God says, that's the point. It's as impossible for me to break this covenant As it would be to draw and quarter me and shed my blood. But the point is far deeper than that. For the re record goes on to show how Abram and his descendants continually broke their position, their stipulations in that covenant. And in the Lord Jesus Christ, God took on a body, and he shed his blood As if he had broken every stipulation of the covenant. But he did that to pay for the brokenness of that covenant on your part and on my part. And that's why Hebrews 13 verse 20 says, the God of peace who brought back from the dead, that great shepherd of the sheep. Through the blood of the eternal covenant. It was the sheep who laid down , it was the shepherd who laid down his life for the sheep. In fulfillment of the broken covenant, who reconciled us to this God that we would have peace with him and have his peace, who then raised up this shepherd. From the dead, showing he had accepted his sacrifice, and he is now determined to bless you and not curse you. Brothers and sisters, how do you need his blessing this morning? Do you see him as one who will go to any lengths even beyond what the human mind can fathom? To take on a body and blood so that he could bless you and you doubt That he will fulfill that in the details of anxiety of your daily living. Let's pray Oh, Lord our God, how we recognize That we so foolishly, stupidly, culpably doubt you You have declared that you are willing to go to any lengths to be for us the God of peace. who brought back again from the dead and is able to apply that resurrection power to us The great shepherd of us, your sheep, who became that shepherd through the blood of the eternal covenant. You are faithful in all your ways. Lord, all of us need to know that Some of us, Lord, may not know you as that shepherd. You're alienated from us. You're distant and remote. Lord, bring us to see the Lord Jesus Who's died, risen for our sin. Oh God, for those of us Who are fretting, who feel unloved. Lord, help us to see Jesus And rather than our complaining that no one really cares for us, Lord, we do find disappointment on every side among human beings But oh Lord, help us to see that you are just as real, you are alive and with us right here, right now. To be that faithful shepherd to us. May we trust you, rely upon you I thank you, Lord, that you let me be so stupid in Bermuda as to give an opportunity for you to show your faithfulness when I could not get myself out of the jam I had gotten myself in. Lord, we do that kind of thing so often. Help us to turn to you and to see that you are faithful In Jesus' name. Amen.