I, John, your brother and companion in the suffering and kingdom and patient endurance that are ours in Jesus. was on the island of Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. On the Lord's day I was in the Spirit, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet, which said Write on a scroll what you see, and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamon, Phaetira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea. I turned around to see the voice that was speaking to me. And when I turned I saw seven golden lampstands, and among the lampstands was someone like a son of man dressed in a robe reaching down to his feet and with a golden sash around his chest. His head and hair were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were like blazing fire His feet were like bronze glowing in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of rushing waters. In his right hand he held seven stars. And out of his mouth came a sharp double-edged sword. His face was like the sun, shining in all its brilliance. When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. And he placed his right hand on me and said, Do not be afraid. I am the first and the last. I am the living one. I was dead, and behold, I am alive forever and ever, and I hold the keys of death and Hades. Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now, and what will take place later. The mystery of the seven stars that you saw on my right hand and of the seven golden lampstands is this. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. This ends the reading of God's Word. I'm taking a course during this winter term at seminary on the theology of Martin Luther, and it's an interesting class because it's a one-credit elective It uh fulfills the just regular elective requirement, nothing fancy about it, nothing special about it. And I don't have to read any real textbooks because I don't think of it as a textbook What I get to read is the stuff that Luther wrote. I just get to read his personal letters. I get to read his little tracts where he was arguing with people he didn't like so much. I get to read stuff like his 95 Theses, get to read stuff like his disputations, his commentary on Galatians, and for me being a little bit historically minded, that's fascinating stuff. Fascinating stuff And we're asked to respond to questions in that class about Martin Luther. So for example, I might be asked in a class session to say, okay, uh What was Martin Luther's opinion of grace and its relationship to the law? Or I might be asked something like, what was Martin Luther's view of the end times? Or what did he think about the Lord's Supper and how was it different from John Calvin? Might be asked any question like that. It makes it interesting to study a collection of writings like that, knowing that I might be asked some question of it It's going to take a little bit of work to come up with an answer. Now if I was asked a question like How did Martin Luther like his porridge? Hot, cold, or warm? That I would not know. I can tell you about how some of the three bears liked their porridge. And Goldilocks likes hers a little on the chili side, but Martin Luther did not say, this is how I like my porridge. If I was a medieval theologian, I could have found a place in Martin Luther's writings where he said that cryptically, but I would be wrong. Today, given our idea of scholarship and how we read a text and understand it, to say, oh, this is how I liked his porridge. Now you might be thinking to yourself this morning, why did I come to church to hear about whether or not Martin Luther liked porridge? But in the context of the Christian life, we are constantly asking questions of the text of the Bible. We're asking questions that are very significant, not trivial like that one. And sometimes it's difficult to see exactly exactly where the answer lies. When I was first Asked to preach a couple sermons in January. I was very excited about it. And uh I asked if I could preach for seven weeks series on Amos, but that that did not fly I got these three and I was told in the middle that it was going to be Sanctity of Human Life Sunday And it was the Sunday on which I should watch, you know, the calendar like a a good preacher and try to preach something pertinent to the day Today is a day when we as a nation we look at our government, we look at what's happening in abortion clinics across the land, and we've heard countless sermons at this point On how precious a human life is, about how God knows us intimately before we're in the womb. Not just before the few strands of DNA and a couple of cells are put together that start our own life. But we're told that in love, God predestined us before the creation of the world to be in Christ. Powerful, powerful message about what a human life is. And so you and I, we look at our country, and we look at what has happened, and we look at how things seem to be so belligerently set against anything that would be pleasing to God Did we ask ourselves a question that was asked by people like Chuck Colson, DJ Kennedy, the man who heads up evangelism explosion? At a recent seminar, just this fall, down in Florida, questions like civil disobedience, when is it right to overthrow government? When is it okay to stop paying taxes and protest? And all of these issues come bubbling up to our heads about the role of the Christian and politics. It 's not new. It's very old. I like church history. I like reading about the struggles and the trials of saints during different periods of Our spiritual forefathers' lives. This is a question that's as old as the church And as I think to myself, well, what exactly should we have in terms of a model for how we see ourselves relating to the world? I was asking myself, what part of the Bible speaks to that? A lot of parts of the Bible say things that can be associated with it, but is there a part of the Bible that speaks to it And this is the text that came to my mind. I'd originally planned on preaching from Matthew, but I changed at the last minute, and the worship leaders were very forgiving about that. This text is a text that is very much about people in a situation where the government is absolutely opposed. to the agenda Christ has in and through his church. I want you to think about why that is Revelation was written probably between 90 and 95 AD. It was written during the reign of an emperor named Diocletian. And Diocletian Some say was second to Nero, some think he was even worse than Nero. At least Nero waited for a fire in Rome and then needed a scapegoat and blamed Christians and then had him killed for that Diocletian just decided to. And it was a time of immense persecution for the church, something one of the worst periods in the 300 years during which the church was persecuted. And it's written by a man who is enduring the kind of persecution that simply does not happen in this country. We might look around in this country at the secular press and talk about how they put a muzzle on Christians, how they don't give them the right time, how they edit their clips and then they make them say what they wanted to or they don't get uh the full-size columns in the paper and the editorials don't get printed. But here is a man named John, who, because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus, is basically thrown on an island, a prison island, in the Mediterranean, and left there. He's left there. And God comes to him with a message for the churches. He comes to him with a message that is a message, if you've ever read Revelation, and I encourage every one of you to read it cover to cover, chapter 1 to 22. It's a message that talks to us about how God is going to prevail and he is prevailing now. And as we look at this passage, I want to focus on three questions. First question is: who is John? Second question is going to be, what does he see? And the third question is going to be: what does that mean for us? You might say, well, why do we need to know who John is? I want you to think for a minute about how you have many different titles You can be at one time both a father, a son, a brother, an uncle, a nephew, an engineer, you can be a lawn raker, you might even be a dishwasher sometimes. Every one of us can be understood through different titles, different descriptions. Every one of us, and they can be radically different. Dad was just last week amazed that I could be both a seminary student and a yo-yo at the same time. John here introduces himself And he doesn't introduce himself in a standard way like Paul does, an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of, and then he goes on, something rosy, something nice, something powerful I want you to notice how John, after having this experience when he is having a personal quiet time in the Spirit, On this island, deserted, out in the middle of the Mediterranean, left there to rot, because of the word and the testimony of Jesus, the fact that he was a gospel minister He has a vision. He hears a voice. And then he sits down to write it in obedience to that voice. And who does he say he is? I, John, your brother and companion And the suffering and kingdom and patient endurance that are ours in Jesus Who is John? He is a man who suffers, and he is a man who has a kingdom. I want you to think about the weight of that discrepancy. You are brother and companion in the suffering and the kingdom. It's not often that you see emperors begging. It's not often that you see emperors getting kicked. It's not often that you see them wondering exactly where they're going to go to sleep warm. It's not often that you see representatives of kings on desert islands. It's also not often that you see people on desert islands claiming to have a kingdom. It's not often that you run across somebody in a homeless shelter who claims to be royalty It's not often that you see somebody who's persecuted and voiceless in a secular culture claiming to have dominion A big discrepancy, but it's one that is very real for the Christian. In one sense, John understands perhaps better than anyone else. At this time, he's perhaps the last apostle left alive. He's an old man. Legend has it, he had white hair. And he's writing about the fact that what his friend Peter had said was true. Do not be surprised, brothers, or consider it strange when you suffer persecution. What Jesus has said was true. If they hate me, they will hate you. But he also understands that Jesus gives his people a kingdom. I want you to notice then that third element. On the one hand, you have John who's suffering. On the other hand, you have John who has a kingdom. And the result is not something that he has, but something that he does Because I'm suffering, and because I have a kingdom, I am able to patiently endure. For the Christian at all times, this is true For the Christian, no matter what your situation, whether it's political, whether it's emotional, whether it's health-related, whether it's job-related We have a kingdom that outweighs our suffering such that we are able to patiently endure. Patient endurance. Patient endurance does not mean grinning and bearing it. Patient endurance is not simply letting time go by and having a stoic outlook on the events that are going on around you. I want you to think about patient endurance in terms of two words. The first word is activity. Endurance. That word is the word that Paul uses at some places, and an athletic type image. It's a persistence in doing something, not just a resignation to do nothing. It means you don't quit, period. I want you guys to think for a minute about that that pink rabbit that's on TV commercials, the Energizer Bunny. That Energizer Bunny never quits going He never stops. He's going everywhere. They even have some commercials. I'm amazed to find out there's there's people evidently that spend their lives tracking him. He never quits He's active. He endures. But it's not just about activity. It's about attitude. Patience. Patience does not mean watching life happen to you without activity. Neither does it mean glumly persisting with a frown on your face and doing the things you were doing before. Patience is not related at first to time as much as it is to heart. Patience is about doing something with the right perspective And John is saying something here that is going to come out throughout this entire book of Revelation He's saying that for the Christian, because we live in a day and age where we suffer, yet in a day and an age when we have a kingdom, we are able to persist in our activities with an attitude that is right. Now, why does this have to do with the church and politics? The second question that I wanted to ask as we try to sort through this passage Is what does John see? And I because of my schedule and uh the way that I do things, I don't often get sermon outlines in, but I would have had one, and I would have had John sees blank. If you have a pen, go ahead and write something down. Don't look at the Bible. What does John see? If I had been asked this, I would have written the wrong thing and then I'd have to cross it off in ink and try again Because the answer that we want to give to that question, what does John see in this vision, is John sees Christ The glorified, risen, exalted Christ, appearing like the Son of Man, with all of these things that anybody familiar with Jewish and Hebrew tradition in the Old Testament As John's audience was, would say, he saw the Lord Jesus, the Messiah, risen and ascended and all-powerful and glorious. He saw the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, didn't he? I turned around to see the voice that was speaking to me. And when I turned, I saw seven golden lampstands. And this passage, this vision ends, like book ends around the library, with seven golden lampstands. John turns and he sees seven golden lampstands, and he tells us those seven golden lampstands are the churches. John, we have seen him suffering. We've seen him on his island. Deprived, perhaps lonely, stuck. And we've seen him patiently enduring He's faithfully having his quiet times. He's in the spirit. He's responding to the voice of his Savior. And we see him recognizing his kingdom. And it is a kingdom, brothers and sisters, because John goes on to say, and among the lampstands was the king. Among the churches, Christ rules as king. And that is a lesson that the Puritans in England didn't learn. That is a lesson which arguably Calvin and his friends in Geneva didn't learn. That's a lesson that Constantine the Great didn't learn. That's a lesson that various proponents of triumphalism, Christian Reconstructionism, Theonomy, Dominion theology, all these trends today don't recognize. Christ rules in and through his churches first and foremost. And his kingdom, his rule, his special rule. Is something that we are going to recognize in a moment as being so tied to the churches as bodies of believers that you can't separate the two. And this is not just John's theology that we're about to look at. This is the message of a book that was written to people so that they could understand the world as it really is. We look at life and we look at the world and it's like a tapestry and we we look at the backside of it, folks. All you and I can see when we walk out of here and drive down 108 going west or east is all the knots and the strings connecting the colors. And John is caught up in his vision, and he's taken to the other side, and he sees the picture for what it is. A kingdom that's forever, suffering that is ultimately trivial, and a call repeated again and again throughout this book to patiently endure What does patient endurance look like? John has written about what he has seen, and then he's told to write about what is, and then he's told to write about what is to come In Revelation, generally speaking, we understand John to have written about what was, what he has seen, that vision. than what is now? The message of that risen glorious king standing among his churches, speaking to his churches at that time. And what is to come? A perspective of history until Christ returns. And there is a call to patient endurance here. In what is now. In all of the letters to those churches, there are two ideas that run through every single one of all seven. Every single one. And I want us to go back to a minute to the idea of patient endurance. In fact, I want us to revisit the Energizer Bunny. That Energizer Bunny is to me the most annoying commercial on television. I just don't get it. I'll tell you what I really don't get I really don't get the fact that there's we're supposed to believe, we're supposed to be entertained by the fact that there's these guys running around in a truck trying to capture live footage of the Energizer Bunny, getting all excited because they see a little piece of pink fur on a barbed wire fence. Jumping out of their truck, running out, finding out they're taking pictures of a gopher and saying, We've got to keep trying. That to me is goofy. But at the same time, as I consider this text and passage, it's also sort of indicting. Because we patiently endure We have attitudes and we have activities. But to what end? How many pink energizer bunnies are you and I chasing in our life? Because John does not just say, patiently endure, period, and leave it at that. He unpacks these three points throughout this entire letter. And in the seven letters to the churches, he tells them what they should be patiently enduring in. And the word is a word that we don't like very much. The word is repent. Patiently endure in repenting, Christian. Martin Luther's very first thesis was that God has called the Christian to a life of repentance. A life of constantly recognizing your sinfulness and Christ's perfections and your need for Him and His sufficiency for you. And is it just John who puts a high, high priority on repentance? The idea of the kingdom. Think about Jesus in Mark's Gospel chapter 1. We're given a one-sentence summary of his preaching. And we read that Jesus said, Now is the time. Repent, for the kingdom of God is near. In all of the gospels, Christ's kingdom preaching is repent Paul on Pentecost Day, Acts chapter 2, pardon me, Peter, when he is asked, what must I do to be saved? He says, repent. And believe. Paul in Acts chapter 26, when he's before Agrippa, and the whole political situation is playing itself out. This is the very time when Agrippa says, this man would have been released if he had appealed to Caesar. Agrippa says, What are you doing? And Paul says, I was carrying my message. Preaching to people that they need to repent and show that they are repentant by their lives And very often today, you and I, as we think about the kingdom, as we think about our activity in our secular world. We don't use that as the grand kingdom imperative. Repent. Repent. That God God's kingdom be more fully established and realized in our world. Instead, we say obey And what we have done, Christians, when we submit, obey instead of repent, is remove the king from his kingdom. Because obedience to the law of God does not mean anything apart from the love of God in Christ. Obedience to the law of God is something that unregenerate people who don't have the Spirit in them are, first of all, unable ever to do, we read in Romans. And second of all, in as much as common grace allows them to hold to the outward forms and not cheat on their spouses if that's a law in the state, or not beat their kids up if that's a law in the state. Or not have an abortion if that's the law in the state. Does them no eternal good whatsoever unless you believe in shades of hell. And how many shades of black can there be? Repent Says the people, recognize that you cannot obey and that you need somebody who did We're supposed to be overcomers. That's the second word in all of these letters. Repent actually shows up as a word in five of seven of the letters. The idea in the other two churches is to continue this lifestyle of repentance and obedience. But in all seven letters is this idea of to him who overcomes Now, if you write in your Bibles, I would like you to write in your Bibles present tense. We read that. And quite frankly, I think that every one of us says, He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches, to him who overcomes, and we get this grand idea that okay, this is what Jesus is talking about. Jesus is saying is that if you and And if I can overcome at the end of our life, then we're going to get these things. And all of the things that we get Described in those seven letters are a share in that kingdom rule, some association with the description of that risen king. Something like the right to eat from the tree of life. Something like a white stone with a new name on it. Something like a share in the throne. But whenever we make that assumption, we are reading that word, he who overcomes as if it's a future. As if only after we've run the whole course and succeeded in everything and stand before Christ on that last day, He'll say, Oh, good, you overcame. Now you can share my rule with me. It's a present tense. Present active participle to the one who is overcoming through living a life of repentance. This is what I give him. This is what I give her. That child of mine, that son or daughter, shares in my kingdom rule in this world. And for eternity. That is the power of the kingdom. That's the power of the kingdom In Revelation chapter 12, John gives us what's called an apocalyptic history. Now, an apocalyptic history is something that anybody in those days who is familiar with this whole kind of literary form would have immediately known what was going on there. John, for a few short chapters, is pulling away from his whole subject, as it were. And he's saying, now I'm going to put this in a perspective of everything from the beginning and the war in heaven straight through to the end when the Lamb conquers. And we're told there in chapter 12, right around verse 6 or 7, in a one little verse, it kind of captures the essence of that, that the saints overcome. The saints overcome the evil in the world. The saints will overcome the beast, the dragon. And all of those things that for thousands of years the church has rightly understood now as being references to institutions that are godless. And how do we overcome? By the blood of the Lamb and the word of our testimony. We overcome because of what Jesus did for sinners And we overcome when we spread that blood around by saying, repent. And we overcome by the word of our testimony. What does this have to do with you and me? Patient endurance and an energizer, bunny There are many, many good things that you and I could be doing. Like Martha and Mary , we need to be thinking about what is best. And my challenge to you is to consider whether or not you, living in a day and age when so many people suffer so much because of politics. Because our nation is not one that any group of people in church history would describe as having been godly or even looking like it could become that What are you doing about it? How are you patiently enduring? Understanding the kingdom of God and who is your king and what his command is. The answer does not begin or end with voting, friends. Voting is a part of patient endurance. If you're about thirty years old, you have had twenty opportunities to vote Have you personally challenged twenty people to repent in your thirty years? Have you tried to spread the blood of the Lamb around this world? And has your activism been such that the word of your testimony goes forth loudly and clearly? Revelation is a book that I love. I can remember reading the words of one man. His last name is Sweet. J. P. Sweet is his name. And he concluded a little article and journal on this book and he said that we need to always remember that revelation Is not so much a book to comfort the church and to accuse the world As it is a book to accuse the church of not comforting the world Because the twin cries that end the book are, come, Lord Jesus, come, that your kingdom might fully and finally be established for eternity in reality. And the call of Christ that is supposed to be heard through our words of testimony That are a picture of the blood of the Lamb by which we overcome, saying, Come, any who are thirsty, and drink freely of the water that I give, salvation. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus, we thank you and we praise you for being the King who has overcome. We thank you for your might and for your power, and we thank you for your presence with us. And Lord Jesus, we thank you for your words recorded in the book of John. I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble, but take heart. I have overcome the world. Lord Jesus, you have overcome the world. You have overcome us in our stubborn hearts. Help us to be repentant overcomers. As we share with John in the kingdom and the suffering and the patient endurance that are ours and you. Amen.