To invite our children, four years old, to first grade, to be excused to their time of children's worship. And as they are gathering and will meet one of our volunteers in the four year. I'm going to ask Dave Ruck, who is our projectionist this morning, could you put up the last slide from that song, please? Thank you. I was struck by first how beautiful the music was in that song, but I was struck not necessarily by its beauty, but the contrast. of the beauty of the song and what was sung. So I didn't know this was coming, so work with me Though you slay me, yet I will praise you. Though you take from me, I will bless your name. Though you ruin me, still I will worship. Sing a song to the one whose all I need. What a contrast of what's being sung there and the beauty of the music. If you look at what's being said there, they seem to be in stark contrast. But what's being sung there is a prayer of a person who recognizes that we are ultimately helpless. We are in need of the Lord. We belong to Him. And for some, singing these words, perhaps even hearing them, is uncomfortable. I want to invite you into that discomfort. Thank you, Dave, for putting that there. Because it's a it's an apt introduction to our summer series, Summer in the Psalms. Because we're beginning a summer-long series into the Bible's hymn book. It is a series of songs and of prayers, but I want to invite you into the discomfort of the Psalms. If you've ever spent any time in the Psalms, if you're not discomforted, you're not reading enough. And I will tell you that if you are uncomfortable with finding yourself At the end of yourself, in darkness and difficulty, the Psalms are going to be a difficult place for you to be. If you're uncomfortable with being angry at life, questioning God and doubting what He is actually doing, if you're uncomfortable with that, I want to invite you into the discomfort. We cannot at all rob the Psalms of the incredible amount of emotional content that they contain. For what we're blessed by is the fact that they are Hebrew poetry. Unlike Hebrew narrative, Hebrew poetry actually does a really good job of being translated into other languages, though it has been attempted to clean up its language. But it has done a really good job of being translated even into English, which doesn't nearly have the nuance the Hebrew does, and yet it still contains in it. the original power of the Hebrew words. But let me be very clear. If you spend any time in the Psalms, it doesn't take long to recognize what The wonderful author has says these words. He says, but his prayers, they are not quite right. The psalms in Hebrew are earthy and rough. They are not genteel. They are not the prayers of nice people couched in cultural language They are stark. They are challenging. Even the psalm that we will read this morning, the very first psalm. Which leads us into a path, a way that forces us to ask a question. What way do you choose? The way in which we choose has very different outcomes And it is our desire that as we spend this summer in the Psalms, we're going to be looking at many of the different types of psalms. This is a general introduction, but for the rest of the summer we will look at the different kinds of psalms, and in so doing, the first Sunday will be dedicated looking at the, if you will. that type, what it looks like in different examples. And in the second Sunday, we will look at specifically that kind of psalm and we'll look at it in total in its actual context and what it's referring to. Our desire is that we have greater understanding of the Psalms, but also that we see it as a place where we can find refuse and strength. The gospel is so much here, as you will see this morning. And my hope is that it will encourage you and shape your prayers. That it will actually free you, that God doesn't expect you to clean your language up before you come and talk to Him. Did you hear that? I heard you heard it. Yvonne. Thank you. God does not require you to clean up yourself or your language to come to Him. He just simply says, Come. And that's what the psalmist does. As he gives us Psalm 1. As he describes the way. Hear now God's word. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like shaft that wind drives away. Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous, for the Lord knows the way of the righteous But the way of the wicked will perish. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Please pray with me. Now, Lord, we ask that by the power of your Holy Spirit, who not only drove and guided those who wrote the Lord, wrote the word of the Lord to us, We ask that that same Spirit would open our minds that we might see wondrous things in your law. Help the teacher in Jesus' name. Amen. So as you see in your outline, we're going to see this Psalm verses 1 and 2 describes the decision. In verses 3 and 4, we see the contrast. In verses 5 and 6, he really is talking about the work of the Lord. So the decision, the contrast , the Lord. First, let's look together at verses 1 and 2 specifically, the decision. It opens with this word blessed, which is better translated as happy are. Happy is the one, is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked. Now what is he starts off in the negative. If he begins by saying, this is a person who is happy who does not live this way, and in so doing, he's describing what the other way is. in great detail, though in very great economy of words. Better economy than I have. But a great economy of the word. So what does he describe first? What's this way? The one way in which he talks about is this: this person who seeks to walk away from the Lord, who doesn't find himself angered in the Lord, Is the one whose mind, he talks about the mind first, then he talks about the will, then he talks about the identity. It's all there. Notice what he says: the counsel of the wicked is the mind. Meaning This person accepts the advice of those who do not trust in who the Lord is. They seek advice, they find rootedness in this advice of those who do not trust in the Lord. Secondly, when he says, nor stands in the way of sinners, really what it's talking about is being shaped. by the way, in other words, the will. How their behavior is shaped by those who do not acknowledge nor follow the Lord. They are party to the world's ways. Now here's not talking about a certain subset of ways. It's talking about a mindset that does not find itself anchored in how the Lord teaches us how to live. So it's saying this person seeks to walk in their will. Their behavior is shaped by the ways of the world. Meaning contrasting that to the ways of the Lord. And then it says, nor sit in the seat of scoffers. Now for the Bible And certainly for the psalmist, being a scoffer is the height of pride. It is dismissive. But it does it not so much in the sense of like, well, I don't need to know that. It's from a complete sense of arrogance. I already know what I need to know. You can teach me nothing. I have no desire to be party to it. So what he's really talking about is the identity is this. Their whole self is shaped by a derisive, prideful arrogance against the Lord. I don't need anything that the Lord has to give. Now he's not describing the happy person. He's describing those who choose not the way of the Lord, but their own way. And that way is shaped by a mind, shaped by the advice of the world, the will, which is a party to the things of the world, and an identity. It ultimately finds its expression out of the heart and out of the mouth in a sense of scoffing and derision and arrogance and pride. And pride is, if you will, the original sin. That I do not need God. I'm doing quite well. Thank you very much. So what the psalmist does is he's saying, this does not describe a happy person. This does not describe a blessed person. But we need to push pause for just a second. What he's talking about ultimately is not in the short term Because it doesn't take much to look around the world, and there are a lot of people who don't know the Lord. I spent a good portion of my life not knowing the Lord. I seemed quite happy. I certainly only outward I was. I wasn't unsuccessful. I had what I needed. What he's talking about here is an ultimate sense of happiness. From an internal perspective, in the short run. Following the Lord oftentimes makes no sense at all. In the short term, it seems as those Who aren't anchored in the Lord. There are plenty of people who are successful who have everything. Everything Yet do not know him. In the short term, everything seems just fine with them. They seem at peace. They don't need the Lord to be nice. They don't need the Lord to be generous. They don't need the Lord to be kind. Some of the nicest people I've met have nothing to do with Jesus. Some of the less judgmental people I've met have nothing to do with Jesus. Do you hear that? Knowing the Lord is not a trump card for having all of this stuff So it's not talking about in the short term. It's talking about ultimately, eternally. So from an eternal perspective, the psalmist is declaring That the true blessed person is not defined merely by what we experience in this life, but from God's perspective What describes the person who's blessed is what he says in verse 2. He says The blessed person's delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. Now a couple of things that he's drawing on here, which is important for us to break down because it is used widely throughout the Psalms. The word law here, translated law, doesn't mean necessarily the law as we have it in the Torah, though it would certainly have referenced that. But law is used interchangeably in different ways. One way it could be to a specific command and imperative of the Lord, that is his law, but it also, as in this case, refers to the whole of Scripture. Which would have included the Torah, the first five books. And so what's being referenced here is that his delight is in the word of the Lord, how the Lord has spoken, how the Lord has told us how to live. And then it says, on his law he meditates day and night. So by this point, it would have been a regular practice for David and for the other psalmists. to practice throughout the night and throughout the day several different periods of prayer in which they have would have roughly every three to four hours would have spent time reminding themselves of the word and would have spent time in prayer. So in the one sense, you see the decision is your anchoring point in the world, in the way of the world, in the mind, the will. the identity of the world, or is it, as what is described here, the persons whose anchor is in the what the Lord has taught? This is the decision. But we need to be careful in understanding this We're also going to find in the Psalms and throughout the Old Testament, indeed in the New Testament, which says, no one is righteous. No one seeks after God. Who is this person? Is it someone special? Is it just the psalmist? Can this possibly be a description of those who follow the Lord? It absolutely is. It is a description and can be the description of you and me. But we need to be careful in understanding what is the source of the righteousness. You see, the psalmist is not describing, well, I'm a follower of the Lord and I'm good. And the bad people, they're wicked. It's not an us versus them mentality. What is being described here is the reality is that without the Lord and his salvation, without the Lord and His Word, we are all. Shaped and anchored by the ways of the world. Herman Melville said it best when in his great novel, Moby Dick , Ismail declares, Heaven have mercy on us all, Presbyterians and pagans alike, for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head and sadly in need of mending. You see, we have to be careful in understanding what is being called for in this psalm, in all the psalms, and calling us to finding our anchoring in the Lord. Are the Psalms being directed as follows? Is it this? Is it God helps those who help themselves or God helps the helpless? This is not pull yourself up by your bootstraps, get your Bible out, and get going. You can do it, and the Lord will help you. That's not what the psalmist is saying. That's not the blessed person. That's Pelagianism. What is that? Pelagianism, as Augustine fought it, is this idea that you and I can work ourselves to righteousness. And the Lord just gives us peppers and a little bit of grace to get there. That's not what the psalmist is saying. We all are cracked about the head and are in sad need of mending Calvin said it this way. There is not one component of human being, no corner of the self that we could retreat to and trust to be untouched. By the power of sin, no part is immune from sin. No part We cannot work our way to righteousness and have a little bit of grace peppered in. All righteousness finds its source in the Lord. So the psalmist is not saying, I am righteous and the Lord helps me. Woe to the wicked. No. We are only made righteous because of the righteousness of God. The only way we can say, blessed is the man who finds his delight in the word, blessed is the one who meditates on the word day and night. The only reason we can say that, thanks be to God, is this. God is not only the source of righteousness, He engenders righteousness. He makes us righteous. And so when you hear the psalmist say, I want to walk in the ways of the Lord, I meditate on his word day and night, he's not saying I'm righteous. No, he's saying the Lord is the source of my righteousness. His righteousness, as I am anchored in him, makes me righteous. Our trust is not in ourselves, it is alone in the grace and mercy of God from beginning to end. And the only way you and I can be saved by the word day and night is that is the Lord's word is the source of power and the source of strength. And the Holy Spirit uses that to make and remake and mend us. This is his work. This is the decision. Is it following the Lord as he calls us, or is it saying, nope, I'm good? This is the decision that is being described for us here. But he then goes further to give us the contrast In verses 3 and 4. He then draws on this metaphor of a tree planted by streams of water, the water being the source of life. for the tree. And the tree is not a mere vessel to bring out the fruit, it's a whole living organism. The tree then brings about leaf and fruit in its proper season. The stream is the source of strength, and the source, if you will, here, the water is the metaphor for righteousness of the Lord. And then it says this, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. Now here we must must be careful. Here, remember, it is not literally everything. It is not meant to be, well, I'm in the Lord, so it's a health and wealth gospel, I am going to prosper. Not always. Christians, do you lose your jobs? Yes. Do we have seasons where we don't know necessarily where the next paycheck is going to come from? Yes. Do our children always obey us? Nope. Do we always obey the no Or our marriage is happy and wonderful. No. Again, it is here the eternal perspective, the anchoring. Is that ultimately all things will be made new for those who are in the Lord? We prosper as we are rooted in Him ultimately. But he's saying here, in all that he does, he prospers. Now what is being uh what's interesting is that in Ezekiel, rather Jeremiah chapter 17, Jeremiah draws on Psalm 1 as he describes the following. He says First, cursed is the man who trusts in man, who makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the Lord. He is like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see any good come He shall dwell in the parched places of the wilderness, in an uninhabited salt land. Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is the Lord. He is like a tree planted by water that sends out its roots by the stream and does not fear when he comes. For its leaves remain green. And is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit. What he's drawing on here is this contrast between, if you will, two trees, because he says in verse 4, the wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. And then Jeremiah opens up that metaphor. Even more. First, let's talk about the environment. You'll notice both here as well as in Jeremiah. That the environment, the seasons of life is true of both kinds of trees. We all experience all environment, the seasons of life. And in so doing, notice what happens. That the one tree that finds its source in the righteousness of the Lord yields its fruit in season, but its leaf does not wither. What's being implied there is that both trees go through the same environment. One flourishes, but one perishes. It's not that the tree that is by the stream doesn't face fierce winds and heat. For Jeremiah opens up that metaphor when he says, when heat comes, and there may even be seasons of drought. It's not like Christians and those who follow and are anchored in the Lord somehow escape being seasons of drought. The difference is in the midst of drought, the tree still has leaves on the limbs. It is not ultimately dried up and blown away and destroyed. But what is being talked about here is not just the season of drought, but when testing truly comes. Ultimately, in some sense, about when the judgment of the Lord comes. And in so doing, what we notice is that the tree that is planted by water flourishes. He prospers. But the one who is not anchored in the Lord, the wind will drive away like calf. It's utterly without roots. That's why it becomes chaff. You know, I'm in the middle of the season of trying to get all the fertilizer right for the lawn. I don't have a sprinkler system, so I have to get this right. I'm trying to get it right because the very first owners of our house drove up to the front of our house yesterday. They just came by and they held a camera outside their car door and I'm like, what are they doing? Like, you know I mean I'm not that interesting looking and I and they they rolled down the window like well hey we're the first owners of the house nineteen ninety two and I'm like really good to know you have a camera out doing that that's good So we started talking and the and the f the Husband said, boy, the the front lawn, it it looks great. God had the hardest time with that. And I'm like, I know it's really hard. Because grub season is coming. Do you know what grubs do? When the ground reaches the right temperature, grubs come to life and they eat the roots from underneath the grass. And you don't know it until the heat sets in, and all of a sudden these patterns of circles start opening up on your lawn, and you go over with your foot and it just blows in the wind. And I told him, yeah, this lawn is the bane of my existence. Trying to maintain it feels like a daily slog, you know But there's life lessons in that. As with our lawns and our flowers and our trees They need sources of life. And sometimes things fight at that life that we can't always see. We don't find out until the heat of summer comes It requires an ongoing anchoring, an ongoing care. Here he's saying that blessed is the one whose roots are set in the in the water of life. But when the drought comes, that's when the value or the integrity will be demonstrated. So are we flourishing or are we perishing? And this is where this psalm fits within a much larger corpus of scripture beyond just the psalms. It fits within wisdom literature, like Proverbs and Job. Where what we find is he's showing the wisdom of how are you going to live. And it's putting forth this mechanism for us to follow and understand. giving us a deeper understanding of life, the parts we cannot always see. And ultimately asking us the question, where is your root? And what is your source of life? And that ultimately comes out in the final two verses, verses five and six. That because the one doesn't have its roots set in the Lord, their end will be what they have desired. If what you desire can only be gotten in this life, the advice, the shaping of the behavior, the attitudes, if it is this life Then that is all there is. There will not be an opportunity to enjoy places of blessing or authority. Verse 5, therefore the wicked will not stand in judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. By the way, it's not saying the righteous aren't sinners, remember? It's saying, where is your rootedness? And so in some sense, the psalmist is saying, we don't we those who find their rootedness in the Lord need not fear Need not fear those who do not follow the Lord, who seem to have great power and great pomp and great scoff and great influence. Because their end will not be in a place of judgment over others. They will be driven away like the wind. They will not be able to sit and enjoy all the blessings of the Lord because they've already gotten what they wanted and now it is gone. Yes, you only live once. But then whatever you enjoyed is gone. What you brought into the world, what you brought in was nothing, and you will leave with nothing that you have gained here. The toys, the success, the values. It is only who are we in our rootedness with the Lord. But he says verse six, for the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. Notice what it doesn't say. It doesn't say, it says, of course, that the wicked will not stand in judgment. The contrast then isn't, well, the righteous will stand in judgment. No. It's the Lord who knows. It is the Lord who has power and authority. And in some sense, this is an invitation to fear the Lord. That we will sit under His righteous judgment and His righteous eye. It is the Lord who knows, and I'm grateful for the passage which was read earlier in the service. Ezekiel 34. What does it mean that the Lord knows the way of the righteous? And he also knows the way of the wicked. Notice what it says, Ezekiel 34, verses 14, 15, and 16. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep. I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord. I will seek the lost, and I will bring back The strayed. I will bring up the injured. I will strengthen the weak and the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them in justice. The Lord knows the righteous, and he knows the way of the wicked And it is only the Lord, because he is the source of righteousness, it is only the Lord who can sit in judgment because of that righteousness. And the Lord's righteousness can either engender and bring about salvation and restoration, or it can also bring eternal judgment. And so it's an invitation to fear the Lord. That He is the one who is the judge of us all. But he is also the one who knows you. And here, this is an invitation both to those who follow the Lord here this morning and those who do not. Even if you have rejected the Lord, do you know you cannot escape his knowledge of you? You can try, but he knows you He knows your life. Whether you acknowledge him as creator or not, he knows you. And his invitation To you is to draw you into the knowledge which makes him your shepherd and not merely your judge. And to be found as sheep who has a shepherd like this is one who knows our every need, who knows us while we were yet his enemies. He sent his son to die for us. So, how do we, in this day and age in 2019, appropriate this psalm as we look back at it, looking at it from the New Testament perspective? What we see is that the Lord's righteousness has been revealed from all eternity, but finds its perfect fulfillment in Christ. who was the Son of God made flesh. And he has invited us in to find our righteousness not in ourselves, but in him alone, who laid down his life. Though we did not deserve to die, he died for us. And what we see is that the Lord knows us to such a degree. That instead of judging us as we deserve, that at the right time, though dreadfully broken about the head, he brought mending to his son Jesus. And what we begin to see is that if we have union with Christ, we can, as with the psalmists, say, the Lord is the one who is righteous. It is the Lord who I meditate on. It is the Lord's word and law that I find great power and strength and solitude in, for his way is the way of righteousness. A righteousness that is not my own, but a righteousness which is a gift. This is what He has done for us, and He knows us, and He loves us. And this is also why we heard earlier today that great shepherd passage from the Gospel of John. This is what the Lord says. I will seek the lost, I will bring back the strayed and I will bind up the injured and I will strengthen the weak. The Lord knows the way of the righteous. And he will mend and heal and bind up our wounds. But woe be to all who hear his word. Not I, but the Lord says. If we do not recognize him as Lord and Savior, we will face him as judge. And he will say, and the fat and the strong I will destroy. If our goal is to be fat and strong from this life, And not from his strength and his goodness. We will face judgment. And the wicked will perish. But the psalmist says, Come. Happy is the one whose strength is the Lord. Happy is the one who delights in the Lord, who delights in his law. This is our invitation. This is our invitation into the summer of the Psalms. And what you will see is that the psalmist will rescue with these themes over and out, inside out, in difficulty and in praise. And it is an invitation to all of us to find our rootedness in Him. What is your decision? What way will you choose? May the Lord show you his grace today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word and for your strength. We thank you for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, who is our righteousness. And by your word we are made righteous. We ask, Lord, that you would, by your Holy Spirit, help us to find rootedness in your wisdom and in your word, and may we delight in it. May we not be afraid of coming to you with all of the challenges of life, our doubts, our fears, our anxieties, our praises, and our celebration. But may we find refuge in you, the one who knows and who has made us, the one who is the shepherd, who is the king, and who is the source of all of life. Help us, O Lord, to find this way and to rest in it. In Jesus' name and by the authority of his name we pray. Amen.