I'm out to preach, in case you hadn't noticed. Especially when I'm up to preach at holiday time. Because that's time when you and I must need to be refreshed because we're busy, we're so caught up in the pace of all the things that we're doing, and that's the time more than any other time I think when we need to be reminded of who Jesus Jesus is. Because even though I love to preach, I don't like to preach in the abstract, the term is I love to preach Christ. But there's no other time when we are most able to just focus on and exalt the Lord Jesus as when we look at the Messianic prophecies, when we look at the accounts of his birth, of his death and resurrection, and the times when, other than focusing on the particular way that we're to walk as Christian, we just focus on Jesus. And I know of no Psalm, no messianic prophecy that does that better than Psalm 3. That's the one that we've looked at, and that's the one I want to look at today. Now, just this week, uh a couple of newcomers came and uh told me about what a friendly conversation. You know that that really encouraged me. And as I thought of that, I thought one of the reasons that I think that you are a particularly friendly congregation, I find you're pretty friendly too, is that you are happy people. And I told you they would mention that then back then said you even funny when you get to the blue main tag and you're you know, you're not just cutting off with a red moon tag, the blue, that this, the dead, you know, now you see But I think one of the reasons for that is that we're happy people always be Because you're seeing the reality and the wonder of Jesus. Because I know many of you well enough to know that you're not in trouble of king people. A lot of people who aren't afflicted with some of the problems within your homes and your family. So other people are obsessed with this. The fact is, there's something supernatural about that. You see, we are assuming joyful people because we've seen the grace of Jesus. And that's what I want us to see again from Psalm 2, because this really helps us to see. Now, do you remember uh Psalm 2? We looked last week at verses 1 to 6. This week we're going to look at verses 7 to 12. Before we do that, let's just read God's word and hear him speak to us. Psalm 2. Why do the nations conspire and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers gather together against the Lord and against his anointed ones. Let us break their chains, they say, and throw off their feathers. The one enthroned in heaven lasts. The Lord scoffs at them, though he rebukes them in his anger, and terrifies them in his wrath, saying, I have installed my king in Zion. My holy hill. I will proclaim the decree of the Lord. He said to me, You are my sons. Today I have become your father. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your inheritance. The ends of the earth your possession. You will rule them with an iron scepter. You will dash them to pieces like pottery. But therefore you please, be wise. Be world, you rulers of the earth Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the son, lest he be angry. And you be destroyed in your way. For his wrath can flare up in a moment. The master are all who take refuge in him. You remember that I said this song really breaks very neatly. I mean you can just divide it into four quarters. Last week we looked at the two halves The first half of it, verses one to six. And remember, that was divided into two halves, which were two scenes. Verses one to three is the scene on earth, the tumult of all those who are running around these little creatures, shaking their fists in heaven. The tomb of those who are screaming for autonomy. And then that scene shifted in verses 4 to 6 to the scene of utter tranquility in heaven. Then you had the secure response of the sovereign God, who was not only unthreatened by all these little creatures running around shaking their fists at heaven. But this God is so sovereign, we saw last week, that he actually uses their very acts of rebellion in order to accomplish the establishment of this kingdom and the overthrow of all rebellion set against him. That's we saw fulfilled in Acts. You saw that therefore Romans 828 is a very profound verse when it says that all things work together for good to those who God has called according to his purpose, to those that God loves. To those who are called according to his purpose. All things, you see, even the most heinous act in all history, God used to accomplish the greatest good in all history. He's the sovereign one. But then That scene in heaven continues from verses seven to nine. But the difference now is that the anointed man himself is speaking. And then after he speaks, and we focus on his reign in verses seven to nine, then we can Freed it by going back to earth in verses ten to twelve. And the psalmist down when the colour of the Lord seeks to persuade men and says, You men, you're screaming, go by see, I've been to heaven I've got a different perspective. I've got an eternal perspective on what really is going on in history. And that one who's on the throne, you have God to be in here. There is no way that you can ignore him. And let him land with this kingdom the way he wants and he'll live out. You are in this land And you must take account of his rule. Well now, that second half of the psalm has again these two parts. In verses seven to nine are called the declaration Verses 10 to 12, the Lord. And so let's look at those two parts this morning as we finish this messianic prophecy in preparation for the Advent season this year. First of all, notice the declaration. Now that declaration in verses 7 to 9 can be so Summed up in a simple statement, the son has inherited the nations. That really is what verse 7 to 9 is all about. The son has inherited the nations. Notice two things about that in verses 7 to 9. First of all, notice his exaltation. And then secondly notice his inheritance. You see there verse 7. So this uh remotes probably to most of you, I will proclaim the decree. You see, the declaration, the decree of the Lord. He said to me, Now who's speaking? The un the unrated one is now speaking. And he said to me, You are my son Today I have become your father. Now that's a verse that has been much debated and discussed through the centuries. Some people use that verse to say that. Jesus was created. He says, You are my son. Today I have become your father Well, what does that today refer to? When is that today? Doesn't that imply that Jesus in fact had a beginning over the time before? The father had the son. And now he comes on the scene, you see. And here's the son. And the father says, Now today I have become your father, you see. Yeah, it's like uh you're in a hospital, your wife has a baby, you know, and there it is with your son, you say, Now today I have become your father. That is strange language. But this statement is today I have become your father. And Jehovah's Witnesses and many other cults and those who would deny the Trinity would use this verse as what it is to prove that Jesus had a beginning. Though of course other scriptures tell us that that's not true. John 1, for instance, tells us that he was the eternal Son. He was with the Father from the very beginning. The Father didn't exist anywhere as in the Son did. John 17, Jesus is So the Father talks about the glory that he had with the Father from all eternity. And so the sonship is an eternal sonship. uh in his baptism, you remember, when the God descended from heaven, the Father says, This is my Son. He said the same thing at the Transfiguration. When he was Jesus was talking to Moses and Oliver. God says the Father, this He is by Son, listen to him. And so the sonship of Jesus was taught is an eternal sonship. And so many Christians look at this and they say, Well, this today is an eternal today It's just not really a today like some day on the calendar. It's it's kind of saying, eternally, as God is unbounded by time, the eternally begotten one, you are my son. Today, eternally today, I have become your father. I don't know if that's the way it looks. I think it's talking about it today. I think it's talking about a specific current. So how do you square that? With the fact that Jesus was always the Son. You see, this is why I really get excited about it. I was really excited thinking about you here in the second. If you could have seen this, Texas was saying to us. He said, God Himself In his humiliation, coming to earth to die for your sin and my sin, when he was exalted , He was exalted to a position that God himself had never had. Now, how can God receive an exaltation that he himself never had? How can you add to God's glory? You can't add to God's glory. How can you add his glory? something that he hasn't had before. He can't give God something he hasn't had before. But verse 2 says that's true. Verse 2 says God himself, the Son, got something he never had before Well that is astounding. Jesus got something he never had before. What is it? What this verse is telling us is that Jesus, who is the eternal son, according to his person At a particular point in time, became the son in a new way according to his position. He was eternally the son according to his person, gave a new inheritance as son according to his position. Look at that, nice, but that's speculation. How can you prove it? I cannot only prove that I can tell you when the goal was. You know when the goal was? The day he rose from the dead. When Jesus rose from the dead, he became the Son of the Father with power in a holy way Right, I'll prove that, right? Okay. Go to Romans chapter 1. Romans chapter 1. Romans chapter 1, Paul in his introduction, it's almost the introduction is the word. Now I'll just stop it. Paul in his introduction says Paul is a servant of Jesus Christ, Christ Jesus. Paul to be an apostle, set apart to the gospel of God. Now that gospel to be promised beforehand in his prophets, in the Holy Scriptures, such as Psalm 2. This one of the prophets, that uh my argument doesn't stop. That's just an example. He promised the gospel beforehand. Now then verse 3, regarding his son. And he describes the Son in two ways about his nature. Who as according to his human nature was a descendant of David? Verse 3, he's the son of David But then give us verse 4. And who through the Spirit of Holiness was declared with power to be the Son of God. Then , at least the verse, by his resurrection from the dead One of these described to be the Son of God with power? It was by his resurrection from the dead. The one that lies again is the Holy Spirit His nature according to the Holy Spirit is that he is a son of God with power by resurrection. It was when Jesus was raised that he became the Son of God with power. You see that underlining that verse is his power. That's the emphasis you see there in the Greek. He was declared with power to be the Son of God. Hey, we know he's the Son of God. But how do you see how we as creatures going to understand that? Paul says, Hey, that's the gospel. With power. He was declared to be the son of God, then as Messiah, he humiliated himself, he killed Earth, he was born in the manger, he lived, he died, and then he rose again to be the son of God with power. Power for law. Power to inherit the nations. We'll get into that in a minute. But it's that it's that connection I want you to see. The Son of God gave power by his resurrection. Now that doesn't predict you turn Acts 13, that's even third. In Acts 13, Paul again. is preaching to the Jews at the city of Antioch. The evangelistic message, he wants them to see Jesus And he does this, picking up the thread of his thought there in verse 26, by talking about how the Jews did not receive the message of salvation that came through Jesus. But he goes on to say, they in fact killed him They crucified him. They buried him. Thus Paul says he didn't use this in verse 30 and 31. That God raised him up And then in verse 32 and 33, he says, this resurrection was in fulfillment of prophecy. Now the subject here is the resurrection. The resurrection, Paul says, verse 32 and 33 was the fulfillment of a specific prophecy. What prophecy does he tell? What's the prophecy? Psalm 27 , right? Is it? Well, he says, we tell you the good news that God has promised our fathers, he has fulfilled for us their children by raising up Jesus. Jesus, as it is written in the second Psalm, you are my son. Today I have become your father. See , this is the message of the gospel. Today, the day of resurrection, when Jesus was raised from the dead, God became the Father in a new relationship. Not according to his person and being, but according to his messianic work. Jesus, therefore, because of this, Colossians 1. 18, says he was the firstborn, you see, the son who was. was first born for the dead that he might have supremacy in everything. See the connection between the exaltation and the inheritance This is the connection of the whole thing. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 35. Doesn't let me out now. We've got to come to us. We're going to find it. In a little more detail, not by explaining, but just by reading and worshipping the New Testament quotes in the fulfillment of Psalm 2, verses 7 to 9. Hebrews chapter 1 is another one. Verses 3 to 5 talks about Jesus' glory. His glory, which he says is, was beyond that of the angels. The glory he received in his resurrection and ascension. And then Hebrews 1-5 quotes that that's the fulfillment of Psalm 27. Today you are my son. You are my son. Today I have become your father. Specifically connected resurrection and ascension with the fulfill fulfillment of Psalm two seven. Hebrews five five. Talks about Jesus as the one who is The ascendant, exalted high priest who intercedes first. Clearly, the subject there is his exalted ascension as high priest. And he says that's in performance of, and there again, quotes, Psalm 2:7, You are my son. Today I have become a son. your father. So you see the message is absolutely clear. Psalm 27 was fulfilled in the resurrection. But today is the day of the resurrection. That day when Jesus ascended as King of the Nations. That according To Romans 14, 9, he died and rose and lived in order that he might be Lord of the dead and the living. You see, he rose that he might gain an inheritance And that's what you need to see. The adhesion is intimately connected to the inheritance. In fact, it's God's way of showing us as creatures What is that Jesus did? Because he's using the picture of an inheritance. Like someone is an heir in a family, the father dies, he gets the inheritance. Or if he gets to maturity, the father gives him new rights to gain the inheritance. And this is repped on to say Did Jesus mature like he had something real to something related? No. In a sense he did, because when he humiliated himself to live at the world and took what took on in human nature, it was so that he might be a human Messiah. And that human Messiah was so that he might gain an earthly kingdom. A kingdom that will ultimately be a new heaven and a new earth But still something that was physical as well as spiritual. And so he is now the Son who is doing the inheritance. And what does that embrace? Well, you take a look at verses like the one that's uh the the purpose of our church, you know, Ephesians one, sixteen and twenty-three. Have you all quoted and I'll forget it right now. But the wonder enough of them so we might know it at once. Oh god. First service, will we make all what? Him. Second purpose that we might know. Our hope. And the third purpose that we might know? His power. Thank you. That's even good then. His power and what is that power? Ephesians one, nineteen to twenty three goes. That power, this active power that he exerted when he raised him from the dead and ascended him on high, powered by all rule and authority, power and dominion, and any name that can be named, and he's the head of the church That he might do all things in every way and rule all. Why? Because he's the Son who is ascended. He's risen. You see. So he's been given that in his messy and the kingdom, his power. Colossians one, fifteen to eighteen describes that whole thing. also. Uh we have in Revelation chapter two, verses twenty six and twenty seven, Jesus says to the church, I give you authority because I have all authority. And what's he quote? Psalm two eight, verses in Revelation two twenty seven. For Ask ad me and I will give to you the nations, the ends of the earth for your possession. You see, you can't separate verse 7 from verse 8 and 9. The exaltation is for the purpose of the inheritance Jesus has inherited the nations. The thing is he is Lord of all. Personally and universally. Jesus inherited every square inch of your life and my life. Jesus is Lord of every Every person in every nation on this earth, and they will either acknowledge it willingly, or one day they shall be dashed to pieces, and they shall acknowledge it to their destruction. Jesus is. Lord. You see, when you preach Jesus is Lord, the word preach means to perform something. Doesn't mean to urge or exhort or talk into something. I'm not trying to persuade anything when I say Jesus is Lord. I'm saying Jesus is Lord, whether you like it or not. He is Lord. Because he's inherited the nations. Verse 7 says, You are their sons. Today I have become your father. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your inheritance. The ends of the earth are your possessions. Jesus has established a new kingdom, a kingdom that's not simply his because he made it, but a kingdom that's now his because he bought it with his own blood. And so now we are twice his, by creation and by redemption. And everything belongs to Jesus. All powers And there's three consequences to that. Number one, there's the warning. There's the warning. A warning and an invitation is given in verses ten to twelve. You see, he says, therefore, you know, remember the old rule, when let me say therefore, you'll find out what it's there for, and the therefore is therefore to follow verses 7 and 9. Alright? Therefore, connection, you came. What came? All the ones that were saying back in verses 1 and 3. Hey, we can live our own lives the way we were. Let him go to heaven. We'll take care of her. So therefore you came to be wise. Be loyal, you rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord. with fear and rejoice with trembling. See that beautiful phrase, rejoice with trembling. Rejoice! But that was a dog the only God like he's a buddy, you know But rejoice that you are son of the sun. Over trembling. Lord and fear. Rejoice For the sense of awe that you belong to him. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, let he be destroyed in your way. For his wrath will flare up in a moment. Blessed are all those And take refuge in him. Well you see, in those three verses you have two alternatives. He didn't serve them and rejoice. Or you can ignore and you destroy it. And the time is saying what there's two alternatives. It really is one but a way. Yes, there might be some people here who are hoping for some little way. Hey, I'm not against them. I wouldn't be here if I was against them But I I just sort of like them to give me some slack, you know? I want to run my own life. I want to do my own things and I want to enjoy things because I've had my agenda And so I I I sort of I don't want to serve him with fear and trembling and and give my life only to him. I don't want to be destroyed either. See the first is the way they line up. Either serving with good positive rejoice with trembling kiss the sun what does that mean? Kiss the sun? That's a strange phrase. But it's the kind of phrase that's uh used in first Samuel chapter ten, verse one as an illustration. Never one saw anointed, excuse me, when Samuel anointed Saul as king. The Bible tells us in 1 Samuel chapter 10 and verse 1. When he anointed him with the oil, he then kissed him and declared him as king The kiss in that culture was a kiss of homage. It was a secret of loving submission. And so it became a matter of kissing for someone. You know, you you didn't necessarily go up to the person and kiss them because there was a distance between you and the sovereign. So you would kiss your hand towards the person And that was the sign of submission, a respectful, loving submission. You see, the kiss is saying that it's not a rebellious first submission But it's a loving submission. And so the Psalmist uses that cultural practice. Kiss the sun. Give the kiss of homage to the sun. That loving submission to your king, lest he be angry, and you will be destroyed in your way. Well you think if if you can just teach Jesus as always You know, you're like to think of it as savior from your sin, but you've got to go to heaven because Jesus died and he called John 3. 16 or something like that. But there's no test to the Son in your life. There's no personal level submission Psalmist here doesn't say, hey, you know, as long as you claim him as your savior in her case. Hey, if you get to that point where you can kiss him, hey, that's fine. But yeah, it's really not necessary. What's he say? By verse 12, kiss the sun, rest, he be angry. And he be destroyed in your land The alternative to not having that loving submission to Jesus is about this out on a few woods in heaven It should be destroyed either way. And what does he say the next phrase for his wrath can flow off in a moment? She does that say she likes going along with saying that. Hey, okay, hey, I ain't looking to step, you know? Until you seem like they're all in pretty good health, you know, I'll think about this sometime down the road But right now, I have some things I want to do. The psalmist was saying here. His wrath can flame at any moment. And Jonathan Edwards wasn't hyperbolizing when he preached sin was in the hands of an angry God, that you are hanging from a slender thread from a God who is provoked by your rebellion. Everything is telling it like it is. Now, the ladies think it to the graphics. But our cultural sensitivities to that But that's because we tend to turn down eternal things. Andrews was saying his wrath can flare. In a moment. That sounds weird. That's not something I'm telling you here to get some emotional response. This is the word of God. His wrath can bear at any moment. You can be struck down with a massive heart attack. You can receive some diagnosis. You can be in an accident. Anything can happen And he won't be back next Sunday. Any love. That could be true. We live on the edge of eternity day by night. His wrath can flare. You love him. Are you ready to face him? Are you ready to stand in the presence of Jesus Christ for your life to end today? Can you recall the last Blessed ways of that song. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. See, that's the hope. You hide from him through him. How do you get the way? From the rod, the iron rod of verse 9, that iron scepter by which he will dash the nations to pieces. Very simple, you see, you're gonna kiss the sun. You've got to be your little But if you're within his arms, he can't strike you. For he's grasping you to his bosom. It's only to hide From the iron circuit that will mash the masons to pieces. To kiss the son, to draw to him, to cleave to him, to come over in his arms. To take refuge in him. Jesus Christ offers you refuge in himself this morning if you have never found that peace and that rest. I was thinking I was preparing for this, I was thinking it was just uh six years ago, Remember Bob Jurkey saying that uh God really spoke to him from messianic prophecy I wonder if there's somebody today who say, no , I realize in a new way. I'm not sure that I have a refuge in Jesus. Perhaps God wants to show himself in a holy way That he is the son of. He wants to glory to himself. Don't hold back at God speaking to him But he doesn't speak forever. Your heart can be hardened against his true entreaties to your own heart. Don't hold on. But there's another message here. And there's a call pill. You see, verse eight Says, ask of me, and I will give the nations her inheritance. But if the father says to the son, you need to ask of me in order to receive the nations for inheritance. And the Son, in fact, did that in John 17, for instance, when he says, I pray not only for those who have believed, but for all those down through the ages who will believe in my word. He asked for the nations. And what's that saying to you and to me about prayer? If the Son gained the nations through prayer, we as his disciples claim the nations after him through prayer. You see, this is a call to us. To intervention prayer. This is a call to us to say, our Jesus has inherited the nation. Sorry to ironic he's talking about. That's the one that you and I serve. Now let us ask of him, the Father. But because Jesus has inherited the nations, that we will see the nations come to Jesus. But more appropriate morning than when the Igerson arrive in Japan Just this very weekend, that we learn to ask of the Lord and say, Lord Jesus, you have inherited Japan among the nations. Now, Father, we ask for Japan. Father, we ask that you will give a people and a church and churches that will honor Jesus in Japan. There are some. You can ask them each of these, they'll tell you about some. But there are many, so many there, that are hardened against Jesus. And yet uh Yongji Cho, who has the uh largest church in the world in South Korea, is planning to plant a church out of missionaries from Korea to go to Japan. Now that's pretty astounding if you know anything about relationships historically between Japan and Korea. But Korea is sending missionaries from that church in South Korea to Japan in order to plant a church And he's expecting, because he's a man of great faith, that Jesus has inherited nations to go to plan a church of five thousand there in a few years, and that's what they're planning for. You see, because Jesus has inherited the nations. Do you remember I I referred to you last summer the uh Christianity Today article. It talks about how Jesus is fulfilling this prophecy in our day. It says that in the last ten years we have probably seen the greatest harvest in world missions in the whole 2,000 years since Pentecost. It says that in uh, for instance, Africa is becoming now a landmass like Europe was in the medieval times. By the year 2000, Africa will be a Christian culture. It's got a lot to be purified in. There's a lot of confusion about it. But Africa is becoming a Christian continent South Africa that merchants. The Muslim area won't be speaking Latin America. The church in Brazil is growing so fast patrol train leaders quick enough to establish the churches and to train audience. The church in the Philippines is growing 10% a year, doubling every seven years. It's the same is true in some of the Central American churches, particularly in El Salvador. And South Korea, of course. We've heard for many years how God has worked in Hebrew to South Korea today Is nearly one quarter Christian? Nearly 25%, nearly one out of every four South Koreans claims Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord in an evangelical meaning of that term. Realize what that means. Even mainly China, it's estimated now, is 5% Christian, according to the best research of the Chinese Research Institute, which is a very reliable source. Jesus has inherited the nation. Everything to you is to me. Ask of me. You see, the confidence you should give us in prayer. He's inherited them. Why are we so timid to ask for Colombia? Why do we ask for a you know a couple here and there to come into the life room? Jesus is saying, I've inherited Colombia Let's ask of him with expectation. Let's ask for our own ministries and Bible studies. Let's ask for God who works in the United States to bring revival. Let's ask for the nations. We've been doing some of that tonight. In our time with the Lord, the Lord's Supper round this table. Let's ask for the Iversons, for the Stuarts in Japan, for the Balmers in Italy, for the Haikes in Taiwan, as we member and call Psalm 2, 79, as we pray for the Lord. And finally must take comfort that whatever we attempt for Jesus must ultimately succeed. Why do we fear failure and kingdom activities? Jesus has inherited the nations. He acts over me. Go ahead. Hey, if somebody guys have been speaking to you there, I don't know. Go ahead. And wait a minute. This is who you serve Take comfort in that, brother and sister. Take comfort. What liquid that you can invest for Jesus will never be lost. But he is the Son who's inherited the nations. Let's pray. Speak to us of the truth of these words. Lord, we pray for any who has not found if you would just hold up their lives , that they would be miserable Lord, I say that out of love and concern for them, that they will be miserable until they see reality. Unless they come within your arms It shall be destroyed in their way. For then we know the blessedness of those who take refuge in you and ask of you That you have granted the nations, that you have inherited at your resurrection. For Jesus' sake. Amen.