I want to read one verse from John's Gospel where Pastor Randy Left off this morning. Actually, he preached verse four and five, but read through thirteen if you recall. And I want to read verse fourteen. Kind of pick up the same thought as we come to the Lord's table tonight. God's word in John 1 verse 14 says this And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth May God add his blessing to the reading of his word, to our hearing of his word. I'm going to date myself In nineteen eighty-four, there was a uh collective of British and Irish pop musicians and artists. Uh that put themselves together as a collective called Band-Aid. Anybody? Yeah. Alright, good. All the proceeds from this Band-Aid The song was called It's Christmas Time. And the proceeds were to go to Africa. to feed the starving children there. Bob Gandalf, who organized different Gandalf kids. Bob Gandalf, who organized the uh collective, was convinced that this was the way to um feed those starving kids. And, you know This song was gonna win hearts. Maybe you recall uh the voices of Paul Young, Simon Labon from Duran Duran, Boy George from Culture Club, Sting from the Police, and U2 's own bono, with these inspiring lyrics. It's Christmas time. There's no need to be afraid. At Christmas time, we let in light. We banish shade. And in our world, remember Boy George. And in our world of plenty We can spread a smile of joy. Throw your arms around the world at Christmas time. But say a prayer. Pray. Pray for the other ones. At Christmas time, it's hard. But when you're having fun, there's a world outside your window, and it's a world of dread and fear, where the only water flowing is the bitter sting of tears. And the Christmas bells that ring there are the clanging chimes of doom. Bono. Well tonight, thank God it's them instead of you. And there won't be snow in Africa this Christmas time. The greatest gift they'll get this year is life. Where nothing ever grows, no rain or rivers flow. Do they know it's Christmas Christmas time at all? Here's to you, raise a glass for everyone. Here's to them underneath that burning sun. Do they know it's Christmas time at all? And then that repetitive mantra that rings through the airwaves even now on W L I F every fourth or fifth song Feed the were Earl. Let them know it's Christmas time. Feed the were Earl. Right. Now I'm not going to take on the motivation by guilt that's contained in this song because we don't have time tonight. to cover that kind of error. But I think it's a a fitting thing To hear, at least from the 80s, and it's gotten even thinner in our day and age now, to hear what the world's response is To Advent season, uh, excuse me, not Advent season, Christmas time. Some nebulous set of days or weeks where you're permitted to Be altruistic and display acts of mercy. It's okay to do that. You can talk to your neighbor for the next 30 days because that's what we do at Christmas time. You hear the mindset of the world? This is a world that's grasping. This is a world that knows that something about Christmas time is about giving. Something about Christmas time is about others. Something about Christmas time is about attempting to alleviate the pain and the suffering that is evident in everyone. Whether we live in this country or in Africa. There's something about this time of year that causes the world to even sit up and say, you know, it it should be different. It should be different. Sadly, the world often thinks that the difference means a meal. You remember maybe some of you were there the night that Altrakarico, our OPC missionary to Uganda, spoke. And Al spoke almost to the point of tears of how the West brings those food dumps. And they drop the the the um you know the the people of the villages, they know that the food dumps are coming because it's well telegraphed. And they bring these containers and they dump the food there with uh big bags of uh grain and and uh canned goods I guess, or no maybe not canned, but but supplies that'll last a family or people a couple of days, maybe four. And he's stood at those food dumps from the West and he's watched uh women and children bloodied and beaten For those food dumps. He's watched violence erupt. He's watched greed and avarice spring forth from the heart of man when those food dumps come. And it caused us to, even, as we were sitting there listening, to think of the things that we do as well. You see, the problem with a momentary meal is that you're still hungry later. You're hungry soon after a momentary meal. And you're not only hungry after, but you can never really find true satisfaction. Unless you leave this place thinking that I'm talking about, listen, let's just forget about the four. Forget about those who are less fortunate than us. I'm not saying that at all. But there is a motivation for serving our fellow man. There's a motivation for reaching out to others. There's a motivation for those acts of mercy that is much more in keeping and much more in line with what true and pure motive looks like for those It's found at this table tonight. Because God, who is rich in mercy, did not leave us in our sin. He came. The word became flesh. You see, the world denies that God can ever Uh that the the world denies that uh that you can ever plumb the the true meaning of Christmas. The world thinks that it's that shallow. It's Christmas Christmas time. Let's be nice for a while. Then let's go back to what we do. Because God has been kind to us, acts of kindness should flow And we see the epitome, the quintessential, the height of kindness in the table before us tonight. And in this verse, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full. Full of grace and truth. The word became flesh. The doctrine of the incarnation reveals that the infinite becomes finite. The eternity enters into time. The invisible becomes visible. God, the word The second person of the triune God took on flesh and became a man. All for love's sake, he became a poor. The God who had always existed took on human form, fully God, fully man, the perfect union of the divine nature and the human nature. without any mixture of the two natures in one beautiful, glorious person Jesus Christ our Lord. The word became flesh. Randy touched on this this morning. This is how God speaks to us. Right, the writer of Hebrews says it. In the old days and in many ways and in various forms, our God spoke to us. To our fathers through the prophets, but now he speaks to us through the Son. And the Son is the radiance of the Father. The word became flesh. That word flesh We get a little twisted up sometimes because it's the same word in the Greek, sarks. And Paul uses it all the time for the negative, right? You know, the the flesh, wars against the spirit. This is simply the word that means humanity. Flesh and blood, humanity. The person of Jesus Christ got tired. He he slept. He needed to eat. He got hungry. He needed water when he was thirsty. He suffered the pain of uh rejection He was the word become flesh. John says that the word not only became flesh, but that word dwelt among us. He dwelt among us. He didn't just show up and make an appearance. He didn't just, hey, here I am, I'm going to save the day. You know the mighty mouse song? Here I come to save the day. Pops in, pops out, he's done. He dwelt among us. The word there you probably know is tabernacle, right? It basically means that he was a tent dweller means that the word became flesh and dwelt in a tent or tabernacle among us. Because why? What do you why do you dwell in a tent when you guys go up to Western Maryland, all you campers You don't try to put your house on one of those flatbed trucks or call Dennis and say, Dennis, I I'd like to move my house up to Western Maryland for four days so the family could get away. You take a tent Because why? You know that's not your home. He dwelt among us, he tabernacled among us as one lives in a tent, because this wasn't his home. It's not our home either. We have a home. A heavenly home, a mansion that's been prepared, many rooms, Jesus told his disciples. At the same time that he instituted this meal, he said, Listen, I'm going to go ahead of you I'll go ahead, I'll prepare a place, and I'm not going to drink of this same cup with you until I drink it in the Father's presence with you. So he tabernacle, he uh he dwelt in a tent, this temporary dwelling, but it was thirty three years worth of dwelling. He lived as one of us. He had to dwell among us in a full way in order to fulfill his purpose. The writer of Hebrews Gives us insight into this. Hebrews chapter two. He says, Since therefore, since us, the children, since we share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same thing. That through death. Remember, Pastor Randy pointed us to this. This was a baby that was born to die. This was a baby who had purpose. The baby we sing about in a moment in the next hymn is the baby who was born to go to the cross. The writer says he was he partook of the same thing, flesh and blood, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death. That is the devil. And he would deliver all those who Through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it's not angels that he helps, for he helps the offspring of Abraham, flesh and blood, just like us. He took on flesh. The word became flesh. He dwelt among us for a time so that he could accomplish the Father's mission. Writer of Hebrews goes on, therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and a faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he's able to help those who are being tempted. So he dwelt among us. And John says, He dwelt among us, and in that dwelling he revealed the glory of God. And we have seen his glory. Sermon series this month is called The Light into Darkness. We've seen his glory. It's the kind of appearing he does. Long lay the world in sin and error pining till he appeared, and the soul felt its worth. Idea, you probably heard me and try to interpret that line. What does that mean? Does that mean we know that we're sinners? And we know that he's the Savior? Or does that mean we know what our soul is worth to him? That the Father would crush the Son for sinners like us? I think it means both. So when you sing O Holy Night, and we will sing it sometime this month, think on his appearing He's revealed the glory. You remember in Matthew 17 when Jesus took James and John and Peter up on that mountain to the high place, and he was transfigured before them? And Matthew records in Matthew 17 that his face shone like the sun and his clothes became as white as light. He's pure light. There is no darkness, no shadow of turning in him. Pure light. And we're reading from John's Gospel now, but this same John as an older man in exile on the island of Patmos had a revelation on the Lord's day. And he saw the glorious Savior in his resurrected uh state with his resurrected body. And at the end of John's revelation, he sees the city. The city that has no need of sun or moon to shine on it. Why? For the glory of God gives its light, and that lamp is the lamb. He 's pure light. He came and we have seen his glory. The glory that we have seen, John continues, is the glory as of the only Son from the Father. The only son of the Father. Jesus, of course, says, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father He came certainly to reveal in all of his earthly ministry what the God is what God is like Right? We see the compassion of God. We see the way that God interacts with those who are penitent. We see the mercy of God. We see the tenderness. of a shepherd who would seek after those who are straying. We see all of that in Jesus, but I think that maybe there's a little more specificity to what John is saying here. Because we've seen the glory, the glory as of the only Son from the Father. And what do we think of? We think of Jesus and Nicodemus in that evening where the Pharisee came to visit the rabbi. And Jesus says That God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever The Joes of Cape Cod, the children of Ethiopia, the neighbor in your cul-de-sac, whoever believes. Might have eternal life. John says he God didn't send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that through him that the world might be saved. Because we stand condemned already. Each of us, our sin weighing heavily, our accounting in the red There is no balancing apart from Christ. There is no freedom from slavery apart from Christ. So the word became flesh. And dwelt among us, and we've seen his glory, the glory as of the only Son of the Father, full of grace and truth. Full of grace and truth. Essentially, John is saying this: that Jesus is full of salvation. He is full of salvation. Paul told the Ephesians that when we believe the message of truth, we have believed the gospel of salvation. In Ephesians 1. 13. In Colossians 1. 5, the gospel is defined as the word of truth. In Thessalonians The 2 Thessalonians 2. 13, we're reminded that God had chosen all of us, the ones who have been chosen. from the beginning for salvation, listen, through sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth. Jesus is full of truth. He reveals truth. And that's important. Because if we preach A false Jesus, and people believe in a false Jesus, then when they stand in that day of accounting, they don't have the true Jesus to cling to. And so we must be about the very serious business of teaching and preaching and studying and meditating and mulling over and receiving and taking the Word of God. Because herein is the truth of who Jesus is. Jesus himself said in John 8, Unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. He was interacting with the religious set. They didn't believe he was Messiah. And he was telling them, I am Messiah. That's truth. But he was full the full expression of God's truth. He's also the full expression of God's grace. Praise be to God. God. Full expression of God's grace. Grace is that undeserving. We are ill-deserving of. Remember the little distinction we make between undeserving and ill-deserving. Undeserving means you're not deserving of that thing. But ill-deserving means you actually deserve something else. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. The wages of sin is death. So what we deserve is death. And how could the invisible, eternal, infinite God ever take care of a death penalty if he were to be a substitute? Well, the word became flesh, and he dwelt among us. He's the full expression of God's grace. He gives life where we deserve death. He gives us standing as sons and daughters when we deserve to be left in slavery. He gives us spiritual food and living water because we deserve, when we deserve, to starve for want of righteousness I texted Randy. I disturbed Randy's Lord's Day today. So I could ask if uh would you mind if I used your couple walking along the river? And he was very gracious, said, Of course. No problem. He didn't even say it don't disturb me on the Lord's Day either. No, I'm just gonna He would have never said that. But you remember the couple walking along the riverbank and the foolish beau tries to prove his love by what? Jumping into the river and drowning himself? And she's like, um Well, I could have thought of some other ways. You know, diamond ring, all that stuff. Right, Stacy. I mean sapphire. Um or what is it? What is that believe? Is it sapphire? That's sapphire. But imagine that same couple walking along the banks of the River Niagara just above the falls, just above the falls. That same couple walking along the banks of the river Niagara and she looks in and she sees something shiny Something that she wants, something that she desires in the water. And before you know it, she's plunged headlong into the rapids. And she's heading to the falls. And he runs along the bank, trying to get ahead of her, knowing that the plummet is soon. He sees her coming. He sees the falls. He jumps in at just the right time. And he's able to grab her, throw her to safety on the bank. Right before he plummets to his death. Therein is God's love demonstrated That while we were sinners foolishly running after things that could never satisfy, death sentence awaiting Jesus Christ, the second person of the Godhead, the Word, became flesh and dwelt among us, and we've seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son given from the Father, full of grace and truth, the fullest expression of God. Of salvation. That's why we sing of a baby. That's why we sing of a baby who made his first bed among the cattle, and that same baby we sing, nails. Spear shall pierce him through. The cross be borne for me, for you Hail, hail the word made flesh, the babe, the son of Mary. I'm going to invite the at least three awaskies to come. And uh let's say