Welcome and good morning. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the book of Proverbs. The book of Proverbs will be looking at two verses from chapter thirty, verses five and six. That's pretty Almighty God, we come and we thank you for your word. Lord, we thank you that it is true and that it is reliable. Lord, we thank you that it is accessible, that it can be translated into every language. Lord, we thank you that it is your will that this be done, that every culture, every ethnicity, every tribe, every tongue Have this word that we might know you , that we might know ourselves, that we might know how to live before you to your glory and be a blessing to others. And Father, as we come to your word, we thank you that the reading of it is such a central part of our worship. And Father, help us never to confuse the reading of your word with anything else. Lord, help us to esteem it greatly. Bless the reading of your word. And Father, we pray that in the preaching that follows, in as much as it is true to who you are and what you've said, Lord, make it helpful. Lord, forgive, correct the deficiencies. Lend it power from on high, Lord, that I might be changed, that we might be changed. And have that much more peace and joy as we depart here. Father, we pray these things and ask these blessings in Christ's precious name. Amen. Proverbs chapter 30, verses 5 and 6, the Word of God. Every word of God proves true. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you, and you be found a liar. This ends the reading of God's Word. Ever since the Protestant Reformation, which really begins in the second decade of the sixteenth century, we find the subject of the Bible Takes on a new importance in the discussion of Western Christianity. Let's go back to say the 1400s If you and I are Christians living in the 1400s or the 1300s or the 800s, we did not have one of these. Because some guy in Gutenberg didn't uh invent a press yet Instead, what we had were phrases, sayings, stories. There were traveling shows that would perform events and narratives from the Bible Kind of like religious drama. There were traveling monks that would come and were known like the Dominicans and Benedictines for their preaching ministries. The Jesuits came later. But we would know by hearing certain phrases, certain rules, certain commandments, certain accounts of the life of Christ, certain sayings of our Lord. We wouldn't have them always in context. We wouldn't always have them in book form so that we could each one individually, even if we were clergy. Study. Meditate on context. Delve deeply into the subject matter of the Word of God. And if you go back into the days of ancient Israel, it is likely that they had more available access to the Word of God. than a typical peasant living, say, in what is today France in 1250. Shocking to consider, but yet true. Now, one of the problems with having the Bible dumped on people all over the place was many Christians didn't know what to do with it. Many looked at it as if it was superstitious. And they would take the verses of the Bible and they'd put them over their barn so their cow wouldn't get sick. That's not quite the point behind it. The same thing was done with the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Once this new awakening had happened, we find after the Protestant Reformation in England there were certain, this is a new job for the deacons They would have to stand on Lord's Supper Sundays at the back doors of the church to make sure that everyone had swallowed the host, the bread. because they discovered that people were taking it home, pretending to eat it, and giving it to their cow that had stopped giving milk. We are easily confused people. Dreadfully easily confused. And thus the great need for a word from heaven. But what do we make of it? How do we regard it? From the Protestant Reformation and the idea of who can interpret the Word of God only Deep clerks, as they called seminary grads back in the day. Or by the time we get to the 1800s, the debate becomes, well, how much of the Bible is the inspired word of God? A truly blasphemous debate. We know that the entirety of the 66 books of the Old and New Testament is the inspired Word of God. Now, today, the experts in Western Christianity The ones who are the observers and the Barna Report data gatherers. They're saying the issue today amongst Christians like you and me is not, did God say that? The issue isn't whether or not this is inspired or the Word of God. The issue is rather, does it have any authority over me? Is the Bible something that I need to pay attention to? Because if you don't need to pay attention to it, you certainly don't need to know it. Unless you want to win Jeopardy when one of the categories is Bible. Now I would suggest that the Bible is the inspired Word of God, because it claims to be just that, and that it is absolutely relevant and it's essential for every one of us in this room. And whether we think that what God has to say about certain topics is what we would want Him to say or not, is a question I find more revealing about me. than about anything else. There are things in the Bible that I don't like. That does not make them not true That makes me subject to the weakness, the confusion, and the opinions of my own era And that means that it is incumbent upon me to take my own thoughts captive and restrain them by what God has revealed to be true. There are in this proverb, which is really two proverbs put together, two sins we are warned against. And first we're going to look at it in light of the two sins, because that's the form the Proverbs take. Do not do this, do not do that. But then we're going to look at the blessings associated with resisting that very human push to denial. The first one is be careful that you do not commit the sin of subtraction. Every word of God proves true. Some translations you might have memorized, like the NIV, say every word of God is flawless Now, the great temptation in our day and age is to think not all of God's words are flawless. Not all of them are true Some of them were only true for a certain time or place. Some of them, with respect to things like personal identity or sexual mores or whether or not it's okay to cheat on your taxes, they were relevant in that day. Ah, not so much today. God, times have changed. Get with it. And we have to be reminded that every word of God at the end of the day demonstrates its own integrity. And by integrity I mean its own conformity to reality. I want you to imagine that you're one of countless kids A couple days ago that opened up a Lego set for Christmas. Any of you kids here get a Lego set for Christmas? True story This may be, this is a true story. This may be the first Christmas in my life, and I'm 56 years old, that I got no Legos for Christmas. Right? It says right on the box through age ninety-nine and I'm not there yet. And Jason said it's still the Christmas season, so family, let's go. How many times, kids, do you get a Christmas set for Christmas and you open it up and you look at the paper, which is what is the paper? Instructions and say, I don't need that. How does that go? Well, I'll tell you how it goes because I've tried it before. Lots of extra pieces. And the model doesn't quite match the box. You see, that instruction set had integrity, it had a conformity to reality that if I neglected it or ignored it or decided I didn't need it, I might approximate the spaceship on the cover of the box, but I would not replicate it. Because I would forget this piece, that piece. I wouldn't know what went on on the inside of the model. I'd be taking my educated guesses, or based on my experience of previous models I made, think, well, surely this goes here. And one stud at a time I would deviate from the blueprint. And I would come to think, huh, I better fish those instructions out of the trash can. Take apart my model and start over. Life is like that. Every word of God proves itself to be true. often to our regret, because we thought we could figure out a better way or a different way And how exactly do we do that? I think the principal way that we do that is we ignore the parts of Scripture that we don't like. All of us have things that we like and don't like. In fact, one of the reasons I hope all of you are able to come to hear Dr. Glenn Sunshine speak on a biblical worldview next weekend. Is he has done a lot of work as a historian, theologian, philosopher, Bible scholar on the question of why we think the way we do. Why is it that we think the Bible should say this? Why is it that we don't come to the Bible sort of as this uh Renaissance tabula rasa, blank slate, and just let the Bible fill in the blanks and say, that's awesome. Why is it that we resist certain things the Bible teaches us? Why do some of the things the Bible teaches us make us angry and think God's not fair? Well, we think that way because we are all Whether we want to admit it or not, programmed by our culture in such a way that we're predisposed to think certain things are right or wrong without reference to God. We're predisposed to think in ways that say God has to conform to our expectations regarding right and wrong, good and bad, fair and not fair. And to the extent that God doesn't match up with what Hollywood and Madison Avenue and Wall Street are telling us, the problem we think as humans, channeling our inner tower of Babel, we think God has to get with our program. Now, anybody who takes a little bit of time and studies history, whether that's biography or the history of nations, comes to realize a very sad truth. That we neglect the Word of God to our own peril. Why is that? Why is that? Every word of God proves true. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. And I want to make two observations about that. Every word of God proves true. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. We're going to start with in him, then we're going to go back to shield. God is making a radical statement here through this man named Agar, son of Jacob, who's giving us this proverb. You read about him very briefly in chapter 30, verse 1 of Proverbs. We know nothing else about him, but he was an exceptionally wise man. And God is telling us that he identifies himself with his word, such that when we lay hold of his word, we are laying hold of him. I want you to think about what Psalm 138 says. This is David, probably centuries before Agar. He begins this psalm of praise saying, I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart. Before the gods I sing your praise, before all the false gods. I will sing your praise. I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness. For you have exalted above all things your name and your word. So I want you to think about this The Bible is teaching us that if we were to create like this absolute hierarchy of being, and a hierarchy is kind of uh since we have kids in the church today, a hierarchy is an order of what things are best. to what things are worst. So for example, commanders then ravens. Packers. Now it's time for church discipline. When we think about putting things in a hierarchy For example, out of the people in my world, it would be my wife Carrie, number one, sheep number one, then my kids, then my parents, then my brothers. My sister-in-law's, and we can go down that way. You know, there's ranked orders of things in our life. St. Augustine, the African father from the fourth century, said that the key to a successful life is the proper ordering of the affections, getting things in the right order Getting the loves that are natural to all of us in appropriate relationship to one another. If I love my books more than I love my wife, I'm gonna have some problems. If I love my kids more than I love my wife, I'm going to have some problems. That's not how God designed life to be. And so we want to think carefully about getting our loves in the order, in the appropriate order, based upon what the Word of God teaches. And when I think about what Psalm 138, verse 2 says, if I'm going to create a list of all the things that I think are exalted To trivial, at the very top of the pile are two things: the being of God and the word of God The God whom I worship and the Bible that He gave me by which I can know Him. And I can't separate those things. God is saying that every word of God proves true, and when we walk away from the revelation of Himself in the Bible, it is He Himself that we're walking away from. In favor of a God manufactured by our culture or our own imagination. Let's talk for a minute now about the word shield. Why is it that things go bad in biography and in national history when countries turn away from the Word of God? Every word of God proves true. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. If we take the Bible to be the Word of God, the expression of His being and will for us in our living right here, right now. We are safe. We're protected. See, we often Come to the sad conclusion that if we follow the Word of God, we are denied all kinds of pleasures, opportunities. That somehow God's this, as Josh McDowell put it back in the late 70s or early 80s, this cosmic killjoy. He just doesn't want us to have any fun. The reality is, and many of us have learned this to our great dismay, there is safety in standing under the shadow of God's wings. There is safety in asking ourselves the question, what does the Bible say before we make a big decision? There is safety. There is a guardedness. There is a being shielded. That takes place every time I say, God, what would you have me do? How would you have me think? And then go to this precious book. Every word of God is flawless. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not Commit the sin of subtraction and decide that certain things the Bible has to talk about are irrelevant to you. They are not. And one day, soon or late, you will come to realize I shouldn't have thrown away the instructions Because some of the best pieces in this Lego set are sitting idle and didn't get included Every word of God. Don't subtract. But there is another caution that this wise man Agar, son of Jacob, shares with us by the Spirit of God. He says in verse 6, do not add to his words. So if on the one hand we cannot subtract from his word, we also can't add to his word And I put this sermon together with these ideas because I know there's a lot of engineers with a mathematical bent in this congregation. No adding or subtracting, much to the delight of children everywhere. Resist the sin of addition. His words are sufficient. Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar. To say that God said something that he didn't say. What a horrible thought I want you to imagine for a moment how you have felt on times that other people chose to put words in your mouth for whatever reason seemed right to them. And it got back to you later that so-and-so said you said whatsoever and you didn't. And what what what if it was contrary to what you actually would have said were you in that conversation? The indignation, the desire to confront and rebuke that person, and say, you can't go telling people I said something when I haven't spoken. That kind of misrepresentation of who I am is not okay with me. Now, if that's the case with us as people How high is the bar for a preacher like me who would presume to say, Thus saith the Lord? I dare not go one one syllable beyond what God has said. I have in my office I have a series of Books you can buy them from Michael's or from wh what's the other one? Joannes uh fabrics. They you know crafting stores they have these they usually have a blue denim type cover and they're blank on the inside. They're for sketching, but they're blank books And I have a series of these books and I've share them with my interns. I get make my interns get their own to keep keep a reading journal where everything that I'm learning and all the books I'm reading, I I fill them up with notes. And on the front page of every one of those reading journals that I have kept for decades now, I always write a quote from John Calvin. And this is the quote. Where God has spoken, we may safely follow, but where he has put an end to teaching, let us stop trying to be wise. Do not add to the Word of God. Because God will not look favorably upon those who speak poorly in his name. And that doesn't mean I shouldn't speak in his name. That just means I should be very careful to be a student of his word. Because to be a student of his word, loving him, is also to be a student of him and to speak what he has said. If keeping the Word of God and embracing the God who's spoken in Scripture keeps me safe , Adding to his word and putting words in his mouth and saying he said things or thinks things that he has not explicitly said, that leaves me exposed. He himself will rebuke me. How many of you have ever ever been rebuked? Yeah, anybody? Yeah, I've been rebuked. In fact, my dad is in the congregation today. He would he could affirm that I have indeed been rebuked. So is mom. I believe she's rebuked me too. I've been rebuked by many people. In fact I couldn't count the times I've been rebuked. I would prefer to experience all of the rebukes from all of the people I have ever known to being rebuked by God even once. I mean, the thought of my Maker rebuking me, you know, this is the stuff that validates the necessity for that eminently biblical doctrine, the fear of God. We don't trifle with those things we love most. We regard them as precious, as important, as sacred. And so it is very carefully that we declare what God has said. It's very intentionally that we study the Bible to find out what he intends regarding the different seasons or opportunities life presents. And we are careful to neither take away from the Word of God or to add to it. And the place that's difficult for us are the very places where our cult where our culture would offer us the most peace and joy and happiness. Here's what I mean by that. Our culture bombards us with the notion that money and sex and personal freedom are the keys to happiness. And so we find that whenever the Bible says anything about money or sex or personal freedom, we recoil a step. It's not in a vacuum that we have these reactions as if God is in some fundamental way out of step with humanity. God is simply out of step with our cultural moment. And there's a reason for that Our cultural moment has stepped away from God. And we have to take careful stock, a personal inventory of how the culture we live in has shaped our attitudes, our thoughts, our convictions in such a way that we no longer want to hear what God says about certain things. And we want to sort of defiantly build the Lego set of our life by our own instructions. You know, the pieces we will miss out on. As Christians, we are, as we were described in the seventh century, by the first generation of Muslims who would look on in consternation in North Africa. at the intractable refusal of the Christians there, especially in Egypt to convert, we are a people of the book. And we will not be pried from it. Every word of God is flawless. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar. And I want those words to be precious to you, and those commands to be precious to you. Because at the heart of both the command not to subtract and the command not to add, Is God's intent to have a relationship with you? His intent for you to be standing before him without rebuke. And for you to be standing before him protected. And what a blessed thought that is When I was it back in 1992, I was a seminary student here. I was living here, attending this church. In fact, I was leading the youth group and at the time teaching middle school, Sunday school. We were meeting at the Smith Theater. And there used to be a bookshop in Catonsville. You go up 144 up the hill and in Catonsville it was called Castle Bookshop. And it was the retirement project of an old uh U. S. Marine. The name was Ed. And Ed had struck up a deal with me because I was a very good customer. Whenever he bought a pastor's library, he would call me and I would get first dibs and he'd let me buy books by the box. So it worked for him. He was turning over product quickly and it worked for me. I was getting great books. And on one occasion, it was like ten Christmases all packed together on a hot day in July. On the top of a box of books, he had Pritchard's Ancient Near Eastern Texts. Now, you can find abridged versions of that book For, you know, $49 or whatever. But the original unabridged, and the book is about that thick and about the folio size, about that big. And I got that for a song and a dance. And I read that book, Ancient Near Eastern Text, covers everything from early, early Sumerian through Egyptian and Hittite. And let me tell you about some of the things you read about if you read ancient Near Eastern texts. Let me introduce you to an Egyptian who lived in about 2400 BC. Who says with despair, I can know the will of a God, but have no idea how to do it. Shocking fact about that statement is that it is monotheistic through and through. And utterly perplexed. He is aware that he, as every son or daughter of Adam and Eve, is suppressing certain truths and unrighteousness. And if you read his lament, he's painfully aware of the fact that there is a God, but he lacks the means by which to know him. Let me take you back to the days of Astrabanapal, the Akkadian ruler, early 7th century BC. And he writes a psalm, we would call it, that would extend to 50 or 60 verses, and it goes something like this. To the God who is furious with me, be merciful to me. To the God whom I do not know, be merciful to me. To the God whom I do know, be merciful to me. To the God whom I do not know, but Think I know, be merciful to me. To the goddess that I do know but think I do not know, be merciful to me. To the goddess that I know, be merciful to me. Every permutation of every possibility, including multiples, to the God and the goddess who are both angry at me, please be merciful to me. to the God and Goddess whom I do not know but think I know. It goes on and on. And it is an absolutely heartbreaking picture of someone trying to live a spiritual life in profound ignorance of who God is. And thus the extreme importance God has placed upon his word being published, on Abram being a blessing to all nations. On an invitation to every tribe, nation, language, and tongue to come, and on our great mission to promote the knowledge of the God who has spoken. And he said, Deep down you know that you have in you what John Calvin called a divine spark What St. Augustine called a God-shaped hole. You know that you have this sense of the holy, of the divine, of the internal that is pressing in on you as you live your life, deciding what cereal to eat or what clothes to wear. You scratch your head and say, but how can I connect who I am in my imminent existence with the fact that I know there's a God and that I was deep down designed to fellowship with him? Every human being in the history of this race has prayed. You know you're designed to talk to him. And what a thought for you, dear friend, that God has taken the initiative and he has spoken to you. Not just through creation, but specifically through his word. And he has made it one of the great tasks of his people. One of the reasons we exist on this earth and don't become Christians and immediately get translated to heaven is so that we can have blessed, beautiful feet and be those who bring good news. On every mountain we can climb, and herald the fact that the Word of God has been spoken and revealed, and we can know Him. I would like nothing more for this second year of my ministry here at CPC because today brings the first year to a perfect close. And if we began with an absolute, unqualified emphasis and focus on the person and work of Christ , We're closing with an as white-hot a focus as I can think to make it on the revelation of Christ. We have, if you are a man or woman in this church, we have groups of men and women that are gathering to read the Bible through in a year And in the lobby, you'll see places if you go by the welcome desk where you'll get information on how to do that. I want to challenge you, read the Bible in a year. Because if every word of God proves true and we are not to add to them, it makes good sense to know them. Am I right? You guys are acting even less Presbyterian a year in, and I I appreciate that. Know the Word of God. Read it together. Read it together. If you would like to find a different way to read it, Talk to me or one of your elders. If you're not in a place where you can get through the whole Bible in a year or you want to read it chronologically with a group, we'll find a group to put together. Let's read the Bible in 2025. Amen. And if you are not a Christian, I have a shocking challenge for you. Read the Bible. How can it possibly hurt? When I was 19 years old and I was deeply embittered at the fact that I was diagnosed with retinitis pigmentosa and I couldn't join the Marine Corps and I felt like God was not being fair and I can remember fuming at God, being so angry at him, and sadly uh turning to alcohol. I can remember thinking as a freshman at College Park How do I know if God hasn't answered the question I have? How could God let this happen? How do I know God hadn't answered that? Because I had not to that point read through the entire Bible. And I decided as a freshman in college, I'm going to give God a chance to speak for himself. What presumption! And I got a Bible that my old young life leader had given me, Troy Mackin, and I put a little check mark next to every book of the Bible that I'd never read before. Stuff like Lamentations. And I'd never actually read through Jeremiah. I'd read through Daniel because it was cool, had lines. I'd never read through Micah or Joel And in reading the Bible , God spoke to me. Not in some voice, but through his words. And here I am a preacher. My challenge for you, read the Bible. These words are life. They are precious. They are sweet. Sometimes they're hard, but they're always good. And they will speak truth to you in a world of propaganda and spin. And they will be for you an anchor for your soul. Let God be God, and his word be his word, and order everything else under it. If you feel like you are that ancient Egyptian, the ancient Akkadian in the days of Astra Banapal I'll encourage you. We'll have people praying in the in this front corner of the church after the service, and they'd love to meet with you and pray and tell you more about Jesus Christ. But let me just share this thought with you. On Christmas, we celebrate the fact that the Word became flesh. Jesus identifies himself. with the revelation of the triune God from eternity as the Son. And he says, to know me is to know God. And Jesus as God come in the flesh, as a babe on Christmas, as a sacrifice on Good Friday, he says, yes, you are a sinner, and the Bible is going to tell you that But fear not, because I came to pay the penalty for those sins. Your God, your Lord, your Savior, your master, your friend, your captain, your brother I came for you. And this word tells me how I can know him. And it tells me that if I repent and believe and put my trust in Christ, He's going to help me rebuild the Lego model of my life. He's going to help me dig back through the discarded instruction sheet. And he's going to help me put all of those beautiful pieces back together because in the eyes of God, you are beautiful. Intended for glory, designed for eternity, precious in the eyes of God Almighty God, we ask that you would help us to think and to feel and to know rightly that you are God and there is none above you. And that your word is right beside you in importance in our life. It is so very sweet and precious and priceless. It is important to us It grounds us, it leads us, it inspires us, sometimes it convicts us, but it always comforts. Almighty God, we pray that this year in the life of our church that begins next week would be a year in which we Become even more deeply in love with your word as we fall deeper in love with you. Lord, my prayers for any who are estranged from you or are far from you or have thrown the instructions you've given away. Lord, I pray that you would deal mercifully with them. Move their hearts to seek you and find you in this great day of salvation. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ, the Word made flesh, the matchless name of Jesus our Savior. All God's people said.