Well now we come to the final message in this series of messages on forgiveness. The conclusion last week in this consists in two parables or pictures of God's forgiveness. The relationship the Bible teaches us of believers to God is pictured in two ways primarily. First of all, as a wife to a husband, and then secondly as a son to a father. For the Bible speaks of us as the wife, as a prostitute wife, a wife who is in desperate need of forgiveness. by her husband before she can be made his bride. And the Bible also teaches that we are prodigal sons, sons in desperate need of forgiveness. Before we can be restored to the Father. The prostitute wife and a prodigal son Two pictures of God's forgiveness, its extent, and the profoundness of God's grace to us. And so it's quite appropriate that we conclude with these two pictures of God's forgiveness in this series. It's also quite timely. I'm sure I can hear some of you saying, I know this guy plans ahead, but that's ridiculous to plan to have a sun on the Sunday that he speaks on the prodigal sun. Uh I assure you my planning was not that precise. I did plan to finish speaking in this series on the Prodigal Sun this Sunday. The rest was the Lord's doing. But it is timely Because it wraps up for us an understanding of what forgiveness is about and helps us to see the biblical pattern according to God's forgiveness. Let's look at that parable now from Luke chapter 15. It's the third in a series of three parables. Let's look at them all. And so let's begin The beginning of that chapter and read the entire chapter, Luke chapter 15. Let's hear the word of God. Now the tax collectors and the sinners were all gathering around to hear him, but the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered This man mark them sinners and eats with them. When Jesus told them, then Jesus told them this parable. Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them. Does he not leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it? And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Then he calls his friends and his neighbors together and says, Rejoice with me, I have found my loss cheap. I tell you that in that same way there is more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents. And there are the 99 righteous persons who do not need to repent. Or suppose a woman has ten silver coins and loses one. Does she not light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully until she finds it? And when she finds it, she calls her friends and her neighbors together and says, Rejoice with me, I have found my lost coin. In the same way I tell you there's rejoicing in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Jesus continued. There was a man who had two sons. The younger one said to his father, Father, give me my share of the estate. So he divided his property between them. Not long after that, the younger son got together all he had and set off for a distant country, and there squandered his wealth in wild living. After he had spent everything, there was a severe famine in that whole country, and he began to be in need. So he went and hired himself out to a citizen of that country Who sent him to his fields to feed pigs? He longed to fill his stomach with the pods that the pigs were eating, but no one gave him anything When he came to his senses, he said, how many of my father's hired men have food to spare? And here I am starving to death. I will set out and go back to my father, and say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired men. And so he got up and went to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him. He ran to his son, threw his arms around him, and kissed him The son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, Quick, bring the best robe and put it on him, put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Bring the fatted calf and kill it. Let's have a feast and celebrate. This son of mine was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And so they began to celebrate. Meanwhile, the elder son was in the field. When he came near the house, he heard music and dancing, and so he called upon the servants and asked him what was going on. Ah, your brother has come, he replied. Your father has killed the fatted calf because he has him back safe and sound The older brother became angry and refused to go in. And so his father went out and pleaded with him. But he answered his father, look! All these years I've been slaving for you and never disobeyed your orders. And yet you never gave me even a young goat so I could celebrate with my friends. When this son of yours who squandered your property with prostitutes comes home, you fill killed a fatted calf for him. My son, the father said, You are always with me, and everything I have is yours We had to celebrate and be glad because this brother of yours was dead and is alive again. He was lost. It is bound. So then God's word may aid us in considering it now. The first thing we need to do in appreciating this parable is to notice the occasion which prompted Jesus to speak it. Notice in verse 1 and 2, we read that the tax collectors and the sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus. But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered, This man welcomes sinners and eats with them. And then because of their disdain, because of the irritation of the par of the tough Pharisees concerning Jesus welcoming those who were despised as sinners in their eyes. Jesus speaks in three parables of a lost sheep, a lost coin, and a lost son. In each of these parables it's quite obvious that the point is the preciousness of that which was lost. The sheep was precious to the shepherd. The coin was precious to the wife, to the housewife. And the son, as the climax of these three parables, was most precious to the father. The second thing we need to notice before considering the parable itself is to remember the purpose of parables. You can't press every single detail of the parable as an analogy But rather we need to consider what is the main point, what is the main teaching, the main truth about the kingdom that Jesus is seeking to communicate. And the main point, of course, in this Is that God treats his people on the basis of grace rather than law? The Pharisees were operating on the basis of law And they were saying, if I do my duty, I get my desserts. If I keep my part of the bargain, God is obliged to keep his and bless me. But the publicans and the sinners were operating on the principle of grace. They were overwhelmed by their guilt of their sin, and they had nothing to do but to cast themselves on God's grace. And therefore it's in response to his grace that they serve him some gratitude. They have no claim upon him. There's no pretense of any righteousness that they could have. And Jesus is saying here, that's really the nature of all of us. You see, it's easy for you and for me to scorn the legalistic Pharisees and say, yes Though some clusters were always operating by the laws, they never could learn what grace was about. And yet the question is, have we? Have you and I really learned what grace is about? Or perhaps do we find ourselves in the place of the elder brother? This parable, which is called the parable of the prodigal son, is really the parable of the prodigal son in contrast to the elder brothers. It's a parable of both of them. And I believe it's wrong in a misunderstanding of the parable to consider it simply as a parable of the prodigal son. Over one-third of the parable relates simply to the elder brother And it's the contrast between the two that we need to notice. And so let's look at that now as we see these three points that you see in your outline. You can find that sheet in the sheath of those that you have in your file there. The three points concerning the fullness of repentance, the fullness of forgiveness, and the fullness of friendship. First of all, then concerning the fullness of repentance portrayed to us in this parable. Here we deal with the prodigal Son Himself. His feline all began in that day when greed crept into his heart and he looked at his father as good as his own And that which he could control independently from the Father, seeing him himself as not responsible to the Father, in his use of them. And so he says to the Father, Give me mine now I want to get my goods right now while I can enjoy them. His father, probably not out of duty, but out of a gracious desire and loving his son, gives them to him before it's his right to have them. It's not long, you see, after he receives these goods that he begins to think, why should I hang around here? My father's presence is simply a reminder to me of my greed and the fact that I really can't use this stuff the way I'd like to. I feel guilty every time I think about using it the way I want to with him around, and so I'll leave. And so the fun in this greedy selfishness takes off. And it is and he goes to what Augustine called in his commentary on this parable the land of forgetfulness of the Father. He takes us to that distant country, and there he spends in a wasteful and prodigious manner all that he has. Now we don't know how he spent it. We know he wasted it. He probably had a number of friends while he was spending all this cash, but then a time comes when it's all spent, and his friends have disappeared And no cash, no friends. He's poor. Not only is he poor, but a deep recession hits the country. A famine hits He comes upon hard times. Before we read the tragedy of tragedies, he has to go to work. Things are really looking grim Not only does he have to go to work, but for a Jewish kid, he got the very worst kind of work that you could imagine Feeding pigs. This goes to the Jews unclean animals. Now you can read all kinds of articles today to tell you that pigs aren't really unclean animals. But ceremonial pigs were unclean animals. And he has to go out into the field and feed the swine. Now I used to think when I used to read this parable that when he longed for the husks that the swine were eating, that was talking about corn cobs It's not talking about that. It's talking about the fruit of the carob tree. It's a bean. It's a kind of a a shell or a pod in which that is what is eaten. Is the pod, the shell, the husk of this of this particular fruit of this tree. But it's a fruit it's it's uh suited primarily for pigs. And yet he longs to fill his own belly with that which the pigs have. Until that time when he finally comes to his senses, and we read in verse 18 I will set out and I'll go back to my father, and I'll say to him, Father, I've sinned against heaven and against you. I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired men. He's come to the end of himself. It's interesting that in verse 17, when you read that he came to his senses, literally in the Greek, he came to himself. But to come to himself, that is a right self-understanding, leads him directly to come to God. That's something a lot of modern theology needs to keep in mind. Self-understanding, self-worth, and self-appreciation, coming to yourself always means to come to God. But when he sees this, he then decides he's going to go. Now immediately as repentance is hidden, he needs to have his father's forgiveness. No longer can he do without the forgiveness And so when he gets up and immediately we read in verse 20, that he got up and he went to his father. Now notice the characteristics of his repentance. A repentance that seeks forgiveness. First of all, as we talked about earlier in the series, it's to the point You have a beat around the push, he simply says, I have sinned against heaven and against you, Father. He comes right to the point. Now nobody would have filled that in with a lot of details about his un ingratitude, about his selfishness, his stupidity, and on and on and on But primarily he gets to the point. He says, I have sinned. That's the problem. I didn't make an error in judgment. I wasn't a little hasty in my actions. I have sinned Secondly, you notice that he doesn't give any excuses. He doesn't say, but Father, you know, these kids were telling me about how what a great time I'd have, and they influenced me. He doesn't go into a lot of excuses about why he did what he did. He simply says, I have sinned against heaven and before you, Father. He takes full responsibility of his actions True repentance, seeking true forgiveness, will always accept responsibility for the wrong. Thirdly, he notice that he sees that his sin is primarily against God, not his Father. He sees that his sin was against heaven. True repentance will always see that first of all, my wrong was not simply in that I hurt you, that I injured you. Shh. But rather that my sin was against God, and in addition to that, I wronged you and hurt you. Be careful in your repentance as we seek the forgiveness of one another. They're thinking that the wrong was primarily to the other party. And that's simply because we feel the alienation more keenly , more concretely. From that wife or husband who's not speaking to us, or that friend who's ignoring us. But the sin is primarily against God. And if you really repented and if you're really seeking forgiveness from that person You first must realize that your sin was primarily against the Lord. Otherwise you don't see it as sin. You see it as something which is excusable and errors But sin is against God. And therefore his true repentance is characterized by the fact that he says, Father, I've wronged you, but primarily I've sinned against God. And then finally you notice that he does not expect forgiveness. That's the fourth mark of his true repentance He doesn't expect forgiveness because he senses his unworthiness. He says, I'm unworthy to be called your son. In fact, my claim, without an expectation, is that you would take me as one of your servants. He doesn't go to his father and say, now father, I've come to the realization of my wrong, and I've sinned against heaven and I've come back to ask you your forgiveness. But the expectation, of course, Dad, you're going to be glad to have me back And I have realized that you've just been waiting for this day to come. But no. True repentance sees his sin in the light of how he has hurt his father, in the light of how horrible that sin really is against God. And as he views it from that perspective, he says, I have absolutely no right to be forgiven. And so he doesn't even ask for forgiveness. He simply goes and he's raised before his father, I've sinned. And I realize my unworthiness to be called your son. My plea is simply that you'll take me back and give me a job. Now having seen that Do you identify with it? Have you ever come to hate your sin with that kind of hatred? Have you ever come to see yourself before God's eyes with that kind of perspective? Have you ever come as a prodigal to your senses You said to yourself, I have sinned against heaven, and before people who have been wronged and hurt by my selfishness, by my thoughtlessness, by my greed. Because none of us who really know and understand God's forgiveness until we have come with that absolute sense of unworthiness and cast ourselves before the Lord is nothing to please but his mercy. Because we realize that we have nothing in ourselves to offer him. We're unworthy. We hate our sin. And we cast ourselves on him for mercy alone. But notice secondly in the light of that then the fullness of his forgiveness. We focus in the first point on the prodigal son. In the second point, we focus on the father's response. Noticed the father's response to his stoppish son. We read there that in verse 20, while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him. I get the picture from this that his father somehow was still watching, still looking for that day possibly when his son would return. And here comes this ragged kid, four different From the sun with all his riches and his fineries that left some time before. Now comes back this ragged, dirty disgusting looking ragamuffin coming trailing up, sloping uh just um dragging himself up the trail there toward his father's house, a kid that only a father or mother could ever even want to come to. A kid that nobody loved. But his father sees him a long way off, and he rushes to him. His father runs to him and he felt compassion for him. You ever think of God's forgiveness for you as something which is mechanical and without feeling? That's an unbiblical thought. The Bible teaches us that God feels deeply for us in his forgiveness of us. The Father didn't simply look at him and determine in some objective manner on the scrolls of his accounts. That's one offer, yes. Okay, forgiveness. But Jesus teaches us that Father that the Father's forgiveness for us is a very personal and emotional thing. But the father felt compassion for him. Do you remember in the prostitute life that we looked at last week? If you read in Hosea chapter 11, describing the Father's love for Israel, we read in Hosea 11 there that God says, O Israel, how can I turn from you? My heart turns over within me for you And my heart yearns for you, O Israel. The Father feels compassion for the Son. God feels compassion for you and for me in his forgiveness of us. Now remember that forgiveness is not primarily a matter of emotion. Remember, as we've looked at throughout this entire series, forgiveness is primarily a promise. It's a promise that I will remember your sin against you no more. But let's never mistake from that. That forgiveness is always accompanied by emotion. Forgiveness shall never be a cold and dispassionate matter. And so we read that the Father forgave his son And it was done with great feeling and warmth. He takes this kid ugly and dirty, smelling of a pig's thigh, and he grabs him to himself. And the father embraces him. Few hours forming them and say, Yuck, how can you do that to that deed? But he gathers him and he sees beyond anything you or I could ever see in the stench and the looks of him. And he takes him to himself and he kisses him. That's the Father's mouth point. And read there that the Father forgave him. Because we can say that. It says it right there in verse funny, don't you see? It says the father's forgiveness. I don't say that in my Bible. He says right there, while he was a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him and ran to his son and threw his arms around him And kiss him. An embrace and a kiss in Near Eastern culture is the sign of forgiveness, reconciliation, and peace. And he doesn't say there, I forgive you. But what he does far more profoundly communicates than those words could How much more effective than for you and I when someone comes to us and says, I have sinned, I have wronged you, for us to say, Well, I forgive you. That's okay Don't think anything about it. But rather, what does the Father do? He communicates it in a sign that is unmistakable in that culture, son, I forgive you. And we are reconciled because that kiss is a clear, unmistakable communication in their language of forgiveness The kind of communication is far more effective, far warmer, far more close than the kind of forgiveness that we often communicate to one another. I think we need to practice more in our forgiveness of one another, of touching and embracing, a physical coming together where there has been alienation, whether it is with parents and children, whether it is husbands and wives, whether it is with friends. That we touch and hold one another and communicate that there is now a reconciliation. We are brought together in that embrace, that kiss of forgiveness But that's the tender, undeserved forgiveness that the Father gives to him. But what's the basis of it? We see a clue of that in verse 22. You see, the Father says to the servant then, quick! Bring the best robe and put it on him, put it in on his finger, and stand upon his feet. And bring the fatted calf and kill it must have a feast and celebrate, for this son of mine was dead and was alive again. He was lost and was found, and so he began to celebrate. Did you catch it? You looked at it back in April. What's the picture in the scripture of our justification? It's the picture of the robe. And so the Father, before he does anything else, he says, Bring the robe and put it on him. And Jesus in the biblical imagery picks up from this the robe of his righteousness. But that robe which clothes us with the righteousness of Jesus so that we stand before God forgiven and complete. Not in the anything that we could earn or gather for ourselves, but you see it's a robe that doesn't belong to the Son. It's a road that's given to him by the Father. The signal, the sign of his possession, of his ownership is communicated in the room, which shows that he belongs to the family. But it's that rogue of righteousness that's the basis of his forgiveness. And so if you have come to Jesus Christ, you have that robe of Jesus righteousness about you. The best road that the Father can find. There is no better road than the righteousness of Jesus Himself. It's a road which means that every sin that you have ever committed, past, present, and future. Has been once and for all obliterated, and is so forgiven that even the eye of omniscience can detect no flaw in you He's forgiven. But he's not only forgiven, he's his son. And let's be silent then, this point of the fullness of the sonship. The fullness of the sonship Now we focus here more toward the elder brother. You see, first of all, the prodigal son expected that the father's response would be based on the same principles as human interaction. In all relationships, if you grow it, you're going to expect estrangement, punishment, rejection, and open disappointment But this parable teaches, and they're Jesus' words, not mine, that the Father is not like that. In fact, he tells us in Isaiah chapter 55. In Isaiah 55, verse 7, let the wicked forsake his way and the evil man his thoughts. Let him turn to the Lord and he will have mercy on him and to our God, for he will freely pardon. From our thoughts are not your thoughts. Either are your ways my ways, declare the Lord. If the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. If we look back in the spring, let's again remind ourselves. This is not talking about God as scientists. God is not saying in these verses that for me, the theory of relativity is child life. My thoughts are far lost here in terms of the scientific realm and understanding of creations and your thoughts. My thoughts are far deeper than your thoughts. He's not saying that. The context is forgiveness. He's saying the ways of my forgiveness are so far above the ways of your forgiveness But if you ever think that my response to your sin can be judged in terms of the way you respond to one another They'll always be wrong. I never respond like that. My ways of pardon, freely pardon. Have mercy. Verse 7 is followed in verse 8 and 9 by the fact that my ways of pardon, my thoughts of forgiveness , are as high above yours as the heavens above the earth. His liminate. It's infinite. And so the Father who comes to the Son with his forgiveness here That comes with a forgiveness that you and I can barely begin to comprehend. We can never judge it in terms of the ways that we relate to one another. How you Consider the Father coming to receive you if you and I were that prodigal son coming back. How do we look at God receiving us in such circumstances? Maybe we would say that we view God as saying, uh, they finally learned your lesson, did you? I knew you'd come around sooner or later. I was just waiting for you to finally come to the end of yourself there. Well now I'm glad that you finally come back. Okay, pick up a shovel, get out in the yard, and start working off the deck It's far a bit. How many of us have that kind of a view of God when we sin? Or perhaps we look at God and we say that, well, yes, I see God says to me, okay, you're forgiven. But of course I hope you realize you're never going to be as quite as loved and accepted as the elder brother who's been faithful to me all these years, easy than preparing to become a missionary But you'll never be quite like them, but you're forgiven. But perhaps we have this view of God saying to us Okay. You 're forgiven. But don't touch me. You still have that smell of a pig style on you, and I'm holy and you're sinful. Now I forgive you and I accept you to myself, but don't get too close Because of your sin. Before we had these views of God in which there is a distance still between us and Him And Jesus himself, not me, Jesus himself in this parable, seeks to break down all those false conceptions and says, the Father comes He takes you to himself, he embraces you, he kisses you, he puts upon you the robe of his own son, and then he celebrates with you, and he throws a big feast. There is nothing that he won't do for you. Because you were sons. And so we see that the Father there brings the Son to him without any condemnation. Now let me ask you If God does not condemn you, why do you condemn yourself? Are you better than he is? If he says him, yes, I believe he's forgiven me, but I won't forgive myself. But that's a denial of all that Jesus intends to communicate to us through this parable. Jesus is here with the warmest of invitations to draw near to the Father without fear of rejection. To draw near to him because our relationship is based on grace and on his forgiveness, not on what we do, or what we deserve Well Christian, if you could only know the extent of God's love for you, if you and I could only appreciate and appropriate and begin to grasp the depth, the height, the length, the riches and to know the love of Christ with a difference that would make in our lives Just to notice how the elder son responded in contrast to this. And the prodigal son began to apprehend this. And notice just me passing on this. But he did begin to apprehend it. You notice in verse 18 and 19, he intends to tell the father, I've sinned against heaven and no longer worthy become as your son, make me as one of your hired servants. Notice when his father has forgiven him But he says then in verse 21, Father, I have sinned against heaven and against thee, and I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. Period He doesn't add on there, mostly as one of your hired servants. What's the significance of that? You see, he's a son now. And he realizes he's been gathered back. And while he still has a keen sense of his own sin, so that you and I as Christians can never forget that we're unworthy sinners. And I'm not preaching a kind of gospel that says we need to just put away our sin and refres thoughts about it. We need to be reminded again and again that we're sinners in desperate need of God's grace But what he does here is he does not then say, I don't please make me a slave. He accepts his friendship. Fine. Because he's based on grace. Because he then is able to say, Father, I am your son, but I'm not worthy to be your son, because I was good. And that's the confession of a Christian, you see. But that's the one who says, Father, I don't ask to be a slave, but Father, I'm unworthy to be your son. Well in contrast to that, because he accepts his sonship by grace, because he's able to accept everything Because he knows this by grace. You see the problem is when you and I begin to think he deserves something, that's when we get in trouble. But because he realized he deserves nothing, he accepts it all by grace We see that his elder brother has a problem with that. His elder brother is outslaved in the field. Pharaoh can hear the elder brother described as a person who's not a Christian. This is a picture of the legalistic Jews, those who are not believers, who live by the law for their own righteousness and the laws. I don't believe that's true I believe that in this parable Jesus intends to communicate by that elder brother, one who likely is a Christian You notice that he says, the father says to him there in verse 31, You have always been with me, you are always with me, and he calls him a son. I believe that this elder brother, you see, is a person who is a Christian, but has put back as the Galatians into living under the law And see, this begins to get a little closer to home. You see, I don't think that Jesus intends this parable for open, obvious hypocrites. I think rather it's intended for you and for me. I think it's intended rather for those of us who tend to creep into our understanding of grace a subtle kind of self-righteousness that denies the heart of forgiveness. And grace. So what happens here? The point you see is the girl, this elder brother, is a son. He's acting as a slave. In contrast to the prodigal, who though he came back realizing he didn't even deserve to be a slave , Is acting like a son. And if you get that, you've got the whole point of the parable. The older brother, though a son, is acting like a slave. The prodigal, though he doesn't deserve to be a slave, is acting like a son. Let's see how that works out. Let us In verse 45, Moses stands in the field, and he came near to the house, he heard the music and the dancing, and he calls one of the servants and he says to him, Hey, what's going on? He says, hey, your brother's come home. Boy, there's a sea storm on in there. Your father killed the padded calf. Y older brother, as you rejoice, hey, well my brother's back home. My younger brother, I've missed him so long. So he gets angry. Doesn't hide it either. He refuses to go into the party to stay out in the field. Before he uh stays out so long that his father even comes out. So he comes out and pleased him. And what's the sun just watch? Notice there. In verse 29, he answered his father, look, all these years I've been laying for you. I 'm a son. All these years I've been slaving for you, Dad. And I've never disobeyed your order. I've been trying to keep my nose clean And yet you never gave me even a young ghost so I can celebrate with my friend. You see this residual bitterness that's been creeping up, the sense of what I deserve is now beginning to come out. And there's a resentment there, a resentment against God. of the person who seeks to live by the law. Because the person who lives by the law will never have a close and open relationship with God. There will always be that suspicion about God, a distrust of God. And so he says, You never gave me a fatty task so I could celebrate with my friends. But this kid of yours who's gone and squandered his money with prostitutes comes home and you've given him the father's care. The father says, Son, you're always with me. Everything I have is yours. We have to celebrate and be glad for this son because he was dead and was alive, was lost, and is found. He said there's no joy in the alder brother. He's indignant because when he sees grace His works are threatened. And he identified with that. What about you and me, as Christians? Have you ever seen a prostitute or a drug addict come to Jesus Christ? A person who's been on the street, and they come to know Jesus Christ, and what happens? We tend to have a condescending attitude toward them because of their worldly background. But what happens if we see that person enjoying the Lord more than we do? But what happens if you see God answering the prayers of that new Christian more than he's answered your prayer? What happens if their relationship is obviously on more intimate terms with the Lord? They're learning more from his word. They discover more about his nature. About finding more of the riches of his the abundance of his grace revealed to them than you know about. What do we tend to do? We tend to tip them down because of experiential Christianity. But perhaps we say to God, God , that's not fair. And I know I've been serving you all these years. I've been seeking to walk with Jesus Christ as my Lord. I even helped to start this church here at Columbia. And why are you treating them better than me? And God says to you, Because it's by grace. And that's what they're depending on. Because if you and I begin to think we've earned anything from God by what we've done for him, we'll impoverish ourselves in every case before the Lord. He wants us to understand so clearly, to absolutely burn it into our hearts so that we can never forget it, that grace is always better than law. The public cause of this, the elder son is threatened. He sees grace In ways that he doesn't want to see it. He sees it displayed openly before one who doesn't deserve it. And that shows him. That he didn't deserve it either. The Father here says, and you're always with me. All that I have is yours. But he's never claimed it. He's never asked me for that fatter cast. It reminds me of a story I once read about two elderly women in Boston who were found dead in their apartments, and they had died from the effects of malnutrition. And sometime later, in going through their apartment, it was discovered that they had the equivalent of four hundred thousand dollars stuffed away in mattresses, in furniture, under the rugs, in all parts of the apartment. $400,000 and they died of malnutrition. They had it. They didn't use it. Are you Christian? Living as the elder brother or as the younger brother? Are you living as a son or as a slave? When you look at your week coming up, is your goal simply to get through this week? To hope that you can make it through to another fumble that the Lord will somehow help you to hang in there? And that are you looking at this week as a week to conquer in the name of Jesus. To go forward and conquer the people of your work To claim them for Christ, to claim your neighborhood for Jesus Christ. Because seek to make advances in that place where God has placed you by his choice Do you revel in his love? Do you find that you rejoice in him? Rather, do you hope that he simply won't get mad at you this week unless you have it And do you really understand what he says in Zephaniah chapter 3? For he's told us the Lord has taken away your punishment. Zephaniah 3, 15 and 17. The Lord has taken away your punishment. He's turned back the enemy. The Lord the king of Israel is written, and you will never again fear any harm. The Lord your God is written. He's mighty the same. He will take great delight in you. He will quiet you with his love. He will rejoice over you with sin. You believe God rejoices over you They tolerate you. You're acting as a slave or as a son? When you go to prayer, do you claim this promise as boldly as a son of God? Where are you constantly haunted with Psalm 6618 that says, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord won't hear me, and I'm always regarding iniquity in my heart, so I know the Lord never hears me And your paralyzed is at a standstill. God has said here that the prayers, the promises that He has given are to you to claim. Not simply to the supersaints. We all have iniquity in our hearts. That verse is not teaching that God does not answer the prayers of sinners, but rather am I a am I praying to consume it upon my lusts, as James 4 tells us. Let's do away with these thoughts, that God doesn't hear sinners, and that we as sinners cannot act as sons of the king. Only then to apply this to our lives. Have you ever come home to the Father? Have you come home to the Father who stands waiting, waiting to see you coming up the trail He can come to you and put his arms around you to embrace you and kiss you with that kiss of forgiveness, to place upon you the robe of the righteousness of Jesus Himself. Why? Because you've come to the end of yourself. You 've come to the end of your own seeking to earn from him any kind of merit, but you've cast yourself upon him When he said, Jesus is God, and that's all I need. Jesus deaths in my place is my only place If you come home to the Father on the basis of the death and the resurrection of Jesus, you can never have. Come home today What about you as Christians? You'll find that your Christian life is deteriorated into a series of duties For the Lord, rather than out of a response of gratitude living by grace. When you came to Jesus Christ, you remember the joy that was upon you because of the fullness of his forgiveness You remember that you were forgiven and you 're rejoicing in the fact that you belonged to him, that you could know Jesus Christ personally. And then gradually you began to get the teaching of more mature Christians and heard all that you should be doing as a Christian. And you began to make notes of how you should be having a quiet time and witnessing and your social aspect. responsibility and your family responsibility and this responsibility and that responsibility. And somehow on the list of the responsibilities in serving Jesus Christ as Lord of your life They have receded into the background, but after Jesus who forgives. The personal relationship has now receded and all you see are the duties. If you have, come home to the Father. Come back by grace and rediscover the grace of forgiveness. The forgiveness that you have to offer A particular example is given by Peter Glist, a popular speaker and writer on this matter of forgiveness. He talked about in his own life how at one point, shortly after he became a Christian, he worked in a bakery And he said he wouldn't get home until about three o'clock in the morning. As a new Christian, he wanted to know Jesus Christ. And he said that oftentimes he would just get into his into his bed, pull the covers up. Open his Bible and he would read it. An hour, two hours, three hours, often he said the birds would be singing and the sun would come up and he would still read it Because they joined God, just to having a deeper and deeper relationship with the Lord Jesus and His Word. Then I ended up summer, eventful conflict In the best house, there's full of a secret turn. Anybody who wants to grow in the Christian life must have an hour again qualified And so he wrote down, well, that's something I need to do now. I've got to have an hour a day quiet time. So he went home and he said he set his clock, he set his clock, and he ceased to have that hour of day quiet time He said uh there was no joy in it. Uh as much as he would try, his mind would wander after 15 minutes. He couldn't understand anything that was going on in the passage. After an hour, it just seemed like it had dragged on and on. He was getting nothing from it. He tried looking to the Bible on tape and records. He tried everything he could possibly do. There was no joy. It had all become a duty We need to return to grace. We need to come back to the fact that God has called us to know him. And to know him by grace, out of gratitude for his forgiveness. Because that motivates us. Not simply the fact that we must have a quiet time. Is this quiet time? Do we didn't give it a desire to know the Lord and forgave you? So here's another example about witnessing. It's my evangelism. Just about the time that he was witnessing to a fellow in a fraternity, and he said to the fellow, he'd given on the gospel to a number of guys, and this one fellow asked if he could meet with him for breakfast. He came the next morning and he said, you know, I give my eye peace to have what you have in Christ. But he said, there's just one thing to keep you from becoming a Christian You said, What is it? But you got a witness when you're a Christian. You said, wait a minute. You said, where'd you get that idea? Come is my idea, so I see it all around 'cause every Christian I've ever seen goes around witnessing and they talk about how you have to witness and what'd you guys do last night? So now it's the time to do witness to it. He said, I can't witness and he said if that's what I gotta do to become a Christian, he said, That's part of it. I can't become a Christian. If I can promise you that you'll never have to witness