Well good morning. It's great to see you this morning. Some of you I've known from twenty years back and you're looking pretty good. I remember the days when um we were all setting up for worship at Howard Community College. We thought that was a lot of work. And some of you are still setting up here on Sunday mornings. In a different place. But that's great. And it's uh it's a delight and a and a thrill to be here, and I am really excited that you folks are Have the vision that you do for declaring Christ's glory among the nations. I was thrilled to hear of your theme verse for this mission series that you have. And it's great to be back among you and declaring his glory and his praises. And I want to uh share some things About our ministry. In a second hour, I do hope you'll be able to stay around, but I'll be weaving bits and pieces about our ministry through my sermon here this morning, even if you aren't able to stay. And it's uh a delight and an honor to open God's word with you this morning. I want to direct our attention to John 's Gospel, John chapter 11. And I'll be reading from verses 38 to 45. Let's hear with eager hearts the reading of God's Word. Jesus, once more deeply moved, came to the tomb. It was a cave with a stone laid across the entrance. Take away the stone, he said. But Lord, said Martha, the sister of the dead man, by this time there is a bad odor, for he's been there four days. Then Jesus said, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you will see the glory of God? So they took away the stone. And then Jesus looked up and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I know you have you always hear me, but I said this for the beh benefit of the people standing here, that they may believe that you sent me And when he said this, Jesus called out in a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. And the dead man came out, and his hands and his feet, wrapped with strips of linen, and a cloth around his face. And Jesus said to them, Take off the grave clothes and let him go. Therefore, many of the Jews who had come to visit Mary and had seen what Jesus did put their faith in him. Here ends the reading of God's Word. It's great to be here with you today. You know, uh I was reminiscing with some folks last night. We started our family here in Columbia My daughter was walked around the park here at Centennial when it was first opened twenty some uh twenty or so years ago and uh she was born here at the Howard County Hospital and um We have been active in ministry in Philadelphia for some years after being here at CPC, and now we've been in Chattanooga since two thousand. working with a ministry to plant a hub of our ministry down in the Mid South region. And we're so deeply grateful for your church's ongoing support of our work. We are so blessed by that. We're blessed by many of you who pray for us and stand with us in the gospel. And the ministry I work with is called Harvest USA. And we exist to partner with and equip the church in bringing the power of the gospel to bear on the lives of those affected by sexual sin. That's what we do. We're excited when we help the church understand that whether it's pornography or homosexuality or other sexual brokenness, these aren't reasons to wring our hands at the state of our culture. There are powerful opportunities to make known the glory of the risen Jesus. And we get excited when other people get on board with that And I'll be sharing with you some bits and pieces of what we do from the lives of men that I work with, but much of what I share applies to women too as we uh look at this this morning. And I want to share some thoughts for you about Jesus' instructions to his disciples here in John chapter 11. And two simple points and two two observations about Jesus and his work for you this morning. And then two observations about us and our work as his followers this morning. So let's think about this together. Four observations, two about Christ and two about us. First point, Jesus alone brings life from the dead. Jesus alone brings life from the dead. Jesus calls in a loud voice in verse 43 to this man who's been in the tomb four days, and he says, Lazarus, come out! In the original, it's even more terse than that. It's more like, Lazarus, out, and he comes out. He comes out of the grave. You know, this is the ultimate coming out party, if you will. There's a lot of rhetoric in the gay and lesbian community about coming out. And there's articles in 17 Magazine that talk about teens coming out in America and what that's like and so forth. And here we have the c ultimate coming out party And it's a wonderful thing. And in the context of Scripture, of course, this points us backwards and forwards at the same time. It points us backwards to previous resurrections from the dead, such as Elijah Elijah raising the widow's son in 1 Kings 17. And of course it points forward to Jesus' own resurrection in John chapter 20 Jesus specializes in bringing life out of deadness, in bringing life out of darkness, in reversing the curse of the sin and the fall And of course, this text reminds us that the gospel always has a bad news element to it. It's always bad news. And you have to let the bad news sink in before the good news makes any sense. The bad news is that you are really dead. You in your own resources, in your own power. Are dead in sin. And sexual brokenness of any kind always, always, always flows out of relational brokenness. It flows out of relational deadness. It flows out of darkness. And when God said to Adam, You shall surely die if you eat of the tree and that forbidden fruit, was he lying when when Adam didn't stop breathing after he took the fruit? No, of course not. It was really true. God's promises were true, and the curse was real. The relational rift that breaks the relationship between God and man and between man and man is very real. And the deadness that gives rise to sexual sin of any kind, twists and maimes and kills our ability to rate relate to God and to relate to other people in very significant ways. And so the core issues that give rise to any brokenness of sexual uh uh of a sexual nature or any sexual sin are the core issues of our fallen hearts. And the core issues of our fallen hearts are things like idolatry. Idolatry. And perhaps all else false flows from this. I'm created to worship God in living the living and true God. But if I won't worship the living and true God, I will worship. I'll worship a God of my own creation, a God of my own imagination, a God of my own image, a God that I've made. I will worship some aspect of the creation, a beautiful image of some kind, and vast amounts of the Old Testament and the New Testament speak about idolatry as a core issue of our fallen hearts, and with good reason. But there are other dark issues of our fallen hearts and our deadness too. Issues like pride or selfishness. I want what I want when I want it. You know, that ad goes uh for I think it's Target, it's all about me. Have you ever seen those t-shirts? I've seen those t-shirts walking in the mall or other public places. It's all about me. Well that says quite a bit, doesn't it? But if we're honest with ourselves, that's where our hearts are It's all about me. And sexual sin flows out of that desire for self-gratification, self-pleasuring, self-indulgence. So there's idolatry and there's pride, and then there's fear Fear of man and fear of relating to other people, fear of disclosure, fear of rejection. The fear that leads to hiding in Genesis 3 after Adam tastes of the tree. There's idolatry and pride and fear and then there's unbelief. Unbelief specifically in the goodness of God Unbelief that his boundaries have perhaps not fallen in pleasant places, as we read this morning from Psalm sixteen. Perhaps God's holding out of me the best things. Perhaps he's not bringing good out of evil in my life. Why did he allow this messed up family to be in my world anyway? And these forces that I didn't ask for in my life. There's idolatry, pride, fear, unbelief. There's envy. Wanting what somebody else wants. I think that looks pretty good. I desire to possess that and control that and consume that. And so I take matters into my own hands and I take what is forbidden. Then there's anger and bitterness, another core issue of our fallen hearts that so easily takes someone into sexual sin. Boy am I ticked. I've been hurt deeply. I'll fix them for abandoning me, for abusing me, for allowing these things into my life. And then there's rebellion. I'm going to do what I want to do, thank you very much. And so sexual sin always is a involves a shaking of fist at God. saying, I want what I want, my own way. Can you relate to any of these things, brothers and sisters? Because if we're honest with ourselves, our hearts are often shot through with just this kind of deadness. Our sin is that great We all have fig leaves that we're trying to hide behind, inadequate ways to cope with life sexually in a fallen, broken, disappointing world. And so that's the bad news of the gospel, and you need to let the bad news sink in. And that first punch comes and hits you in the guts. But then the second punch of the gospel comes, the good news of the gospel. And the gospel says that Jesus specializes in working with dead people. Jesus specializes in working with dead people. Not those who had their acts pretty well together, not those who just need a little more assistance to get over the hump in life, not those who Are fairly well managed in their worlds. Jesus says, No, I haven't come for the healthy. I've come for the sick. The healthy don't need a doctor. I've not come to call the righteous. I've called I've come to call sinners. And real and lasting change always happens from the inside out because Jesus goes for the heart. There's no magic wand that we can change. That we can wave to change anybody's heart, but Jesus can and does do the job. And He's been doing it for millennia. He specializes in calling people out of their relational and sexual deadness, out of all kinds of darkness, into his marvelous lights. So that's the first point. Jesus alone brings life from the dead. And then secondly this morning Grave clothes can and often do remain even after Jesus does his regenerating work. Grave clothes can and often do remain even after Jesus does his work. There in verse 44, we see so interesting that Lazarus comes out of the grave and his face is wrapped with cloth and he's bound with strips of linen. Why would God do it that way? Lazarus could have come out of a tomb, completely unencumbered. Jesus doesn't do it that way. Lazarus comes out and he's still bound up. I know it's unpleasant, but I have to bring up the stench issue this morning. Hopefully you've had all your breakfasts, so I can dare to go here. Because Martha brings up the stench issue. Practical Martha, she's got the objection here. Lord, he's gonna stink. He's been in the tomb four days Now we all know what happens to food that sits around a few a little while, right? And maybe doesn't get uh the right uh treatment in the refrigerator or even if it does. I grew up in central Pennsylvania and the Pennsylvania Dutch have a saying Out-of-town guests and fish have a lot in common. If you've ever heard the last part of that, it goes they both stink after three days. And I don't want to make too much of an argument from silence, but the text doesn't mention that there was not a smell of decay and death around Lazarus. as he came out of that tomb. The clothes were still there. The fabric would normally have been shot through with that odor, sitting in that tight, confined space in all of that darkness for four days. Would have stunk pretty good. And I'd like to propose that that was the case. You see, Lazarus was alive on the inside, but the remnant re remnants of death, the remnants of the fall were still all around him. And even if the odor was not overwhelming, the clothes would have been ritually unclean They would have been defiled. No good Jew in his right mind would have touched a dead man or touched Lazarus. And yet, the mess remains. Jesus has his onlookers remove the grave clothes with their own hands. So they'll see a striking reminder of his redemptive work, of striking reminder of God's power over death firsthand. And you know the typical man or woman who comes involved with our ministry and contacts us either struggling with pornography or other sexual addiction has any number of predisposing factors in his or her world. There can be genetic factors and biological contributions, body styles and gift mix, and many of those things get culturally labeled as masculine or feminine in our culture. Unstable family dynamics, dysfunctional family dynamics, perhaps a family where the code was don't talk, don't feel, don't trust. And so it's hard to to trust It's hard to take risks of sharing your heart. Perhaps there's peer rejection or unhealthy peer influences in lots of different ways. Early gender nonconformity issues are common. Perhaps there's emotional or physical or sexual abuse. And those things are rampant in our day as well. And you see, none of these factors goes away at conversion, folks. None of these factors is mopped up immediately when someone comes to Christ None of the redemptive one none of the repetitive, compulsive behaviors used to mask pain for all of these issues goes away automatically And yet Jesus does his work in the heart, and he calls his people to follow him and do some amazing things. So Jesus alone brings life from the dead. And grave clothes, secondly, often do remain even after Jesus does his regenerating work. And then we as Jesus' followers are invited into ministry. And Jesus looks at his disciples and he says in the text , take off the grave clothes. Verse 44. It's so simple and yet so profound. Literally loosen him. All that stuff that's been wrapping him tight. Let it be loosened, so he can move. Unbind him. He's all tied up in knots. This is the first of two commands here in the text, two very simple commands and yet very profound. And the desciples, of course, could have rightly protested and any good judge. Don't you understand? We can't get involved in this mess. We're going to be splattered with the mud puddle here If we go in there, if we touch this guy, if we help him wrap unwrap himself. But Lazarus needs assistance. He's still tied up in the wrappings of death. He needs help to take off the remnants, remnants of decay and darkness. And of course, Jesus could have arranged it, that Lazarus came out unencumbered, without any of the remnants of the rottenness left on him. But he doesn't do it that way. He turns to his disciples and he says, You, you unwrapped him You unbind him. It takes risk, it takes getting dirty, it takes touching the remnants and trappings of death. That's messy work. It's not neat. It's not tidy. But that's ministry. That's redemptive ministry in a broken world. And how this happens through our ministry is typically someone sees one of our ads or they get referred to our ministry by a friend or they pick up one of our newsletters at a church they have attended. Sometimes they keep that phone number for weeks and months before they make the call. But when they make the call, they're invited to step into the lights, and the first layer of decay is peeled away. And they talk face to face with somebody. And sometimes that's the first time that they have spoken the words about what they're involved with with another human being ever. And the first layer is peeled away. And then they're invited into a group setting with other men who face similar issues, and slowly the layers of deceit and the and deadness come off. And healthy relational patterns replaced the broken, twisted, destructive relational patterns that were there. Is it risky? You bet. Is it messy? Uh-huh. Are there sometimes relapses? Yes, there are. But that's what redemptive ministry looks like. That's what redemptive ministry looks like. Jesus says to his disciples, take off the grave clothes. And then, secondly, another very simple yet profound command, he says Let him go. Let him go in verse 44. Literally allow him to walk, release him Lead him out. Bring him out from under that rotten stuff. Show him the way of life, not death. Teach him a new path to walk in. Allow him to move and walk and live a real life again or for the first time. You see, real change doesn't happen in a vacuum Real change involves heart on heart, life on life. It takes real people willing to take risks in loving others with the truth of the gospel, in walking alongside them. Daring to follow Jesus' commands. Men or women for that matter, coming out of a long, dark struggle with same-sex attractions or pornography. They need someone willing to get dirty and helping them untangle themselves. They're all tied up in knots of deceit that they've fashioned often for years. And they've been around them for so long they just uh seem the that that's the only way it can be. But they need real, genuine intimacy to replace the pull of the counterfeits that they've become enamored with. Pornography is a false intimacy, it's a counterfeit closeness, it's a forgery of the real thing. And so how can that the pull of that be broken except by genuine intimacy? By genuine connection, genuine closeness. And that's what God offers through his people, in his church And we need to lay hold of that truth. Some people, however, we have to be honest about this too, some people, even longtime Christians in solid churches, aren't willing to go there. They don't want to put up with that kind of mess. I remember a pastor who called us a while back, and he was concerned that pornography usage was reaching what he called epidemic proportions in his congregation. But he was concerned about what might happen if he, quote, dared to take the lid off of it. Or another pastor we I spoke with a little while back who knows that people in his church are dealing with homosexual temptations and all sorts of sexual brokenness, but he's not sure here the other elders are ready to deal with it if it starts to come out into the light. And we know in the church that the statistics are not good for those who struggle with these very issues. Fifty percent of the of the men involved in the Promise Keepers men's ministry admit to visiting porn sites. every week. Fifty percent. And then there's a culture around us that's bombarding young people at younger and younger ages with messages that are very destructive, with images that are very seductive. And amounting to the same thing. So it's 80% of our 15 to 17-year-old males that have had multiple exposures to hardcore pornography. Eight out of ten. We call this reluctance to deal with these issues the Tupperware syndrome. Now, my apologies to anybody who markets Tupperware. Or similar things. But I think sp specifically of the older translucent kind, you know, that that's kind of you can't quite see through and um You know, it's used to store those leftovers for an indefinite period of time in the back of your refrigerator. If you're a college student and you've got uh roommates, you're familiar with this and uh many of you are familiar with this probably in your own homes. But you know, that stuff back there, you're not sure what it is quite. But you're pretty sure it's probably been in there a while, and it's probably been in there too long. And if you dare to crack the lid on that container, what do you do next? Hold your breath. Well, yeah, and the temptation is very strong to do what? Put that puppy back in there, right? Let somebody else deal with that. Let somebody else clean it out later, you know. I don't want to go there right now. I'm looking for something else. Something edible and fast, right? Do you dare to open it up all the way and deal with the stench of decay and all the mess there? Or do you shove it back in the fridge and some hope someone else will have handle it Well, we encourage in our ministry, we encourage people in the church to take the lid off because Jesus can handle it. Jesus can handle the mess. He specializes in the mess, in the tough situations, in the tough cases. Many people aren't willing to admit and be honest about their own messy, idolatrous hearts, and they miss the glory of God. Do you remember what Jesus says to Martha? He says there in verse 40, Martha, when she protests about the stench and the mess, he says, Martha, if you believe, you will see the glory. If you believe, you will see the glory. If you want to see the glory, you've got to believe me. You've got to trust me. You've got to understand that I'm on the throne. I can handle the mess. I can handle the stench. And verse 45 shows us the result. Many come to faith in Christ. They come to trust Him. They see the glory. They see the wonder. And they're captured captured by that. We have trophies of grace and glory, many of whom I have become privileged to know through our ministry. And it's such a delight to see God work in in lives. I'll talk about a one friend of mine named John with you and share you a little bit about his story. And then if you're able to stick Stick around for the second hour. Hopefully you'll hear someone else's story. But my friend John came to to Harvest USA in our offices in Chattanooga shortly after we moved there. And he had tried many other professional counselors for years in dealing with his same-sex attraction issues, and he got some help here and there, but there never seemed to be a real breakthrough. And he was a professing Christian for many years, but shame and fear and deadness haunted him and kept him trapped. And he was very skeptical about groups. He'd been in some other group situations that were really bad news. They burned him, he felt, and he wasn't ready to go there. Well we met individually for a while and you know it's not uh uncommon for people to park across the street from our office and uh go out of their way not to be seen coming through our door and that was the case with John. He would come in the back door and That was okay. We met individually for a while, and then I challenged him to join a support group, a biblical-based accountability and support group. And he finally, about nine after nine months, said yes He was willing to do that. And it was a very different experience for him. It was a wonderful experience for him as the gospel started to get a hold of his life. in deeper ways than ever before, in radical ways. And his wife started coming to our wives support group and it had a huge effect on their marriage. And a year later we asked both of them if they'd be willing to record a testimony for us so that other people could hear about the glory of God in their lives. And they thought about it for a little bit and John came back to me and he said, Well, are you talking about a video testimony or an audio testimony? And I said, Oh, audio is fine. Not a problem. So they went home and talked about that, and he came back again and he said, Can you disguise our voices? And I said, well you know I got a pretty high tech audio guy. I think we can do that, yeah. So they thought about it some more and came back and they said, okay, we're willing to do it. They did the recording. And some months later John came back to me again. He said, You know, if you're ever looking for somebody to give a live testimony, Cindy and I have talked about it, and we'd like to do that. And so they've been giving their testimony live in many contexts ever since. And it's been a wonderful thing to see the shackles fall off them, to see the grave close and the decay fall off them both. And not only that, but but John came to the place where he wanted to start giving back in ministry and his wife approved that he get it come through our group facilitator training, which he did, and he now leads one of our support groups for men, and he's one of our most effective facilitators, tasted deeply of the grace of Christ, known Jesus' glory in his life. breaking through the shame and the deadness, and he leads other men into that same light of the of the gospel. It's a wonderful thing. And I could go on with telling you other stories about grace and glory, but we need you to pray for our ministry. We need you to to Be involved in this kind of work. And you know, I'm so grateful for this church and your example, your Ephesians 5. 3 group for men is a marvelous, marvelous thing. And in a sense we want to replicate what you guys are doing here and some things you guys are really getting right elsewhere in the kingdom. And that's a lot of what we're about. And I'll tell you more about that in the second hour and some other ways that you can be involved in that. But you can pray for some of the young men who are involved in our ministry. I'll mention one man to you whose name is Andrew, and Andrew comes every two weeks to see Dan, one of our ministry associates. And he comes in his Rossi uniform and his youth pastor drives him over an hour to get to us. And he's doing the hard work of looking at his heart. But God's doing some exciting things in his life. And you can pray for him and the others like him. Don't believe don't be deceived, brothers and sisters. Don't be deceived. Jesus is a mighty Savior. He is able to handle the mess. If you believe, you'll see the glory. If you need hope as you face the deadness of your own heart, come to Jesus. If you need help in facing the remaining stinky stuff in your life, come to Jesus. If you need power to continue to walk in the light of life, come to Jesus. Let's pray together. Lord our God, we pray that you would come and break in with the light of the power, of the glory of your grace. into our lives. Lord, I pray for any here today who are struggling with darkness that leaves them feeling stuck, where they're feeling trapped by forces that they don't understand and they're longing for the pull to cease. Lord Jesus, come and show your grace and your glory. Lord, for the self-righteous who are unwilling to face the mess in their own lives or in the lives of others around them, come and show your grace and your glory. For those without hope or jaded, feeling they've tried everything and nothing's worked, Lord, remind them of your glory and your power to change anyone who comes to you. Lord, work that kind of hope and that kind of power in this congregation and these brothers and sisters here that they would have much to share. with those around them. Give them full hearts and mobilize your people for redemptive ministry in our day. And we pray these things in your great name, Lord Jesus. Amen.