So what holiday is tomorrow? Epiphany. Right? How many people have Epiphany off from work? Nobody? Will your boss say what kind of a rotten second Do you have the food? Yes he does. As well as the rest of the week, right? Yes Glendyar boss, what kind of a secular society is it? You don't even give us epiphany off around this place anymore. Well at least I can wish you a happy epiphany. Probably the only person to wish you that this year Now what in the world is Epiphany? You know, it's this if you're like me, for a long time I'd hear that Epiphany, you'd think, oh yeah, that's one of those high liturgical churches that have all these weird things that they celebrate. But um I don't really know what it is and I don't really care what it is. What is it? Well actually Epiphany celebrates the visit of the wise men to the probably toddler Jesus. Remember, the wise men did not visit Jesus in a manger. They visited him when he was in a house, probably some months, perhaps a year or so later. But Epiphany celebrates the visit of the wise men to Jesus, and more importantly, it's not as if they think that, you know, well that's just uh worth a holiday, you know, I gotta find one, so well, you know, use that for an excuse. But it was because the church historically saw that the visit of the wise men was the manifestation of Jesus to the Gentiles, and it was the signification that he was a savior for the whole world. And so Epiphany has myssiological significance. It's the idea that Jesus is the savior not only of the Jews, but he is the savior of the whole world. The word epiphany means appearance. It comes from the Greek word epiphaneo, in case you wondered, means appearance or manifestation. Now there's no biblical basis for our celebrating Epiphany, and so our church doesn't particularly acknowledge it generally. This is the first time in 13 years that we've even called attention to Epiphany, as far as I know. Uh for that matter, there's no biblical basis to celebrate Christmas either, but you know, that one's kind of hard to ignore. Nevertheless, what is Epiphany? Uh well, as I said, it means appearance And even though there's no biblical basis for the celebration of the appearance to the wise men, there is in fact a passage in Scripture Which uses this Greek word to refer to three appearances of Jesus. And so I thought that this would be a good occasion, since tomorrow's epiphany, for us to take a look at that passage. Not simply because it gives us three clever uses of that word epiphany, but because these three appearances of Jesus are very distinctive, and they are significant for you and for me in our understanding of the fullness of his work. Now let me just say right now that this message, we're going to be looking at Scripture, and I hope that if you have a Bible, you have it to turn to because I want you to look at those verses. I want you to see the flow of the thought here. And it's going to take some thinking to follow through with this. But let me say to you that as a Christian One of the best things you can do in your own Christian life is to continue to grow in your understanding of the work of Jesus. The person of Jesus and his work. Too many of us as Christians, I think, have grown up in the church or have had the kind of experience where we feel like Once we've gotten down some basic facts about redemption, which you can kind of pick up in a a good long weekend conference or maybe a month of study or a basic Bible study, you really basically know all there is to know about who Jesus is and what he's done. That's not true. In fact, it's a lifelong study to learn the fullness and the richness of the work of the Lord Jesus for us. And the more you understand of his work The more you are drawn to him, to love him, the more he sets you free from the burden of the law and of your own sin, and the more joy and peace you have. So I think it's very worthwhile for us to understand something of his work. And in Hebrews chapter 9, verses 23 to 28, we're told about three distinctive appearances that Jesus made. And those three appearances are important for you and for me to know in our own peace and joy as Christians. Because I think we're only familiar generally with two of them. And it's the third one that I want you to particularly notice Okay, Hebrews chapter 9, verses 23 to 28. Notice as I read this that this word appear appears three times. So look for each appearance of the word appear and see why it appears there. What do you think is the significance? Okay? What's it referred to? Here's God's word. Let's give us give him our attention as he addresses us through it. Hebrews 9, verses 23 to 28. It was necessary then for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these sacrifices, talking about the animal sacrifices of the Old Testament. But the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than deeds. For Christ, Messiah, did not enter a man-made sanctuary that was only a copy of the true one. He entered heaven itself now to appear for us in God's presence Nor did he enter heaven to offer himself again and again the way the high priest enters the most holy place every year with blood that is not his own. Then Christ would have had to suffer many times since the creation of the world. But now he has appeared once for all, at the end of the ages, to do away with sin by the sacrifice of himself. Just as man is destined to die once, and after that to face judgment, so Christ was sacrificed once to take away the sins of many people. And he will appear a second time, not to bear sin, but to bring salvation to those who are waiting for him. What did you notice? Each of those appearances. Verse 24, 26, and 28. I want to examine each one. First of all then, the first one. Jesus has appeared. First point. That's verse 26. The second one refers to the first appearance I want to ask three questions about each appearance in order to understand them. First question: when did he appear? Look at verse 26. Now he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages. So he's appeared at the end of the ages. That's the next couple blanks. Some people who if you ask them when did Jesus appear would say, well, every uh funny nose, he appeared on December the twenty-fifth, uh probably zero B. C. Well, in fact We don't have any idea that he appeared December twenty fifth and it was probably around five BC. Which strikes me kind of funny that Jesus was born around five BC. So it sounds like he came early, but really it's just because the calendar's kinda got screwed up in the reckoning of it and they finally figured out a couple of hundred years later they're about five years off. But he appeared in uh December, as some people say. We don't know that it's December. The reason the church began to celebrate Christmas at uh December twenty-fifth was probably simply as a substitute for the winter the pagan winter solstice celebration which appear which occurred right after the darkest day of the year in which there was the celebration that the sun was going to return and things would get brighter and longer and the crops would come back again and all that in spring. Well, uh, you know, very interesting that as our society is moving toward paganism again, there is a resurgence. I don't know how many of you picked this up, but there's a resurgence in the idea of celebrating winter solstice, and it's truly pagan. In fact, if you uh go into some of the uh uh Christmas music areas of a secular music store you will find winter solstice music and it's just there's a movement to that and so You know, things go around once again. We're in a society that is becoming increasingly pagan, and that's one of the manifestations of it. But Christians try to recapture that. They wanted to use that, as they said, for the celebration of the sun S-O -N to replace the pagan celebration of the Sun S-U-N. But in fact, the Bible doesn't tell us when he appeared. What the Bible does tell us in Galatians 4:4, for instance, is that he appeared in the fullness of time. Whereas Hebrews 9. 26 says, he appeared at the end of the ages. Now what does that mean? What's the significance of that? The New English Bible translates that. He appeared at the climax of history. That's the way it translates, verse 26. And it's that idea. That all history up until that time was a time of anticipation, a time of waiting, a time of longing, since the curse when man was expelled from Eden. And we knew that we had no hope of ever getting back into God's favor and establishing paradise again on our own. There was the waiting for the promised one who was going to come, who was going to crush the serpent. Who would restore things and transform the world and transform us to make it what God intended. And so Jesus, when he came, was the fulfillment of that longing. The time of anticipation and longing of God's people has ended. The time of the waiting of the prophets who spoke of Messiah to come has ended. The time of the longing of the priests who day after day minister sacrifices and can never sit down because their work is never done. The time has ended. Jesus has appeared, and he's appeared at the end of the ages. That whole designation of when he's appeared is is recognized even by those who blaspheme him every time they write the date. If you write January the 5th, 1992, what are you doing? You're acknowledging. that there is a separation, a demarcation in history from BC to AD, even though it's really 1997 probably, we call it 1992 Because we're at least acknowledging Jesus split history into two parts, everything before him, anticipation, everything after him, the end of the ages, the last time, the messianic age before he comes again. Now why did he come? Verse 26 tells us that also. Why did he appear? What is it that we're so thrilled about in his coming? Look at verse 26. He has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to do away with sin by the sacrifice of himself. And so the next blank is he came to do away with sin. To do away with sin. You see, Jesus didn't come to teach us how to live He didn't come to model for us what man's life ought to look like if we were in a right relationship and all the rest of these things. For you see, if that's all Jesus had come to do, then that would simply condemn us Perfect teaching simply makes you more accountable. Now you know better what you can't do than you knew before. And so, if in fact that's all Jesus had come to do, his coming is not very good news. For who of you will say that you have any aspiration in your best of New Year's resolutions for 1992 to say that this year I'm going to live just like Jesus? I'm going to treat people the way he treated them. I'm going to act like he did. I'm going to set my priorities just the way his were. I'm going to relate to the Father the way he did. I'm going to be like Jesus. Nobody, nobody in their right mind here would say that I am able to do that. And so the gospel is good news because Jesus didn't come, it doesn't say, to show us simply how to live. He did that. But he came why? To do away with your sin and with my sin. He came so that those things which you know separate you from God because you've come so far short. Of living like Jesus lived, of having his attitude, his priorities in perspective. Because you've come so far short, Jesus came to do away with your sin. How? By the sacrifice of himself He uniquely, as the one perfect man, because he was God man come in the flesh, was eligible When he died on the cross to be a substitute as a sacrifice to take your sin and mine. You see what it says? He did away with sin by the sacrifice of himself And so he does away with your guilt. He does away with your sense of separation from God. He does away with your sense of deserving penalty for the things that you've done wrong. He does away with all your sense of inadequacy, your sense of hopelessness, your sense of helplessness under the power of sin. He does away with sin, its power and its penalty in your life. Jesus has appeared so that you would be set free from sin. But did it work? That's the third question. Of course the answer is yes. The Bible tells us his work was absolutely successful. Look what it says. Verse 26. It says the contrast you see between Jesus and the priests is he would have had to suffer many times since the creation of the world if he was like the Old Testament sacrifices. But now he has appeared how many times? Once for all. You see, because his work was effective at the end of the age to do away with sin. Never had to come to do it again. You and I do something and we hope that it works, and we may have to redo it and perfect it and continue to improve it Jesus came and with his sacrifice, once for all, he did away with sin and its separation of us from the Father. Verse 27, just as man is destined to die once, and after that to face the judgment. So Christ, Messiah, was sacrificed once to take away the sins of many people. And so his work was completed because he did it once, verse 25 and 26. Talk about how he didn't enter uh how Jesus entered heaven to offer himself. He didn't uh offer himself again and again the way the high priest does, but he offered himself, verse 26, once Once for all. And so the guilt is gone. And yet you and I still feel that guilt, don't we? How come if his work was so effective that I continued to walk around with that niggling sense of my constant little sins, the things that this week I look and I say I wish I had done different. I shouldn't have done this. I should have done that. This was a waste of time. I should have done that. That was a bad response. I was grouchy. I was irritable to that person. I shouldn't have treated them that way. I should have done this That was a bad choice of priorities. I succumbed to gossip. I cut that person down because I was hurt by them and I wanted to get back at them and I shouldn't have done that and on and on and on and on. And you look back over this last week and there's all these things so that you feel guilt. And you say, Yes, I believe that his work was effective. I have a place in heaven, but I continue to feel the anxiety and the separation, the lack of fellowship between me and God my Father. Why? The problem is because we have forgotten the second appearing. And that's what I want us to look at here this morning. Notice the second appearing. The second is that Jesus now appears. And that's in verse 24. Look what it says. For Christ did not enter a man-made sanctuary. There was only a copy of the true one. He entered heaven itself now to appear for us in God's presence. First question then is where does he appear in this second? It's not on earth. Maybe you were thinking, uh, well, I thought there were only two comings. Well, yes, there are only two comings In fact, verse 28 specifically says that he'll appear a second time, speaking of the third appearance, that's his coming back to earth. But this other appearing in between the first and second to earth is a very important appearance for you and for me. It's Jesus appearing in heaven for us. So this appearance is in heaven. Now why does Jesus appear in heaven? The point is that in the Old Testament, the high priest would go in to the tabernacle or to the temple, and once a year he was allowed to go in to the Holy of Holies. That place where no one was allowed to go except the high priest and him only once a year, because that's where the very symbol of God's immediate presence was. And that was symbolized, you remember, by the Ark of the Covenant. And when the high priest would go into that place, the Ark of the Covenant, because he was a sinner In order to go into that place, excuse me , and not to be consumed by the white hot wrath of God's holy presence, what did the high priest have to do? The high priest had to take the blood of a lamb that had been slain. And he would go into that holy place and he would sprinkle that blood on the cover of the ark. That cover which is called the Mercy Seat. The Mercy Seat covered the ark. And what did the ark contain? Prominent among the things it contained. was the law, the two tables of the Ten Commandments that Moses had brought down from Mount Sinai, written with the very finger of God. And so the mercy seat covered the law. And what was it that made the mercy seat effective? It was the blood that was sprinkled. Why was the blood sprinkled on the ark? In order to purify the place because a sinner had entered. You get the picture? Wherever you and I go as sinners, we defile. We defile everything we touch. God is so pure and where he dwells is so pure that for you and for me to simply be there is to defile it. And so when Jesus said, I want to bring my people into the presence of my Father so that we can approach him, what did he have to do? Jesus had to take his blood and he had to sprinkle everywhere that God's presence is in the heavenlies. And so what does Hebrews say? Verse 23, you see, it was necessary then for the copies , this is the holy of holies in the earthly tabernacle and temple. It was necessary then for these to be purified with these sacrifices, the blood of the Lamb with the high priest once a year. But the heavenly things Now how's the high priest, how can anyone on earth go sprinkle all heaven with the blood of a sacrifice? And so Hebrews is saying, Jesus didn't come into the earthly tabernacle. Jesus went into the true tabernacle, the very place where God's presence, not simply the ark, but where his Father actually dwells in all his visible glory. Jesus went straight to the throne of heaven. Not a man-made sanctuary. There was only a copy of the true one. He entered heaven itself. See verse 24. Now to appear for us in God's presence. And what's he doing? Just what he talked about in verse 20 and 21. Sprinkling with the blood, the tabernacle, everything used in its ceremonies. Now why is that? So that in chapter 10 he goes on in verse 2019 to say, therefore, brothers, we have confidence To enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus. Verse 22. Let us then draw near to God. With a sincere heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience. You see what this is saying? Jesus, the why there, has opened the way to God. Jesus has opened our way to God. You see, I think as Christians, we miss an important distinction that the Bible makes, and it's between the shedding of Jesus' blood and the sprinkling of Jesus' blood. The shedding of Jesus' blood refers to the Godward reference of it. He shed his blood so that God Could be appeased. God's justice could be satisfied. And God could forgive us. The shedding of the blood has reference to God But whenever you read of the sprinkling of the blood of Christ, that has reference to us. That has reference to purifying us, to sanctifying us, to making us acceptable in God's sight. And so when Jesus now appears for us in the Father's presence, he is sprinkling the whole area where God is. And he's sprinkling us so that you and I can come into that presence for fellowship with God and for the help from God with no fear. See, I think many of us as Christians believe in the shedding of the blood, but not the sprinkling. We believe that I've a that what Jesus did on the cross is sufficient in order for me to get to heaven. But I can't believe that God is pleased with me, that he welcomes me into his presence, that he wants to fellowship with me, that he's not constantly disappointed with me, that he's able to look at me and smile once in a while. You know? You get this feeling that every time I go to the Father, he's saying, I wish you'd knock it off. I wish that after all these years you'd be doing better. And so that sense of all those niggling little sins of this past week, the gossip and the bad attitudes and the wrong priorities and all the rest of those bad choices, instead of bringing us to the Father So that we can rest in the shed and sprinkled blood of Jesus, shed so that God forgives us, sprinkled so that we have access. To the Father. Full assurance. Hebrews 1022 is not written to super saints. It's written to you and me. You! Whatever your week has been like, if You want to come claiming the sprinkled shed blood of Jesus for you, you have full access to the Father. Doesn't depend on what you do. Doesn't depend on how well you live this week Doesn't depend on how consistent your quiet times were, how many advantages you took of opportunities to talk about Jesus, what you were like New Year's Eve. It depends on one thing. Is Jesus appearing with blood that is fully effective? And the Bible says That he is now appearing for us, and that his blood is sufficient. It's sufficient not only for us to fellowship with God, but it's sufficient also for us to find help from God. That's what he talked about back in chapter 4. Chapter 4, verse 16, he says, then let us approach the throne of grace with confidence. That throne of grace, by the way, is that same area, that mercy seat. That's the same thing, the Ark of the Covenant and the Holy of Holies. That's the throne of grace. With confidence So that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. Father, I haven't deserved for you to get me out of this mess this week. And there's nothing that I can plead except the sprinkled blood of Jesus that gives me access to your throne of grace. Believe that? You see how that whole reference shifts away from us, and how tonight when we come to the Lord's Supper, what we are celebrating is what Jesus did with his blood, not how faithful we are or what we can do or how much better we're going to live in 1992. It's all focused on Jesus and his blood. That's the second appearance. And it's that appearance which makes the difference between your peace and your joy day by day. In living in fellowship with God and having access to Him when you have help, when you need help in His grace in the time of need Or whether you live on your own, in your own resources, alienated from God, because you believe that you don't deserve to come into his presence, and he's always sort of angry at you. Now, that second appearance, if we believe it , that Jesus is now appearing for us in God's presence, and we rest in that That makes us long all the more for the third appearance. Because you see, in this third appearance From even the second appearance, we still don't see him. The first appearance we hear and believe it occurred by faith. The second appearance, we know now, Jesus is right now appearing before the Father for us, giving access by his sprinkled blood for us to be able to come to the Father. But I don't see it. It's all by faith. And so what I long for is his third appearance. His third appearance, which is that physical appearance back together with us. The third one then, Jesus will appear in verse twenty-eight. So Christ was sacrificed once to take away the sins of many people. And he will appear a second time. That is, appear on earth a second time, third appearance, but the second on earth, not to bear sin. But to bring salvation to those who are waiting for him. First question, why does he appear the second time? Notice, it's not to bear sin. It's already been done once for all. So all that's left now is for him to bring salvation. See what verse 28 says? It appears not to bear sin, but to bring salvation. So I always thought he brought it. I'm saved. Well, not really. I mean, yeah, you are, but boy, when you and I look at what happens when Jesus comes We'll realize we only had what the Bible says are the first fruits, the down payment of what that salvation meant. When he comes, he's going to bring the whole bag. He's going to bring all of heaven itself. He's going to bring us to heaven so that we will experience All those promises of all the fullness of God and all his glory and all of what's meant by his kingdom of delight. And so he will bring us salvation in full experience. And as he comes in his body, you in your body will be transformed like his body. You and I will see him like he is. And we will never again be tempted. We'll never again feel guilt. We'll never again want to do something that we're not able to do. We'll never again be dissatisfied. We'll never again struggle. We will simply grow in our understanding of the infinite God in his imagination and wisdom and delights. We continue to experience in the appearance of Jesus what it means to belong to Him. Amen? Amen. What a hope. What a hope that you and I have. In that time when the whole universe outside of hell will be sprinkled clean from all defilement. Why then? Excuse me, that's why he appeared. Who then does he appear to? To whom does he come at this time? Notice the answer: not to all, but who? To those who are waiting for him. The Greek has the idea of eagerly awaiting. So the answer to all who eagerly await him. To those who are eagerly waiting for him. You see, whenever the Old Testament high priest went in that once a year on the Day of Atonement to the Holy of Holies and disappeared beyond that curtain, The people waited anxiously for the high priest to come back again, to know that God had been pleased with their sacrifices. They hadn't vaporized, he hadn't vaporized the high priest. wiped him out because of his sin that they were accepted. The high priest was able to come back and declare, God has forgiven our sin. And you and I wait in that same way anxiously. Jesus has gone. We know he lived. Nobody disputes that there was a Jesus who lived 2,000 years ago. We know his claims. We believe those claims. We believe he's resurrected and now appearing. But we're waiting to see him. We're waiting to have him vindicate those claims as physically he comes. And then we're able to say, yes, Lord Jesus, it's all true. God has accepted what you've done. I am accepted. You're taking me with you to be with you forever. And so when you understand what it is that you're waiting for him to fulfill, it gives you more of a sense of expectation, doesn't it? gives us a sense of longing for him to come. But when's he going to come? You notice the verse doesn't say anything about that Doesn't say. When does he come? It's unknown. Unknown. Some people set dates. We've all been wrong so far, kind of embarrassed. You know, it's gonna come next week and the next week comes and everything just keeps right on going along and amazing how many people have tried to set dates. There's even a new book out on date setting. the folly of it, just uh because there's so many people keep trying to do it. But you know he could come. Could come this afternoon He could come before we have the Lord's Supper tonight. He might come this week. He might come on February 15th of 1992. I'm not setting any dates now, don't quote me on that. He could though. He'd come on your birthday. He could come in 1994. Or he might not come for another generation. We don't know. But what we do now is that it's given to each person, you see, once to die, verse 27. And after that, there is the judgment Reincarnation is baloney. The Bible is very clear there is only one time for each person to die, and then we stand before God in judgment. And all those who talk about previous lives and past lives fly full in the face of what Scripture teaches. But you and I are given simply today. To live for him and to be prepared for when he comes. Are you prepared if Jesus were to come this afternoon? Are you prepared for that third appearance, when will come for those who are eagerly waiting for him, and the rest will face the judgment? That will separate them from him for eternity. And they will get just what they deserved. And what you deserve and what I deserve is a terrible thing to contemplate. Or are you sure that when he comes, it will be to gather you And you know that you're only given today to live for him. Only today. Only today is sure. And not all of today. Let's come before him. And let's commit this year. And let's commit the time that we have left. That we might live each day with that sense of expectation. The Jesus who is now appearing for you, who once appeared to do away with your sin, and now appears to sprinkle all defilement away so that there's nothing between you and the Father. To keep you from coming into fellowship with Him. And that appearing that we long for, that will live in the light of His expectation. Let's pray. Lord our God, if there's any here that has never tasted of that first appearance and having their sin done away with. Pray, Lord, that you would not give them rest or peace until they make that transaction with you to give you their sin, that that sin would be part of what you did away. And your work on the cross. Lord, for those of us who have trusted that But we really don't believe that you now appear before God for us on our behalf, sprinkling away all defilement from us and from the holy place of our meeting. Having opened access so that we may come before you and know your smile, to know that you receive us in fellowship and to grant help for our needs. Lord, we pray that you would overcome the evil one in those attempts to take us, to rob from us that joy and that security. May we rest fully in the shed and sprinkled blood of Jesus. Lord, may we long for that appearing. And so that this year we will live each day with one eye cast up to heaven. And perhaps today you will appear again to bring salvation And to take us to be with you. Make us ready. Make us expectant. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.