Well, good morning. I'm Edward Weiz. For those of you who don't know who I am, I'm the pastoral intern here. And um I've had this unique privilege of being able to preach on days that are sort of unique and special to the year. So last year, my very first sermon here, I preached on the on New Year's Eve, the last day of the year, which was kind of neat. Last month I preached on Reformation Sunday, and today I'm this is the Thanksgiving service. And so um So it's a privilege to be here, open on God's word with you today. Back in my army days, I used to jump out of airplanes, and we would line up in rows and jump out of each side of a plane, and when we would jump, we didn't quite know exactly where we might land. It was very random where you would land in the middle of the field or maybe in a tree or on some rocks and spring some ankles Unlike that, though, this morning, it's going to seem like we're jumping randomly in the middle of our text, but I assure you that it's not. We're going to be looking right in the middle of Colossians chapter 3. Verses 15 through 17. And unlike that time where you might get injured jumping out of planes, no one's going to get injured here, I pray anyways. The title of our of our sermon this morning is The Glory of Gratitude. So we're we are ever presently thinking about thankfulness and gratitude, and it's a really Great privilege, I think, we have as a nation where we set aside a day where we're thinking about gratitude. But this is really the culture of our Christian life where we're always thinking about gratitude and we are always working to be grateful. And so what does the Bible say about gratitude? You'll notice in your bulletin there's three bullet points that will follow along this morning. The backdrop of gratitude. the engine of gratitude, and then the point of gratitude. So if you have your Bible, it's also on the screen. I'm going to read the word here for us. I'll pray and then we'll we'll carry on in our time. But hear the word of God. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body, and be thankful. And let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Let's pray. Gracious Father, thank you for your your word, your rich word, your powerful word, your living word that was passed on to this beautiful church long ago, to the church of Colossae. And now we sit under it this morning, submitting ourselves to its authority, to its power, and so we ask that by your spirit you would teach us anew what it is to be grateful, what it is to be thankful. Would you do that this morning? We ask for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So the backdrop of gratitude. What is the backdrop of gratitude? I'm picking that up in verse 15, and let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. to which indeed you were called in Christ. So if you're following along in that bulletin, the first empty space there, the backdrop of gratitude is the peace of Christ. And so what I mean by this is the the the peace of Christ, when it rules our hearts, it sets the stage for peaceful living amongst one another, within which then sets the stage for gratitude and thankfulness. Who's ever experienced that in your life before where when there's peace and contentment in your relationships, there's joy, there's laughter, there's peace, there's there's harmony, and there's thankfulness. If you have children, more than one child, and you know when the children are getting along, that produces thankfulness in your hearts. And just as we testified earlier as well this morning about the women's retreat, I've heard nothing but positive and sweet reports. of their gratitude and thankfulness to God for the many answered prayers that were wrought by that time there at the women's retreat. Proverbs 2012 says, The seat is in the heart of those who devise evil, but those who plan peace have joy. And then Psalm 133, 1 says, Behold, how good and pleasant is it when brothers dwell together in unity. So there's peace and unity and joy and laughter. These things, they all go together. But this piece of Christ, it's good for us, I think, to recognize that we cannot manufacture this piece of Christ. Okay? We can't build it ourselves. But while we cannot manufacture it, You can let it rule you. What does Paul say? Let the peace of Christ rule your heart In other words, you have a choice of whether or not the peace of Christ is going to rule you. And that word for rule, by definition, it means to be an umpire. And what does an umpire do in our great famous game of baseball? They they call the balls and the strikes, they determine who is safe and who is not, they dictate some of those terms and conditions in the middle of the game. So the peace of Christ needs to dictate what goes on in our hearts. Now, it's good also for us to take a little bit of a step back and ask what produced this letter in the first place? Well, the Colossians, they were dealing with some heresies, and that's why Paul was prompted to write this letter. And just like I don't need to tell you, but a heresy to any congregation is a cancer. It destroys. So what is a heresy at its most basic level? It is a lie. And so while us here at CPC, we're not contending with any heresies. that I know of anyways, we all do on a daily basis contend with lies that barrage our hearts and that want the attention of our hearts. And the three main battlefronts of those lies is the world and the flesh and the devil. And so these things, the world, the flesh, and the devil, they want us to get our hearts To say, let bitterness rule us, or jealousy rule us, or unforgiveness rule us. It's difficult to contend with that. What rules our hearts will rule our lives. Proverbs 27, 19 says, as water reflects the face, so one's life reflects the heart. And so let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. So we are called, CPC, to be at peace with one another. Peace, the peace of Christ that rules us must rule our congregational life here. It needs to be the the uh I would say a particularly defining feature and character trait of who we are as a congregation. And then maybe put it another way, it's what sets the stage for how we relate to one another, whether I'm approachable or not, or whether we're approachable or not, whether we're welcoming or not. Now, what is this peace exactly? I mean, so the peace of Christ must rule us, but what is that peace precisely? Well, we cannot have the peace of Christ rule us if we ourselves are not at peace with Christ. Okay? Again, much of the content of Paul's letter, he's fending off heresies. This whole letter is really, we read it, we will learn how to become a Christian. We read this letter. And uh quick reference to chapter 1, verse 19 and 20. It says, For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, and here's the hinge, making peace by the blood of his cross. So Christ's death and resurrection establishes peace between you and him, and then that sets the stage for enabling peace between one another, because we are when we are at peace with Christ. We can be truly at peace with one another and having the peace of Christ rule us, therefore. And so I want to provide two very quick applications for the Christians that are in this room. I'm going to speak to two groups of Christians that are here today. There's one group of Christians that is having trouble with this piece ruling our lives and ruling our relationships. And for you, in that case, if that's the case for you, let me encourage you to appeal. To Christ this morning. And we'll talk more about even how to do that. But you can appeal to Christ. He is your Savior. He is your Lord. If you're a Christian, Struggling with peace, I can understand, is a thing that we can deal with. But for those of for the other group of Christians, maybe you you can account right now off the top of your head a hundred blessings, a hundred ways that you are thankful for one another. And what I want to encourage you to do, consider to do after our service today, when we're fellowshipping in the hallway, go up to one of these individuals and just tell them how thankful you are to God for them. And maybe even tell them why you're thankful for them. And then the third group here, if you're not a Christian, and there are some who come here and aren't believers, Welcome, by the way. We are glad that you're here coming under the Word of God with us. But I want you to hear this, take heart. You can have peace with God, and that peace is available through the blood of Jesus Christ. And if this is sort of new or strange to you, but you want to know more. We will have elders in the back who were standing ready to explain more and work out how to actually have peace with Christ. It is the greatest gift, and I assure you that when you have the gift of eternal life, salvation by grace alone, faith alone, in Christ alone, you will ever be grateful. And so this is our first bullet point. The backdrop of gratitude is the peace of Christ. But as I alluded to a moment ago, it is hard to s to stay ever grateful, to stay ever at peace with one another? What does keep us as a congregation from splitting off and fracturing? What prevents us from believing lies and heresies? Well, this is the second point. This engine of gratitude. What keeps us going? Well, verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. So that second bullet point there, the engine of gratitude is the word of Christ. So we need to have the word of Christ dwell in us richly. What does that mean? Well, if you have a garden, I like to think of it like this. If you have a garden and when you water your garden, you know you don't see the water seeping down below the surface there. You don't see it sinking down towards the roots where it needs to get. But we know that it's getting there, and part of how we know that it's getting there is because The plants aren't dying. Okay? You're getting your fruit, the colors are there, the plants are growing, etc. They stay alive. Well, so I think this imagery here is is appropriate for us. When we let the word of Christ dwell in us, We're letting the Word of God sink into the deepest places of our hearts in all those little corners and crevices of our thoughts. We are just like the Colossians. We need to be reminded of the gospel over and over again. And when we find ourselves lacking gratitude, If I was having a conversation with you or when we're having honest conversations with one another, when we when we're lacking gratitude, I do think that there there will be another daisy chain that might be playing out in our hearts where we're we're actually giving our hearts attention to other things. We're not fi fixed in letting the word of Christ dwell in us. What what often tangles us up, I think, in a quagmire of ingratitude is when we let the word of man dwell in us. And this is essentially what a lie does and what heresies do. They seek to take the attention of your heart onto that thing and to dwell on that thing, whatever that is. I I don't think we can keep being a grateful people and a thankful people apart from letting the Word of Christ. Move deeper and deeper into our hearts. And what are some of the practical benefits of this? I mean, if this is going, we have this going on in our lives, we're doing this, what are some basic benefits? Well, Paul says further here. Teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom. I do find that to be a very interesting combination Teaching and admonishing and then singing. Psalms and spiritual songs and hymns. Like that's a very interesting duo there, because I don't naturally think of singing when someone's correcting me. But it's an interesting combo, and I think it'll make sense here in a second. Let's look at Proverbs 2520 for a second. It says, whoever sings songs to a heavy heart is like one who takes off a garment on a cold day. Is it better to sing to someone or with someone, would you say? It's better to sing with someone. And so how does the one with a heavy heart get to a place where singing is no longer a burden for them? I think a heavy heart arrives at singing when the nutrients of the word of God sinks deeply into our hearts. deep down into the soul, right where all those pain points and struggle points down in the bottom of our soul, where the roots of our soul are, in the Word of God, and when those two they finally touch. That's when we can start singing again. That's when our souls and our hearts are revived again by the Word of God. And what does Paul say? He says, to do this with one another. In all wisdom. Why is why do we need to do it to one another? Why can't I go uh like on Facebook and get my wisdom? Why can't I go on social media to get my wisdom? Well, because you're not going to get it there. We're explicitly call to go and do this with one another. And we already do this, by the way. We had what this is what the pulpit ministry is, this is what Sunday school hour is, this is what one-on-one discipleship is. We are doing this. I think we have a great healthy ministry in this regard. Community groups do this when you're hanging out with your friends over coffee or meals. And this teaching and admonishing, this singing together, all of this, this is very distinctly Christian living. This is what Christian living is. This is what worship is. But if you're again you're if you're like me, when I give myself over to some sort of lie that I believed in what I would like to call a heresy of the heart. I'll hold on to grudges. I'll hold on to a jealousy. I'll hold on to anger. And when I do that, one of the I think the simple things that flow from that is what uh the psalmist in Psalm 77 does, and I know Pastor Bob preached on that last week. But Psalm 77 too says, In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord. My sore ran in the night and ceased not. My soul refused to be comforted. And so when we're holding on to that heresy of the heart We will inevitably reject the goodness and the beauty and the comfort of Christian community. The only thing that will get us out of that The only thing that will help our hearts apprehend the riches and the goodness of this quickening that we need is when we are teaching and admonishing one another wisely. I don't mean this in a joking way. Who has ever been admonished by a brother or a sister who's felt the joy of that and have been able to sing after that? Who's ever tasted the goodness of correction? It hurts, but it's good. You know, when when again when uh the psalmist says in one thirty-three one, how good and pleasant isn't when brothers dwell together in unity, sometimes that unity isn't achieved until after there's been some serious admonition in our hearts. And that's good. So this is why and how I think these two seemingly odd things, teaching and admonish and singing one another, I think this is how and why they go together. Because when when we are corrected aright by the Word of God, it is what actually enables worship. And when we're worship, this is what enables singing. And we can sing with real sincerity and with real joy. And so the engine of gratitude is the Word of Christ. Now what's the point of gratitude? And whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. What's the point of gratitude? The point of gratitude is the glory of Christ. To do the things that we do in the name of Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him, is us openly giving glory and honor to Christ. John Calvin described this verse as, again, whenever we're doing the things that we do, giving thanks to God the Father, the heart has in its mind's eye the glory of Christ as the mark of why we do the thing that we're doing. This is why I titled the sermon today The Glory of Gratitude. Because the working out of gratitude and thankfulness In accordance with the way that we've constructed this entire service, but the way that the Bible teaches us, it leads to the glory of Christ. And that is the aim of our worship. Can you think of anything higher than the glory of Christ that we could participate in? And then what else does it say? It says, whatever you do in word or deed. And what are those things of the whatever we do? It's everything. And if you're like me, you're wondering Is that possible for everything that I say and everything that I do to be geared toward bringing glory to God and giving thanks to God, the Father? Is it possible that taking out the trash brings God glory? Or cleaning the toilet seat. Or putting the dishes away for the one millionth time. If you're a brand new parent where when you change diapers in the past, can you change a diaper to the glory of God? Yes, you can. And I know you have, many of you. I've been reading a book called Holiness. by J. C. Rile. It's been commended to me by my esteemed mentor. If you know who that is, that's Pastor Bob. But on the section about sanctification, I was reading, and it got my thoughts stirred up in this way when I was preparing for the sermon. That the everything that we do, we do in the name of uh of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him, as our hearts are growing toward doing that. When we have an ever-increasing view of having the glory of God in mind, that's sanctification ironing itself out in our hearts. And in Paul, he gives a list of a bunch of different applications in verses 18 to the rest of this chapter. For household living. I'm not going to go into that, but I do want to offer five simple applications or five things that we already do as a congregation. That I would like to consider you have you consider to begin putting on and doing with with the view of the glory of God in mind as you do this thing. Okay? So here's here's I'm going to give you three Here and I'm going to share a couple things and I'll give you two at the end of our time. We're almost done. But the first one is this. Listening to one another. Listen to what listen to one another to the glory of God the Father. Husbands, listen to your wives. Wives, listen to your husbands. Children, listen to your parents, friends, listen to one another. When you're in community group, when you're at a coffee date. When you're having a meal with one another and your friend is sharing, listen to the glory of God. Pray for one another. That's the other one. Pray for one another. Have in view that when you pray and intercede and you're bearing a burden, you're praying to the glory of God. And then here's another one for in terms of uh the the members here that members that worship here regularly and we're welcoming new members or welcoming new visitors Welcome a visitor and ask a question to this visitor to the glory of God. I hope this isn't an overstatement, but Correct me if I'm wrong. Any ministry endeavor that we take, that a congregation that undertakes, I think will be meaningless if we make our glory the thing that's in view. When we place the glory where it's due, and we put it in ourselves in some way. There's no such thing as gratitude for sin. There's no such thing as gratitude for the things that flow from sin. Sin doesn't produce God's glory. Just think for a second about King David. When King David he conspired to kill a man After getting his wife pregnant, by the way. And he didn't he didn't say, hey, everybody, look what I just did. He ran. He hid in his sin and he hid in his shame. And so then this what I'm getting at, sin and shame do not produce the glory and the gratitude that we're talking about today. I mention this because I know that there are many hindrances facing us all. Sin and suffering. They beset us, and they trouble us, and they get in the way of producing glory or working toward giving God glory. But what does Paul say? Whatever you do, whether it's said, word, or deed, do it to the glory of God. Do it giving thanks to God the Father through Him. Why I love that first phrase is because it sets the bars and the boundary lines of all exceptions. My sinful heart, because of the heresies that I believe in my heart, I devise an exception to this rule. And here's one of the lies that plays out in my heart at times, especially when I'm suffering. I'll say, my pain is unique. Because the uniqueness of this suffering, well, not everything has to be to the glory of God. That works out in my heart This is bad enough. But here's another thing that's terrible that flows from that. When I'm suffering. The heart that's doing that is devising an exception. It wants relief from pain more than it wants the glory of Christ. I have to pluck that out. I need to be admonished when my heart is kind of going down that rabbit trail. And here's something to consider. We can't ever think That God can't get glory through our pain and our suffering and our hardships. Because the peak Of the glory of God in all of human history, the height of the glory of God, it played out in two ways in human history. The first one was when the Father Rain down his wrath on Jesus Christ, on his only begotten Son, so that all the punishment and the judgment for sin that you and I deserve was given to Jesus. That is a very, very glorious thing. But the other glory, of course, was the resurrection of Christ. And so the boundary lines here of are words and deeds. It's everything. When Paul says whatever you do, he's saying everything you do. And so here's the last two pieces that I mentioned earlier that I would give you. I told you I'd give you five. Here are the other two. Think anew about repentance. Your repentance brings God glory. Biblical repentance always brings God glory. And then faith. Here's the other one: faith. As you walk forward by faith, fighting off sin, fighting and walking through suffering, as you walk by faith, that brings God glory. I would I want for you, Christian, to want the glory of God more than you want anything else in your life. So what's the backdrop of gratitude? It's the peace of Christ. What's the engine of gratitude? It's the word of Christ. And what's the point of gratitude? It's the gl of Christ. Let's close in prayer. Gracious God, thank you for your word again. And I do pray that whatever you would be pleased to have us take away from our time together. That you would rot that out and you were to work that out in our hearts. And our highest aim in living would be to bring you glory. That our hearts would really be ever grateful because of the peace that you established between us through the blood of Christ and the word that you've given us that ever reminds us of the gospel of Christ. Father, we love you. And we thank you for your great love with which you love. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.