Well again, my name is Pastor Bob and it is a blessing to be here, as always. Such a blessing to come and be able to read God's Word and preach it to you. And I would invite you on this poem Sunday to turn with me to Matthew chapter 21, where we read Matthew's account of the triumphal entry. I'm going to begin reading with verse 1. Join me in prayer before we do that. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. And Lord, we pray that you would bless the reading of it to us. Lord, help us to exalt your word in our spiritual minds, Lord, that we realize that your word next to your name itself is. the most dear and precious and valuable, the truest, the most certain point in our entire life Lord, that we can build our lives and understand our world and interpret our personal histories through the pages of this divine book. which reveals to us you yourself, your will for us, your ultimate plan. our identity in nature. Lord, so much. And Father, we ask that you would bless us as we read your word for ourselves and especially as we read it publicly. In these corporate worship services, bless it to us. And Father, the preaching that follows, in as much as it is faithful, And as much as it is a good echo of what you have said, we ask your blessing on the preaching as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew chapter 21, verses 1 through 11, the Word of God Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophets, saying, Say to the daughter of Zion , Behold, your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt the full of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee. This ends the reading of God's Word. So the Baltimore Orioles have begun their season together with all of the other Major League Baseball teams. And pious Christians everywhere are praying for their success. And I was very privileged to be able to attend a game , already and at the game uh you know I was reminded it had been a while since I'd been do game uh you know months and i uh thinking about the the walk up songs. When the batter would, if we can borrow the language of uh of Wayne, would Process from the dugout to the on-deck circle. There's no music for him, but when he leaves the on-deck circle and goes to the batter's box That baseball player deliberately and specifically and probably with some thought picked a song that would accompany him as he proceeded to go to the batter's box. And why do they pick songs? Maybe their favorite song? Maybe a song that creates the mood or the atmosphere. Maybe a song the the kind of calculated to get the crowd all stirred up. Maybe a song that uh supposed to strike fear in the heart of the pitcher. I I don't know. I've never been a professional baseball player. But we did have a very light hearted moment at session where we were talking before this is before the meeting began. About, you know, I was saying, well what would your walk-up song be? You know, if we had a congregational meeting and and you know, I th the guys weren't very quick at thinking. It was a very short conversation, but let me tell you some of the thoughts I've had since then. I look just for the record, I am by far the silliest of the elders at this session meetings, but but so I've been doing some thinking that like uh like Wayne, where's Wayne? Your walk-up song should be smooth operator. Gary Aaron should be, I just want to bang on my drums all day. Mine, for reasons I will keep to myself, would be Herbie Hancock's version of Watermelon Man. But you know Think about the idea of a walk-up song, something you deliberately pick. That's the only thing a Major League Baseball player can really control, their walk-up song. They can't decide how the umpire's gonna call the strikes or balls, what the zone's gonna look like. They can't control what kind of pitch they look at. They can't even really control the outcome of what happens when they're Hickory hits the leather skin of the ball and it goes flying out into the field. They can't control the fielder, but they can pick the song. And I was thinking about that some as I was preparing for this sermon, because this is, out of all the events in the life of Jesus Christ, this is the most choreographed instance of his life. Nearly every account we have of the things that happened to Jesus Christ from his temptation to his crucifixion. are things that happen to him, interruptions along the way. He's teaching in a synagogue and someone cuts open the roof and drops someone. He's walking in or out of a city. And some blind beggar or some leprous person interrupts him. He's walking to Tyre and Sidon and someone with an issue of blood grabs his tunic. And we see a Jesus who's constantly reacting and responding. And in fact, we don't actually have the text of a single one of the sermons he would have deliberately thought about to preach in a synagogue. We know his text from his very first sermon in the synagogue, but we see Jesus throughout all four of the Gospels responding, reacting, and then on this occasion. We see him saying, this is precisely what I want to happen. And it's clear that he's arranged it Somehow, whether through divine agency or just through good old fashioned uh sending a messenger ahead, he's worked out that someone uh has got uh a donkey And a colt with her. A colt would be a male one-year-old donkey that would be the foal of that mother in this case, in order to fulfill prophecy. And so Jesus has arranged for that to be there. And a password, if you will, tell her that the Lord has need of it. And he will send it at once. Now, why in the world would Jesus deliberately determine that in his great Walk up song, if you will, to Jerusalem, where he will have his great at-bat. Why did he choose Zechariah 9? Why did he deliberately want to put in the heads and hearts of God's people that text? You know, in looking at that text, I learned a couple things about it. Zechariah chapter 9 is a fascinating text. The part that we usually look at , beginning with verse 9 , is intimately connected to verses 1 through 8. In fact, it's the response to verses 1 through 8. We're going to look at all of that in a minute, but before I read it for us I want to share with you something that I learned that I you know I I went to seminary twice, uh actually three times. I I have degrees. I I've studied a lot. I learned something about Zechariah chapter nine that I had not known before. And you know, I'm a big fan of buying and reading fine commentaries on the Bible that have been published over the centuries. There's a couple different kinds, there's a lot of different kinds of commentaries, but in one respect you can divide them into two categories. Parts of sets. in the modern commentary era like the New American Bible or the International Critical Commentary. So there's sets where these publishers, Christian publishers, say, hey, we want to publish a series of commentaries. And they'll arrange with different professors at seminaries and PhDs to say, Hey, will you write the commentary on Luke? Will you write the commentary on Hosea And they say, yeah, sure, they write a contract and then they create a commentary. But then there's other kind of think of them as standalone commentaries, where some scholar just has a real passion for this part of the Bible, or this book of the Bible. And they will write a commentary and then shop it around, and it'll get published not as a part of any set, but kind of as a standalone commentary. It is very, very difficult, I am told, to get a standalone commentary published. It has to be great And you have to be a real expert, like Eugene Merrill, one of this past generation 's giants in Old Testament studies. And he's got a commentary on Zechariah, and guess who has it? This guy. And in reading it, I learned something about Zechariah 9 I never knew. Did you know that Zechariah 9, together with 2 Samuel chapter 7, the messianic prophecy of another, a greater son of David who would reign forever, Zechariah 9 Is the basis, and he's got the receipts, he has the footnotes, for the rabbinic expectation of a messianic king who would conquer Think about that. Because that's almost the opposite of how I as a Christian have always read that text I've always read that text as if it supports the thought that Jesus is going to come and he's going to be just meek and lowly and tender and gentle. But the way the Jews at the time of Jesus understood Zechariah 9 He would be that towards them after he had destroyed all that opposed himself and the people of God Let's look at Zechariah chapter 9. If you have your Bible, turn to it, or if you have your um phone You can I I think some of you, especially you young cool kids, you you look at the Bible on your phone. You can click your buttons there. Zechariah chapter 9. I'm going to read this for us. Listen carefully. The oracle of the word of the Lord is against the land of Hadrach. And Damascus is its resting place. So Hadraq is not something that shows up on our modern atlases. Think Syria. And Damascus is its capital. For the Lord has an eye on mankind and on all the tribes of Israel, and on Hamath also, which borders on it, Tyre and Sidon, though they are very wise. Tyre has built herself a rampart and he and heaped up silver like dust and find gold like the mud of the streets, but behold, the Lord will strip her of her possessions and strike down her power on the sea. and she shall be devoured by fire. Ashkelon shall see it and be afraid. Gaza too, and shall writhe in anguish. Ekron also, because its hopes are confounded. The king shall perish from Gaza, Ashkelon shall be uninhabited, a mixed people shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of Philistia I will take away its blood from its mouth and its abominations from between its teeth. It too shall be a remnant for our God. It shall be like a clan in Judah, and Ekron shall be like the Jebusites Then I will encamp at my house as a guard, so that none shall march to and fro. No oppressor shall again march over them, for now I see with my own eyes. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey. On a colt, the foal of a donkey. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the war horse from Jerusalem. And the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nations. His rule shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. And as for you, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free from the waterless pit Return to your stronghold, O prisoners of hope. Today I declare that I will restore to you double. Now, I'll stop reading there What did we just read? Oftentimes we read names and geographical places in the Bible, and we kind of gloss over them, our eyes kind of glaze over, and we think, well, I'll get to something that is good. And we miss the point that's being made. Much like Amos in his prophecy What Zechariah is doing is he's starting, he's starting, if you imagine a map with the Mediterranean Sea here and Israel here, he's starting up there in the northeast, Damascus. The source of great enmity towards Israel, the place from which the armies of the Assyrians came through and destroyed the ten tribes of Israel The route that the king of Babylon took when he destroyed Jerusalem and took the people of Judah captured. Coming right down what you learned in grade school and middle school was the Fertile Crescent. Damascus will be defeated. And then moving over, Tyran Sidon on the coast of the Mediterranean, who've been perennially, economically oppressing the people of Israel and facilitating their destruction by aiding and abetting enemies. And then moving down the coast to the Philistines, Gaza, Eschalon, and then Ekron It's taking a sharp left turn going back to the northwest, beelining for Jerusalem. And so if we were reading this in today's World that we live in, it was as if God was saying, first, and please don't take offense at this, first I'm taking out the Phillies. And then the pirates gotta go. Then we're gonna go down and we're gonna take care of the Braves. And then the nationals. And then I'll enter Camden Yards. You see, God is saying All who oppose you, all that stand against you, all who are the ones who bring chariots and horses into your sacred space and interrupt and destroy your lives. I'm going to go to the root of all of those problems, and I'm going to solve them all once and for all. And then and only then, after the battles have been won. Not gonna come on a war horse. I'm gonna come on a donkey, a colt A one-year-old baby donkey with its mother right beside it because it hasn't been ridden yet. Something completely unsuitable for a military context, but not for a king. David wrote a donkey. 2 Samuel 16, verses 1 through 2. Solomon rode donkeys. This wasn't something that was beneath a king in that culture of that day, but it was a symbol of peace. I am not going to war. You see, it is after this mighty king has won all the battles that he then enters into Jerusalem and says, now you will have peace. Because I accomplished it. And no longer, no longer will you need to fear the chariots and the horses No longer will you fear being oppressed and defeated and beaten It's interesting that the response of the crowds comes from Psalm 118. Now Psalm 118 is the Psalm that's part of the What's called the Hallel. It's a collection of Psalms, and we get hallelujah from that same word. Halel means praise. Hallelujah means praise the Lord or praise Yahweh. And so that Psalm 118 is the the last Psalm in that collection of Psalms, and it's a psalm that, if you look at it, talks about how The personified people of God are surrounded by nations opposed to them. God will deliver them all and establish peace. And therefore The refrain at the end of Psalm 118 is this, Hosanna, which literally means deliver us. Hosanna. Deliver us. The Israelites understood this. The Jewish people at the time of Jesus understood what it meant that Jesus was riding in on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. And it would have communicated two things to them that it ought to communicate to us. And I want to just briefly cover these two. points. First, Jesus is our strong King. And second, Jesus is our humble King. Now notice that Jesus has from Damascus to Ekron utterly destroyed all that could oppose or threaten or defeat his people. Do you believe that? Do you believe that all the sins that entangle you, all the addictions that frustrate you, all the thorns in your side that grieve you, do you believe that in Jesus Christ You are more than conquerors, and he has in fact defeated all that could prevent you from coming to him and living a life with peace You see, sometimes we don't believe that Jesus, as our great King, can and has defeated sin for us So that we can always have a way of escape, no matter how severe the temptation, no matter how great the struggle, no matter how powerful the enemy. Do you believe that Jesus has actually exercised his kingly authority and demonstrated his extreme and unmitigated dominance over all spiritual? powers and principalities by his death and resurrection for us. And do you believe that that Almighty, powerful Savior to whom all authority is given, do you believe that He is for you? Do you believe that he is for you and that in him you can do all things? That verse that again a lot of athletes like to refer to at the end of Philippians in chapter four. That's basically an invitation for us to think that we can overcome all sins. Not that we'll ever be perfect, but there's no one specific sin or temptation that will ever own us. Unless we will not repent of it. Do you believe that Jesus is strong? Do you believe that nothing can stand against him? And therefore With his help, you can scale every wall. And you can stand before an entire troop of enemies. Do you believe that? And do you believe that he's your humble king? Notice that he is the rightful king. After he takes this tour of defeating the enemies of God, we read in verse 8. Then I will encamp at my house as a guard. Echoing back to that tabernacling with his people, dwelling among them. I will encamp at my house as a guard, so that none will march to and fro. No oppressor shall again march over them. For now I see with my own eyes. Do you know that your God, who has come to you in Christ, your Jesus, who had children like ours throw down palm branches and people put cloaks on a donkey and on the ground for him to walk on. Did you know? That he is encamped as a guard among us. He himself is the wall of our defense. He is our fortress. He is our rock, our safe place. And if we are safe in Jesus, we are safe. If Jesus keeps your life and you're coming and going both now and forevermore, you are safe. Yes, we will all die at some point from illness, infirmity, violence, but our souls, who we are for eternity, are safe. What a blessed thought. No oppressor shall ever again march over me I might get ripped off by a car dealer. I might get mugged. I might catch some dreadful fatal disease. Lots of things might happen to me that from the human perspective are bad, but this I know. No oppressor shall ever march over me, because Jesus Christ Himself is my great God. And his eyes are all seeing. Do you believe that he has come as a humble king? not only to be your guard, but to serve you. There's two ways that this prophecy says he will serve his people. Both of them Clearly understood by the people based upon their response, O save us, oh deliver us, Hosanna, in the highest, you are our best and greatest hope. As for you, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free from the waterless pit. He will set us free from that which troubles us. And there is freedom in Christ. Return to your stronghold. Today I declare that I will restore you double. He will give back to you the years that the locusts have eaten, as Joel says. He will not only set you free, he will restore you in a safe place. He will invite you to abide in him. And when God's people hear this, in the fact that he comes deliberately riding on a donkey, And just in case any of you are wondering, why were there two of them, in order to fulfill this prophecy and the expectations of the people It had to be a purebred donkey. They distinguished between them, and again, Eugene Merrill has the footnotes to prove it. Again, something I did not know. And remember how the Jews would determine whether somebody was a pure Israelite. It's based on who their mother is. So this is indeed a donkey. A purebred donkey, because there's its mother. And so here Jesus is perfectly fulfilling this prophecy And the people of God understand it, and they respond in the best way possible. They say Hosanna to the son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. Save us to the utmost. That's what Hosanna in the highest means. Because they understood Jesus was coming, that great messianic king. who would indeed establish his rule his rule, only not precisely the way they expected. Now there's another point about this text that has intrigued me And again, it's a point that is brought out by many other scholars and preachers. There's a big difference between those crowds that were coming with Jesus and the people inside Jerusalem. The crowds coming with Jesus, we're seeing Hosanna in the highest save us, the people in Jerusalem. Their response is, who is this? They are greatly stirred. And I'm not sure that's a good thing to be stirred. We might think, well, our hearts are stirred when we worship, but think about how the people in Jerusalem responded when they heard that a king had been born. They were greatly troubled. You see, those living in Jerusalem had their world in a certain way. And a new king would upset the apple cart of every status quo imaginable. And they didn't want that. And it's not immediately clear what these people of Jerusalem are thinking when they say, Who is this? But it's clear that they were not able to interpret the symbol of Jesus coming on that donkey, that colt, the foal of a donkey. The way the crowds were. And they have to ask. And the answer given, this is the prophet. Not a profit. The definite article. For those of you kids who are here, a definite article is the opposite of an indefinite article. If I, for example, were to say a baseball team is the Orioles in Baltimore. I'm just saying that's one of, what, 32 baseball teams. But if I were to say the baseball team, the is the definite Oracle, I'm saying, yeah, that's really the team that's the best. Or if I were to say the baseball team in Baltimore, I'm suggesting it's the only one. Well, that definite article is redundantly included in the crowd's response to the people of Jerusalem. This is the prophet from Nazareth. And in the same way that the king coming in Zechariah 9 comes down from the north , So has this king. And he fulfills that expectation, that messianic hope of a prophet like Moses from Deuteronomy 18. And he fulfills that expectation of a son of David who would reign forever, because as his followers know, he was born in Bethlehem. The city of David. And he fulfills the expectation of the great king who would deliver his people. And having established by his might Freedom for his people, he will gently and humbly rule over them and guard them forever. Who is this? That is the one question I would invite you to consider this holy week. Who is this? Has he come to conquer you or to protect you? Has he come to judge you or to invite you to be safe in him Has he come in the name of your God? Or has he come in the name of the God that you oppose? The wonder of Palm Sunday as I read it from the eyes of a pastor in 2025 is this. That that very question, who is this, is also an invitation to join the procession in its answer. He is the prophet. And I hope you hear it as an invitation. You who need spiritual deliverance from so many things. You who need peace and safety and security from so many different directions. Understand that Jesus Christ came to defeat his and your enemies spiritually and to give you a safe life eternally. following this service, if any of you would like prayer, to come to Jesus, to acknowledge him To cry out with others, Hosanna, save us. O Lord, save me to the utmost. Hosanna in the highest. We'll have members of our prayer team here in the front of the sanctuary who would love to pray with and for you. And I stand over there by the welcome desk and I love to meet as many of you, especially visitors as I can. But I hope that this holy week is a week that all of us reflect on the beauty and the power of a mighty King. Who so humbly serves us. Amen. Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. And Lord, the hearts of the people in Jerusalem were stirred with some confusion Lord, stir our hearts with praise that we might truly cry out, Hosanna, and do so in a way that reflects our great praise and joy and thanksgiving that you have saved us. And may our Hosanna's be full and loud and joyful. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.