This morning I'm going to be reading for us the first three verses of Luke chapter 8, verses that serve as uh something of a hinge in the narrative of Jesus' earthly ministry. Jesus has been doing one thing up to this point through chapter seven, then we have chapter eight, and something new begins a more intensive development of the twelve and those who follow him. Please join me in prayer before I read these verses for us. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word, and Lord, for its truth and beauty. Lord, we pray that you would help us. Lord, to read it well. Lord, to take it to heart, to understand what it says about who you are, about who we are. About how we should live for you and how we should think and feel about this life you've given us on this year world. So, Father, bless us and bless the reading of Scripture And Father, in the preaching that follows, inasmuch as it is faithful to the gospel of Jesus Christ and the teaching of your word, Lord, we pray that you bless the sermon as well. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 8, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. Soon afterward He went on through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God, and the twelve were with him, and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities. Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, and Joanna, the wife of Chusa, Herod's household manager, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them out of their means. This ends the reading of God's Word. In a couple of places throughout the Gospel of Luke, we find these brief summaries. They kind of capture what Jesus is doing, what he's either just accomplished or what he's about to begin. They're kind of like Paul's travel notices that he sometimes sticks at the ends of his letters to churches. Hey, this is the context now of what Jesus is doing in this next section of ministry. This is what Jesus has been doing up until now. We saw a section like this in chapter 4 and in chapter 5, and here we have another at the beginning of chapter 8. And these summary statements in the Gospel of Luke are unique to Luke. Some of you remember from our looking at Luke chapter 1, the first couple of verses, Luke was led by the Holy Spirit To examine several other accounts of the life of Jesus, certainly including the Gospel of Mark. And he was led by the Spirit to give us this third gospel. The Gospel of Luke, as we call it. And these summary statements are places where Luke, who has by the influences of the Holy Spirit, given us the inspired and errant word of God , composite from several other sources he had available to him. And these summary statements are Luke's Holy Spirit-inspired, utterly inerrant, Word of God descriptions in simple terms of what Jesus our Lord and Savior is about. So Luke has taken several accounts about what Jesus did in particular in the city of Nain, the raising of a widow's son. A discussion with the disciples of John the Baptist, the forgiveness of a sinful woman at a Pharisee named Simon's house over a dinner. And now Jesus is beginning to travel about Galilee, further equipping his disciples. But there are some things that Luke, again, led by the Spirit of the living God, wants us to know about the ministry of Jesus as a foundation, as a baseline. This is what all of the ministry we're about to hear Jesus performing throughout chapter 8 rests upon. And there's two things this three-verse summary introduction to this next phase of Christ's ministry focus on. The content of Jesus' ministry and the companions he keeps. I want to look first at the content, the content of Jesus' ministry because This is probably the biggest place where churches in the West have been making a mistake since the rise of modernity in the late 1800s. I'll explain what I mean by that a little more in a moment. We read, soon afterward, he went on through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. When we think about what Jesus did, we often think about how he healed people, performed miracles. How he humbled the powerful and lifted up the powerless. We think about what he did in terms of our felt needs and our social conundrums. That would be the great message that you'd come across if you picked up any of the great lives of Christ that began to prolifer prolip proliferate, pardon me, in the in the 1800s and even through our day. And then sometimes in our focus and our deep urgency as a church in the West to be a missional church, we look at these missions of Jesus, and I would say with a lowercase M And we double , down on all these felt needs that Jesus is addressing throughout his ministry. But when it comes to summarizing the ministry of Jesus Christ, when the Holy Spirit describes his ministry here in this text, for example, and there are other places we've already seen in Luke's Gospel and will yet see. The foundation of everything Jesus is doing is the proclamation of the good news. That is what he's about. Jesus came to be a light shining in darkness. And that light shining in darkness that Jesus came to be is not a light that is limited. by the 70 plus a score of years that we may have on this planet. It is not in the first place targeted towards our eye diseases or our cancers Or our family context and situations, or our careers. The overarching plan of Jesus is to win a people for himself for all of eternity. to accomplish the forgiveness of the sins of all who will repent and believe. His great objective in your life, the joy set before him that caused him to endure the cross was fellowship with you in heaven forever. So it's important to remember that Jesus' primary business in traveling from village to village and city to city is a preaching ministry. to proclaim the good news, the gospel of the kingdom of God. And yes, there are certain attendant blessings temporally that affect us in this life in this world that grow from that. But the main passionate heartbeat of Jesus' ministry is the preaching of the gospel. We see that, for example, when Jesus heals the paralytic When he says, get up and he says your sins are forgiven, they say, how how can you forgive sins? And he says, which is easier, to forgive sins or to raise a man up from the mat? He says, that you may know the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins. Pick up your mat and go, he says to the paralytic. Did you catch that? That you may know. Jesus performs what John and his gospel and the fourth gospel calls signs, what are also called wonders, what the three Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke call his miracles, are Things that attest him to the people watching his ministry to demonstrate that God is working through him. So that they will listen and pay careful attention to the main thing Jesus was about. And the main thing he was about was healing souls, not bodies. It was about making you a citizen of heaven, not a better-off citizen of wherever you live. Jesus' overwhelming passion and desire is to know you, to befriend you, to love you, to be wed to you for eternity. Sometimes I struggle with that because I'm so overwhelmingly distracted by the things of this world You know, I grew up here in Maryland, but then when I was about 30, I spread my wings and flew off, and I Pastored a little church temporarily for three months in Northern California, Sunnyvale. Then I was in St. Albans, Vermont for eight years. Then I was back here for a couple of months and I went out to LA for sixteen years and now I'm back. And in the meantime, I've forgotten what a lot of the bugs native to Maryland look like. And we saw something the other day. I should say my wife and my son, who's visiting with us, saw something the other day. It was a large ant-like looking bug. And the word termite came up. And you would be shocked, and I would be ashamed if you knew how much time I spent worrying about whether or not that bug was a termite. I spent more time worrying about whether that bug was a termite than I have in the six months I've lived in that house about whether my neighbor is going to be in heaven with me. Why is that? Why is it that the things that might be bad about our lives and situations are so much more important than the eternal things that we know are wrong all around us. Why is it that we're so focused on the structures of our homes? That we're not as concerned, just in terms of time, thought, energy, passion, with the eternal safety of the people ahead of and behind us in the grocery store line. You see, I constantly need to be reminded, dear brothers and sisters, that the main thing Jesus was about was the gospel. The overriding passion in his life and his ministry was the souls of men and women, boys and girls. And it shaped and it drove and it motivated everything he did. I have no doubt that Jesus would have paid attention if he saw a bug that might or might not have been a termite In looking at the Google pictures that those who've seen it, we it's not a termite, it's just some some big ant that I forgot lived in in Maryland. But uh we have large insects of other types in uh in California, but not those big ants. And see, I already distracted myself thinking about the big ant. Shameful. We need constant reminders that as much as Jesus would have done something about the ants, it wouldn't have been a deep care. It wouldn't have weighed him down. Think about your house. Who's got the oldest house in this church? Just who's got a house that's 60 years old Let's play a little game here. Who's got a house that's 80 years old? Anybody? Somebody over there. Okay, does anybody have a house that's a hundred years old? There's still a hand up? Yeah. Okay, well I can't see hands. Does anybody have a house that is goes back to the Civil War? Yeah. Seriously? That's pretty impressive. Now Revolutionary War? You get my point? Now let's let's spin that fork. Who thinks their house is still going to be here in fifty years? A hundred years? 150 years. You think your house is still going to be here in 200 years? I don't even know if our country's going to be here in 200 years, as much as I love it. And the things we spend time and energy worrying about and caring for that are so temporary When we have other things we could be caring about and concerned about that are more fundamentally real than bricks and mortar and rubber and steel. the souls of the people that we share this life with. When Jesus preaches the gospel The good news of the kingdom of God. That good news is summarized by the Holy Spirit speaking in Scripture. With these words, repent and be baptized. Repent and believe. Or simply repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. It's at once an invitation and a command. Come and be reconciled to your Creator. Come and be reconciled to the one who has loved you, who designed you. Who made you, who by his sovereignty has put you in places where you will grow and learn spiritual truths from things like eye diseases and big old carpenter ants You see, the overwhelming concern of Jesus Christ for you is your soul. And whether he will have your fellowship, your companionship, you. For eternity in heaven. And from that Spill over all sorts of other effects in this life. But once we pull the rug out from under all those other things, and those other things become the important things It's only a generation until historically we lose everything. It's happened to countless churches in American history That start with a gospel platform and then become focused on all of the secondary and tertiary downstream effects of the gospel, and the effects of the gospel become the purpose and mission of the church. And within a generation those churches and those denominations are gone. Because they've forgotten that thing, that engine, that vital heart of the Church of Jesus Christ, which is nothing other than the gospel. And so we have to continually remind ourselves to believe on, to remind ourselves of, to rejoice in, to worship because of the gospel, and then to live in light of it. as each one of us has been given callings and lowercase M missions that flow from the great saving work of Jesus, the Son of God. The content of Jesus' ministry is a preaching ministry of the gospel that is aimed at souls Grounded in eternal expectations of fellowship that is attested by and accompanied by and results in works The content of Jesus' ministry is sublime, heavenly. It is beautiful. It gives me a reason for hope and joy and worship, even if my whole house has fallen down from termites, even if my flesh and my heart fail. But what of the companions? Because Luke also focuses us on the companions of Jesus. He tells us that the twelve were with him. This is the first time they are simply referred to as the Twelve. We were told there were twelve earlier, named apostles. Now they've gotten their nickname, their handle. They're the twelve. And they're with him. And it's interesting to note that as we read through the rest of chapter 8 and into chapter 9, that is all they are. They are merely with him. They don't feature in anything. They are there. They're along for the ride. They're watching. They're learning. It's only later that they will be cooperating with Jesus in his great ministry. But right now, they are like silent partners, accompanying their Lord and Savior, watching him preach the gospel. And perform mighty works that attest to his authority. That's what they're doing. But then there's another point here, and this point, if we were could if we could use our historical imagination and go back two thousand years especially in the the the Jewish context. This would shock us. Also some women. Right there. Full stop. There's a famous passage from a rabbi that lived about the time of Paul that has worked its way into many pulpit ministries because it was included and footnoted very well in the theological dictionary of the New Testament. about a rabbi who one of his daily prayers was, thank you that you did not make me a woman. Women during the time of the Second Temple period, especially under Roman rule in the Jewish culture, might have had slightly fewer rights and abilities than they did during the time of King David. Largely because of the influences of some of the Greco Roman cultural norms. Interestingly, in the Greco Roman world, the Hellenistic world we call it, women could be priestesses. They were a dime a dozen in places like Corinth. But they weren't disciples of rabbis, and they didn't follow a rabbi. To follow a rabbi meant to be a disciple. Now, we're not talking about apostles. The twelve were named apostles, and there were only twelve during the early earthly ministry of Jesus, and they were all men. But there were disciples, people who followed Jesus, who were women. That would have been scandalous. And then think about these women. Three of them are named for us. These are all described as women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities. You see, they had experienced miraculous work of Jesus to what effect? That their souls had been saved and they were now disciples of Jesus Christ following him faithfully. In fact Two of these women will be at the tomb and see it empty, Mary Magdalene and Joanna. But Mary Magdalene had seven evil spirits driven from her. She's generally considered by the church and its historical traditions to to have been a prostitute, but let me surprise you by saying we don't know that All we know is that she had seven evil spirits. Seven demons had gone out from her. And we know that she lived a life that was alone and bereft of any kind of male association. The same is true of Susanna, of whom we know nothing but her name. You see, typically when people are introduced in literature this time, and Luke was a very studied, literarily savvy author, women were given an association. With a father or a husband or sometimes a son. That's simply the way it was at that time. And if a woman was just put out there With no attachment or association, it's because they were cast out in certain ways, had no vital connection Jesus had two such women at the very least following him regularly. One of whom, Mary Magdalene, we know would have had a reputation something like the crazy man and the Gatherene account we will discover in chapter 8. It was naked and living in the tombs, alone, outside of society, unclean, undesired. But because of spiritual or moral failures, people who were deemed outcasts by society were acceptable as disciples of Jesus Christ. And what about Joanna? Pastoring in 2025, I sure am glad that this verse is in the Bible. And Joanna, the wife of Chuza , Herod's household manager. I want you to imagine That there is a President of the United States whom you really don't like. I suspect for all of you that's possible, either now or uh four years ago. We live in a highly polarized culture. We tend not to be lukewarm or tolerant of anything. We either are avid supporters or rabid haters, one or the other. And forgive me if that's not you, I'm speaking in broad generalized terms. But let me tell you what would certainly be the case if you were, say, Simon the Zealot, one of the apostles. You were pro-nation of Israel, expecting Messiah to come and establish a new kingship and re-establish the dynasty of King David. and lay ruin to all the enemies of the nation as it was understood in historical terms, temporal terms, earthly terms. And you would have looked at Herod as a figure of great evil and disgust. Not even really Jewish, but of Edomite descent, who reigned at the whim of and by permission of and by cozying up to the Caesars the emperors in Rome, a betrayer of the fundamentals of your national identity. Now if you were one of his cabinet members, a household manager of Herod , And you had a wife who is following Jesus And who is out of the great financial means at her disposal as one of the hated political sympathizers with Rome supporting the ministry of Jesus, you would be tempted, perhaps in today's climate in Western Christianity where we sort ourselves politically to say, well, I'm okay with the next prostitute worshiping next to me. But not that. I can't take seriously a disciple of Christ who's too closely associated with this or that political person or movement or tribe. And dear Christian, I want to suggest that as I read the Bible, I find that attitude in my own heart to be shameful. Even worse than spending four hours worrying about what might have been a termite You see, Joanna and her husband Chuzza and Herod himself are image bearers of the living God And we see that there is a redemptive use to God calling people from all over the socio-political spectrum, that his name and his fame might spread. Consider what happens in just a very short while. In chapter 9, verse 7, now Herod the Tetrarch, this isn't Herod the Great, the one who killed the babies, this is one of his sons. Herod the Tetrarch heard about all that was happening and he was perplexed because it was said by some that John had been raised from the dead. By some that Elijah had appeared, by others that one of the prophets of old had risen. Herod said, John is beheaded, but who is this about whom I hear such things? And he sought to see Jesus Did you ever notice that passage before? Did you ever connect it to the fact that his household manager's wife was supporting with the the money that came out of ultimately Herod's coffers the ministry of this Jesus of Nazareth? and that is almost certainly how the news and reports made it back to Herod himself. That God has plans about winning the souls of men that involve a net so incredible that includes strands It includes people that not Joel Strand but Filaments, fibers, cords That's what I was trying to get at there. But it includes all sorts of people from all sorts of backgrounds, all sorts of experience, be they understood in terms of wealth or poverty Political, national identity, or perspective, spiritual, tragic experiences or covenantal upbringings. Physical ailment or bodily health. Jesus calls people to follow him and be his disciples from all over the map. The body of Christ is composed as such as these. And it is inasmuch as the gospel of Jesus Christ is the great foundation and the hot burning center of the ministry of the body of Christ, the church, that such disparate and disagreeable people can be drawn together. become one in Christ and love one another in a way that will be winsome and evangelistic. Jesus didn't sort people out and say on Tuesdays, I would like those of you who had demons, you can follow me on Tuesdays. But I can't have you mixing with these people. For those of you who had been prostitutes, Or gigalos or whatever the other terms might be, pimps, you can follow me on Thursdays. Those of you who are rich, follow me on this day. They all followed him together. And they grew up in grace. And they grew in their faith. And what a picture of a ministry that is worthy of emulation When I say to myself as a pastor, I want to be like Christ, and I challenge the interns I have, be like Christ. And I think about the people I've discipled and I say, be like Christ. Develop an overmastering concern for the destiny of their souls. If you're in ministry, if you have a small group, if you're raising kids, if you have neighbors you care about. develop an overmastering concern for the eternal outcome of their life. Such that you are far more concerned with where they will spend eternity than how they vote, what contagious diseases they carry what sports they like, what team they root for, all the things that we might find offsetting. What language they grew up speaking. None of those things matter. Not the way we let them matter today. Develop an overmastering concern for the souls of men and women, boys and girls. And then look carefully at the companions you have. Do you protect yourself from certain types of people and why? Do you hold certain sectors of people in disdain and why? You know, when Jesus says love your neighbor as yourself, he means all the people that this culture and this society try to make it a virtue to hate. That's the voice of Satan himself speaking. You are to love. I am to love. And the measure of a Christian is not by how well they love their friends, but how faithfully they are loving their enemies. As I think of this passage of Scripture and all the ways that it challenges me I think the first way I need to apply a text like this is to challenge myself, to search myself, to test myself, and say, do I follow this Jesus? Have I repented and believed this gospel? Have I laid hold of Jesus as more than just a wise miracle worker? A good leader. And have I really gotten the heart of his ministry, have I understood that he came to reconcile me to God by forgiving me of my sins Because I could know many, many things about Jesus and end up in hell forever. But I could know very few things about Jesus, like the thief on the cross. And spend eternity with him in paradise. The one thing you need to know about Jesus is that he is the Son of God who died to pay the penalty for your sins. And the good news, the gospel of his kingdom, is simply repent and believe on me that you might live. And you will learn many other things about him. I'm still learning. I hope you are too. And then in application, I would add a third to the point here under application, and I'd encourage you to talk about this in your community groups. What would you say is the foundation of your ministry, and what do the companions you keep say about that ministry? Are there certain types of people that you really don't want to be around at all? The Apostle Paul didn't care much for Gentiles until he became the Apostle Paul. Maybe God is calling you to reach out to and to love people that you have hitherto not loved or reached out to. Maybe God's calling you to repent of being sectarian in your application of the gospel and wanting to insulate yourself from people other than you. in some type of secondary or tertiary persuasion. Maybe you have made ancient Israelite chibolets out of doctrines or ideologies that really Have nothing essentially gospel about them. This might be an opportunity for you or for I to repent of such things and to focus on the gospel of Jesus Christ. And to be eager in following this Jesus alongside of people that up until now we might have been scandalized to be seen Loving. I'm deeply concerned for the souls of the people that I minister to. That I have coached as a lacrosse coach, that I have shared property lines with. And it is my deep desire that everyone will have heard this invitation , at least once in their life. You can come to Jesus Christ and have your sins forgiven by the Son of God. You can have peace with your Maker You can live. And if that resonates in the hearts of any of you I would plead with you, following the service, make a beeline for that corner. There are going to be people there that would love to pray with you. You can, as Charles Spurgeon once said, you can become a Christian faster than I can say the words be saved. But to pray with someone, to express your faith, to begin to be mentored in your new life, these are essential things and part of what the church exists for. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for the fact that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ kept his eye on the ball. He knew what was essential and important. He knew what must be the foundation of his ministry as the Son of Man, the Son of God. He did not allow himself to be distracted by the kingdoms of this world and all their splendor. He did not get distracted by the bread when he was hungry. He did not get distracted, Lord. Ever. And Father, we pray that you would help us to be fixed upon the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that our absolute love and passion for you, our Savior, would spill over into acts of love and kindness for those fellow pilgrims on the road. And those who are not yet fellow pilgrims, it would be constantly reaching out to them and beckoning them to join hands with us. In looking to Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, we ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior. Amen.