Chapter one. Acts chapter one. Really been excited about Acts as I've studied it preparing for this series and as I've studied it during the series. It's exciting to read through the whole book and to see the progress of the gospel. Uh you might notice on the back of your bulletin outline. Uh have a little I guess you might call it assignment, although that's kind of a turn-off I guess. But I'd really recommend you try that. Reading a large chunk of the book of Acts to get the flow and to see it expand. the gospel and the church going forth from Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria into the uttermost parts of the earth. It's exciting to see it. It's uh powerful. I've uh just suggested there just got forty five minutes. It took me about an hour and a half to read through the whole thing in one sitting. Yeah, so often we study scripture we pick one verse, but I don't think when Theophilus got this letter from Luke that he took the first verse, and Luke says in my former book, Theophilus, I don't think Theophilus tried to take an hour or two to analyze that letter. And that's a lot of the way we study the Bible, and I think there's a place for that. But we don't enough, I don't think, is reading the whole broad section of scripture and and see the flow of this in Acts as a story of the spread of the gospel. Acts one eight As the theme verse. So I really uh recommend you do that sometime during the series. I think you'll get more out of it if you if you do that. And as you can see, the themes from acts. You know, we're looking at five themes during these five weeks. We do want to remember that. That acts is a description. It's not always a prescription. And that's that's important to realize. When we study the narrative passages, something that's described isn't necessarily something that's prescribed. But the word of the descriptions of the themes in Acts over and over again, as well as the prescriptive commentary of the Holy Spirit, really is powerful. It's uh the there are more many more themes, but we look at these five. Let's begin. Reading the foreign. From chapter 1. I'll begin reading at verse 4. It's Jesus talking to his disciples. On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he gave them this command. Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the people. My gift, my Father promised, which you have heard me speak about. For John baptized with weather, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. So when they met together, they asked him, are you at this time? Going to restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know the times or dates the Father has set by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. You will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria until the ends of the earth. In Acts chapter two we see the beginning of the fulfillment of that. Acts chapter two, beginning of verse one, and says passage but uh it is a story and let's let's read it as such as we see this this historical account of the day of Pentecost. When the day of Pentecost came they were all set all together in one place. Suddenly the sound like the blowing of Violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak. in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. Now they were staying in Jerusalem, God fearing Jews from every nation under heaven. Remember Acts 1. 8 for the remotest parts of the earth. When they heard this sound, a crowd came together and the wilderness, because each one heard them speaking in his own language. Utterly amazed they asked, are not all these men who are speaking Galileans? Then how is it that each of us heared them in his own native language? Parthians. Leves, Elomites, residents of Mesopotamia, Judea, Capacia, Pontus, and Asia, Pygia, Panthya, Egypt, and the parts of Libya near Cyrene , visitors from Rome, both Jews and converts to Judaism, preaching and errors. We hear them declaring the wonders of God in our own tongues. Amazed and perplexed. They ask one another, what does this mean? Some, however, made fun of them and said, Oh it has Verse 14. Then Peter stood up to the eleven, raised his voice, and addressed the crowd. Fellow Jews and all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me explain this to you. Listen carefully to what I say. These men are not drunk, as you suppose. It is only nine in the morning. No, this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. In the last days God said, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams, even on my servants, both men and women. I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy. I will show Wonders in heaven above, and signs on the earth below. Blood and fire and bills of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness, and the moon is able, before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Let's pray. Lord, as we look at this theme of some acts, of the power of your Holy Spirit, the kingdom's power source, we pray that He might come here and be poured out in our hearts and make your word clear to us for your glory and honor. In Jesus' name. Amen. Back in nineteen twenty six my grandfather was preaching at a small Georgia town in the old kind of tent kind of meetings, you know, where they would have evangelistic meetings and renewal meetings for Christians and and uh he was a Presbyterian so he didn't like to call it revival because we don't decide revival. God's the one that sends revival, but as he was Getting ready to preach that afternoon, he was at the piano. He was just praying to the Lord and he played the piano, was just thinking and praying. And the words came to him of the song we sang as a theme song this past few weeks. living God. Fall fresh on me. Break me. Melt me. Mold me. Fill me. Spirit of the living God falls fresh on me. He had somewhat of a speech impediment and he stuttered somewhat. And yet he was a preacher, young preacher. But he prayed that prayer that day, that God would use him as he preached to this big group. And that night he uh he he kind of punched out a little tune, which we think. And that night he taught it to them as he began to preach. And the Holy Spirit really used that song. And he ended up not getting to preach that night because they sang it over and over again and people prayed and people were broken and the Holy Spirit really began. to work and move and and uh it's interesting that he said from that day on he really began to sense the power of God in his life that he didn't s have a problem studying anymore in fact as he began to preach and went on and preached for uh forty or fifty years. Holy Spirit. We don't talk much about the Holy Spirit sometimes in our reform and Presbyterian circles. We speak of the Father, the Son, and the Word, but not the Holy Spirit. If you talk about the Holy Spirit too much, and some even Presbyterians even accuse my grandfather of, you know, a prayer for the Holy Spirit. Spirit and and songs addressing the Holy Spirit. I think uh uh some people that uh put together a Trinity hymn don't like a a prayer addressed to the Holy Spirit. But it's it's don't be particularly closet charismatic or something if you talk too much about the Holy Spirit. But Luke in the book of Acts talks about the Holy Spirit. And he talks about the Holy Spirit over and over and over again. We see that he is the one that will come and will get power to the church with the word Jesus Christ the answer 's kingdom. It's the spiritual kingdom. Notice in verse six of uh chapter one there. The disciples are looking for what kind of kingdom? They think Jesus is a time for the other kingdom. And he says, Hey, we've got it all wrong He said, You will receive power. Power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you because it's a spiritual kingdom that they're about. The work was only beginning. Well, who is this Holy Spirit, this power source for the kingdom advancement? Well we see in the Old Testament, the promises, you see it there in your birth of the Nathan. He's called the Rua of God in the Old Testament. Rule was the word for spirit, the wind of breath literally. So a Hebrew when he heard this word rule of God or Rua of Jehovah, immediately he comes to mind of a strong, mighty wind, of the the the storms that would come across from the Mediterranean, maybe into Israel. and the power that they had, the fear that a storm could bring because of its power. I don't know if you've ever been in a tornado or a hurricane, but it was it's beautiful. I saw one in Orange in Texas and you know the man with all of our abilities that build storm buildings. We can't control the power of the of the wind and of the hurricanes and tornadoes. And we see that, the power of the Holy Spirit, it brings to mind that to the Jew in the Old Testament. But also the New Testament promise of the Holy Spirit. Jesus said, Tom read it a little earlier. I didn't know he was going to do that. I will give you another pulpit or another counselor in the NIV. Jesus promised his children they would be better off when he left and the Holy Spirit came. This is really interesting. Where did Jesus go when he went? He went to be at the right hand of the Father. The word here, when Jesus talks about the Holy Spirit coming, is paraclete. Alongside, like terrible lines. alongside or parakeurch, alongside the church, to help the church, alongside paracleet, fleet from the word to call. Called alongside. And it's interesting that we have two paracleets in the New Testament. Jesus called the Holy Spirit the paracleet, but in Christ John 2. 1, when John says, Little servant, I write these things to you that you may not sin, he says, but if you do sin, we have an advocate with the Father. That's the same word. We have a paraclete with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Jesus is a paraclete. Now he's not the paraclete to be the helper in the sense of the Holy Spirit. What is one called alongside to help for? The word doesn't say literally to help. But why do you call one alongside you? To help. Jesus is for you. in heaven has helped us legally with our justification. He is the paraclete that intercedes and says, That's okay, I pay for that sin. After our softball game the other day against Chapelgate there was a young fellow in my talking about and he uh he's heard the gospel, he's gone the church room and we got talking but he was very troubled he could not believe that Jesus really paid for his sins, that all the sins were paid for us and Jesus now sits as the paraclete at the right hand of the Father to intercede for him if he believes. Trust Christ. Legally, he is our paraclete. But in in the New Testament, in John, Jesus is speaking of the Holy Spirit of the Paris. And he doesn't come to help legally with our justification. That burnt and seals forever to all those who believe and trust in Christ. He comes to help in a different way, to be the counselor, the one to come along. And we'll see how he helps as we as we look on through this. Apparently he is the one that gives us power. Uh Look down on there to Acts 1 eight. Notice what he says, You receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. The Greek word there is dunamen for power. What word do we get from dunumin? Dynamite. He is the dynamite of God. Power. And you know there are different kinds of power. And it's hard for us to understand sometimes, but so I knew I saw God one time and he had the power to put a bunch of big tough fellows on their face in the dirt by himself. You know how he did it? He said, get on your face. Time to push up. And he was only five foot six. He happened to be there for Now that's not the kind of power we're talking about. That's authority power. Like when a policeman says stop to the car. It's authority power. He doesn't stop the car. The kind of power, the kind of dynamite we're talking about here. is the kind of power of that tornado that stops the car and that picks it up. Not just authority, but power. In Acts one eight, that's the dynamite says, You shall receive power. Not only authority power, we do receive that, but the power of the Holy Spirit. It's the power source for the kingdom. Now people talk about it a lot about power these days. Uh you know the the he man, I don't like that very much. You know, I've got the power, some of that stuff. I don't like my kids to play with it and think about it. I've got the power of kids' toys, lots of things, the uh all those cartoons you see. The book Power for Living that was on, uh there was TV you might have seen that. So many people wrote in and tried to get that book. There's a hunger for power in many ways, and actually see He described the power of the Holy Spirit, but it's not to the purpose that a lot of people want. What is the primary purpose of the Holy Spirit's power? In Acts we really see it come out. I really wrestled with the word primary in there. And I do want to qualify that a little bit. Primary in the book of Acts. I want to go ahead and study and see if this is true in the rest of the New Testament. But what is the primary purpose of the Holy Spirit's talent in the book of Acts? Well let's say first what it is not. It's not to feel good. A lot of Christians want the Holy Spirit to make them feel good, and that's the whole focus of the Holy Spirit coming is to make them feel good. Now it appears from Acts chapter two that we read they didn't feel good. In fact they felt so good that they accused them of all being drunk. They felt so happy. I thought about that. I didn't think that would ever happen at Columbia Presbyterian Church if we worship on Sunday morning. I don't think that's likely to happen. But they had some sort of power to do that. Not to make them feel good. We see in the book of Acts not a yearning desire to make marriages work. It's never mentioned, although the Lord does get power to do that. You know, we we talk about power in terms of ourselves so much. But you don't see that in the book of acts. You don't see a whole lot about the power of the Holy Spirit to make us have holy lives, although he certainly does do that. That's not fair. Those things which we often speak of in terms of the power of the Holy Spirit are not the overwhelming things we see in the book of Acts. Christianity does give power. If you're here today and you're wondering how can I have power to overcome these things in my life? Yes, Jesus Christ by the Holy Spirit does give power to heal marriages and he does make you feel good. There's there's no there's nothing It compares to the joy of knowing the Lord. It's not the primary type of channel. Christianity is like uh you may have heard the story of the the fellow that's in the pit and he can't get out. And the the uh Confucius comes to the con uh Confucius comes to him and says You know, here's what you did to to get in the pit. You shouldn't have done those things. And the Buddhist comes to him and says, here if you work this hard, you can get out of the pit. Jesus Christ comes and pulls him out of the pit and helps keep him from falling in the pit. Christianity does give power to overcome things, but that's not the primary focus we see in the book of Acts. What we do see is the ultimate purpose in Acts is the advancement of the kingdom. We see that it does advance, that that is the primary reason the Holy Spirit comes. Look at Acts 18 again. Acts 18. But you receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. The Holy Spirit is the giver of life and his power overflows to the to other people. It says it right there. You see it. From the very beginning, when it talks about the power of the Holy Spirit, we see the purpose is that you might be witnesses. A lot of other things he does, but that comes on as the primary reason. Look at chapter 4, verse 8. Turn over there with me. We'll just turn to a couple passages. Look at chapter 4, verse 8. If you have your Bible. And Peter filled with the Holy Spirit. Peter here is before the Sanhedrin, the same people that were uh the the rulers, the Sadducees, Pharisees, the same people that killed Jesus. And it tells us that Peter is filled with the Holy Spirit. He'd been filled back in Acts chapter 10. Now it tells us again, he's filled with the Holy Spirit. And what does he do? He begins to speak to them, and he preaches the gospel with power. You see on down a little further, his courage. And Peter says, I cannot stop speaking the things that I've seen. The film of the Holy Spirit is tied again to speaking. In Acts chapter 2 it was the same way. Remember we uh uh we read that passage. Immediately when the Holy Spirit came at Pentecost, what did they do? It doesn't talk about holiness, it doesn't talk about other sorts of power to help them in their own lives. They immediately begin to speak. And we see Peter in Acts chapter 2, right after the Holy Spirit comes, he stands up, and Peter, the same guy, to some weeks. earlier denied Jesus to a little servant girl who said, What you do? And Peter stands up and boldly and powerfully preaches the gospel. The power of the Holy Spirit again tied the preaching of the gospel. to being a witness for Jesus Christ. Now you know that Peter is not a silent witness. You hear sometimes people say, Well I'm a silent witness. That's kinda see kinda funny on the courtrooms. If someone comes in and asks a question, he's a silent witness. The two are sort of contradictory. This doesn't mean everyone is an evangelist. That's a that's a gift some people have. But the picture you have in the New Testament is a the spirit overflowing and Touching other people's lives with the gospel. It's uh you know, if you were on, you know, I'm expected to be an expert witness. I'm not necessarily expected to be an expert witness. If if a uh if this was a courtroom and a man was you know I was a witness here and they asked me, Did you see him pull the trigger? And I said, uh yeah, I saw him he pulled the trigger in the bullet, uh, hit the guy and killed him. And the the fence comes up and says, Well, do you know what kind of gun it was? And uh what about the muzzle velocity of the bullet? Yeah, I don't need to know that stuff. I tell what I saw. And that's the picture we have in the New Testament. They tell what they saw, they tell what they knew. They had come to know Jesus Christ. And as they bump into other people, it the Holy Spirit filling them overflows and touches other people's lives. overflows when it's by something else. The power of the Holy Spirit, overflowing. John chapter nine, a good example of this is the uh the blind man. He didn't know so much, but he knew that Jesus Christ had touched him. And they 're trying to press him, well who is it Jesus? This is what happened. He says, look, fellas, yesterday I was blind, today I see you, and that's enough to keep me for a while. You know, he knew who he had met and it affected his life. And that's the sort of witnessing we see especially in the in the book of Acts, is overflowing. of the gospel to other people, as the gospel pushes outward. In Acts four, thirty one, which is the last one we'll uh turn to and look at here. Uh we read this last week as they prayed. We see the disciples praying again and verse thirty one when they had prayed, the place where they had gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak the Word of God with boldness. Again, when we see the filling of the Holy Spirit, we see a speaking of the word. flows and they began to speak with confidence and with boldness. They prayed for it and we see it happening in their lives. The experience here in Acts 4 is so different from the experience some weeks earlier, maybe in the same upper room when they had the book. Lot. And they were at the grave, and only John, the only disciple that went to the cross, and here is now, because of the power of the Holy Spirit We see in speaking , telling what God has done. They may have been afraid, but we see a boldness in their lives because of the overflowing power of the Holy Spirit. Acts chapter seven, and we won't look at it, I'll just mention the deacons. the qualifications of the deacons. They were filled with the Holy Spirit. Philip and Stephen are two later mentioned. And then it goes on. And what did Stephen do? It doesn't tell about him deaconing, although I'm sure he did, it told about him preaching the gospel. Acts chapter eight. Who are the deacon? Who is it? Philip. What is it? It's all about him deaconing. Against it. Still it. Filled with the Holy Spirit. He sees an Ethiopian eunuch riding along in his uh chariot until it does it. comes and he's reading Isaiah and he says, Man, can you explain this to me? And so he says, Well I think I might be able to. But Phil was preaching him the gospel. That's Jesus what it's talking about. It says beginning with the Old Testament scriptures, he preached Jesus. So this Ethiopian unit. The power of the Holy Spirit tied to preaching the gospel, to kings of advancements, to Christians, overflowing in their lives to others. We see it in Acts thirteen, verses two through four, as as um as Paul and Barnabas are set apart by the Holy Spirit by the church of Antioch. The first time we see missions begin to start. Before they've been speaking around in you know the in the areas where they were and slowly they move out, but now the Holy Spirit sets them apart and so the Holy Spirit sends them out and the church and sent them out and they went. And they preached the gospel in Cyprus and went on Paul's first missionary journey. So we really see the connection all through Acts. It's overwhelming the evidence. And there are a lot more there. If you read through Acts, look for it. The power of the Holy Spirit connected to kingdom advancement. Now this isn't much of a felt need for us. You know they say when they teach preaching, you need to scratch where people itch. You need to talk about things that are primary in our lives. Like our marriages And the struggles there and our personal holiness and money management and things like that. And I you know, it's hard to preach a series like this because it's not you don't automatically itch to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Well I hope as we go through this and as you read ask that God His Spirit would make us rich to be filled with His Holy Spirit. Okay. And to do what good with that is we overflow with the power of the gospel. Well, how do we get that power of the Holy Spirit? Now you hesitate to ask a question like that. There are so many books on the market, how to do this and three easy steps and and uh you know it's not that simple of a thing. But I've tried to break it down into into two things you really do see in the scripture and how to get the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not speaking in tongues, we don't see that as a way to do it. But there's attention. On the one hand we see those that say, All you do is ask, God sovereignly comes and does it. completely something that is just the movement of the Spirit. You may ask, maybe lay hands on, but sort of independent out here. Then there are those over here that say the filling of the Holy Spirit, all it means is lordship. All it means is obedience. So I'm yielded to Christ. The Spirit is in me. All who are Christian have the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians 12, 13 tells us clearly. Everyone does it is a Christian. And all the fulfilling of the Holy Spirit is is yieldedness to him. I think there's an element of truth in both of those. And we see it here. Uh I don't know I listed the verse from uh Acts five thirty two where Luke says or Peter Luke reports what Peter says, the Holy Spirit is given to those who do what? Who obeyed. And what is obedience? Obedience is lordship. It's the other side of Lordship. We obey the one that is our Lord. Jesus said, Why do you call me Lord, Lord? And do not the things that I say. Yes, Lordship is the integral part of the filled with the Holy Spirit. The New Testament Church took seriously the lordship of Christ. You don't see it as an optional sort of thing. Halfway Christians were outlawed. These people were filled with the Holy Spirit because they were submitted to Jesus Christ as their Lord. They obeyed as much as what He told them as they knew. The more they understood that they see it in their lives and the way they yield it to Him. It is yielding this Lordship to let Him have His way in our lives. The song, Take My Life and Let It Be. Consecrated, Lord to thee. Some people want to sing, and I'm told to it. Lord, take my life and let it be. We don't want him to infiltrate every area of our lives and to take it over it. But Jesus requires to be our Lord. It's not something that's optional. We've seen in this series the kingship of Christ. If you turn your bowl open over you can see the first one, the kingdom advancement, the progress. It is certain because he's king. Well the second one is we pray, we pray to the king. Here we see the kingship of Christ because he is king, he must be obeyed. We must yield to him as our king. He must have the same place in our hearts that he has in the universe. which is that of the king. No areas are off limits. Uh taking in a refugee family is not off limits, even if it would be very, very difficult and hard to do. Uh something in a dating relationship, something at work. in our marriages, even the right there is no area of our lives that is often to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. He must be the king. He's the man, single minded obedience to him. I heard a uh a fellow speaking uh to a bunch of young businessmen. And he these were yuppie pipes, it was going hot fast up in the company that's out in San Diego. And he he was exhorting them to greater obedience or or submission to their Lord, their company. And he goes on he says uh something about how they must really be single-minded in their devotion to the company. And he said this quote and I'll never I'll never forget it. It was something like this. I was giving you this illustration once before you may remember and I forgot it. I said I'll never forget it and I forget. I wrote it down this time. We admire the balanced, but we hire the single-minded. We admire the balanced, but we hire the single-minded. And he pushed them to great. I was just sitting there amazed. Oh, look that he has such zeal as Christians throughout the Church of Jesus Christ. Single minded obedience and submission to Jesus Christ. He requires that of us. You know the song that my grandfather wrote, Break me, Melt Me Mold Me Film. You know, you might have sung it a different way and it used to make my grandfather a little upset because people some you know you know people write a song and it gets spread around and it's not copyrighted yet and so the word get different, the tune gets different. Well somebody changed the word and you still see it sometimes. I heard it on a tape the other day. The word instead of Spirit of the Living God fall fresh on me instead of break me, it was mess me more than used me. He used to get so mad. He committed all of his grandchildren to correct that anytime anybody you help me okay but that's important because the point of the song is before you can be filled you've got to be broken. The cross came before Pentecost. He doesn't become instill a dirty vessel that wants to be the Lord of his own life. And Lordship and obedience are central to the filling of the Holy Spirit. And you know they add it on the end, use and use me, not me mo me, fill me, use me, saying. He said if he breaks you and he fills you, then lose you, you can't help but be used when you're filled with the Holy Spirit and broken before. The Lordship of Jesus Christ. But not only obedience, that's the one side, but we do see the other side, the asking. And the Holy Spirit sovereignly moving. It's not just a lordship, it's yieldingness, a passive yieldingness to Him that steps out in faith as we ask Him to fill us. And you see the verse that I printed. I finished on it a while back and and uh we will see how it fits you with the Holy Spirit. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? He says to ask, and isn't that that beautiful? Parable, Jesus talks about knocking, asking. We need to ask. Jesus tells us that. How much more will He give the Holy Spirit to those who ask? Here's the prayer connection. We talked about prayer last week. There's no inherent power in prayer. The prayer isn't the power. It's the means of attaining the power, the dynamite of the Holy Spirit. This God's people pray individually and corporately that He might empower us from one high. He's the King. We will pay the King. King that sends the Spirit to empower us in his church. We pray for a lot of things. Do we pray for the power of the Holy Spirit? Ephesians 5. 18 says, be filled with Spirit. Another verse Jesus says in King John, he says that if we ask anything according to his will, we have it. It's he wants us to be filled with his church. As individuals and as people corporately. It's something we need to pray for individually, corporately, that the Holy Spirit would come and work among us. We need his power. Keep on asking, as Al said in his sermon on Acts eleven or Luke. eleven and thirteen there. We need to pray as a congregation that God will really move by his spirit among us. You know, and you read church history and you really see how this happens. One example I was reading about uh just the other day, the bishop in England 1736 thought that things were hopeless in English. The society was decadent. The intellectual people of the time uh looked down on Christianity and still refused to leave the gospel and followed after Jesus Christ. He said I'm not sure in his uh something he wrote, he said I'm not sure if Christianity will survive my lifetime anyway. That's how bad much worse than what we see in our country, even though we see much as bad. By the end of There's life. Revival had come and had affected all English. How did it come? The three things that we're talking about here. We saw the prayer of God 's people, little groups of people gathering around and meeting together to pray. The revival. Then we saw the power of the Holy Spirit in England. Cities changed. I think it was even in England on the film and film show a while back on prayer and revival. They had the fire the policemen. They didn't need them. The whole city was there were people who obeyed the law because of revival. And the preaching of the gospel of of John Leslie and George Whitfield. Going about English, preaching, the prayer, the power of the Holy Spirit, the preaching of the gospel. Oh, wouldn't it be marvelous that God would do that again here? Yes, we see signs of renewal, but may we as his church, individually and together, pray that he would send the Holy Spirit in a fresh and powerful way, that we would be broken vessels of his. to be used for the glory of Jesus Christ and the advancement of his church. Let's present. Spirit of the living God , all fresh on me, on us. Break, break me, Lord, break us. Help us. Mold us. Spirit of the living God all fresh on us. For the glory of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.