You have your Bibles with you today. Please turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 2. This morning I'm going to be reading for us beginning with verse 13. And for those of you who were here last week You'll remember that this passage that I'm about to read immediately follows the visit of the wise men, the kings from the east. They had seen a great sign in the heavens, the star of Bethlehem, and so they journeyed to the land of Judea. And in a way that would have made sense in in their time and in their uh geographical space, they went to Jerusalem. And they met with King Herod and said, We've seen this great sign. Where is the one who is to be born king of the Jews? And they were told Bethlehem, so they went to Bethlehem. Herod had asked them to come back to Jerusalem and report to him about the child. And the wise men were warned in a dream not to do that, but to go home by another way. The reading this morning picks up there. Let's pray. Almighty God, we ask your blessing on the reading of your word. Father, we thank you for the Bible. We thank you that it is truth. That it shows us grace, that it fills us with a vision of your holiness and your majesty. Lord, and we thank you too that it humbles us. And that that same truth that speaks of your holiness speaks also of our great and desperate need for peace with you and for forgiveness that we might have that peace. Father, your word is a blessing. Use it to bless us. And so, Lord, we ask that your spirit be at work in the reading of the word, Lord, this morning. And in the preaching that will follow it. Lord, in as much as the sermon that I preach is faithful to what you have said, we ask that you would bless that as well. We pray these things humbly and with anticipation in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew chapter 2, beginning with verse 13, the Word of God. Now, when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said , Rise, take the child and his mother and flee to Egypt. And remain there until I tell you, for Herod is about to search for the child to destroy him. And he rose and took the child and his mother by night, and departed to Egypt. and remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son. This ends the reading of God's Word. Sometimes we think about parts of the scripture, whether it be a verse or a short narrative. Sometimes we think of them sort of as if they're just kind of a connective tissue, right? Not necessarily a muscle or a bone or a tendon, but just something that is there because it sort of has to be to hold it all together. And in our minds, sometimes some parts of the Bible are sort of the space between the links or the places of contact, not necessarily important parts themselves, but just Features of the text that move the story along. And when we look at a text like this, we encounter a text that in many of our imaginations of what the advent, what the birth and the earliest childhood of Jesus was, this is just one of those kind of placeholders. This is just something that helps us understand how it is that Jesus didn't die when all the babies in Bethlehem that were male were murdered by Herod. This text is far more than that. Last week in introducing this series on Advent , said that Matthew chapter 2 specifically focuses on four prophecies. We read in Matthew chapter 2, verse 5. That the wise men and the priests told that the wise men of Israel and the priests told the wise kings of the East That in Bethlehem of Judea, that's where the king of the Jews will be born, for so it is written by the prophet. And then they quote scripture from Micah. In this text we just read the second passage, all that has happened and is narrated is to show us the fulfillment of what the Lord had spoken. Out of Egypt I called my son. Next week we'll look at then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah. A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping and loud lamentations. And lastly, the Sunday immediately before Christmas, we'll look at verses 19 through the end of the chapter. That this happened so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene You see, this chapter has as its primary purpose showing us that Jesus, the Messiah, has come to fulfill prophecy. And the specific prophecies that Matthew brings to the attention of his readers originally and now to us help us to understand something of who Jesus is and what he will do for us. So what does it mean then that Jesus is the Son called from Egypt? In looking at this, we're going to simply ask that question and we're going to answer it with a sentence. What does it mean that Jesus is God's Son from Egypt? And the answer that we will be considering this morning is this: that despite the same oppression and persecutions that we have Jesus will deliver us, having succeeded, where his people failed Now that one sentence we're going to unpack that by looking at the three parts of it. Despite the same oppression and persecutions. If you were to go and get a commentary or look at uh a Google search or uh you know I know people can even use um the chat thing to find out good Bible data sometimes. Be careful with that by the way Better serve, perhaps, getting a good Bible commentary from a known publisher. But in any event, you might discover that this passage has lots of connections to Moses. Lots of connections to Moses. Not only does it involve Egypt, but it involves the killing of male children. It involves escaping. It involves a miraculous deliverance from an evil king. It involves a lot of mosaic overtones, you might say In Exodus chapters 1 and 2, we read about the people of Israel suffering under a cruel king. Pharaoh. And in Exodus chapter 1 and 2, and going really all the way to chapter 4, when Moses is finally told by Jethro's father-in-law. Go back to Egypt. The men who are seeking your life are now passed away. They're now dead. The same exact language, by the way, that we discover in Matthew chapter 2 when we read that The angel says to Joseph, Rise, take the child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life are dead. Almost the exact same vocabulary as is used in Exodus chapter 4. This whole passage shows us this picture of Jesus as a new Moses. Moses was raised up to be God's deliverer. When God's people were suffering worse than they had ever suffered up to that point, since Abram was called out of Ur the Chaldeans. The people are enslaved. Their male children are being killed because the people are growing numerous. And the Pharaoh and the Egyptians don't care for them. The people are being horribly oppressed and persecuted. They're being forced to make bricks without straw. Not being given the resources to do a job and being mercilessly beaten if they then could not perform it. They were owned. It was a terrible, terrible way to spend your life on this planet. And yet they were the people of God. And they cried out. And we read some of the most powerful passages in the Old Testament in Exodus chapter 1 through 4. We read that God looks and he sees his people suffering and he's determined to do something about it. Is somebody chat GPTing right now? That's one way to be Berean. Let me know later if I got it right. In Hebrews chapter 4, we read all about how the people of Israel are the very ones who failed the great test, having been delivered from Egypt. In the wilderness, they failed the test of any modicum of faithfulness. They weren't in the wilderness for more than a week before they started complaining. that they ate better as slaves, and they missed the leeks and the onions. And they began to look down on their freedom and wonder if they had been delivered from captivity to walk through the desert so that they could die there. They begin to resent the people that God had raised up, people like Moses and Aaron and Miriam. They begin to think that It would be better not to be redeemed from bondage. It would be better to remain in slavery. At least their stomachs were sort of full. And Hebrews chapter 4 points out to us that these are the people who perished in the wilderness. And it was the next generation that was able to enter into the rest. of the promised land. But at the end of Hebrews chapter 4, we read about this Jesus who is greater than Moses. Who has affected the deliverance from oppression and bondage that Moses was just hinting at? Not a physical Not a political, not a social bondage, but a spiritual freedom from the guilt, the stain, and the power of sin. Not just a reconciliation with living your life on your own land, pursuing your own dreams, but a reconciliation with the God who made you and offers you life. Now , at the end of Hebrews chapter 4, after being carefully explained how Jesus is superior to Moses and does what the people of Israel failed to do. We read this as a response. Since then, we have Jesus. Since then, we have a great high priest. who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. See, Jesus endured the very savage reality of God's people and the birth of the nation and their deliverance from Egypt. He had the target on his back that every male infant from Israel had on his back. Like Moses, he is delivered from it, rescued. And also like Moses, he will lead his people into a greater freedom Despite the same oppression and persecutions, Jesus will deliver us. That's the second thing we see here. Jesus is represented to us as The new Moses. And that is something that was expected by the people of God. In Deuteronomy chapter 18, verse 18, in the Old Testament. God's people were instructed to expect another prophet like Moses who will be raised up and what he says you must follow. And God's people in their messianic expectation for over a millennia were expecting a new Moses to be raised up who would speak God's words, who would give God's law, even as Moses did from Sinai, this new teacher would come and explicate and apply God's law in newer and deeper terms, even as Jesus did in the Sermon on the Mount. They were expecting a Messiah who would come and do what Moses could not. Moses could not actually lead the people into the promised land. Because he had failed in the wilderness and he died on Mount Nebo. They needed a prophet who could come, a messianic prophet, an anointed prophet who could come and not only deliver them from slavery, but then finish the redemption. By dying not on Nebo, but on Calvary, capable of even bringing us in to heaven itself. And Jesus comes like Moses, but better than Moses, to do just that. In Hebrews chapter 3, we read this. Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession, who is faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in all God's house. For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, as much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself. For every house is built by someone, and the builder of all things is God. Now Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant, to testify that the things were to be spoken later. But Christ is faithful over God's house as a son, and we are his house if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope. Jesus is the Son called from Egypt. Jesus is the one in whom God 's people have their identity. Jesus is the one who can lead us not only out of bondage, but into perfect freedom. That which we will completely experience when he returns. Jesus will deliver us, like Moses, but more than Moses. Because he succeeds where his people fail. Out of Egypt I called my son, as Dick mentioned earlier in the worship service. It's from Hosea chapter 11, verses 1 and 2. And in the original context of that statement, and in that statement, you'd read that statement and not think, oh, this is a prophecy. There's nothing about it that says one day a better son will come, but that was the expectation. You see, that passage points us to the fact that God raised up his people as if they were his very family. And he referred in the aggregate to Israel the nation as his son. In Hosea chapter 11, verse 1 and 2, we read that yet the more he called them, the more they rebelled. And they insisted not on worshiping the Lord Yahweh, the God of Israel, their creator And their redeemer from slavery, instead they worshipped Baal more and more and more. And the history of the Old Testament is in some respects a very sad history. Because we read the names Baal and Ashira, the principal false gods and demonic personalities that are worshipped by the people of Israel. Those names occur almost as much as the name of the Lord in the history books of the Old Testament, in particular 1 and 2 Kings and 1st and 2 Chronicles. That son God reared up and raised in love that he called from Egypt not only failed in the wilderness, but failed in Canaan, the promised land itself. They did not aspire to loving the God who loved them first. The Old Testament is a case study in a thousand-year-long love that God bore for a people that did not respond. And isn't that true of how God loves us? Don't you and I fail in our wilderness experience? Don't you and I, when God has blessed us with things like a place to live, a marriage, a family , skills, a vocation, food on our plate? Isn't our table grace sometimes perfunctory? And deep down we wished we were eating out instead of dining in Don't we find that we grumble at the graces and gifts of God? Don't we find that we are more like that Old Testament son? That Old Testament child, that Old Testament daughter called out of Egypt, somehow wishing that God was more and would do more, as if that were even conceivable. See, no human being, from Adam and Eve down to the baby that might be born today. Has ever succeeded in being that son, that daughter. Because all alike have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And even if that's true of no one person, it's true of no one tribe or people group or church or denomination. If there's one thing that is absolutely true of every human ever to walk the planet, apart from Jesus, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, yet fully man , If there's one thing that is true of all of us, it's that we are in desperate need of grace, and that we fail our wilderness test. But beloved, Jesus will not. Jesus will be that one who is called out of Egypt and doesn't complain in the wilderness. When he's tempted by Satan in the areas of hunger and power and privilege and the prerogative to do what he will What does he do? He continually responds in Matthew chapter 4 and in Luke chapter 4 in the account of his temptation in the desert, he says. It is written, he will hear God and follow utterly, even to the point of giving his life for God's people, and being that Lamb of God who takes away his people's sins. He will be the Son, so that He Himself can inherit in an unqualified manner all the blessings and privileges of being the Son of God. In that covenantal context, he is not only the Son of God from eternity, but he fulfills every requirement of our sonship. Think back to what you know to be true regarding God's requirement of Adam and Eve. What God required of Adam and Eve in order for them to live in fellowship with him was their personal Perfect and perpetual obedience, that they would live their life in happy and holy communion with God, walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And do all things that seem good to them, and simply abstain from eating from one tree. Personally, perfectly, and perpetually And they failed that, even as I fail that. And whether I've just met you or whether I've known you as long as I knew Linda Carner You failed it too. And God's people owe God a personal, perfect, and perpetual obedience that we can't perform. We can't be that son or that daughter. We haven't been, and we won't be. But this one verse This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son points us to this truth. that this Jesus is going to in himself be all that we should have been, but couldn't. So that by being united with him through repentance and faith, we can partake of all the benefits of his holy perfections and perfect obedience. You see, many of us as Christians think that Jesus died for us and that our sins are forgiven. And that's all we think. And everything I just said is true. But it is not the entirety of the gospel Dear friends, the gospel says that not only did Jesus take upon himself all of your sins and pay the full penalty for everything wrong you ever did, The gospel also tells us that Jesus Christ lived a life of perfect obedience. So that when He takes our guilt and blame and shame and dirtiness upon Himself, He credits to us the righteousness that he accomplished Think of it as trading bank accounts. Some of you think that the gospel is merely Jesus Christ looking at how indebted you are and saying, I'd like to cancel that debt and putting you back at zero And some of you are trying to live the Christian life as if now you had better earn some money. Now you better do good to be worthy. of the death of Christ for you. Now you better earn the grace that was given you. And that's a hard path. It's a very hard path. And I don't mean to say that you don't know Christ, but what I do mean to say is that you don't fully understand the gospel or the freedom that it gives you to obey God even more from an entirely different foundation. You see, in the gospel of Jesus Christ, if we can go back to that banking account, Imagine that your banking account is, you're in debt a billion dollars. You have zero chance of ever repaying what you owe to God. And you've been thinking all this time that Jesus comes along and says, I'm going to pay all that debt, you're at zero. Now go and do well. Scratch all that and replace it with this. Because Jesus Christ was God's Son called out of Egypt and perfectly performed obedience. God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. He took all of our sin and guilt and shame. He took the entirety of our debt to pay himself. That We might become the righteousness of God. That's what the Apostle Paul, speaking by the Holy Spirit, teaches the church. You see, Jesus didn't just cancel your billion-dollar debt. He lived that perfect life of God's Son called out of Egypt. He was the true Israel. He earned a billion dollars. And he gifts it to you after your debt is paid. When I stand before the living God and see the Lord Jesus on his throne, books will be opened, we read in Revelation. And we will be judged according to what we have done. And all of those whose names are not written in the Lamb's book of life, will be cast into the lake of fire, that horrific picture of hell. Now I want to observe something about that text. Nowhere does it suggest that I will escape hell because of anything that I have done or will do. Books are opened and the dead are judged according to what they have done. And all those whose names are not written in the Lamb's Book of Life. You see, the one thing that matters Is that my name be written in the Lamb's book of life? Because it is through his living for me and his dying in my place that I have a hope of heaven. It is his perfect obedience which is credited to me as righteousness. As as if the righteousness in which I stand before God is nothing I have done but that which Jesus did and swapped with me. So that he would take my guilt and I would receive credit for his holy obedience When I've done youth ministry, and I did youth ministry for many years, even right here at CPC back in the 1990s, the way I would illustrate this didn't have to do with banking. It had to do with trading cards. How many of you know what a baseball card is? Hands please? Okay, Presbyterians, you can raise hands. You all know what a baseball card is. It's got your picture on the front, who you are, and on the back it has your stats. Imagine for a moment a spiritual card of you. Or uh w let's let's make it simple. Let's imagine one of me. So here's me on the front cover, Bob Bierkas. You flip around the back to see what are his spiritual stats, and you think, oh my goodness gracious, batting average. But I didn't know they would record a. 00001. That guy, goodness. Uh fielding percentage? What is that? He's he's actually a field nothing but errors. Who who would pick me? Who would pick me? And then say, oh well here's this other card. It's Jesus Christ. And flip the back. Oh my goodness gracious, a 1,000 batting average. Oh my, Golden Glover never made an error. You say, boy, everybody would pick him. Now imagine Jesus coming and saying, hey, not only do I want to erase all your errors, Let's just trade backs of cards. And how about if you take my stats in standing before the throne And I take your stats in being forsaken by the holy God of Israel and endure the death on a cross And beloved, that's what Jesus came for on Christmas, to be that son, who would live a perfect life in our place. That by our repentance of sin and faith in him, we are united to him, such that not only did he pay the penalty for our sins, but he lived a perfect life. So that in him we can be credited with his obedience. And therefore, I want to find out what pleases God, motivated entirely by a love for him. A respectful, reverent fear of his awesomeness, a deep desire to live a life that says thank you Not a life that is driven by some neurotic need to somehow, after the fact, earn my redemption. Now, dear friend, Jesus did it all. Not only did he pay it all, he performed it all. And that's what it means that he was the Son called from Egypt. Are you united to Christ this way? Are you desperately trying to prove to God your love to somehow manufacture a worthiness as a forgiven person? Oh dear Christian, be freed from that. If God has placed his love upon you, it is despite everything you are and have done, not because of what you will do tomorrow. And his love for you is more than you could ever imagine. His love for you is such that he has done all things needful. For you to be his and for him to be yours forever And will we commit as God's people to walking in this intimate union with Christ and his people during whatever trials we have to endure together? Whatever difficulties, whether we're living in a little town in Judea, or hiding out in Egypt , Will you, together with the brothers and sisters of Christ that make up churches like this one all across the world, commit to living in, with, and for this Jesus? Who paid and performed everything for you, his beloved. Following the service today, There are going to be members of our prayer team here in the front. And if you would like to renew or begin a walk with Christ in which you receive Him as the one who pays the penalty for sins. Like I've committed and like you've committed, and who has himself done everything necessary for us to be his people. Come forward following the service and pray that you might taste and see the fullness of God's goodness for people like me and people like you. Amen. Almighty God, we thank you for Christmas. We thank you for this opportunity to consider your word and what it means that Jesus came and was born in Bethlehem And help us to remember what it means that He came to be your Son called from Egypt. Lord, we often think of what it means that He is your eternal Son sent from heaven. but to be the fulfillment of everything your people were and are and can possibly be. Oh, what a sweet truth that is to us, Lord Jesus. You are indeed the yes to all of God's promises. Help us to live for you and serve you well because we love you. Make our lives a thank you to your goodness and your holiness. Fully demonstrated for us. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's rise together and sing. Come thou long expecting.