Let's turn again this morning to, if you have your Bibles, you can turn to the book of 1 Peter. If you do not have your Bibles, you can certainly see the scriptures there for you in the screens. On the screen, I should say, not in the screens. Again, First Peter chapter two , going to be looking this morning at verses four through eight. At the stone that divides. For Peter is now bringing us To he 's continuing in the process of what it means to be the collective people of God. He's instructing the church These believers of what it means to be the corporate body of Christ. At the same time, he is reminding them of who they are in Christ. He's also showing that When we look at the scriptures, in fact, when you go to the Gospels You rarely, if I would be challenge anyone to show me, where we find a response to Jesus that is tepid. The response to Jesus is either fear and running from, rejection of Or a complete embrace. He never leaves anyone in the middle ground And so Peter is reminding them of who they are in Jesus Christ, but he's also showing that the response to Jesus Is either one of embrace or rejection, and the consequences of that But at the same time, he tells us of what's going to happen to those even who embrace, as well as to those who reject. Nonetheless, it tells us that the stone, the living stone that is Jesus Christ, he divides. He's still dividing today. He's still dividing this room. To some degree. So let's turn to God's word that God may lead us by his Spirit to show us wonderful things for us this morning. 1 Peter 2, verses 4-8. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in Scripture it says, See, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now, to you who believe, this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone, and a stone that causes men to stumble, and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. Will you pray with me? Lord, this is not our word, this is yours. Spoken through a weak vessel, Peter, whose very name is Rock Yet the Rock Peter is a person who we see going through the ups and downs of Determining what he believed concerning this stone, Jesus. Lord, your servant Peter could not have imagined That Jesus Christ would be given over to the hands of men, rejected by them, put on a cross, and to be raised on the third day. He could not have imagined it. And yet, Lord, Jesus showed him that what he thought unimaginable is so unbelievably good And you filled Peter with your spirit. And now Peter is directing us to the stone, to the rock. Who is our hope? Help us, we pray, by your Spirit this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. You see, in your outline this morning, I simply want to go through this passage By looking at the words and the ideas that are given to us here, you'll see that he gives us the living stone. But then he also shows us that this living stone is also a stumbling block. But I believe, and we will come to this in verse 7 at the end , that is the challenge of belief Now let me be clear, I believe the challenge of belief is not just to those who do not believe in Jesus Christ. But the challenge of belief is also to those who profess belief. were a group of Christians scattered throughout the Roman Empire, who were facing rejection and persecution. He was establishing the centrality, the beauty of Christ, but nonetheless, he was challenging them. What do you believe? So the message this morning from Peter is to both those of you who do not believe, as well as to those of you who do. What do you believe concerning this Jesus? Now let me be clear Here I'm not talking about what do you believe concerning Christianity. Here I'm not asking you, as those who are citizens of the United States, what do you believe concerning evangelicalism? This morning, I'm not even asking you what you believe concerning what you think the church here at CPC believes. I'm asking you to consider this morning from the lips of Peter. What do you believe? Concerning this Jesus, the living stone. Let's look together at this first idea, the living stone. He says in verse 4, as you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house. Now, the one thing that he does is he first points us to the idea of who Jesus is, and then he Tells us that he's this living stone. He refers to him as a living stone. He then quotes from Isaiah as well as he quotes from Psalm 118. And in this quote from Isaiah, we see the quote in verse 6. He says, See, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone. So here he's referring to Jesus. As the living stone is being the cornerstone. But the key here we need to remember is what is built into this idea of living stone. He's telling us about the status of Jesus. The status of Jesus is two parts. First, he is living. It's building on this idea of which the sermon series is built on. And that is the resurrection and living it out. It is this. Jesus is not this person who died as a martyr and therefore is a memorial stone. He's not referring to Jesus as someone who was great in the past and therefore has a death stone, a memorial place. No, he's referring to Jesus, who died yes, but who is now living through the resurrection And so the status of Jesus is very much one who is alive and living. And it tells us here that the status of Jesus before God the Father is this. That he was chosen, meaning he is the principal beauty in the eye of God the Father. His precious son. Now the word precious, as I will unpack it a little bit later, is really our English word, which, quite honestly, I don't like very much. Because the word precious doesn't really capture what the word there in Greek is communicating. Even the word honor, which is what the literal translation would be be. Chosen by God and honored by him. It means that Jesus is in the eyes of God the Father. Glorified. Beautiful. But the word precious has with it this sort of soft. We think of kittens as precious. At least I do. Or a small child. Oh, they're precious. Maybe even, well, I don't think I would even describe a beautiful diamond as precious. But value is a word that I understand. When I think of Jesus Christ in the eyes of the Father here, it is the exalted nature of who Jesus is. All authority in heaven and on earth, the scriptures tell us, have been given to Jesus Christ. Why? Because Jesus obeyed the Father carrying out his will, being made as a man, taking on human flesh, living as a man in all that it means, being tempted in every way, according to the writer of Hebrews And yet was without sin to die for those who deserved the opposite of mercy, but deserve wrath. He came and obeyed. Remember, I've said this before. I want to say it again. Jesus did not come to earth because he saw in us something acutely desirable. We need to know that Jesus came to earth first and foremost, first and foremost, not that he doesn't love us, he most certainly does, but I want to tell you that Jesus came first and foremost to obey the Father. Because he loves the Father, and he loves to do his will. And the Father, we are said, we are told here, chose Jesus for this task, and he is honored. It also tells us that because this living stone, the resurrected and glorified Christ is living, chosen by God, honored by him, therefore it tells us the status of those who believe in this living stone, does it not? Go back to verse 4. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him, you also. Now here he's speaking directly to those who believe. He says, You also, like living stones And here I want to say to you, everything that I just said in regard to Jesus and the Father's view of Jesus Is the same view, is the same way in which God the Father looks upon those who believe. They are precious to him. They are honored. They are loved. They are cared for. Why? Because in believing they are united. They are brought into relationship with. They become part of who Jesus is and what he has done. He has made those his own So let me say to you, dear Christian, if you this morning are in a place Where you feel alone, depressed, broken, defeated Rejected? What I want to tell you this morning is that your status, because of your faith in Jesus Christ, Your status, not your faith, your status, who you are, you because of Jesus, are loved by the Father. He sees you. And he loves you. My professor in seminary Dr. Brian Chappell, when he was in his first pastorate, there was a house -bound gentleman, an older man in his congregation. And he would visit with him. And he would tell him as one who is housebound, who had worked in the coal mines. Of his community. But because of working in the coal mines, he had an injury that no longer allowed him to work in the coal mines, in fact, kept him from doing very little at all. And he would visit with him and he would find him looking out the window and he would ask him about his faith, how is it? surrounded by a community that has its livelihood built on a career and on a coal mine that therefore was the the place of your disability that has kept you from working and kept you from being able to live life to the full, tell me about it. And this man simply said, it is quite often, and and here I'm not quoting directly, but quite often he would say That Satan visits him in his house and he whispers in his ear and he says, Look outside and look out your windows. You see those people you used to work with. You see they've achieved what you had hoped you would. Do you see, do you think Jesus loves you now? And he also whispers to me, you remember the life that you used to have when you were full and vibrant and able to work? Does Jesus love you? And Dr. Chappell looked at him and he says, Well, what do you say? He says, I speak To Satan. And I tell of him of the cross outside Jerusalem And I say to him, Come with me. Do you see Jesus on the cross? That's how my Father loves me Let me say to you, your status before a holy, righteous Beautiful, God is not dependent one whit on what you are able to do Or how you feel, or what you think. It has everything to do with what Jesus has done. And who he is, and who you are in him And let me say that in this life, Peter wants to say to them that this living stone who was rejected by men, what did he tell us? Yes, he was rejected by men. By the way, the word there, rejected, isn't referring back to merely how Jesus was rejected by the chief priest and the Pharisees. The word there, translated rejected, has an ongoing force into the present. He's referring to the very ones who now reject Jesus in the Roman Empire. He is referring even to those who are persecuting these Christians scattered throughout the Roman Empire. And he's saying that Jesus, though rejected and continually rejected by men and women, you need to know he is chosen by God and honored by him, precious to you. So do you know what he's saying? Even though you Christians in the Roman Empire that I'm writing to you, remember that they are going through various kinds of trials. They are being rejected. He's reminding them that even though they are rejected, doesn't mean they are not chosen by God and they are not rejected by God. So he's telling them that Jesus, though rejected, is still loved. Do you see? The status of Jesus is also the status of believers. And he's saying, though you may be laughed at, scorned, ridiculed, you are honored, you are cared for, you are loved. So do not lash out at those who persecute you. Lash out against them and say, how dare you! He's telling them look to the Savior. Where was the Savior's honor? Where was the Savior's identity? It was because of who he was. And who the Father is. So he is saying to these Christians, because of who you are in Christ, you can love your persecutors. You can pray for them. You can love them. That is a remarkable thing. Because is that not what Jesus did? From the cross itself. Forgive them, Father, for they know not what they do. Jesus Would make a community out of his enemies. For the very ones who said, persecute him would also be ones after his resurrection who would bow the knee and come to him. It's a remarkable thing. Our fla our war is not against flesh and blood. Our war is against the one who wars against the Heavenly Father, which is Satan himself. So he says, this living stone is the foundation. He is the cornerstone And that cornerstone is precious. And the cornerstone of a building built back then would have taken a lot of time, a lot of energy, and would have been the finest quality that they could have found. to put in the corner of the building so that by it they would be able to measure and plumb line exactly how the building would be built. And so he's saying Jesus is the cornerstone Honored by God, valuable, precious. So are you, living stones. And then he says the status of believers is one that continues to what? He says, though you have been so you also, verse 5, living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Now, what's beautiful about this is he tells us that the role of Christians is also living, and that Jesus, as the living cornerstone, is building a house. Some theologians believe what's being referred to is that Jesus in his coming and his death and in his resurrection and bringing a people to himself is has built the final temple. And it is a living temple. And what that means is that as those if you are a believer, that those who believe have a task to offer to God in your life. As a spiritual house. Now the word spiritual there is pneumaticos, which literally is referring to those who have received the Spirit. Though you don't see the word or the name Holy Spirit here. But that is what Peter is referring to. You have become the house, if you are a believer, of the Holy Spirit himself. And our life is to be full of giving over to the Lord our spiritual sacrifices. What does that mean? It seems awfully vague and abstract. Paul makes it very applicable, very practical. In his letter to the Ephesians, and spending some time this week looking at this, He says to these Ephesian believers, he says to them, warning them about the days in which they live. He says, therefore do not be foolish. But understand what the Lord's will is. Do not get drunk on wine which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. Do you see what he's saying? He's saying rather than being full of alcohol that leads to death, lowered inhibitions, Giving yourself over to all kinds of things without any wisdom at all, without even being able to walk through a day and having an understanding of what's going on to you with you, which was what alcohol does. It drowns the brain into foolishness. He's saying, instead of being filled with alcohol, be filled with the spirit. Pneumonicas, a spiritual house. And then what does the spiritual sacrifices look like? He tells us. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. If you're a Christian, you're to encourage other Christians. Encourage them with psalms, encourage them with songs, and then he says, Sing and make music in your heart. Do you see the spiritual sacrifices that we are to offer? Thanksgiving. Sing to the Lord. And then he goes on. He says. Make music in your heart. Your heart should sing. And he says, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. That means that the beginning and the end of the day and everything in between, by those who believe in Jesus Christ, become the spiritual house of the Full of the Spirit, and by that Spirit, and by that Spirit alone, not by our own understanding, but by that Spirit alone, we seek to encourage others who also are a part of Jesus' living house or living stones. Encouraging them with hymns and psalms and spiritual songs. Sing in your heart. I know what you're thinking. Well doesn't that sound? Sing in my heart. How many of you feel like singing in your heart this morning or this week when you lost power? Let me or maybe you stunt some of you still don't have power. And then this, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ Okay. Application point. I wasn't planning on sharing this, but here you go. This is what happens. It's the spirit. There you go. Right? This sounds of be full in your heart of song and give praise to one another. I didn't feel that way when I lost power in my house And it was 100 degrees outside. I was not giving thanks to the Lord. And my family knew it. Right? God bless Caroline and Kate, right? And so um I think Caroline was frustrated this week. week you know, she had her moments, right? And she was hot. And um and and I I she said something to me and she said, Well, you know, I'm I it's just gonna be a horrible afternoon. And I looked at her and I said, Well it's already a horrible morning. Yeah. And unfortunately, and I had to I had to ask her forgiveness for this, she thought I was talking about her. That she had somehow made my morning room. No, that was not the case. But I remember what Kate said to me. She pulled me aside and she said, Really? It's like she said this is good, right? This is the encouragement. This is her giving this is true. This is what she said. Dead truth. This is the Holy Spirit speaking to my wife. Was your morning really that horrible? Really? You had coffee this morning, right? You had breakfast this morning, right? You you you slept last night, right? Is it really horrible And that just and I ended up in Ephesians five this week. You see, it's only by realizing that as a living soul, one who professes faith in Christ, that I've been full of the Spirit, but I recognize in myself. That unless I go back to that spirit, I'm not going to give thanks to the Lord for all things. Because isn't having your incon your convenience taken out from under you, isn't that a great character exposing and character shaping events, and it's just losing power. There are people who live most of the most of the planet lives on less than two dollars a day and don't have air conditioning. And God just showed me my heart. And I realized that the spiritual sacrifice that I needed to give to the Lord this week was like, you know what, Lord? You give and you take away. But I can still praise you. But I want to tell you, that's not natural. That's only because the Spirit needs to work in me. The status of Christ is the status of those who believe in him. And we have a work to do. And it's incredibly practical, giving thanks Praising God, encouraging one another. Pretty practical, right? We also says that this living stone is also a stumbling block. Now you'll notice here where it says verse six. He says, Now see, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone. And the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe, this stone is precious, but to those who do not believe, the stone the builders rejected has become a capstone. A stone that causes men to stumble, and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message. I want to be clear of what it means here by rejection. And it's most pronounced for us in verse 8, where it says, They stumble because they disobey the message. The message that he's referring to is the message of the gospel. That is what Jesus has done and who he is. They stumble, not because of their behavior. They stumble, meaning that they fall down. They have rejected Jesus Christ and the message of the gospel that is. That he came to redeem sinners and to offer himself as a sacrifice. And on the third day he would be raised to life. All those who believe in him shall have eternal life. He's saying that they stumble Over Christ because they also reject the message. And that the very one that they reject is going to be and is the cornerstone Of the very building that God is building Himself. But in rejecting the stone, they're also building their own house. Their house which is not built on Christ, it is built on something else And he's very clear about what the consequences will be. It's buried for us very briefly in the first quote that he gives us in verse 6. That verse Is from Isaiah. It is from Isaiah, in fact, Isaiah 28. And that quote comes directly in the middle of God's judgment against those who believe that they don't need him. And what it tells us is that through the prophet Isaiah, the announcement of God is saying, You think that you've made a covenant with death, that death is not going to bother you, and that you can build your life And on the foundation that you think is wise, and nothing is going to touch you. And in that prophecy, which, if you go back and read, is not an easy read. He's saying they are so foolish because they will be utterly destroyed. Life will not yield what they believe it will yield. And in fact, what I'm going to do is I'm going to give something else. I'm going to lay a stone in Zion. And he will be chosen and honored and precious, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. He's saying that those who do not believe in Jesus Christ will be put to shame. Because that which they invest themselves in will come to nothing. It can be taken from them in a flood, in a storm. And from life itself. Let me quote from a band, Radiohead. I don't know if any of you are fans, and if you're laughing, stick with me They write this in one of their songs about the life that so many of us. And here I believe is exactly what it's like not to believe in the Lord. Because what else do you have to build your life on? Consider these words. He said they say about us sterile, sedated, satisfied lives. words. A fitter, happier, more productive, comfortable, not drinking too much, regular exercise at the gym, eating well, no more microwave dinners and saturated fats. A patient better driver, a safer car, a baby smiling in the back seat, sleeping well, no bad dreams, no paranoia, careful to all animals Keep in contact with old friends. Enjoy a drink now and then. Fond but not in love. Car wash on Sundays. An empowered and informed member of society. Less chance of illness. Still cries as a good film. No longer empty and frantic. Calmer, fitter, healthier, more productive A pig in a cage on antibiotics These are the words of Radiohead. And they're looking at their own existence. And they're saying, if I accept what I just read and what they sing as the hallmark of my life or the goal of my life, As the cornerstone of my life, I am like a pig in a cage, but on antibiotics. I may look healthy, but I'm still in a cage You can choose these things, but you will be brought to shame. For when Jesus Christ returns The cornerstone and all of his glory will be revealed. If you do not believe in him and you have rejected him , You will stumble and be placed against that stone. Calvin said it in these words, we must either build on him or be dashed against him. Those who reject Jesus will be dashed against him. Serious words For if you stumble, as he says here, if you stumble because you reject the message of the gospel Then your being dashed against Christ is what you were destined for. But Jesus has not returned again yet. And the challenge of belief is still before us. The challenge of belief Is that this clear, what is clear in this passage is that Jesus is the key to the fate of all human beings. If you believe in him, you will be found in him. As the living stone, so too will you be living stones. And you will never be put to shame. If you reject the gospel and reject Jesus, Then you will be brought to shame. You will be dashed against this one that you have rejected. But the challenge of belief is. If Jesus is, according to what Peter is saying here, and I believe it to be the case, is the key to the fate of all human beings, the question is then, what do you believe? To the Christian and those who profess faith in Jesus Christ, I ask you this question. The Christian is the one who is willing to lay down everything. To receive Jesus. Now, here let me apply it this way. In Matthew, Jesus talks about A hidden treasure. You see, I want you to see verse 7. Notice what it says. It says in verse 7: Now to you who believe, this stone is precious. Now the word there precious means honored. Let me use another word which I think could also be used. Now to you who believe this stone is your treasure. Something that is precious to you, something that is honored by you is your treasure. Is Jesus your treasure? Jesus gives us a parable. Chapter 13 of Matthew he says, The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again, and then in his joy went and sold all he had and bought that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls. When he found the one of great value, he went away, sold everything he had, and he bought it. Do you see? The person who sees Jesus and what he has done for you is of such Ex just incredible value beyond measure of such beauty. You are not counting out the dollars, wondering Okay, five ten thousand? You know that you have Receive Jesus. You you know that you've gone from just believing something intellectual about Jesus to a place of your will and your emotions, of giving yourself over to Jesus. if you've stopped trying to count that which you have given up because you're so overwhelmed by the value of that which you've received. The value of what you've received in Jesus Christ, his death on the cross, his love for you, his care for you. In your midst of your rejection, in the midst of your trial, in the midst of all that life threatens you with, and that which you cannot control, you see that that which you have received is of such great value. And that you trust him, you can say, Hear. You're not even worried about that which you're giving over. Because it pales in comparison to the riches that you receive in Jesus Christ. Christ. The question is, do you believe a lot about Jesus Or have you gone in your heart and your emotions? And even on your knees, saying, Okay. I'll give up the pursuit of the fitter, happier, productive life. Here. For what I receive from you, I will never be put to shame The same question is for those who do not believe. One of our dear friends back in New Jersey was a couple Who had never seen a thing since ever. They were born blind. They met each other later in life and were married. And in my visits with them, they would frequently respond to the most to things that we just take for granted. I remember Nancy would hear the zipper of a bag open, and sh that just thrilled her. She has an amazing sound. What does that look like? She could feel the zipper. She had no idea what a zipper looked like. Her husband Bill, when I would take him to the to a store or something to help him out, he would get in the car if it was a sunny day. It would not pass by him the opportunity. He says, It's a beautiful day, isn't it? Because I can feel the heat of the sun. And he would ask me, but what color is the sun? Now, when a blind person asks you, what color is the sun? And you say to them, it's orange or it's yellow, You realize even as you answer that, they don't have any idea what a color yellow or orange looks like. Now let me say to you, if you do not believe and you have rejected Jesus, I feel as though I'm trying to describe something to you that you've never seen And so by the Holy Spirit, I just want to direct your attention again. It's this. If you haven't seen what He has done for you , Of how your pursuit of a happier, healthier, more productive life doesn't satisfy you. And if you think it does, you don't understand how thirsty your soul is and how deep is your need. Because maybe you have rejected Jesus because of all the talk of sin. Let me let me tell you something about sin. Sin first and foremost is not a behavior, it is a response that you have rejected Jesus. That's where sin begins. So let's look at him. If you have rejected him, it is first and foremost that there's something in you that you have failed to see how deep is your need. And that you've been experimenting, you've been running from him, you've been trying to fill your cup, but it isn't enough, and you know it. You know it. Perhaps you're experimenting even today, and you know it's not enough. If it were, why do you keep going back again and again and again and again and again? Again, you know in your quietest moments that you want more Well, I will tell you, if you want more, the only place to come is the one who has everything. And it's not about stuff, it's about a person of Jesus. Jesus Christ, who so dearly loves you, who knows and sees into the crevices of every part of your will, your motivation, who sees the houses. Radio Head talks about here. God sees all of your pursuits. He sees you running, working really hard after your kids, after your career, after your stuff. He sees it. And I want to tell you, his call to you is one of, I see you. I see you, but you're running in the wrong direction. It will not satisfy. I died for you. And your pursuit will lead to death and not to life. Because you've rejected me. Come to me. I see you, and I've died for you, and I love you The living stone, the cornerstone. God Himself, through His Spirit and by His Word, wants you to see the Sun in all of his radiant glory that can never be described by a color, that can only be seen to us through an action. God the Father, sending his Son, born of a man, born of a woman, as a man, living his life. For you, and taking the wrath of God upon Himself, so that you might have life, so that you might have forgiveness So that you might have meaning beyond understanding, that will never bring you to shame. Come to him, the living stone. Let's pray. Lord, you are the God who gives You have given us your Son, and your Son is divided. You have called those your own, and those who believe are precious to you, and yet there are those who have rejected him. But today I believe, Lord, in the name of Jesus Christ is still a day of grace. And you can invite all of us. To be renewed again, to know you afresh, to know Jesus, the living stone who's died for us. Lord, we pray, come and make us your own into a living house. Full of your spirit, giving thanks to the one who has given us all things. Lord, help us to see that the things that we try to produce by our own hands will not lead to life, but bring us to shame. But that there is only life in the Son that you have given. In Jesus' name. Amen.