We hear a passage of scripture read or we read it ourselves that is so familiar to us. After a while, it's hard to think of the meaning because the famili familiarity has caused it to have so many associations, there's so many memories. Uh it's like a familiar song. You know, after a while you you hear the music and you just it reminds you of a lot of things, but you forget what it's trying to say So, what I would like to do as I read from Matthew chapter 2 this morning the story of the Magi and their coming to worship Jesus at his birth. Is for you to kind of pretend that you'd never heard this before and hear it being read as if it's for the first time. to put away all the carols and the associations and just think, what is this story saying? So let's hear God's word from Matthew chapter 2 verses 1 to 12. After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea during the time of King Herod, Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and asked, Where is the one who has been born king of the Jews? We saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. Then King Herod heard this Excuse me, when King Herod heard this, he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him. When he called together all of the people's chief priests and teachers of the law, he asked them where the Christ, the Messiah, was to be born. In Bethlehem in Judea, they replied. For this is what the prophet has written. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you will come a ruler who will be the shepherd of my people, Israel. Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time the star had appeared. He sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go, make careful search for the child And as soon as you find him, report to me, so that I too may go and worship him. After they had heard the king They went on their way. The star they had seen in the east went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they were overjoyed When coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother, Mary, and they bowed down and worshipped him. Then they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold and of incense and of myrrh And having been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their country by another route Let me ask you four questions about what you just heard. Where did the Magi see Jesus? Was it in a stable or in a house? Well, even though you know you say all the scenes show it and all my Christmas cards and always show the magi at the stable, you notice verse eleven says there that when they came to the house And so they didn't see him in a stable, they saw him in a house. Magi visited him at least several weeks after his birth, probably months, maybe even over a year after Jesus was born, so you gotta dismiss all the Christmas cards that show him at the stable. But now how many Magi were there? Well, of course there's three, right? That's what we always see. It's always three. Why is it always three? Well, because three gifts, gold, frankincense, and married. So there must have been three three wise men Well, could I determine the number of people in your house by going tomorrow and counting the number of presents? Say, okay, well, forty-five presents here, so I guess it's a pretty crowded house. I you know, I mean how do you tell? Could have been two. Uh that's you know our Christmas program had two. Uh nowhere tells us how many. Might have been a dozen. In fact I inclined to think it was more like a dozen than two or three not That may crowd your crush a little bit, but that's okay because, you know, you don't have to stick them in there with the shepherds, because they never met the shepherds, so they really don't belong there And um you really ought to have two scenes. You know, you got the shepherds over here with a stable, and then you've got the wise men over here in a house. That's never marketed too well, but um nevertheless we don't concern ourselves with history and most of the observing of our Christmas scenes, but that's what you oughta have. Um More important is what was the star that they saw that led them? You notice they say we saw his star in the east in verse 2. What's interesting to me is that even in our secular age, there are still serious speculations from astronomers on what this star was. Just in the last couple of years, two serious books have come out about this matter. Michael Maulmer's book, The Star of Bethlehem, Legacy of the Magi. And Mark Kidger, the star of Bethlehem and Astronomer's View, both secular press books, trying to deal as astronomers with what was that star that the wise men saw. Now we're going to look at this question next week, so don't go away. Literally. Now you you know you gotta do what you got to do. But nevertheless, those of us that are here next Sunday morning are going to look at this question of what was that star, and I will uh propose an answer to that that um disagrees with all the books and most of all the articles and may decide be off the wall, but nevertheless I'm gonna argue from scripture to uh see if I can prove what I'm going to try and get at there. But the fourth question is the one we want to deal with this morning. Who were these magi and uh why were they seeking him Why were these mysterious guys called magi, whatever those are, um pagans from some place off in the east? Why were they interested in the birth of somebody who's supposed to be the king of the Jews, and why do they go to all the effort to come travel all this distance and um Why is it included in Scripture? Why does it matter? You may be thinking. What difference does it make to you and to me? Well That's what I'd like to focus on this Christmas Eve morning, and I suggest that it makes a great deal of difference to you and to me Uh I would believe, I would suggest to you that uh there's something very precious here that God intends for you and me to see in our worship of Him this Christmas time. So let's look at it. And you've seen a bulletin outline there that there's not a lot to go on, but I would suggest there's at least four significant clues that we can use to discover who these guys are. First of all, uh they uh are clearly men of rank and wealth. Now despite the carol we three kings that we are all familiar with probably, uh the Bible nowhere calls them kings. They weren't kings Uh, but they were men of wealth and rank, and we know that for at least two reasons. Number one, because it didn't seem like they had any trouble gaining access to Herod I mean he didn't just walk up into Herod's palace and say, by the way, I was wondering where the king of the Jews was born. Could you tell me? You know, and get uh an audience with him. So they must have been pretty impressive to be able to get his attention Uh secondly, because of the gifts that they offer, gold and frankincense and marathon. Gold is called the medal of kings. Um we don't know how many ounces, maybe a couple of pounds, who knows how much they offered, but it would have been worth a lot. Frankincense is actually made from the bark, it's a perfume made from the bark of a tree that comes from uh eastern or southern uh Arabia and eastern Africa It's very expensive. You can only get it at Nordstrom's or Lord and Taylor, and they paid quite a bit for it. Murr is also only available at Lord and Taylor and uh was used In weddings and funerals from a tree um in Arabia uh imported. It's uh very precious stuff The second clue that we have about these guys is that they were stargazers from the east. You notice in verse 1 it says after Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea during the time of King Herod Magi from the East came to Jerusalem. Astrologers and astronomers were very prominent in the East. in Zoroastrianism and other um of the beliefs there. And um they were kind of the new agers of their day. Um These people are always condemned in Scripture for their occultic practices, but uh that's where they were from The third clue that we have about them is that um they had some knowledge of the Jewish hope of the Messiah as the coming king. You notice in verse two It says, where is the one who has been born, the king of the Jews? We saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. That's the most intriguing detail of all because Clearly they didn't know all about him. They didn't know where he was to be born. They didn't know the prophecy of Micah 5. 2. There's certain things they needed to learn. But they had some idea that there's someone here who's going to be born. He's born now. He's the king of the Jews. And the fourth clue is that they saw him as very worthy of their honor, their attention. They travel hundreds of miles across wilderness in order to come and bring gifts and to worship him So um they are not to be put off. This is very important to them that they come worship him. Uh unlike some of us, we're after a busy Saturday or some lousy weather Sunday, you know, that's enough to deter us Well, these guys are not about to be deterred by rain, loss of sleep, or anything else. So uh what in the world prompted this? And again, what does it matter? Well, let me offer to you my solution to who these men are. And um It's one that makes sense to me, but it also, I think, more importantly, reveals on this Christmas Eve morning something of the heart of God And the gospel for our worship. The key that unlocked this mystery to me was Daniel chapter 2 and verse 48. But before we look at that Let's consider the context in Daniel chapter 1. Do you remember that after Babylon had invaded and conquered Israel, Judah at that point uh they carried off uh those two remaining tribes to the east as slaves, captives. And among those people were four young men, Daniel and his three friends And they probably administered some standardized test to them, decided they were in the ninety-fifth or higher percentile of aptitude, looked like they would make good scholars, and um uh intelligence for the king in special service, perhaps uh involving some dream interpretation and things like this Uh advisors, these guys were seen as intellectuals, and so um they were set apart for special service in Babylon Do you remember how they said that they would refuse all the rich food that uh the king was offering to them? And uh you may think that was a pretty wise idea now, particularly after a couple of weeks of eating all the rich food that your friends offer to you. And you think uh these guys were on the right track uh refusing all the carbs and fats and calories and sugars and all the rest of that. But that really wasn't the point The point was more that uh there were certain things that God said to eat, and certain things he prescribed, said that these are not things to eat, which happened to be healthy. So um the guy who's the head of them really doesn't give a rip what they eat, but he's given instructions he's got to keep them healthy, so he says, look, uh I don't care, but you gotta eat what they say you gotta eat. So they say, well, let's let's make a test. Give us ten days. We'll eat what our scriptures say that we're to eat simple food You eat whatever you want, have the other guys eat the rest. Then after ten days, then line us up, put us to a battery of tests, and see who comes through the best. So , okay, ten days, what can I lose? That sounds all right. So after ten days, the Bible says in Daniel chapter 1 in verse 20 That in every matter of wisdom and understanding about which the king questioned them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and enchanters in his whole kingdom. Well, what's important about that? If you look in your Bible at that second word, magicians and enchanters, the word enchanter there If you look at the Greek translation that was used in Jesus' days, it's called the Septuagint. If you look at that translation of the Bible, the word that they use To translate the word enchanters is the Greek word magius, from which we get our word magi. And so if you ever wondered what magi are, that's what they are. It's from that word which means magician or an enchanter. From Daniel 120. Alright, so the Bible then says that uh this is the group that they're uh associated with and um no doubt Daniel and his friends are praying for these fellows that they're now grouped with uh that God would give them a a witness to him as the true and living God with them. And don't know how things started off, but we do know that sometime after that Nebuchadnezzar had a dream And this was a very disturbing dream to him. He wonders what it means. And so that is a job for who? For Magi. Because magi, part of their job description is that they are the official tax-supported dream interpreters. So he calls in all the magi. Daniel's a rookie, they don't even bother to call him, call a bunch of the other magi in And then uh Nebuchadnezzar is so spooked by this dream that he says, I want to make sure that you guys are earning your pay. And this time I'm not going to tell you the dream and you tell me what it means. So that I know you're not fakes. I want you to tell me the dream and then you tell me what it means. Well, of course, there's all these howls of protest, and they're going to take it to their union and everything else. You know, this is unfair. And so they make this big whoo and cry about this whole thing. And you notice in Daniel chapter 2 that uh in verse eleven what they say uh no one can reveal it to the king except the gods and they do not live among men. So forget that. That's out. And that really ticks Nebuchadnezzar off. Verse 12 says, This made the king so angry and furious that he ordered the execution of all the wise men of Babylon. That's it. You guys, you're out, you're done. You're a bunch of frauds. So sends his soldiers off to execute all the wise men Well, in the process of rounding them all up, they come along Daniel and his friends. And Daniel and his friends say, hey, I think we missed something here. Uh there was some something was going on that we weren't called in on, but yeah, you know, that these guys that couldn't interpret the dream, so you're all dead neat. And Dana says, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, uh before you execute us, could you just give us a day or two that we could pray and see if our God will Reveal the dream? He said, go ahead, you got it, you got a couple days. So Daniel and his friends pray, Lord, would you be pleased to show the mystery of this dream? To honor yourself and would save our lives So the Lord in verse 19 says that he does that. Daniel comes in and he says, Nebuchadnezzar, this was your dream. You remember how he told him about four kingdoms? Told him about the kingdom of gold and then silver and bronze and iron mixed with clay. And then he ends up in Daniel chapter 2, in verse 44, with these words In the time of those kings, this is Daniel interpreting the dream, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed. Nor will it be left to another people. It will crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end, but will itself endure forever. This is the meaning of the vision of the rock cut out of the mountain, but not by human hands, a rock that broke the other kingdoms, the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold to pieces. Now of course while he's telling this, the Magi are all waiting with bated breath for two reasons. Number one Daniel has just told the most powerful man on earth, your kingdom is going to come to an end, and the God of us slaves is going to conquer and rule the earth. Not designed to win his favor, probably. The second thing is they're wondering, did he get it right? And so the very next verse, 46 , tells you the result. Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell prostrate before Daniel and paid him honor. In order that an offering, an incense, be presented to him. Ah, whew. I can't believe it. Nebuchadnezzar is acknowledging This one, verse 47, he says, the king said to Daniel, Surely your God is the God of gods and the Lord of kings, and a revealer of mysteries, for you are able to reveal this mystery. So Daniel got it right, and Nebuchadnezzar has humbled himself in acknowledgement of that. Now, that's the context for verse 48. Look what it says. Then the king placed Daniel in a high position and lavished many gifts on him. He made him ruler over the entire province of Babylon and note Placed him in charge of all its wise men. Now, I would suggest that it doesn't take a tremendous imagination to picture that in that new position, all of a sudden the Magi are very interested in who this God of Daniel is They could give a rip before, but now all of a sudden, could you tell us again about that God you were talking about Can you picture now Daniel opening up the scriptures, talking about the promise to an Abraham from nearby Ur of the Chaldees? who was called up to Haran and down to Canaan, and that God made a promise to that man so many hundreds of years ago saying I am going to make you a blessing, and through you is going to come one that will be a blessing to all the nations. He begins to recount the prophecies of Scripture, Daniel chapter 9. To us the Son is given. The government's going to be on his shoulders, and he's going to rule throughout the earth. In Isaiah 11, he's going to rule a kingdom of peace in wisdom and righteousness. In Isaiah 42 and 49, the songs of the servant, and on through all the prophecies he lays out before them. And what was their response? Frankly, we don't know. Bible doesn't tell us how they responded. Bible doesn't tell us anything about whether they said, Wow, you got it, praise God, or whether they said, that's a little too much, Daniel. I mean you guys are tooting your horn over there in Canaan expecting us to bow down to this Yahweh. We already crushed you guys. We don't know how they responded What we do know is that Daniel died around 530 BC, and that there was no indication of any revival or conversion of the Babylonians in general. We do know that some years before his death that his colleagues, you remember, tried to frame him, get him in trouble, saying that he wouldn't bow down to the idol, and so that uh he was thrown into the furnace So he still didn't have among his colleagues and his peers much of a following of those who believed in the God that he served. 525 years after the death of Daniel, you have here now, from an order, I believe. An order of those general wise men astrologers in Babylon, a group of men who had heard survived the transition of power from Babylon to Persia And through those five hundred and some years have passed down this hope from this one that they listened to, and they couldn't quite write off This one whom had credibility by the integrity of his life and by the dreams and the prophecies that came true, and they say, We're looking for the hope. Could it be That this one who told us and passed down from our fathers and our forefathers about a king who was going to come, who was going to rule the nations, could it be that that's true? And then they see a star. As astrologers, they're watching, scanning the heavens for all these signs, and something comes. It's unique, it draws their attention. We'll talk about it more next week. And they head off to the west And they come to Bethlehem. Let me give you one piece of confirmatory evidence from secular archaeology that this is true. In 614, the Persians swept from the east into Canaan, Palestine, with vengeance against the Christians. They destroyed everything that was sacred to the Christians. When they came to Bethlehem, they left standing the basilica, the church, at Bethlehem. Why? Because in that church there was a mosaic fresco, a depiction of the magi coming to worship Jesus. The Persians recognize the picture as of their fellow Babylonians. Now let me suggest to you three lessons that we can draw from this scripture. Let me skip A to go on to B first and then come back to that. Notice, first of all, what I believe God intends for you and to me to see this Christmas Eve. the extent of his grace displayed here in the gospel. Notice that the Babylonians were Gentiles outside of the covenant These were not guys who belonged. They did not have the promises. They were not part of God's people. They didn't grow up in Christian homes. Maybe some of you that are here this morning feel like you don't belong with a Christian community. You feel like I don't I didn't grow up in a Christian home. Everybody here looks like they had their act together, all so nicely dressed and all. If you only knew me and what I'm like on the inside, you wouldn't want me even sitting here with you. I don't belong here. You see, the story about the Magi is for God to reveal to you that Jesus came for people who didn't belong among religious people. His grace transcended so far beyond that. But you say, but you don't know my past. You don't know what I've done. Think about the magi. The magi were the descendants of the enemies of God's people. The Babylonians had destroyed God's temple. They had carried away his people. They had carried away his holy ark. And that most sacred symbol of the presence of his being. And they had destroyed it. They had blasphemed by saying, our God's bigger than your God because we beat you. They had blasphemed the holy God, who more than their ancestors deserved God's curse for him to write them off as beyond any reception of his grace. And yet it's the magi. It's not the Jews in Jerusalem. It's the Magi and the shepherds. Who uniquely alone are called to see the king that's been born for the nations These magi who are astrologers. These guys are in into Occultic stuff. They're they're the new agers of their day who who scanned the heavens. They did stuff that scripture uniformly condemns, Isaiah 44, before the prophecies of the Son, who is the servant condemns verses 24 to 26 those that involve themselves in such practices. Leviticus 19 in verse 26 forbids this practice, is condemned and cursed by God. And yet, don't miss it. How does God get their attention? He gives them a sign in heaven. He makes a point of contact with them in the realm that they understand. Isn't that amazing? That God would speak to them, reaching out to them through a sign in the heavens, in order to draw them to the Son that He has sent for sinners. Kind of makes you and me wonder if maybe we don't write off people as beyond the possibility of God saving grace and people that we'll see this next week. People in our families, people that we went to a office party with, or that we've been hanging around and Maybe noticed how they intend to celebrate Christmas and we thought, no sense even speaking of them, eh, these people They don't care anything about the Bible. They don't care about what the gospel says. No sense wasting my breath. Kind of makes you wonder if maybe God's grace isn't a bit wider. And if he doesn't reach out to people that you and I may tend to write off. The people that you see in this next week Remember the magi. Remember the extent of God's grace. Remember that he called these as the first fruits of his kingdom. Do you remember how in Isaiah 44 and verses 6 and 7, excuse me, Isaiah 42 and verses 6 and 7 and 49? In verse six. In other places God says that the one, his son, the servant, is going to be a light to the Gentiles Do you realize that you see in this story in Matthew chapter 2 a literal fulfillment of that prophecy God sends a literal light to the Gentiles in order to bring the Gentiles to the light He reaches out to the Magi to show as a first fruits what kind of people are going to make up his kingdom. People who are despised, occultic enemies of God, who God reaches out to through the grace of Jesus Christ. To die for, to pay for their sins, to draw them into a relationship with themselves. Whatever you have done, It cannot put you beyond the grace of Jesus Christ this morning. The Magi are a demonstration. Of the extent of God's grace and the fact that He offers to you through Jesus Christ this morning forgiveness and a new life. He longs to reach into your life and draw you to himself. in order to make you know. Don't refuse that. But then finally, notice also The power of the gospel that we see here. This is the last thing I wanted to offer. In Isaiah chapter fifty-five, we read that God's word goes out and his ways are higher than our ways. We can't understand what he's doing, but his word will not Return to enjoy. Maybe you've tried in the last few days or the last week or two, prayed that God would give you some opportunity to talk at Christmas time with somebody about Jesus, about what Christmas means to you and maybe you said, Lord, as I go to this party and I hang around these people or I go to my family and you know, Lord, I'm not from a Christian home and So as I hang around these folks, Lord, help me help me to be a witness. Help us to to honor you and what we do. And maybe you felt kind of discouraged There's people that you've talked to at work or people that you've talked to in your family for years and years and you've prayed for them and you haven't seen God do anything Imagine how Daniel felt. We don't know how he felt at the end of his life, but wasn't any great indication that his witness had been very effective And yet five hundred years later, it bears fruit in this group of men who come to worship Jesus. I don't come from a Christian home. My whole family we're pagans. And um God snatched me out of that. And um so much tension and bitterness in our family that years ago I was forbidden to ever speak to my cousins or my aunts. Forbidden to have any contact with them. About eleven years ago, I made contact with a cousin that had been long lost, her and a couple sisters. As I got to know them, I we began to talk about what had been happening in our lives, and I shared with them what God had been doing in my life, and I told them about Jesus. We emailed, we visited, we spent a number of years together. And every time I would be with them, I would try to talk to them about what Jesus means to me, which When you're a preacher's a little easier to do, I guess, you know. Uh but um I remember taking my cousin out for lunch and talking to her and She just was a good person. Things that were wrong or bad about her were the exception. They weren't the rule. And continued to talk and continued to pray. A couple of months ago I met her up in a park up in Pennsylvania. We said we'd meet together and go for a walk, us and her two dogs, and then go back to her family and visit As we were walking down through the woods, she said, Allie, and that's what I'm known as my my family, okay. Uh she said, Allie, uh I want you to know I've I've given my life to Jesus. And I thought, Okay, let's see, you know, and she says, Well no, you know, I'm I've professed my faith and I've I've joined a church that I've been going to and I thought, oh okay, that sounds good. And I've gotten into Bible study fellowship and I'm going every week and we're really studying stuff and I'm I'm learning a lot. I said, Well, that sounds pretty good. And she said, and now I'm uh I'm just starting a ministry in our church, so I decided I'd you know, what the Lord's done, I ought to reach out and so she's uh she's got this aerobics class and she says we we do aerobics to Christian music and she said, Boy she says some of my friends that I bring there, I mean it's it's something for them to just stop cursing long enough to just come in and do the dancing and the hearing and stuff. She says this one woman, she says she's really nice, but she boy she got a mouth. But she says she you know she kinda cools it most of the time And I said, Oh, okay, well, you know and she says, But you know, the greatest thing is all the stuff in my bac in my past, all my stuff in my back right now, she says, It's all gone. Jesus has taken it And now I'm praying for my husband. And I've taken in this kid into our home, and we've given him a home and trying to show him Christ. God is so good. His work and your family and my family can transcend so much more than we would ever expect, can't it? And so this Christmas, for those that you visit, remember Daniel. And when you're in the conversation with somebody that you think is obviously one of the non-elect Don't write them off too quick. Remember the magi. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, you are so good and so powerful, and your grace is so much greater than our understanding of grace, than the grace we would ever dispense. We would we would never think of taking those who had been our bitterest enemies And going out of our way to establish on a point of contact in their world that which would show them love and draw them to ourselves But you did that. And and the story of the wise men is about that. It's about the kind of people that you, Lord Jesus, came to save To show that there's not a single person in this room who is beyond the offer of the gospel. Beyond your invitation to come, to believe, to be washed and cleansed and given new life To those that we talk to, even in our weak and pitiful, inept witness. And Lord, you know how I felt that way so often with my cousin Lord, um, how you are able to use Daniel and us Even in those who seem like they have absolutely no interest. Lord, help us to believe that To trust you, to love you, to represent you, and to worship you, for you are so good In Jesus Name. Amen