For Lord our God, we come to your word. We love for you to teach us. We want for you, Postgre. Lord, we want for you to trust Jesus. We work for you to open up the portion of your word. And if you'll be the graceful life in your time. We put ourselves to you, our minds and our hearts. We ask you to take us down. We ask for you to Do that you have to be since. For Jesus' sake. Amen. Last week I gave uh one whole message and one verse. Psalm Solomon Running One. You saw there that the book of Solomon, the one book that God has given a song, critical love, is a song. It's poetry that he uses to describe this. And we saw that this song is a song of Solomon's, a song about a love between a real man and a real woman. And we saw Finally, that it is the song of songs because it is reflecting the love of us, the love of Jesus and his bride to Kurt, and the love of that bride to her Lord. Now after having spent one message on one verse, this morning I'm going the opposite extreme and I'm going to spend one message going thirty eight verses. Now that won't seem rather foolhardy. I especially thought so when just recent week I happened to read that Bernard of Curveau very famous devotional preacher preached on the fall of silence and he took eighty six sermons to get through Catherine Christ. And this guy's in eleven fifty three. He might still be preaching on the final song and if you're still around, I don't know. He loves that book. But I'm going to try and cover in one message that it took him 86 to cover. And that makes me a little nervous. But I want to do that uh a little differently. First of all, you see the outline of the whole book. And I just want you to see what we're doing this morning. We're covering the first section of Offer's thoughts. And you see that the book uh in my understanding um nobody two people seem to agree on everything about the Song of Solomon much more than most other books. I've uh checked and have ten commentaries on this book that I working with as I go through this and I find that uh after reading more I finally gotta decide for myself because I just can't uh take any one of them and follow uh in one manner that predominates over everything else. So my understanding of the full thought of this book is that first of all there is support ship and then CP gives the picture of the wedding, the wedding night, and then a problem of feeling an influence between the lovers, reconciliation, going into a deeper love, and then in the light of that reflection on love. And we see the references there. I would suggest that you keep that through this as a reference so that you can refer back to that and know how it's proceeding so that each week you'll see where we are in the progression of the thought through the book. But what I want to do this morning is I want to take a look at that first section, which I think is basically a series of snapshots and Solomon and Philip's courtship. And as we go through that, because it is poetry, I went for I want you to see to totally violate the dance, I was seeing stereotype of me, there's no charge, there's no outline, you've seen the whole thing flowing with message. Because the And this is a poem. It's a series of poems. And so I want you to feel that message, and if you heard it, then less you would be certainly disappointed in that getting an outline there are points of an outline for the application. Now you see what I've done on the front is to try and show you the uh progression of this by showing you the form of this poem. And the form is basically a dialogue between the lover and his beloved. The man and the woman, and then appraisal a chorus or a reflection on that. Sometimes it's a reflection of the person speaking to themselves. But it helps to see who's speaking English. You really have to do that to follow them. That's harder to do in the English. Well how do I know who's speaking or how does the NIV or NLSB or anyone else know? Well there's two ways, you know. One is through the content, obviously if it's referring to a his bride or if she's referring to her bridegroom or he has some idea who's talking. But also it's by the pronouns and the UB the pronouns are differentiated so if it's referring to him or he uh by the speaker you know that that's the woman. So you get that but there are some verses that you just call Cas. So there's a little bit of guesswork. Uh but by and large these are the N I V very good um uh estimate who it is. Uh I don't have much file, there's a couple of places where my different but you can at least follow through who's speaking. Now what I want to do then is to just go through these verses and make just a few comments of the go and then be able to reflect on the uh message, uh the the application of it to our situation. First of all then beginning with verse two, as then that it you see that she begins by saying, Then kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. Well that that's kind of a uh bold way to begin. And uh you don't say anything about their meeting, obviously as they have met, they're not getting in on the beginning of this relationship. And uh it begins with one of the prime things that you need to understand. That is examining. Right from the first verse on to this courtship, there is that dominant feel of longing which you must understand in order to appreciate what is going on here. So if he begins with that longing, notice how it develops even more to verse four. She just wants him to possess her. She wants to go away with him and uh to belong to him. From the chorus sometimes tell said uh to be the friend The builders of Jerusalem and the Virgins, various resignations given. You see that these people rejoice with it. It's a special law. And so that's where it curses right from the beginning. Then in the rest of verse 4, that last line of verse 4 through verse 7, she reflects on her fear. Talks about the fact that she's sunburned. This doesn't end that. You know, I mean today, hey, what are you complaining about? It takes me three weeks to get that there. Uh she doesn't let it get that. That is a sign of being a common laborer then. And so that's for the key works in the field. And so there's a contract. She's dark, and yet she still is lovely. But she seems very self-conscious of that, probably brought into the early atmosphere of Solomon's court, and where everybody is uh uh very fair and they cultivate that and so she feels a little bit out of place. He seems to um be concerned about that. He's also concerned that she might look immodest. Notice in verse seven. A bad woman is a reference to a harlot. Uh that makes And so she doesn't want to look like someone who's in all by running after him. And so she asks where she can find him. And the answer is that he's a shepherd. And so she'll find him as a sheep. And here again you see one of the keys to the understanding of this. But this one who is a king has become a shepherd. And if she meets him as a shepherd, not as a king. That's her first understanding of him. And so she goes out to find him with receipt. Then you have the water in verse 9. making his first speech and uh he first then speaks concerning his appreciation for her and looking. But then just as her no surprise, he was she didn't joke all her especially with the picture of his mouth, he says, Oh she reminded me of a horse That may kind of hit you off guard a little bit, you know, because you think, Well, uh, if I were her, I probably wouldn't jump up and down and not being openly on it. Maybe we ought to go back and uh uh get a little more lessons about how to use someone. But you need to understand poetry of there's something about the culture in order to make that come alive to you. Uh I think maybe the best way, and it's a very poor way, but it's the only way I know to to try and do that is to maybe reflect on the fact that when I read this, I think of the fact that when I was starting college, I wanted to be an automotive designer. That was really my design. I had that for a number of years. And an automotive designer. So I I was very sensitive to automotive designs and styles and all those kinds of things when I was an engineer. And as I reflect on that, I always have a new model for that in all of me. The Thunderbirds, you know, the fifty-four Thunderbirds, you know, and the Corvettes and the Scott and Two Eighty Z and the Toyota System. But I see a new design like that, my heart would literally race, you know. That is exciting. It was standing. I took a car, a home of meta. Not something that was simply sweetly defined, but it was a companion. And particularly for Solomon. Yeah, the horses that guy had. He had 12,000 horses. And every guy had enough horses. 12,000 horses, and his favorites were Egyptian. Egyptian horses. The pure dead Egyptian horses, the best of which they hit to the chariots. This is the same thing that they never hit a mare to the chariot. They were always male horses. And so he said, What I think of you, you know Here's all these mare workers hiped up to the chairs. He said, I think of a mare hicked up to their chairs. Imagine what excitement happened in me in the fall that we exist in parents. One mare hits up to that carriage in the leaves, you know, and off they go. And Paul is like, You make my heart race. I think of the sweet, beauty and gracefulness of an Egyptian mare to a terrible. And I have races. And so how do you understand him? Everybody just said, Well, that is a really high compliment. That is something that speaks of beauty and grace. and loveliness to find it. And then he goes on, speak of the beauty, her cheeks and her neck, and he noticed how not only did he appreciate it, but he wants to adorn it. He says, I want to add to that beauty with my riches, to make it the very best that I possibly can. But then the scene changes. Again, a series of snapshots. It moves now from the scene where the is a shepherd and then his reflection on her at some point, we don't know where that is. But then in verse 12, we're back in the palace. Yeah, we're the banquet. This table and she looks at him and she's adoring him and she sees him there and she says that perfused whether fragrance. He's like a perfume to me, like a sachet of learn resting between my breasts. This is amazing that she moves here, a custom of that day. woman to take perfume, myrrh, and it put it in a little bag and she would rest it on her chest and she would lie and uh sleep through the night. And that perfume was soaked into her so that when she took it off and she went about the day the next day, she would exude the perfume. That he can lie on her through the night. It says we say, My lover is so present that when he's with me, then I reflect his presence. Just by being with him, his loveliness is reflected in my life as I walk about. He's like tenaglosses. Those are the beautiful yellow-white glosses that will grow from the dingus of a geti. Aededi is a desert, an absolute wasteland. But Solomon built dings on its steps, on the float, because the And if you irrigated that and you come up from this desert, and all of a sudden you see this do this. Just tears of mind And a moment these beautiful yellow-white uh glasses are such reflections. And so you say he's like walking through a desert and all of a sudden you're stuck with this beauty and the reflection and the loveliness and the smell of all of this. And so you see there's a feeping Image upon image of loveliness in all the senses, sight and smell and sound and all of these things that have brought in his picture the loveliness of this. And then he reflects on her. In verse 16, he says, How beautiful you are, my God. How beautiful. Your eyes are like dog's eyes. If she reciprocates, if she comes back and hears now a rapid dialogue, how handsome you are, my lover, how charming, our dead adverted. And then he reflects on that, the beings of our house is cedars and our rapid faith. probably out in the woods now. It's a letter cave to food. They're off alone now and they're out in the woods, probably up in Leatherwood, which is probably where her home is. And so they're up there now and they're seeing these beautiful cedars of leavening and the birds and the and the carpet of the grass that they're walking through and they're reflecting on the beauty of this. Notice we're developed further on overseas, there's no contrast between nature and culture. No contrast between the palace or the city and nature itself. There's no pollution. There's no tension between the two. There's no feasion in the beauty from the one to the other. Then in verse at chapter two. Uh she reflects on its road of chairs. On load of the values, notice the contrast between this and what she has said before, reflecting on a sundering condition, a lack of beauty. Now she sees herself as more beautiful in this light because beauty has told her how beautiful she is to him. And that list her view of herself in her own eyes. And then he reinforces that in verse two. Like a lily among the thorns is my darling among the ladies. And then she reflects on this. And verses three to thirteen. We need to understand our private thoughts and longings. Don't miss that. Worth making a note of it. Many misunderstandings, I think, of the song of following come right at this point. But it's clear that the Hebrew pronoun left and the to him or he, third person, not you, and fourth person. They have dialogue about their love which is growing and ripening and deepening. Now she reflects on his love to herself and she reveals to us her innermost thoughts of Long with what she says, like an apple tree among the trees of the forest is my lover among the young men. to sit in his shade, his fruit is sweet to her taste. And on and on she goes about the uh longing again, that theme coming through, the longing to sit in his shade, the longing to be with him. And uh then she reflects on the fact that he's taken her And his banner over her is love. Now that is a well, I'll tell you, you get the ten commentaries together, you've got ten different interpretations on what that means. Very difficult verse. One possible meaning of that, I won't be absolutely dogmatic, but one possible meaning of that is that a banner with a standard that is used to gather troops together. You see that's used throughout the scripture. And the banner caught people together as a public display of their identity. And it could be that what she's saying here is his standard, his public display of who he is, is to say that he loves me. He doesn't say one thing to me in private in order to get my attention and to arouse me, and then violate that, contradicting it by criticizing me, or pretending that he doesn't think That in public. That in public and in private, his banner over you is love. He identifies himself publicly as saying, I love this woman. And she is secure in that. She wants to rest in the shade of that. A comfort and a protection and a security in knowing that her man has taken a public stand in identifying himself as her beloved, as the one who is committed to her belonging. And then the thought of that begins to move her to the deepest kind of longing and passion. She says he becomes sick with love, strengthen me with raisins and apples, again, erotic symbols in that culture. But I am love sick, I am faint with considering the depth of this man's love. And then verse six, a very erotic kind of verse. His arm under my head and his right arm embraces me. And with this you see this deepening passion that she comes to you. She says to herself, What the first of three refrains in this book? Verse seven. Verse six. Excuse me, verse seven. Doris of Jerusalem, I charge you by the gazelles and by the doors of the field, do not arouse or awaken love until it so desires. A very misunderstood verse. King James has it. that uh it is to arouse her love until she desires. It is not a she, it is dick. It is talking about love itself. You see the flow here of the thought. Tulemeth is saying, I've come to appreciate this man's love and my heart's being drawn to him and I'm desiring physically and in every other way and I'm in danger of getting out of control in this. And so she stops what she says to this imaginative audience, which is used to convey God's message to us. Keep yourself in control. Don't let alone Awaken and run away until the time is proper, until love itself desires it. Until it is proper to do this. Now that is repeated again in chapter three and verse five, and then again in chapter eight. In verse 4. It is the only verse that is repeated three times, and it's a refrain of this book. The beauty of love in the context of self-control. To see the preciousness of it. And so you see that, and we'll come back to that later. But you see that longing and she checks that longing to herself and then again she refers to him. And notice how after she refers to that, perhaps the scene switches here. But at least as she's reflecting on this, all of a sudden, you can just picture this. I love this verse. Listen! Hey, I love her. Here he comes. Now notice how he's put it. He's leaping across the mountains. He's bounding across the hills. He's rushing down. He jumps in his car, roaring off, and he's taking all the speed and they're tearing across the hills and breaking speed records coming. And there he comes, and he roars into the driveway, and you know, you expect this guy to come lunging out of the car, tearing through the door, but he doesn't. What's he do? He's standing. All of a sudden, as he realizes close to him, then a certain shyness overcomes him. modesty because he holds me in such high regard. And so there she is. She sees him. Now he's gazing through the windows, that silly fella. You know, as if I sit up pretending I don't know he's here, you know, I could see him come with my binoculars across the mountains and the hills and all of a sudden there he is, you know, and she's thinking And there she comes and she looks at him coming through the lattice and he speaks and finally says, Like, you know, I just think it might be a nice day for a drive, you know, the weather's sort of pass and how'd you like to go out, you know? And boy, they can just see their heart's longings. Again, the loaning that comes through. Come, arise, my lover, my beautiful, and come with me. The winter's past. The rains are open and going. Let's go out and let's explore God's world together. Let's share it. Our hearts together in it. And you notice then how he uh communicates now in verse 14, his speaking. And see, she's reflecting while he's speaking up to verse 13. But then in verse 14, you have him speaking for himself, and he says, My brother of thus. the rock, the hiding places on the mountainside. Show me your faith. Let me hear your voice, for your voice is sweet. Well I think of that verse and I think always when I read that verse of the fact that whenever I have been in a crowd, it had always amazed me how I can always pick out Kathy's voice. When I'd be working in the office at the meeting house, people would be coming in, you know, about a hundred. Every Sunday morning, I always know the moment she walked in the door I could hear her voice. Her voice to me is so lovely, it's so distinctive. It has the quality I've often told her warm growing close to me. I love to hear the voice. Well you might say, yeah, you I like voice, but I hadn't noticed that, you know. But think of the person that you love. There's something about the sound of their voice which is so precious and unique in the distinctive to you. That's very instructive because she is so precious to him. He distinguishes her voice and he loves to hear it. And then she goes on, he goes on, catch the rest of the foxes, little foxes, but you're in the Vinny. Here's one place where I think it may be Her rather than him, as the NIV has it, because she's the one who works in the bees. She's the one more likely to use this kind of language. Either way, it doesn't make much difference in the meaning. But the fact is that the foxes reserve that destroyed beings by burying their whole holes under it was a good places for the foxes to hide. So they dig little holes under the been, and they grew through all the soil and it would break up the roots and the vines would die. You didn't notice it, you see them all underground. But under that ground they were undermining the fruit of the vines. he or she is saying here is there are those little things in the development of our love, the little jealousy, the differences of the things, all these kinds of things that tend to undermine our love. Those things that will destroy and undermine the development of trust. One of the questions I always ask a couple that comes to me and say they're interested in getting married is tell me how you handle conflict. Tell me about your last argument. How did you resolve it? How did you deal with it? Because if I find a couple who is not going to be able to tell me how they have resolved conflict. Who else you know they never find sense of Mexican documents and good fights for you. I don't think you're ready to get married. When two sinners get to know each other, they'll get to know each other well enough that they will find things that they disagree with, values, and ways of viewing things. And it's how they work those things. out in terms whether they're building the basis or love. And so they say that right here, the midst of all this passion and beauty, hey, let's work on these little boxes that will tend to undermine the trust and the love that we're building here together. And so they recognize that. And Cody then they did it because you see, whatever happens in the work and feel of those things, then the next verse is a verse of artist possession. I my lover is mine and I am his. There is that commitment. He browses among the Until the day breaks and the shadows flee. And this I won't link to it here, but it is an extremely erotic reference. Heard by lover and be like a gazelle, or a young stag on the rugged hills. Literally, that verse is saying, like a young stag on the mountains of the. cleavage. And so she is here once again being carried away with her desire for him. And you notice again it is a third person effort. She is reflecting to herself. She is not inviting him to do anything at this point. She is long And then that longing turns into probably in the next verses, the five verses of chapter three, into a kind of dream, a loaning, a fear. All night long am I dead I looked for the one my heart loves. I looked for him, but I did not find it. I will get up now and go about the city through the streets and squares. I will search for the one my heart loves. So I looked for them but I did not find them. There's separation, there's some kind of an alienation here. The watchmen found me and they made their as they made their rounds in the city. seen the one my heart most. Scarcely had I passed them when I found the one with my heart lost. And I held him, and I would not let him go until I brought him to my mother's house, to the roof of the one who conceived me. O daughters of Jerusalem, here again to the friend. I charge by the gazelles and by the birds of the field. Do not arouse awaken love until its very desires, until its proper time. There is the alienation. And then there is that love, that longing that comes back again and she says, I will not let you down. Come back to the home. Now her father, pretty clearly, I think, if you read through the book, is dead. And so she brings him back to what her well she only has one parent living, it's her mother, and so she says, Come back and meet my mom, and I want you to get to know her, you I want you to incorporate you into the family, I want to get her permission and bring him then into her whole family in order for them to commit themselves. Now, what are some of the lessons and the applications we can draw from this? Very briefly, reflecting back on this, there are two kinds One is between men and women, and the second is between the Christian and the Lord Jesus. Concerning men and women then, notice a couple of things from this. Number one, courtship is good. Courtship is good. is good. God spends thirty-eight verses on it out of this book, his one book on love, on the love between a man and a woman. Thirty-eight verses out of a hundred and seventeen are spent on the courtship between these two. Courtship is a good thing in God's us. Do not seek to avoid courtship unless you have no interest in marriage. I say that because I see today something that disturbs me and concerns me somewhat, both in discipleship training and in the attitudes of Christians in general. I think for many of us who have come from broken homes, who have come from disturbed marriages and great hurt, there is a fear of getting involved. And so we tend to run in packs. It is a fear of committing ourselves to anyone, and we pay off in any kind of a way. It will be give the possibility of design It could lead to some sort of a commitment. I see this, brothers, particularly on the part of this man. I see it having to kind of view the sense that, well, you know, uh, I just don't want to get involved in those things. I'm serving the Lord, you know, and when God has a wife for me, then one day my client I'll hit a verse and Bill will be your name and I'll call that verse and I'll go out and say, Hey, I read the backfield by quiet time this morning and God'll show me your end. Let's not split around, babe, let's just go right through. And that just bypasses this whole beautiful idea of the growing development of Two people exploring each other's personalities, both in culture and in nature. Both in seeing God's beauty in various ways and getting to know each other and enjoying the growing physical attraction that develops between them. Enjoying it and keeping it in control. But I'm concerned that we have seen in the hurts and the distortions of our culture a kind of a reaction against the goodness of courtship and of men and women getting to know each other, being able to pay off without everybody in the group saying. Oh hell, when are you gonna get married? Having the freedom to date a few times. Well not date, before one of the things I've most enjoyed in our singles group and I really thank God for is the ability for people to be able to date, to go out together, to learn nothing up, and there is no problem in the relationship. Not somebody that has to go off to another church, do something else, and we can continue to be brothers and sisters at ease with one another. That's beautiful. Pray that God will continue that and he'll show us the value of that in our fellowship here as a church. The second thing to notice here is success is good. Not only is the courtship good, but the sex is good. You see how unashamed she is of her sexual feelings. Notice also that it's the woman who is described in each of those cases. Why? I think because God made particular That he needed to free women up sometimes in their feelings of guilt about having such feelings. Notice how explicitly free this woman is. Clearly, she's a woman of high moral character. She's a woman who values and cherishes sex in the world. that God intended it. But she's not ashamed or afraid of her sexual feelings for this man. She has not at all she does not at all look at them as something that's dirty or something that's to be avoided. Uh chapter two verses sixteen and seventeen and some of these other verses are very explicit if you understand the Hebrew meanings of these things. And yet she's able to say these things and also to say, God, I charge you anything around me, any influence, do not awaken that love to an improper expression. the time is proper for it. And so that's the third point. Self control is vital. Self control is absolutely vital. But I want you to notice something else about that that I think we as evangelicals have often missed. Notice, and this is the thing that I hope If nothing else gets across to you in the song of song, I hope this comes across so well. We have chapter in our reaction to the dirtiness and the ugliness and the perversion of sexual practices today. And often I think we have backed off and we tend to teach our kids and we tend to by the idea that sex is something that is kind of a nasty thing that you really gotta keep it. It's like a chained line, you know, and it's gonna eat you up. And so you gotta sort of keep that thing or whipping it down. But you see the whole point of this is that it's so beautiful and it is so good. Why in the world would you want to destroy it? The whole emphasis of this book is that the preciousness of chastity is something to be protected because of its loveliness and its beauty. And if you read this, if you see these sexual references, and you Read through it and say, This is God's word. This didn't sneak in here, and somehow God didn't keep it out as I made a mistake in including this in the cannon. This is God's word. And He's teaching me from this. The beauty of what He's designed. And because of that beauty, and I see it's one. this and I'm stirred by it in my heart, I say, I want to protect that. I want to hold that as sacred and precious. And the whole emphasis of it is to positive the light of chastity. Now of course none of us are absolutely pure in this. Even if in our practices we could claim that, in our thoughts we can't. And God gives forgiveness. And I don't want any of you here to say, yeah, I have blown that and I have just missed all that God would want for me. God can be doing that. There will be the stars. The preciousness of this is very fragile. There will be discards, but we all bear discards. And none of us can be put in the category of innocent or guilty in this. And the Lord Jesus cleanses us, and we go into his temper with a Clear conscience and our bodies washed in pure water. But see the positive emphasis. Notice also, usually there's a practical thing in this, the two times that she gives us refrain. The two times are, first of all, when they're in a beautiful romantic. Romantic settings. That's what she first says. Watch it. Hold on to your feelings. Watch it in those lovely romantic settings when your emotions can get carried away with you. And you begin to say, Oh, everything's just so appropriate, surely. God willn't mind. Surely this must be right. It's precisely at that point that she charges the daughters of Jerusalem, don't let me be deceived. And the second sign is after a period of ordination and separation in which they come back together again. That's the second time, where there is particularly the need for the emphasis on self-control. Haven't seen you for a long time. Or we've had a tough time together. And all of a sudden there's that coming back together. And with that coming back together, there can be the rush of emotions which again gets carried away. And so it's the first two times that she says, no, it is too precious, it is too important, and that's where she charges. And finally concerning the Christians and the church. This is not simply a manual for us to understand human relationships. It is a devotional love. It also speaks of the Christian and his love for Jesus Christ. The romantic love reflects Christ in the church. First of all, notice how she holds him in such high esteem. Take your keys and worship out of the church. book. You can have a series of delightful quiet times by looking at what she thinks of her lover and meditating on those concepts and turning them into worship for the Lord Jesus. You notice that she starts off reflecting on His love, which is more delightful than wine. How often do you look at Jesus' love as delightful, almost intoxicating to you? She speaks of the wonder of his name, which is so beautiful to us, like perfume. She speaks Speaks of him as a beautiful, refreshing perfume in a desert. Go on and on through those references and look at how she holds her lover in high esteem and then reflect on Jesus that way. I think one of the things that we often miss is the idea of looking at Jesus as a lover. Somehow that seems to strike us as being kind of us. And yet why would that be so? I love the way Becky Crippard a number of times in a series. You remember she said, I've fallen hopelessly in love with Jesus. These things just that kind of a passion, that kind of a love for Jesus, which makes sharing him, or obeying him, or following him through anything to become a delight. Rather than a matter of gritting my teeth and saying I'm gonna lose life. That is because I love him. It's because when I think of a person, a human being that I love, and I think of the attributes that most attract me to that person, their thoughtfulness, their gentleness, the fact that they're fun to be with, the fact that they are so sensitive, the fact that they uh I feel secure when I'm here. When I think of those things, I think, how is Jesus in that regard? Who's more thoughtful than him? Who can I feel more secure with than him? Who's more sensitive than him? Who can I find more delightful? and exploring creation with than talking to him about. I need to think of Jesus as the one who I hold in such highest needs that my heart's drawn to him and his love is more delightful than one. Secondly, you notice too The king humbled himself to become a shepherd. Jesus, the King of kings, became the good shepherd in order to win his bride, the church. And the church. who had not simply neglected her appearance. But the church who had almost effaced the image of God in her. And the church who had become so ugly and distorted and perverted in her practices. And Jesus became that shepherd to humble himself that he would even die on a cross. Because he refused to give you up. Because he refused to let you go to that one who has taken you away from him, forever. And Jesus has come and he is bonus. But notice, in his willingness, he has not only see our sin, he also sees our beauty. Do you ever picture Jesus speaking the words of chapter 2, verse 14 to you? Show your face. For your voice. is sweet. Let me hear your voice. But your voice is sweet to me. And your face is motless. And old Christians say, Well, I know he sees my sin. And I know there's a lot of things in me that he wants to change and he wants to clean up and he wants to get rid of. But do you ever realize that Jesus sees the beauty that he has made in you? That beauty which, like those, that bag of myrrh upon her can reflect his loveliness as you spend time with him? Do you realize that Jesus delights in you and in your life? Read the Soul of Solomon and think of those words of the Loving to her and reflect on how Jesus holds you as precious in his sight. And there it all how can How can you do anything but respond to Allah? Love is more delightful than mindfulness. You become like the maiden in verses six and seven of chapter two, carried away with love for such a one who loved you as you are so delightful to him. And then the Third point is that you see their belonging to each other, a commitment by covenant, that mutual possession so precious. Now I'm not going to develop that now. I know I don't have time anyway, but I wanted to hold that for tonight. Particularly appropriate for the Lord's Supper. We're going to explore that because For a couple minutes tonight. I want to hold them. That I give the mutual possession. I am his, and he is mine. Then finally the last thing. She longs to be with him forever. She longs to be with him forever. chapter one verse four. Take me away with you. Let us hurry. Chapter two and verse three. I delight to sit in his shade and his food is sweet to my taste. I just want to be with him. I can't be with him enough. He looks for his coming. See two verse eight. Look, my beloved's coming. I'm looking. She's looking out, always looking to see when he's coming. If the Christian is looking for the coming of the Lord Jesus, oh how I want to sit in his shade, oh how I want to take me away with him. Oh how I want to be with him. I'm looking daily for his coming. So that he can come and he can possess me. I'm sensitive to his fellowship, first part of chapter three. And when there's a loss of it, I'm sensitive to that. I realize that we're the relationship between us is not as it ought to be, and I need to go after him. And when I go after him, and I find it's a good thing. That fellowship restored, I cry out, Oh Lord, I'm not gonna let you go. I'm gonna hang on to you, and nothing can separate me from you forever. But I realized that in that, the preciousness of the delayed gratification of courtship. You see, while you and I are divided, of Christ. I believe the Bible teaches that we are still in that courtship period. Jesus has given us the first fruits of that relationship. But we have not yet sat down at the wedding feast of the Lamb. So we are now, though we are the pledged blind of Jesus Christ, we are still in the courtship in which we are tasting something of that relationship that we have not entered into the fullness. If she is having wrong in the child, I'm sick with love and anticipating what it's going to be like when this man possesses me and takes me. Oh be like a stag and come on me and all if you're filled up, I can't wait. What's it going to be like when Jesus comes again? And he shows and reveals to us as his church all of that fullness and we're possessed by him forever. Let's pray. Father Jesus. Lord give us the Holy Ghost. That the only that looks for you, that only that the light says you're the light for us, he says, Lord, how could you love us so much? But only the light of that when we see you want to adorn us. us that the key beauty with his richest in order to enhance that beauty that is simply the reflection of you anyway. Oh Lord, give us that that deep long, what are you coming? to be with you. We've lied in that period now of anticipation. And we can show you our love by faith. But oh Lord Jesus, what will it be like? Will we sit down with you as the bride to consummate that relationship? in the fullness of what the physical relationship is only bringing the nutshell you are. Lord Jesus, we love you. We love you. And we want to love you more. Teach us about your life. In Jesus' name, come on