It is a blessing upon blessing to be here tonight not only to hear Gordon Calvert 's testimony but to see, indeed, as he so eloquently stated the work of the church. But we are a work in progress as we seek to live out what it means to equip one another. Because one of the most delightful things that I can say is. That I was one among many who did so much more. And I am so grateful for that. For that is the picture as Alan has said over and over and over again to you, but is always refreshing for me to hear from him. That is the reality of what it means to be a pastor to equip the saints for doing ministry. We desire to be one among many. And it is grateful to see a testimony of just that working And we continue to want to see that play itself out in many different stories across the congregation. And so I'm grateful to hear that testimony tonight. I'm also grateful to have Alan here, as I was saying to him earlier this evening, and will not be a surprise to those of you who've gotten to know me well. that there he was sitting there this morning. I was looking at him the whole service and yet I did not say that he was here and that was simply my oversight. I just simply forgot And uh and so I'm I apologize to him for not uh reminding you that he was here and uh and so I'm grateful in many ways that I I still he's even though I didn't have him as a pastor, he's still very present in my life. And so I spent the whole day with him, so I thought everybody knew. So we're glad to have you here. Uh and I'm also again grateful uh that we have a good, not just a cordial relationship, but a relationship as partners in ministry. And that is an unusual occurrence in my line of work. And I'm grateful that we can call each other, we can share each other, we can pray for one another. And I do not feel threatened by you, and you do not feel threatened by me. And I'm very grateful for that. And that is a miracle. That is a blessing, a real blessing to the church. Kane and I had the opportunity in 2001. Perhaps it was a blessing. It was really a lesson of Of perseverance and leaning on the Lord. We purchased a house that was 19, it was built in 1928. That needed a lot of work. As they say in New Jersey, it has good bones. And indeed it had very good bones. But it needed a lot of work. So as we went through the house, as we slowly went through every room, we changed the paint color in every room, which was not an easy feat in a State like New Jersey because a house that was built at that time meant that it had lead paint everywhere, which meant that we only had the blessing of picking the colors, but we actually had to hire a company to come in to remediate any lead that would be in the house. So we would strip the house of every possible thing so we could slowly go through it. And one room we would end up in, it was a bedroom. It was the master bedroom, and inside the closet, as we were going through the different parts of the closet, I was running my hand along the framing of the inside of the closet. And my fingers ran over a lump, and I didn't quite know what that was. Got out a flashlight. It had been fastened by two nails. I took out a flathead screwdriver and I removed What was an aluminum capsule had now had been covered with not one, not two, but three layers of paint. And so I took it out and looked at it. I'd never seen anything like it before I scraped the paint off, and I saw that it was a was in the shape of a very long capsule, and it had a removable back to it. And I removed the back with pliers. And then it had rolled up in it very, very, very, very tightly a parchment And I unrolled that parchment. And I knew, as soon as I did, exactly what it was. This is what it said. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength. These commandments I give you today are to be upon your hearts. Impress them on your children. Talk about them when you sit at home. And when you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up, tie them as symbols on your hands and bind them on your foreheads. Write them on your door frames and on your houses and on your gates And when the Lord your God brings you into the land he swore to your forefathers, to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, to give you a land large. Flourishing cities you did not build, houses filled with all kinds of good things you did not provide, wells you did not dig, and vineyards and olive groves you did not plant Then, when you eat and are satisfied, be careful that you do not forget the Lord who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. Father, I pray you would remind us of this word this evening as we recount the story of the Shema. This famous set of verses. Lord, may it be a word to us, a word of grace, as you lead us to the table this evening. Give us ears to hear, and hearts to comprehend your amazing grace. In Jesus' name. Amen. Indeed it was a copy of the Shema written in Hebrew, printed on a very small piece of parchment paper. I don't know how long it had been there. According to the owners of the home, I wasn't aware of any Jewish name that had been previous owners. And it certainly would not have been placed on the inside of a closet. And without any guessing at all, it would be then become a valuable thing to me. Place it over the door frame of the front door of our house. Not because it had any sort of superstitious meaning, but because of Christ, it has an incredibly beautiful meaning. Consider for just a moment what this says. It begins with an imperative Hear Which means far more than just audible hearing. Because here, because it's in its imperatival form, it means to obey. to listen and to remember in the fullest sense that we can actually hear something here, he says The Lord our God, the Lord is one. That announcement then is followed with a further imperative. Love the Lord with your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength. To love the Lord with all your heart. As we've talked about over this year, that the heart, biblically speaking, is the seat of the will. It's the place of loves. It isn't divorced from the head. It's recognizing, biblically speaking, that anatomically the Bible has a far more robust understanding of the heart. It doesn't just pump blood, it's not just the seat of emotions or rationality, and somehow the brain is full of rational thought. No, the heart is the seat of what we love. And what we love affects how we think, how we live. And in this place where our dreams and desires, our sorrows, our hopes all find, woven together in this place. A place of love. From that place, from the heart, we are to love the Lord. It says we're to love him with all of our soul. As one writer says, it is the place where each individual is unique. the inner court of the mind where decisions are made, the forming of bonds between friends. And lovers as well as the coming together of community, it is in our souls, in our uniqueness that we are to love Him. This is also we're to love him with all of our might. It means all of our actions , employment of our gifts Our place of work. Our place of play. There's no distinction between doing secular work or sacred work. All of it is God's work. There's no difference between weekend and weekday. Whether we're raking leaves or doing art. or crocheting or enjoying a wonderful meal together, regardless of what it is, all of it, with all of our strengths. All of our might, of our very sinews of being, to love the Lord. But it is an I it is not so much lost on me that indeed we b purchased this home and this Shema was hidden inside of a closet. It was never meant to be that way But in some ways metaphorical for why the people of God Israel found a very difficult time, though they heard it, though they remembered it, though they practiced it and they were to do it everywhere they went. Indeed, it it is all encompassing where to Wherever we go, whatever we do, in our very conversations, it is to be front and center. As we teach our children, as we pray for our children, as we talk to one another, literally, as we talk to one another, the Shema was meant to be front and center as part of our communication. Indeed, it was to adorn our very bodies, adorn our homes, because it was meant to adorn our hearts. Ah, there's the problem. There's the rub. We can tattoo it. Who knows if they had tattoos? Probably did. We can tattoo it to every part of our body. And it will not make us more obedient. The law, even this part of the law, this great Shema Went from being a call and a blessing to being a burden Not because the Lord is burdened, it is because the law in its writing here, even a call to love the Lord with all of our hearts and souls and strength becomes as it were an avalanche, a tsunami of judgment, because it exposes exactly every part of my life where I fail to do just that. And it becomes a painted over dust-filled in a dark closet upstairs on the second floor kind of thing. It goes from being front and center to being too burdensome. And so I'm going to hide it. The problem with the Shema is not the Shema. The problem is the human heart You see, as one writer says, the people of Israel were to be a people of this law, and they were to post the law everywhere. To the doorposts of their homes, to their gates, they were to remember it in their comings and goings. They were to bind it in on to it to their arms. They might even guide whatever work they put their hands to. They were to lash it onto their foreheads, right between their eyes, that it might focus every conversation, every face-to-face relationship that they knew. The problem is this. The problem is that we forget to do this and we fall into sin because of our hearts. So where is the hope? Is there grace here in the Shema? Is it just burden? Is it just an avalanche of judgment exposing our disobedience? The beauty is, indeed, there is hope and grace here. Indeed, it was to be the hope and grace. It was not meant to be a burden, but it was turned to that. The hope is this that woven into this command is this wonderful phrase, The Lord our God The Lord is one. And then as it finishes, the Lord your God brings you into the land he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give you a land with large flourishing cities you did not build. Houses filled with all kinds of good things that you did not provide. Wells that you were to dig that you did not actually plant or dig. Be careful that you do not forget the Lord, and then this great yet small phrase, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. The grace of the in the law is that the law is the story of what God has done It is woven together despite our rebellion, despite our hearts' failure and disobedience, it is the story of God's faithfulness. Because even wrapped in the midst of all these commands and imperatives to hear and to do and to love is bordered by these great things. The Lord our God, the Lord is one, and he is the one who will do it. The Lord knew and knows we can't do it. So in this story, my friend Russ Ramsey wrote in a recent Advent Reflection, book called Behold the Lamb. He says it's the story of the one true God calling a people, his beloved people Though they lived in perpetual rebellion against him, they weren't meant to live this way. Still they did. Forgetful, fickle. Stiff-necked and proud. Nevertheless, though their lives were a ruin of their own making, God swore a covenant oath to redeem them. Everything wrong with the world he would put right He would remove their hearts of stone, Ezekiel says, and give them hearts of flesh, putting a new spirit in them And he would never, ever stop loving them, 1 Chronicles 16, 34. God was pursuing them. Our celebration of the supper tonight is that this supper is the picture of God's pursuit. In this bread and in this use, it is the picture of God's pursuit. As we celebrate Advent, it is a celebration of God's pursuit What is that pursuit? As I said this morning, I repeat again from different verses, John, when he says, In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it. He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. He came in, he came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision. Or a husband's will, but born of God. The word became flesh and made his dwelling among us We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. John testifies concerning him. He cries out, saying, This was the one whom I said, he who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me. From the fullness of his grace, we have all received one blessing after another. For the law was given through Moses. This Shema. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has seen God, but God, the one and only, who is at the Father's side Has made him known. Moses gave the law. Through Moses came the Shema. But through Christ, grace and truth. What is that grace and truth? God never said, don't worry about that, Shema. Don't worry about it. No, it very much stands. But this child, sent of God, Would pursue us to the point that he would fulfill every iota of those commands. He would love the Lord with all his heart. with all his soul and with all his strength to the point of shedding his blood So that we might receive adoption as children. And now the Lord Jesus through his active obedience and through his death on a cross, symbolized in this cup and in this bread Leads us to love him because he first loved us. We can now love him with all of our heart, with all of our soul, and with all of our strength. By his grace, by faith, because he has done it for us. And it is credited to us as if we have. It is credited to us as righteousness. Through faith, through the work of Christ So as we come to the table tonight, we come with our weakness, we come with our brokenness, we come with our bodies, we come with our souls and our hearts. Knowing that it is Christ who's obeyed in our behalf. And as we eat of this bread and we drink of this cup, by faith, We can claim salvation for us because through Christ, grace and truth has come. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, now we ask that you would feed us and satisfy our thirst. That you would, by your grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and of the power of your Spirit, help us to truly hear and comprehend. The amazing grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you, our Father, for remembering us. We thank you, our Father, for your faithfulness. We thank you, our Father, for your mercy. But, oh Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ Our Savior and our Messiah. We give you thanks and praise in Jesus' name. Amen.