Those of you who uh support for my uh helpless week, I think my voice is uh enough to get me through the message now. Uh so uh I uh hope to bear with me if it doesn't hold up real well. I think it'll make it. Easter is only four Sundays away. And so I want now this week to begin a series of four meditations on the death of Jesus Christ. We've been talking about missions in the last few weeks. Why is it that we want to go and preach the gospel? Why is it that we want to send people? Why is it that we want to give permissions? Why is it concerned permissions? Because Jesus Jesus Christ is gone, he's risen, and that's good news. Just this week I was sharing of the gospel and the message of grace for the couple, and at one point the man stopped reading and said, That's good news. Sure it is. It's tremendous news to think about what was accomplished when Jesus Christ died for us and he's taken away the guilt of our sin. That's why we're interested in mission. Our last group, our learning fellowship group. needs after this hour have been talking about target grouping particular needs in Colombia so that we might minister to those needs more effectively. Why is it that we're concerned to minister to the needs of Colombia? Because Jesus Christ died And he's listening, and that's good news. And so it makes us going to minister to people and share the love of Christ. We're going to be considering after this hour, home mission, as Louis is going to be sharing with us what God is doing in big places. And planning churches around the United States and some of our evangelistic outreaches and efforts as a church, as a whole church. Why are we concerned for a home mission? Why are we concerned to plant churches? Why are we concerned to be more effective in our evangelism? Because Jesus died and he rose again. And because that's good news and it's transformed our interests and our concerns. Why is it that you are free from guilt and sin? And the slavery of the failure of all that you ought to have done but haven't done. Because Jesus Christ has freed you from that bondage by his death. Why is it that you want to do more for him now that you can free? from the law than you ever wanted to do for him when you were in bondage to all the shoulds and the odds. It's because Jesus Christ by his death transformed you from the law unto grace. And so because of this, and the fact that grace has put a spring in our steps, it's grace that's put a bounce into our lives and A soul in our hearts and it centered that love upon Jesus Christ. We want now us to filies to go back. Once again to look at the death of Jesus Christ and to focus on him. That we might be reminded why we want to do all these things. And we might be again enabled, particularly at this Easter time, to look to Jesus. to see him once again. Followed in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, I'm determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Therefore we want to take these weeks to look at Jesus Christ and focus just on him. Not as soon do we understand that and therefore go on to other things, but to look at that and therefore to be refreshed and to see what it's all about. to see that the cross is the very center of our faith. So turn here to Luke chapter twenty two. If you haven't turned already, we're going to spend three weeks in Luke, one week in the book of Matthew. We're going to begin right here at the very beginning. Of the story of Jesus' trial and his death from the first six verses of Luke chapter 22. Let me read those verses to you now if you follow along. This is God's holy word. Let's give it our best attention. Now the feast of unleavened bread called the Passover was approaching, and the chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some way to get rid of Jesus. For they were afraid of the people. Then Satan entered Judas, called the Scariot, one of the twelve. And Judas went to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard and discussed with them. how he might betray Jesus. They were delighted, and they agreed to give him money. He consented and watched for an opportunity to hand Jesus over to them when they crowd. was present. In the very declaration of war in the Garden of Eden, when God promised a deliverer lost simple humanity, single from that very day was committed to the The only major threat to Savior's kingdom ever has been the Messiah. If he can yet destroy the coming of And the work of Messiah, his kingdom is secure forever. And you and I are sealed into that kingdom forever. And so Satan sought to accomplish a number of strategies. The first thing that he did was to seek to turn the heart of God's people against him, so that God himself would destroy the lies in whom this Messiah was. To come. Just after God in Republican, Satan came their heart to worship the golden calf. And they want that temptation for God to destroy that nation. And there are the other times of the ungratefulness, the rebellion, the world. The complaining, the disobedience, the lack of trust, the idolatry. But in every case, when the covenant is fled, God's heart was unswerving, and he could never deter from his second determined love for his people. And so that strategy failed. But then Satan turned to another strategy. And that strategy was to destroy this promised line to his own agents, to simply obliterate the human the Jewish race. You remember that's what the Book of Esther is about. The Book of Esther is, you see, really not simply about a woman at great gains. The Book of Esther is about that cosmic conflict in which Satan is seeking to destroy God's redemptive life. And you remember that it's through Haman and Xerxes that Satan seeks to have the Jews obliterated. But God raises up Esther because he's true to his covenant and he rescues his people. Later on, after the Old Testament, you have a fellow by the name of Antiochus Epiphanes, an irascible fellow. Of course, anybody who had go to life with a name like Antiochus Epiphanes might not be a very good news. But Antiochus Epiphany was a fellow who was determined and set against God's people and tried on a number of occasions to wipe them out, to forbid the practice of the Jewish religion. And to uh again wipe out the Jewish race. But again he failed. And God protected and preserved his people, raising up the Maccabees. And so Satan has failed in that strategy. And then there was that. that the little lady was born in Bethlehem. And the angel sang the coming of deliverer. The Messiah's here. But Satan's not about to give up, the time is drawing short. And so he needs to redouble his efforts. And he seeks more directly now. Through Herod to destroy Messiah himself. If you remember that even though Herod sends out a whole squad of soldiers that comes through and slaughters all of the children under two years old in Bethlehem, Jesus escapes. And so the Messiah is Still delivered by God's protecting hand. And then Satan confessed Jesus himself directly in the wilderness. If he can't destroy Messiah, maybe at least he can destroy him, fulfilling his purpose. And so he seeks to tempt him. Well, there's three temptations. that you recall, culminating in seeking to have him bow down to Satan himself so that he would promise him all the kingdoms of the world, but in that promise he would lose the kingdom that he had come to claim. But of course you remember how Jesus resisted the temptations and so Satan failed again. And now Jesus is at the very apex of his career. It's Palm Sunday. Jesus has just come into Jerusalem. In all the crowds singing and hailing him as their king and as their savior, the son of David who's come to set up and establish his kingdom. And Satan's in a panic now because the time is very short. And he's been seeking to lay down his strategy in one final effort to destroy Messiah and his kingdom. And his twofold effort was to work through the leaders and then to seek a deceptor among his disciples. And so in Luke chapter 22, you see the success of this strategy in verse 2. You see that the chief priests and the teachers of the law were now looking for some way to read. to get rid of Jesus. The Jewish leaders, the leaders of God's own people, are now alive with Satan in seeking to destroy Messiah. And beyond that, Satan has found what he has looked for all along. He's found a defective among the disciples You see in verse 3, then Satan entered Judas. Paul Iscariot, one of the twelve. And Judas went to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guards and he discussed with them how he might betray Jesus. And they were delighted. And they agreed to give him money. And he considered and watched for an opportunity to hand Jesus over to them. Now, the two columns of the strategy are in place. But there's one major obstacle and a couple of other things that stand in his way. The major obstacle you see mentioned twice in these verses is one simple thing. Now don't look back at the story and know what happened And dismissed that as a small problem. That was a rather large problem for Satan as well as for the Jewish leaders and for Judas. Because crowds are risky and they're unpredictable. And this crowd had just A couple of days before held Jesus if they're king and if they're delivering. And these are religious folks, you know. I mean they're not about to assassinate Jesus. They want to do this all aboveboard and in a legal way, to have him executed by the And that means being able to get Roman permission and go through a trial. And they need to be able to do all of this without the crowd being roused against them. And they're saying that. Look at verse two. The chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some way to get rid of Jesus. Why are they looking for some way? The end of the verse. So they were afraid of the people. They're afraid of a counter-effort. They're afraid that they might stir up the people on Jesus' side. And that that might destroy all their plans and maybe even themselves. It's also Judas' concern. Look down at verse 6. Judas is concerning, and he's watching for an opportunity to hand Jesus over to them when no crown. His presence. That was a major obstacle. How are you going to be able to get rid of Jesus quietly and legally? without stirring up a crowd. And the only way that Satan can do this is if Jesus is betrayed By three groups of people. And so as Satan seeks to move to his final destruction as Messiah, he finds that his hopes are realized. Beyond his wildest imagination. As Jesus is betrayed, he's betrayed First of all by the crowds. He's betrayed by the crowds, who just a couple of days before had hailed him. In John chapter 1, in verses 10 and 11, We read that he descended the world and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. We And the bitterest fulfillment of that, was at the Passover time. And the very crowds who had served Hosanna, the very crowds who had held him to kill him, there must have been people in that crowd that had seen Jesus healed. lepers. They have seen Jesus heal the dumb and the blind. They have seen Jesus perhaps cast out demons and liberate people from their chains. There was the people there who had heard his words of love. It was those same people who the chief priest could plant someone. And on that morning of the trial, when Pilate was seeking to escape from having to condemn Jesus, and he called upon the crowds for support, we read in Mark That the chief priests stirred up that same crowd so that those very people, Mark 1511 tells us Cried out to crucify him. Can you imagine people who have seen Jesus in his love and his innocence to be so stirred? By demonic influence, that they would be willing to get along with the crowd and not raise their voice in protest, but along with the rest of the mob to yell, Crucify Him! Pilate says, but why? What wrong has he done? And they shouted the louder, Cursify Him! Jesus was abandoned and betrayed by the crowd. No hope there. Secondly, he was betrayed and he was abandoned. By his disciples. Surely the Jewish leaders had some fears, but the disciples Would have some troublesome counter strategy. Because if you stop the think of it for a minute, they had so much going for them, didn't they? And if truth was on their side. The popular people was on their side. All they had to do was expose truth All they had to do was show what the Jewish leaders were surreptitiously, sneakily trying to do. And yet Jesus himself had said to them on that night just before he was betrayed in Mark fourteen, twenty. 7. It is written, I will slight the shepherds, and the sheep will be scattered. And so Jesus said, I know That all of you will even. But they protested and they thought that would be impossible. But yet how amazingly quickly it happened. The mark goes on to tell us in chapter 14. That when Jesus was arrested in verse 50, everyone deserted him and fled. In fact, in an almost pathetic kind of humor Mark the course about the fellow that lost his hands and left them there. He was so anxious to flee, to get away from the arresting crowds. But Mark tells us in verses fifty and fifty-one that he left his clothes there and fled naked. The disciples, so cowardly in their response To the arrest of their own master. And you and I can look at that and wonder how could they possibly do such a thing? And yet we're struck in our own hearts when I realize the times that I've been ashamed of Jesus. Ashamed to confess him and to stand up for him, ashamed to be identified with him in so much less risky a situation, but all the risk at stake. was my wonderful reputation for image. And the disciples abandoned it. Even Peter the rock The confessing Peter, upon whom Jesus would build his church, deny the lead in doing To a serving me, so intimidated was he by being identified with Jesus Christ. There's no hope in the disciples. The disciples have abandoned Jesus, and Satan is all Almost there. The crowds have abandoned him. His disciples have abandoned him. But there's yet one major obstacle. And it's his father. Unless his father abandons him, there's still no hope. And so safely comes with that one last hope. All things are set in place now. And then probably beyond his wildest hopes. Surely he could not have counted on this, or else I believe he would have seen through the very essence of the plan of salvation. Somehow Satan must have been surprised when he saw that Jesus' own father abandoned him. Abandoned him, not like the disciples. I mean the disciples had only had fellowship of Jesus for about three years. But before the disciples had ever known Jesus, The Father and Jesus had enjoyed a perfect weakness of heart and mind. But both his disciples were the boy. Before Rome had ever conquered Jerusalem, before the exile, before the Exodus, before Moses, before Abraham, before Noah. Before Adam, the Father and the Son, were in perfect union. Before the geological ice age, before the creation of the great lakes. Before the formation of Cape Cod, before the land had emerged from the oceans, before the oceans themselves were formed, before the creation of the world, before the formation of the solar system The word of formation itself of creation from its very beginnings, the Father and the Son. They're in perfect union. And so you had at this moment in time something that God Himself had never before experienced God was divided. Can you take that in, brothers and sisters? God was divided between Himself. God was divided so that he was no longer in union with himself. Often I will return some of the parts of these messages with my kids, be able to see if I can communicate it to anybody below the age of uh 25, you know, or something. Last night I was sharing this story with Dean. And I told them, dear, it'd be sort of like if you were in some terrible danger, the risk of your own life, and we had gone out to play together. And we've been enjoying a good time, and then all of a sudden you're in this terrible danger, and you cry out to me, Daddy! Daddy, save me! And I don't seem to hear you. And you scream louder and panic, Daddy! Daddy, save me! And I turn around and I walk away from you, and I leave you to perish. And his eyes got big. And he could see that he was trying to picture this and he couldn't imagine any such thing happening. And I said, that's what the father Did to Jesus. That's how much He loves you and He loves me. The Father was willing to abandon the sign. And Satan must have rejoiced and shouted, he's turned Satan has destroyed Messiah as he hears him cry out on the cross, My God, my God, why? Have you forsaken me? And all of Satan's hopes appear to be fulfilled. But look deeper. For Acts chapter 2. In verse 23, in the tone of this, we read that this man was handed over to you by God. set purpose. Not Satan's set purpose. Haven't that? This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge So did you, with a helpless wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross? Gracts chapter 4. In verse 28, we mean that they that they did what their power and will. Had decided beforehand should happen. Speaking of the Father, this was what the Father's power, what the Father's will had decided beforehand in agreement with the sun should happen. If someone you look, you see that this had been planned so far before and you read in Isaiah chapter 53. In verse 10, you read that it was the Lord's will, the Father's will, to crush him and to cause him to suffer. Why? Because of what verse 5 says. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him and by his wounds. He has been healed. It was for you. And it was for me that the Father abandoned the Son And so Satan unleashed all hell against the Messiah, only to realize But Messiah is invincible. Black chapter two, verse twenty-three, goes on to verse twenty-four. And after he says that this man was hanging up to you, over to you, by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, and you were the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross, believe, but God raised him from the dead. Freeing him from the agony of death because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. Why was that? Because the death was a payment for your sins and my sins. And that payment was meaning in full In three days. How could God be? How could that infinite death be cancelled in three days? Because in so long that I can understand, while it would take a finite creature, eternity In order to suffer sufficiently to pay an infinite debt, an infinite creature could suffer for a finite period of time to pay that same infinite debt And in a way that I can't understand, Jesus Christ had an infinite capacity to suffer. And he suffered an eternity of hell For the hours upon the cross and the two days that followed that Friday. And so the payment Was made in full. And you and I can go free. Because Jesus suffered an eternity of hell in those days. So that you and I would receive an eternity of heaven because of the payments made for us. And so Jesus Christ, according to Hebrews chapter 9, verse 12, did not enter by means of the blood of goats and cows. But he entered the most holy place once for all, completed once for all by his own blood, having obtained eternal redemption. For you and for me. How long has it been since you've considered such wisdom? How long has it been since you've considered the wisdom of God In constructing such a plan of salvation for you. How long has it been since you've considered what infinite life it took for God to carry that out? so that he wouldn't lose you. And how long has it been since you've considered the victory? It was accomplished for you by that final coup against Satan when Satan thought he had won And in fact had lost everything. And it had all been gained for years for me by Jesus. Maybe there's some of you here this morning But need to come for the first time to Jesus Christ. To come And to stop your struggles, sir. To stop putting off, resisting to all your questions and your doubts And all your confusions, and to simply come and say, I see clearly now what it's all about And there is no reason that I have to hold off any longer. Why don't you come? Why don't you give in and give over? And come. To Jesus Christ and receive that which He paid so much to purchase for you. Come just as you are. Come now. Perhaps for some of us as Christians you have found this story which is so old and so familiar. When I told Dean last night again, how many times has he heard it? When we were ready to pray, he said, I wish you'd tell me that again. Maybe your own heart. You'd long in the same way. You say, Lord, I'd almost forgot you how rich was the gospel. I'd almost forgotten how precious was your love for me. And I've been moving along, sort of putting in quiet time, you know. Sort of putting in my time getting a few verses knocked off into my notebook. I sort of been operating in our memory of what it is to understand grace, but I slipped back into the law. And maybe you need to come back once again this morning. You need to remember why you're doing all the things that you're doing. You need to remember who it is after all that you're trying to please. while you're trying to please him. Why don't you come now? Lay down those burdens. Lay down that guilt They don't all those thoughts and their assurance will simply come back to return to Jesus. To come back and to see him. Go over your fightings and your struggles of those things that he's been trying to draw from your life. So gentlemen, you would have been resisting, you've been doubting, and you've been fighting. Why not take the moments right now to finish your strain? And to come back home, let's pray. I want to give you just a a moment of silence Come back and feel the gifts in your own heart, thank you, Lord. Let's take a moment of silence in ourselves Because we're really looking at our thoughts even though something that we Third, we thank you that you love us enough, that you will not let us go for days and weeks and months. without catching us up short, to whisper to us again, remember that I abide for you. I love you. Lord we Have many of us gotten so caught up in our activities. We've gotten so caught up with our vision and in our the purposes of the church We've got this so caught up with all of the effects of the gospel. Maybe the gospel's gotten a little blurred to us. Oh Lord, there we see again this morning that infinite wisdom, which Cause you to be able to use Satan's own devices to accomplish your purpose There it is absolutely staggering to us to think of how Satan in all his gloomies, how foolish we are when we look at him as stupid. The point of that all his grace was finally taken in, but he thought that he had won. And he used even his own schemes To accomplish your purposes. The more that purpose still costs you to be Victim to suffering the full unleashed torments of hell No but long. For you, Father, to turn your back on your son, some of that must have broken your heart The know that you had to abandon him and curse him. We can imagine doing that to our own children Have we born for only a few years with simple love? What must it have meant for you With sinless, perfect, eternal unity, to have severed that for sinful creatures like us Always, maybe not be so foolish as to give up the times of meditating upon this Lord, we pray for those of us who especially need this, that you will use these next weeks as we're especially reminded again of Christ's death and resurrection. To meditate on your death, Lord Jesus, for us. And Lord, if there's anyone through this moment Who has heard this and heard it again and again, but continues to resist. Bring that resistance, we pray We pray that you would give to that person no peace until they must come on your terms to receive Jesus. To receive Jesus, we can transform and forgive. Lord Jesus, we become to you We return to you. We cleave to you. We want to tell you. We love you. Amen.