Thank you. I remember when I was just a new Christian. There was a time when I was just a new Christian. That was my favorite hymn. I'm thinking about looking at the cross. You never can get beyond the marvel and the wonder of the cross. Tim was praying that we And sometimes think, uh very familiar with that. I know that. And you know, at uh Easter time, perhaps you have to force yourself To go back and think about the cross, to read those passages again, because they're so familiar that you think, what else can I learn about the cross that I don't already know? But we never get beyond the cross. We don't go on to higher things. And so the beginning of this Holy Week I would like to take us once again back to the cross before we come to celebrate the Lord's Supper, that sacrament the Lord Jesus has given us to call our attention. Each time we celebrate it back to the cross. This is my body given for you, my blood shed for you. This is my 32nd year of preaching the cross, particularly at Palm Sunday, and I feel like I'm still scratching the surface of the meaning of the cross. I don't have the capacity. to enter in deeply to what all of that it means. And some of you may be wondering Why is he not preaching on Matthew? If he's trying to finish Matthew, why not preach on Matthew on the cross? The reason is simply this. Last year, as I was worshiping, meditating, thinking about this holy season, I listened to a sermon Quite an old sermon from Dr. Edmund Clowney. Might have been twenty years ago, I don't know. Dr. Clowney's actually gone on to be with the Lord for some years now. But that sermon was on this text of Luke 23. I was so captured by it, I began to write on it, think about his insights. put down some things and this sermon quickly developed and I have felt compelled to bring it to you even though it's not from Matthew. So I hope you can deal with that I want to look with you at the passage that is very remarkable because it displays the grace of Christ on the cross. Both by what he does not say and what he says, both by his silence and by his affirmation. So come with me this morning to Golgotha, that Friday morning of Passover, and you see there three men hanging on three crosses. All three are naked and exposed to shame. All three have their bodies twisted so that their legs are bent. and that their ankles are side by side so that one spike is driven through their ankles to maximize the suffering. Is designed exquisitely to produce slow torture It means that in order to get a breath, you need to push your weight up against the spike through your ankles simply to breathe. Pain explodes in the brains of all three men, but for the one in the middle, the physical pain is the least of his suffering. Because he is also being forsaken by all who are precious to him on earth, and infinitely worse to be abandoned and cursed by his eternal Father in heaven. He who from eternity knew only adoration, worship, fellowship, and love is now experiencing utter isolation. And Luke points out four instances of mocking. Mocking. Merciless mocking. And Jesus says nothing. So first look with me at his silence that displays his grace on the cross. You know, during his ministry, people often marveled at the graciousness and the wisdom of Jesus' words. Think of the many words of comfort he's just uttered to his disciples the night before, recorded in John 13-17. But perhaps even more eloquent and impressive was his silence during his trial. As he stood before Annas, and as he stood before Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin, and they hurled charge after charge against him, and he answered them not a word. Or as he stood before Herod, who with his ribald mocking sought to provoke him to get some sort of reaction, and Jesus answered, not a word, majestically. Or as he stood before Pilate. And Pilate brought the charges, and finally, in exasperation, Pilate said, Don't you realize that I have the power either to execute you or to release you? Because Jesus had answered not a word. And now he's on the cross. And Luke tells us in verses 35 to 39 of chapter 23 that again and again the people mocked him. And he answered not a word. Verse 35. The people stood watching, and the rulers even sneered at him. They said, He saved others. Let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, the chosen one. The soldiers also came up and mocked him They offered him wine vinegar, a sour vinegar, and they said, if you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. The people watch, it doesn't record anything they said. Probably mixed reactions from horror to disbelief to disappointment to anger But what is recorded is the leaders who are in glee. There's nothing more offensive than to see creatures who owe to him their life and their very breath, to only praise him and worship him, and because he took on flesh, made himself vulnerable To be brutalized, he allows himself to not be praised, but to be mocked by them. Blasphemously mocked. You would think out of sheer human decency, the people who, having had him executed, would show some compassion. It reminded me thinking of this of pictures that you see of the crucifixion, so many And in many cases, the crosses are high and they're large and kind of look up and there they are, but actually the Romans crucified people only two to four feet off the ground. So that with the legs bent, you could pretty much look the person being crucified in the eye. Right up close. You could touch them. You could do whatever. So these Jewish leaders are standing around the cross right up close looking at Jesus. You notice that part of the way they show their disdain is they don't even address him. They talk to one another. He saved others. Let him save himself if he is the Messiah, the chosen one of God. Such insults And then the Roman soldiers pick up the same theme. At least they address them. If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. Jesus said nothing to the Jewish leaders. He responds not a word to the Roman soldiers. Then Luke calls attention to the fact that Pilate got his dig in also. Verse 38. There was a written notice above him, which read, This is the King of the Jews. Now, the common practice of the day was that when a person was crucified, you would put a sign over them that stated what the offense was. And the only reason that the Romans crucified them two to four feet above the ground was so that they could be seen because the Romans used crucifixion very much as a deterrent. And so they wanted people to see if you commit this crime, this could happen to you too. And literally the sign said, the king of the Jews, this one. Do you remember that the Jewish leaders were offended and they went to Pilate and protested? They said, no, no, no, no, don't the king of the Jews. That's an insult to us. Say, he said he was the king of the Jews. And they had pushed Pilate just about to the limit. And so Pilate basically says, don't mess with me, guys. Don't push me too far. What I have written stays. The king of the Jews, this one. And then Luke tells us how even one of the criminals Hurled insults, the same basic insults. One of the criminals, verse 39, who hung there, hurled insults at him. Aren't you the Christ, the Messiah? Save yourself and thus. Save yourself. And again, Jesus says not a single word. And I believe that when you come to this third mocking taunt, save yourself You realize there's something more going on here than simply mocking. There's a clue to what's actually happening. When you think back to Satan in his interaction with Jesus in the wilderness at the very beginning of his ministry, do you remember? Satan says to Jesus, You're hungry? Haven't eaten for 40 days. You hungry? Save yourself. Turn these bread stones into bread. Take care of yourself. And then shortly after. Save yourself from all this suffering and the hassle that you're going to go through. Just fall down and worship me and I'll give you the kingdoms. Save yourself the trouble. So I believe that what you have here is not simply torment, but temptation. It is not simply that Satan is seeking through hard-hearted sinners. There is a window into the human heart here, no doubt about that. This is The evil that you and I are capable of, to see a person being crucified, up close, see his agony, and only desire to add to his torment. That's scary to think what the human heart is capable of doing. But in addition, Satan is at this one last critical moment saying, Jesus, save yourself! Don't let them get away with that. Show them. You don't have to take this. Come on down from the cross. Go ahead. You show 'em. You remember Elisha? Elisha the prophet of God was mocked by 42 youth that were hassling him, insulting him. Elisha called on two bears to maul them. There's no doubt that Jesus could have at this moment with perfect righteousness called down fire from heaven to consume his tormentors. He could have walked off the cross. He could have delivered himself. Satan is saying, Go for it. Go ahead. Look at these people. You think they're worth giving your life? This is the kind of people you're going to get. Save yourself. The voice of Satan coming through these hard-hearted people. People like you and like me, capable. Of that kind of inhuman derision. And if Jesus succumbs, if he begins to engage the conversation. And he saves himself. You and I are eternally lost. So Jesus at this moment does not bring the judgment Why? Because at this moment, Jesus is bearing the judgment. At this moment, Jesus is bearing the judgment due to blasphemers and mockers and those who give themselves over to the influence of Satan. To not give God the glory he deserves, but to scorn him and to curse him and to revile him. Jesus bears the judgment. And his silence is his grace. And yet Luke goes on For it is not simply his silence that demonstrates his grace on the cross, but it's also his affirmation. Because Luke goes on to tell you about the other thief Now I notice I I f I wanted to give to you the statement from Isaiah. So let me bring that in before I speak of that other thief on the cross Jesus bearing the judgment is the fulfillment of what Isaiah had said. Surely he took up our infirmities And carried our sorrows. Yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. We all like sheep have gone astray, and each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Verse 7. He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth. His silence is the bearing of the judgment. But as I said, we also see his grace and his affirmation. For we see the other thief and his confession. And it's quite remarkable. Notice a number of things. Verse 40. But the other criminal rebuked him. That is, rebuked the one scorning him. Don't you fear God, he said, since you are under the same sentence, we are punished justly, for we are getting what our deeds deserve. But this man has done nothing wrong. Notice a number of things there. First of all, this man acknowledges God's just rule. Don't you fear God? Since you're under the same sentence, there is a God who is holy. There is a God who is just and righteous. And you and I should fear him Not be arrogant the way you're being. This God is one to fear, not to scorn. And then notice his confession of his sin. It's even more remarkable. You and I complain When things happen to us that we think of as suffering or inconveniences, why does it always happen to me? Why do things always break and I have to get them fixed and I have to do this and why do I get the short end of the stick and why do I always get the hardest jobs at work and why do I and why And implied always in that is I deserve better, right? Why am I getting this? I'm getting worse than I deserve. I should have better. Now here is a man who is enduring the worst torment that the human that the Roman government in all its hideous imagination, was able to contrive. He is going through intolerable pain to get a breath. And he says, we are punished justly, for we are getting what our deeds deserve. I deserve what I'm giving. Can you imagine? There's no stronger statement of the confession of sin than anywhere in Scripture. I deserve to be crucified. You would expect that the other thief would have been hurling his invective against the Roman government instead of a Jesus. This man blames no one I'm getting what I deserve. And then look at his prayer. Or excuse me, look at the contrast from his confession to what he sees in Jesus. The end of that verse. But this man has done nothing wrong. Notice he doesn't say he doesn't deserve to be crucified. He says he's done nothing wrong. Remember that these three trials had all gone on that morning. So it's almost certain that this thief, as well as the other, were able to witness Jesus' trial. He has seen the trumped-up charges. He has seen the desperation of people trying to frame Jesus and simply get the Roman government to execute him. And he has seen Jesus' response. Perhaps he had heard Jesus teaching. We don't know. But he's come to the conclusion that Jesus is not only innocent of the charges. He is totally innocent. He has done nothing wrong. He does not deserve any of this treatment John Calvin says that this is like going from the depths of hell to the heights of heaven in a single bound. And you see that particularly as you see his prayer next. For you see in verse 42, simple prayer. Then he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. That is amazing. I mean, there's amazing faith there. Notice, he says, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Now this guy uses a general term when, whenever. He hasn't gone through the eschatological prophecy conferences and got his charts and he doesn't know when Jesus is coming in his kingdom, whatever it is. But he sees him as a king. No one ever looked less like a king. Jesus has spikes between in his wrist In both ankles, he has been flogged, his back is laid open in ribbons, a crown of thorns has been placed on his head, there is all blood dripping down his face, he is gasping to get breath. No one looks less like a king, but this thief sees he's a king. Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. I believe you are the king you claim to be. You are the king of the Jews, that sign says. So not only is it an amazing faith when you come into your kingdom, but it's a bold faith. Remember me. If he saw him simply as a human king, can you imagine a human king coming upon his throne and saying, remember that guy that you were crucified with? It was the darkest day of your life. You don't want to remember anything about it. But he says, Remember me, the guy that was crucified next to you. Why? Because you're more than a human being being crucified. Remember me. Would it be possible that Jesus would remember him? And you think of God's promise back in Isaiah 49, 15 and 16. Can a mother forget the child that she has nursed? God says it's possible. But I will not forget you. Why? Because I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. At this moment Jesus is engraving the name of that thief by the nails through the palms of his hands. As well as everyone in this room or through the ages who has said, Jesus, remember me when you come in your kingdom. Jesus, I see you not as a pathetic figure on a cross But as the king gaining your kingdom through your sacrifice for sinners. Remember me Engrave me on the palms of your hands through your sacrifice. And notice finally that the thief's prayer is a very personal. Prayer. Remember me, not just sinners, not all of us. Not a general statement. Remember me. Me. Think of what he's saying. He has absolutely nothing that he can offer to Jesus. He doesn't say, remember me, because when I get off this cross, I'm going to turn my life around and I'm going to do something that'll make you proud of me, Jesus. I'm going to serve you. I will give you thanks. There is nothing that he has to offer to Jesus. Absolutely nothing. And he says, remember me simply out of your grace. And when you and I take the bread and the juice this Friday, it is remember me, Lord Jesus, simply because of your mercy and your grace, I have nothing that deserves it, that has to offered to you to say, this will persuade you that you made a good choice when you brought me into your kingdom. Lord, remember me simply out of your grace and the freeness of your mercy. The last two weeks, we've looked at the pathetic, tragic figure of Judas Iscariot. And we have seen how low a person can go in renouncing God's grace. Turn your eyes this morning. In these days as you come to worship at that Good Friday service, as you think this week about the cross, think of the magnificence and the largeness of the mercy and the grace of Jesus Christ. To this thief on the cross. For it is at this point that Jesus opens his mouth. It's at this point that he breaks the silence, did not say a word to the Jewish leaders, did not say a word to the Roman soldiers, uttered nothing. There's a comment upon the sign, said nothing to the thief who insulted him on the one side. But to this thief, he speaks. And it's a very simple statement, verse 43. Jesus answered him, I tell you the truth. Today you will be with me in paradise. What a statement First of all, notice that this that Jesus gives to this thief An assurance that few, if anyone else, has ever received Who else in recorded history has died and just before they died heard the very words of Jesus Prefacing the promise with Amen, Amen, truly, truly, this is really important. I'm staking my life on it, my honor, my reputation. You can count on this. Amen, Amen, truly, truly. I say to you, you will be with me today in paradise. What assurance. Apostle Paul didn't get that. John Calvin didn't get that. This thief got that. And notice that he promises him an end to his suffering, but a fellowship during the suffering. He says, today you will be with me. Now we don't know how long the thief hung there on the cross. It could have been longer than Jesus. It it you know people hung on there two, three days sometimes until they finally died of asphyxiation and exposure. He says today, so he probably means that within this 24-hour period, this day, you will die and be with me in paradise, but not right now. It's not that the thief confesses, Jesus says, you will be with me and we're out of here. He continued to suffer. But Paul talks about sharing in the sufferings of Christ and having the fellowship of his presence in your sufferings. Who more than this thief ever shared in the sufferings of Christ and knew Jesus suffered with him And like that thief, as you suffer, you have Jesus sharing in your sufferings. With the promise. It's not ending right now, but soon and very soon it will end. He suffered perhaps a few more hours. You will suffer perhaps a few more years But when you are with Jesus, the difference between a few hours and a few years will be as nothing. Because you will be in paradise. Today, you will be with me in paradise. The word paradise is a Persian word that refers to a garden, a beautiful garden that's used of the Garden of Eden It's also used of that place where Christians go between death in this life and the return of Christ at the great resurrection. So, what Jesus is saying is, this very day you are going to be with me in that abode where suffering is ended, in that garden of bliss. Awaiting the great resurrection. There will be no more mocking, no more pain. For you will be with me in paradise. He doesn't describe particularly what it will be like, but he says, you will be with me. Very personal. You will be with me. That's all that matters, isn't it? It was sometime many years ago, actually back in the seventies, that Ed Clowney and I were at a conference together. We roomed together And I remember that that night as we were talking before we turned in, for some reason we got to talking about suffering. And he shared with me some of the things that he was suffering, some of the prayers he had prayed that were not being answered, and some of the things he was going through that were very heavy on his heart. And I thought as I've heard this, Ed Clowney's no more suffering. The tears are gone. He's with Jesus. And there's only laughter. And longing for the return of Jesus in that great day. And one day your suffering and my suffering will end. And if you have acknowledged your need and given your life to Jesus Christ, his silence and his affirmation testify to you. Not simply because of what he didn't say or what he did say, but because of what he did on that cross. He bore your sin. Your suffering will end. If you do not know that hope Turn to him immediately this day. And if you do Enter in this week by thinking about these texts into the joy of Jesus Christ crying out in your heart. Lord, remember me when you come in your kingdom. And He will. Let's pray Lord, that is the cry of our heart. Remember me, Lord Jesus. Me who have nothing to offer to you. Me who deserves so far worse than what I get in this life. Lord Jesus, remember me. Such a simple faith. Lord may our hearts enter into that, every single one of us Open our eyes this week to see more deeply into the grace of Jesus Christ displayed on the cross of Calvary. That our hearts, Lord, would be broken in our rebellion and melded into the gratitude The love, the hope that you offer to us. Lord Jesus, remember me And you will. Amen.