The street from us, one of our neighbors has a house that has a panel on it for Christmas. And uh it says at the top, peace on earth And then underneath there's a picture of a lamb cuddled up next to a lion. Now, is that a distortion of the Christmas message? Or is it a great insight? I suggest to you that that's a tremendously insightful Christmas decoration because it picks up precisely what we'll be considering from Isaiah chapter 11 this morning. A couple of weeks ago, John Platt gave me a little document , and I will hasten to say before I read it that John distances himself from anything written in this document. He gave it to me as an example of how bad some things are getting. But it's a document called Hand in Hand, a Declaration of Radical Equality, calls us to pledge ourselves to a number of things. Among a number of things that are here that I won't read, let me just read a couple of the things that these people think would make the world the place that it ought to be. Eradicate poverty and share wealth in the United States. Care for the earth and use its riches sustainably Respect racial and cultural pluralism. Provide health care and a healthy environment. Create housing, education, and meaningful work for all. Assure physical safety. Reject war, weapons trade, the death penalty, and genocide, echocide. Seek relationships of mutuality with one another. Cherish all children. Is that good? Is that something we ought to seek as Christians? Is it possible? Well, let me suggest that what I read from that I think is good. And it's not only good, but it's possible. In fact, Isaiah tells us that this will definitely occur. There will be a place It will be described in those terms. And it's described among other places in Scripture in Isaiah chapter 11. Isaiah chapter 11 is a picture after we've talked about the judgment, a picture of heaven. Now heaven is hard for us to think about, isn't it? I mean, most of us don't think about heaven a whole lot. I've read a fellow who said that the young don't think about heaven because it's too far off. The old don't think about heaven because it's too near. And so most of us just don't think about heaven a whole lot. It's kind of vague and ethereal and unsubstantial, which is really kind of ironic when you consider that the Bible portrays that heaven is in fact more substantial than earth. Because earth changes and decays, whereas the city described in the book of Revelation, it has real walls and real streets, there's a real society going on there, is more substantial because it endures forever. So never get caught up in this idea that heaven is some sort of spiritual fairyland where things are kind of a quasi-reality Heaven is far richer, more substantial. Our senses will be made increasingly alive, so much more alive, as C. S. Lewis describes in Paralandra and others of his writings. than we have ever imagined here on earth. But heaven is hard for us to think about. And yes, that's sad because heaven is ultimately our hope. Heaven is the fondest hope that we have. Whatever we're going through here on earth, whatever that you're enduring now, you can live without peace. You can live without satisfaction. But you can't very long live without hope, can you? We need hope. We need to know that whatever it is that I'm going through That there will be a relief that will outweigh all that I've gone through. If I know that that's true, whether it's for a few days, a few weeks, a couple years, or for the rest of my life, if I know for sure That what lies on ahead will outweigh anything I've had to go through in order to get to that place. I can live in that hope, and it will sustain me. Isaiah was writing to a people who were under the threat of annihilation by the nation of Assyria. They expected at any time to hear that the troops were marching down and that they were at war, and they knew that they had no chance to stand against Assyria. And so Isaiah chapter 11 is a picture of hope in a hopeless situation. You remember Isaiah began, a shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse. Loh, a rose hair blooming from Jesse's stem, and from his roots a branch will bear fruit. The stump of Jesse, a hopeless nation, a nation would be carried away into captivity, Isaiah says is going to bear a shoot, one little shoot out of what a his apparent death. Messiah, who would then come, and he describes in verses two to five, come as the ruler, the just and perfect ruler of all the world. He will be perfect in his justice because he knows everyone completely. He knows things not just the way they appear. He's just because he knows our hearts I remember when I was a little kid one time with we were shopping uh I believe it was for Christmas because it was a place where we always went when we when it was Christmas time And I was there with my cousin, and my cousin and I got along fairly well various times, this particular cousin. And uh we were going up the street was that day, and I remember that she ran out into the street in front of a car And then she ran back onto the curb before there was any real danger and told my mother that I pushed her out in the street. Can you believe that? I was so stunned I didn't know what to do. And you know, I mean why would she do that? Yeah, I mean uh we I don't remember we were fighting then, but you know, she ran out. I guess it was, you know, the way to get a kick, you know. Mine was Allie and the family and I'll watch Allie get whacked or something, you know And my mother was just about to land on me when this woman walked out of the blue, just been passing by there, and she walked up to my mother and said, I saw that. That little girl ran out in the street. Your boy your son never touched her I don't know. Thank you. It was a God in heaven after all. And I was delivered. You know, my mother and then so J got the whacking instead of me. Oh boy, that was that was a thrill. But My point in this is we will never again have to worry that we're going to be unjustly treated, that somebody's not going to know, they didn't see. Because Jesus knows everything, he knows our hearts. And Isaiah says that when he comes, he will rid, you see, verse 2 to 5, the Spirit of the Lord will rest on him, the spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the spirit of counsel and of power. The spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord, and he will delight in the fear of the Lord. This six, these two, these three pairs of characteristics that cause him to be qualified as judge. He will not judge by what he sees with his eyes, or decide by what he hears with his ears, but with righteousness he will judge the needy. With justice he will give decisions for the poor of the earth, and he will strike the earth with a rod of his mouth. With the breath of his lips he will slay the wicked. Righteousness will be his belt and faithfulness the sash around his waist. And so you and I say, that's great, Lord justice When we stop to think about it, we realize we really don't want justice. Because we're part of that wicked. We're part of those who know in our hearts that we deserve God's judgment. And so the Bible tells us that he whose very belt, that is, we saw last year in the contest that was going on, the belt meant that you were girding up your robe for a contest The very thing that qualifies him is his righteousness. Paul writes in Ephesians chapter 6 that you and I can have the breastplate of his righteousness. By faith in Jesus Christ, because he took our sin upon the cross. Because he took the sin of everyone who trusts him and looks to him, everyone in this room that can have his righteousness, no matter how you've lived No matter what you've done, how shameful that's been, no matter how much you're trying to do to outweigh all those things in your past by something good and redeeming, you can never do it. Jesus' righteousness can be the breastplate upon your life to stand and protect you from God's wrath and in fact cause you to be one of his own as his children. Jesus comes to rid the earth of all wickedness. Where will you stand and how will you stand in that day when he comes to do that? He offers to you this morning himself and his righteousness. For that security, you belong to him and live for him and love him and serve him. And then right after that, verse 5, he then goes on in verses 6 to 9 to say, now, after that judgment's taken place, this is a glimpse of what my kingdom is going to be like. And so whereas last week we talked about judgment and hell, this week, I think there's more people here this week, we're going to talk about heaven. We're going to talk about the description that Isaiah gives of what the kingdom of Messiah is going to be like. Imagine a kingdom. of perfect peace and safety. Those are the two blanks at the top. A kingdom of perfect peace and safety. Let me read again those verses. Use your imagination to think of what it would be like to live in a place like this. The wolf will live with the lamb The leopard will lie down with a goat, the calf and the lion and the yearling together, and a little child will lead them. The cow will feed with a bear. Their young will lie down together. And the lion will eat straw like the ox. The infant will play near the hole of the cobra, and the young child put his hand into the viper's nest. They will neither harm nor destroy. On all my holy mountain. For the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. In that day the root of Jesse will stand as a banner for the peoples. The nations will rally to him, and his place of rest will be glorious. Notice that he gives, first of all, a description of the peace of that place. That's the first blank, number one, a description. of the peace. That description falls, you notice, into three categories. First of all, a description of the peace of this kingdom between animals Between animals. Again, think of my neighbor's panel on his door. There's this lamb cuddled up between the paws of a lion. It's an oft-quoted picture that we have of heaven. But notice it more specifically. There are five pairs of unlikely companions that are described here. Predators and prey in each case. A wolf lying down with a lamb. Wolves don't generally lie down with lambs unless they're lamb chops when they're around here in this earth. The calf and the lion Uh that oh excuse me, the second one is the leopard and the goat. I always think of leopards and overtaking the goats, running them down at tremendous speed and then devouring them, blood all over the place. Calf and the lion, same kind of idea. The calf and the lion's probably a pear. The subtuagent of this has that the lion will feed with a calf, not on it, but with it. Cow 's going to be with a bear, a lion, with an ox. You notice that in the last case, the lion is eating straw with the ox. That's a clue to what Isaiah is talking about here. I think what he's saying is that their very natures, even their appetites, are going to be changed. In other words, this is going to be a kingdom where those who inhabit this kingdom's very natures are going to be changed in order for there to be the kind of peace that Messiah will rule over in this kingdom. There are no longer going to be enemies in this kingdom. It's going to be a kingdom of peace. There's not going to be any growling or attacking or blood. But simply every creature is safe. Now there's two questions briefly as we go through this that we need to address because I know they're in your mind, and so I don't want to dodge them. The first is, is this literal or figurative? In other words, will there really be animals in heaven, or is this simply a picture, a figurative picture of the peace? Well, let me not keep you waiting. My personal opinion is that yes. I think there will be animals in heaven And I would submit that that's not because of simply a sentimental attachment to our cat that, you know, everybody likes to think, oh gee, how can Little Frisky or whatever, you know, not be in heaven, you know, and all this stuff I don't think that's the point. Let me offer to you five very quick five biblical data for why I think that there will be animals in heaven. You have them there listed real briefly in your outline. Now, number one Is because what Isaiah is describing here is a renewed creation. It's a real creation. He's describing a real place here. Again, let me remind you: it's a very substantial place. It has inhabitants. Now when you look back at Genesis chapter 1, when God made the original creation, in chapter 1 verse 30, God ended with this. And all the to all the beasts of the earth and to all the birds of the air and all the creatures that move on the ground, everything that has the breath of life in it, I give every green plant for food Now it's very clear. God's saying to the lions and to the bears and to all those things, everything at that point were vegetarians. Now I didn't intend to say anything on this and I want to get off into it, but y I don't think vegetarianism is a biblical mandate by any means. And I've spoken on that before. Be a vegetarian if you want, but not for a biblical principle But originally there were not predators and prey among animals. Lions apparently ate straw. and green plants. Now, if that was the case then, then in the renewed creation, when Isaiah makes a point of the fact that the lion's going to eat straw, what he's describing is a renewal of Eden Eden had real animals. I don't see why therefore the renewed creation wouldn't. In fact, that's the second point. In the next verse, Genesis 131, after God makes all this, he says it's very good Now if that creation was very good and the new creation is even better, it's richer, then it would stand to reason that it will not be impossible. impoverished by a lack of animals, but rather because God made them and they're very good, why wouldn't they be there be the animals and the richness of creation and perhaps other species that have been extinct or who knows what, but nevertheless that there would be animals in the new creation. Isaiah chapter 65, this is the third thing, verse 25, picks up on this idea again, and it emphasizes it. We read that Steve had on the overhead a little earlier. And again Isaiah emphasizes this idea of animals living in peace. Doesn't seem like it's just a poetic idea. It's something he's emphasizing. Leviticus chapter 26, the fourth point, verse 6, talks about God's blessing upon his people is seen by the fact that they live among animals that are not savage. There is safety among the animals. That's picked up on in Ezekiel also. It seems to be emphasized a number of times in scriptures, so therefore there's that indication that it's the savageness that's removed. It's not the animals that are removed. And then finally, the fifth thing is in Romans chapter 8 and 19 to 21, Paul describes that all creation is groaning for its redemption. Doesn't simply say man removed from his creation. He emphasizes there that all creation is awaiting the redemption and the renewal that will put it into under the rule of Messiah in his peace. So I don't see anything in Scripture that indicates that there would be a removal of animals, but simply that animals will once again be under perfect submission. To all of those of us that are able to interact with them. Now before I pick up on that again, let me briefly address the second question And that's the matter of uh is this referring to uh by the way I realize there's a lot of questions about that. They're all going through mine, well do the animals reproduce and if they do, can you imagine how many cats and dogs and rabbits, you know? And well, you know, but there's an inf infinity of of space and and the kingdom it has no limit and end, so who knows what and w how I don't necessarily think, however, that they are these animals. These animals do not have souls, they're not made in God's image. So I hate to break it to you, but if your little frisky dies and you know we have a guinea pig that's in our backyard about three feet under. Um I don't think you'll see that particular animal, but there will be animals. Now I don't think you'll miss them, so don't worry, it's not gonna be that traumatic, but nevertheless, there's a lot of questions we can't answer. But I think at least there's there's a a joy in the fact that God in his rich imagination has made all these animals to enjoy and that we will look forward to enjoying them there. Now, is this referring to a millennium, a time before heaven, or is this referring to heaven? That's the second question. Millennium is the thousand-year reign of Christ on earth that many Christians believe will take place Many Christians don't believe that's going to take place literally, that there's going to be a judgment, and then there's going to be heaven. Well, without getting into those matters, let me simply say that In verse 4, you have the picture of the final judgment. And then this picture, 6 to 9, is described after that. Therefore, I think what he's talking about here is heaven. He's not talking about something before the final judgment. So he's describing what we will experience and enjoy throughout all eternity. Now let me come back to that matter about us and the animals. Point B Notice that the description is also a description of peace between animals and humans. That's specifically brought in. It's not just that there's a picture of peaceful animals, but it's our relationship to them. Notice verse 6. After the wolf will live in the land, the leopard lie down with a goat, the laugh and the calf and the lion, the earling together, and a little child will lead them. So this child is leading the calf and the lion, the leopard and the goat. Then verse 8, the infant's going to play near the hole of the cobra, the young child going to put his hand into the viper or the asp's nest But they're not going to harm or destroy. There's not going to be any problems. So yeah, amazing. You know, you kids are going to get to play with leopards. Do you ever want to ride a leopard or a lion or something like that? You know? I mean, won't that be neat to think that you kids are going to be able to To train a lion to follow you? I mean that's better than this world with cats. You know what I mean? What cat comes when you call it, right? But in heaven you're gonna call a lion and it's gonna come on over And you're going to be able to play with these animals, all of us. There'll be this sense of friskiness and delight and serendipity and playing in heaven that you and I have no notion of. We think of heaven as sometimes a kind of a boring place. Can you imagine a creation where everything is your friend? Nothing is afraid of you. Nothing's going to harm you. And so everybody's playing. Animals and insects and mosquitoes aren't gonna sting you and bite you and And animals are going to play. And so here's this little kitten that goes over to this hole of the cobra. And no fear. You know, hey, the cobra wants to play, let him play. If he doesn't, he'll just go away, you know And as the kitty goes over to this deadly ass, you know, one little bite and today we would be dead from this thing and eh no problem. The ass sort of playfully raw r just wraps itself around his hand and and the two of them are playing together. There's no fear. in heaven. There's no fear in this kingdom that's ruled by Messiah. It's a restoration of Eden. Notice particularly, I think it's significant, that he designates a The verse a that cobras and asps or vipers, serpents are a symbol of the curse And so Isaiah's picking up on this idea to tell us that the curse is going to be removed. Even the serpent, which is the enemy, is going to be your friend, and there will be no fear of that. In fact, it's going to be better than Eden because there will be no test. You can't fail in heaven. Adam and Eve were under restrictions and under a test of obedience But in heaven we will be confirmed in our obedience. We will be unable to disobey. And therefore, we will be able to do all that we please and desire, because everything that you please and desire to do will be good. What a thought, isn't that great? Everything I'll want to do will be the right thing. I won't have any conflicts, no awkwardness of decision. Should I or shouldn't I? If I want to play with that lion, play with the lion Do whatever your heart desires, because God has placed in your heart every righteous desire that pleases and exalts Him. Messiah is ruling and reigning without any slightest inclination of disobedience or rebellion. That's heaven. See how concrete Isaiah makes it here for us? Then notice the third thing, see, is that this is peace also between humans. That's the hardest thing. It's easier to believe that a wolf will lie down than a lamb than your boss could be a gentle and kind person, right? Peace between human beings. Verse 9: They will neither harm nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. See, it's humans that know the Lord. And so why you might say that that they will neither harm nor destroy refers to the cobra and the viper It's a more extensive day will neither harm nor destroy. It has to do with every creature that is in this kingdom, because the reason is that the earth is full of the knowledge of the Lord And since it's we who are made in God's image that know the Lord, therefore it is particularly between humans that you have this idea. That's particularly relevant. Because what Isaiah is addressing is the situation where Israel was living in terror of Assyria. And Isaiah picks up on that idea. Don't have time to develop it now, but Isaiah picks up on this. where he says in verses 10 and 11, just after this, that Assyria and Egypt are going to be at peace. God's going to reclaim them. He's going to make them his own. And then you have this fantastic statement in chapter 19, just a little while after this, where God says in verse 23, In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria The Assyrians will go to Egypt, the Egyptians to Assyria, the Egyptians and Assyrians are going to worship together. Imagine, here's these people that are God's enemies They are the epitome of secular animosity toward God. God says, oh, the Egyptians and the Assyrians are going to go to worship together, gonna have prayer meetings together And that day Israel is going to be the third, along with, he says, Egypt and Assyria. Hey, well, that's a little humbling, but it's amazing. You know, Egypt and Assyria, he says, are going to be a blessing on earth. The Lord Almighty will bless them, saying, Blessed be Egypt, my people, and Assyria my handiwork. Oh, and also Israel, my inheritance. We're all going to be brought in all the nations you see together in peace in this kingdom, worshiping together. So there's not going to be any fear, rapes, or muggings. I remember just recently we had someone in our home. And they were describing what it was like to grow up in their home. How their grandmother would hide them on the weekends under the dining room table while their father and their grandfather came home drunk. And we regularly the father would be beating up on his father, beat him up and throw him out of the house, drunken brawls and kids cowering in terror under the table, lest that they be hit with something during the fighting in the Millet. And then after the sobered up the next week they'd go back to work and then it would come on again. Grew up like that. I said, didn't you live in turrets? And now we kind of got used to it. You never get used to something like that There'll never be a situation like was reported in the news this week of an Elissa Isk uh is creditor. I have only seen and haven't heard the name, but that little girl, six-year-old girl, that mother caused her to eat her feces and then crushed her head against a concrete wall. Six years old, beautiful little girl Never again will human beings treat each other like that in Messiah's kingdom. For he will destroy all wickedness, and he will purify your heart and my heart. I remember in my own childhood growing up there was a lot of shouting. There wasn't a lot of violence, but a lot of threats of it. And I remember as a little child, I had a dream, a recurrent dream. It would happen many times. I would dream of walking in this beautiful garden down this stony path, and there were waterfalls in the distance It was a rock garden. There were hills going up with flowers and trees. And I would see this same place and I'd always be walking through this garden. And it was always that tremendous feeling of peace and safety. A longing that you and I have in our hearts, a place that Jesus has come to establish by his death and his resurrection. Messiah's kingdom. Notice the reason for that peace. Notice the reason, verse nine. They will neither harm nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord. As the waters cover the sea. How do waters cover sea? Waters cover the sea very deeply and with no gaps You can the water is identified with the sea. And so there will be a knowledge of God that is deep profound with no gaps in it. Notice the emphasis on knowledge in this chapter. In the early part We have perfect justice in verses 2 to 5 because Messiah knows us perfectly. Then in verses 6 to 9, there is perfect peace. Because we know him perfectly. What does that mean? Perhaps it's best captured in An article that was written by Kenneth Ponser on Heaven called Afraid of Heaven some time ago. The article ends with these words. Let me read them. At death or at the second coming, we shall meet God face to face. And for the first time, we shall see him as he really is. And then for the first time also see sin as it really is. Then And only then will the infinite joy and attractiveness of God and his good absorb our soul. In sharpest contrast, a sense of the infinite ugliness and utter repulsiveness of sin and evil will also penetrate our hearts and minds. And so we shall become like God, and truly long to be with Him and in His good kingdom of love and peace and joy. When your heart and your affections are like God, the deepest knowledge of Him and being conformed in your knowledge to Him, the possibility of evil. Will be totally removed. Finally, then, notice the implications for us This knowledge of Jesus can begin now. This idea of knowledge being related to peace can be experienced for you this week Because it means that the more you know Jesus, the more peace there is in your heart and between you and other people. And so the first thing to notice Is that you and I are given hope of that land of perfect peace. A is a hope for that land of perfect peace. Whatever you struggle with here, whether it's a bad marriage, poor choices that you've made, that you're living, and the consequences of them. Chronic health problems, disappointments of whatever kind, there is the hope this is also temporary. Whatever conflicts there are, they are temporary. When Jesus comes, whenever that is, as soon as that may be, all of that will be done away. And what God chose to do in his own wisdom for his own glory is often to give to you and me a situation where we live by that hope. You see, if you and I have it easy and our life is full of successes, the world looks at that and says, why shouldn't they be fairly content? Anybody can explain that. But when God's people live under great trial and stress and difficulties, and there still is in that A peace and a joy that comes from the hope that He's placed within them. The world looks at that and it says, I can't understand that. How can his people live with that kind of hope and peace? And that's what attracts people to Jesus. So the fact that you and I do not have it easy is not something for us to say, how can I be a Christian and be going through these difficulties? It's also temporary. It's a blink of an eye in the light of eternity. But it's the one opportunity you and I have to glorify God through the faith that looks to the hope. that lies before us so that as people see our lives, they're attracted to Jesus because they can't explain that hope. Secondly, notice that he gives to us a peace in the church as a pilot project of the kingdom. In other words, this peace Which is going to be complete and perfect in the kingdom consummated in heaven, is given to us as a first fruits by the Holy Spirit now. We are to be a people within Christ's body who live at peace. Because he has given to us the first fruits of that peace for us to enjoy. And so when we look about us in the nation and see that the O. J. Simpson trial has revealed how very Tenuous are the racial relationships within the United States. But that becomes a challenge to us. I've been praying and seeking for years for Establishing a relationship with another congregation, an African-American congregation within the Howard County, Columbia area. For us to begin to worship and minister and do things together that it demonstrates to this area that the peace of the kingdom of Christ is not something these people simply talk about and then simply go their own ways to live with those that are like them But it's something that we can demonstrate its reality because we live in a peace with people that the world would not necessarily draw together. And so in Ephesians, Paul talks about Jews and Gentiles living at peace because of Christ. Bosnians and Croats are going to worship together, and Arabs and Jews who know Messiah. Blacks and whites should be worshiping together and ministering together here. Let's pray that God would do that and seek for ways to advance that in relationships that we would build as a congregation and as individuals. And also if there's anyone in this congregation that you're at odds with, that you have no peace with, that you feel alienated from, that you're bitter against. Pray that God would give to you the first fruits of the peace of his kingdom and seek that reconciliation. Finally , You see the missions to the world in fulfillment of verse ten. Verse ten sums it all up in that day when the root of Jesse is going to stand as a banner for the peoples. You notice that verse ten has three wills. The root of Jesse will stand as a banner for the peoples. That's happened. The nations will rally to him. That is happening. Do you realize that it took 1,430 years for the church to become 1% of the population of the world? By the year 1430, one out of every 100 people in the United in the world were Christians. By 1790, 360 years after that, it had reached 2% of the world. By 1940, 150 years after that, it had gone from two to three percent. One out of three out of every hundred were Christians in the world. By 1980, just forty years after that, the three percent had gone to six percent Six out of every hundred in the world were believers in Jesus as Savior and Lord. By 1989, just nine years after that, the six percent had gone to nine percent. An additional three percent. And in just four years, from nineteen eighty-nine to nineteen ninety-three, it had gone from nine to ten percent 10% of the world now professed faith and evangelical faith in Jesus as Savior and Lord. The nations will rally to him. And the rest that he has will be a glorious rest that you and I enter into. There's only a brief time between now and then. For you to be involved in what he's doing in drawing the nations to himself. Are you involved in that? That exciting opportunity that he's given to us Are you involved in that? Gonna invite somebody, bring somebody to the Christmas program this Saturday? Or bring them to the Jesus film over at the library on Sunday afternoon? Or welcome people on Saturday as they come so that they feel that they are warmly welcomed here. Or whatever it is that God has placed you in, begin in your place. And serving Jesus before he comes and brings us into that great peaceful kingdom of himself. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you would fill our hearts and our minds With a hope and with the delight and anticipation, Lord Jesus, you could be here before Christmas, and we will be in that kingdom. We pray that none here would miss out on that because they have not trusted you or served you, have not taken the finished work of Jesus into their lives. Lord, we pray, fill us with that hope. In Jesus' name. Amen.