Money is a very touchy subject, isn't it? You don't believe that. Next time you go to a dinner party, try this. Say, uh while we're eating, why don't we just all go around the table and let's share how much we each earn? And and then as you're being hurled out the front door, called back over your shoulder, then after we do that, let's also share how much we give to the Lord. Funny thing, you know, everybody here in the congregation uh knows That's exactly what my salary and my benefits add up to. But I'll tell you, for some reason or other I don't feel the freedom of reciprocation when I'm talking to people that just say, Well the way, how much do you make, too? There's very few of us that are free. to be able to discuss something like that. First thing that um I think uh one reason, partly because I think in our culture how much we make seems to be so identified with what we're worth. But I think I think also for Christians, part of that is explained by the fact that few of us seem to have a clear conscience about our giving and our spending habits. And it's something that we keep kind of secret. It's sort of hold it in as a private part. of our lives, but it's not very easy to share. So this morning I want to talk to you about tithing. It's a good thing that uh there wasn't any advanced warning on this message. There might have been a lot of quick weekend trips planned. kind of catch you off guard with this. But the reason I want to do this is not because it's a fundraising talk. It's not. Might have been some years ago I would have been uh sort of embarrassed or defensive to talk about this. But now I'm excited to talk talk about. Because I believe that God wants to give us a clear conscience and wants to give us financial freedom in this area. And I believe that the only way that we as Christians can have true financial freedom, can prosper spiritually, can get the Lordship of Christ clear in its perspective in our lives, can be ready for that step of faith that we'll be called upon to make when the Lord Lord would provide for the land for the property, the building, for us to be able to have a facility, to be able to carry out ministry in the way that we believe he's calling us to do. The only way we're going to be ready for that, the only way we're going to be spiritually ready. as a congregation, is if we have this era of timing settled, if our financial affairs are in order. And so I believe that it's something that we need to consider. As Samuel Cadwick once wrote, I am persuaded that there is nothing upon which the Christian conscience is so illfully formed as the subject of Christian giving, written long ago, and yet I believe that that is still true today. Talking about Giving is a kind of taboo for us. I want to raise this question of tithing. Basically, that question comes down to this. Does the Bible command tithing for today? Now, tithing is giving. 10% of your total earnings. Very simple. Nothing complicated about that. Tiling is the giving 10% of your entire earnings. Does the Bible require or command that today or doesn't? It's very clear the Bible commanded that in the Old Testament. But as Christians, I think there's a lot of dispute. You hear discussions about this. Is that required today? Or today, as First Corinthians 16 says, are we simply to give proportionately according to what we have? According to some sort of inner direction, kind of a feeling, or being led by the Spirit in some totally subjective way. Is there anything that the Bible says about tithing for us today? For us to answer that. Question, I suggest you turn to Malachi chapter 3. Malachi chapter 3. Now Malachi, the last book of the Old Testament, right there before Matthew, Malachi was was a contemporary probably of Ezra and Nehemiah. For those of you who are George Walberg's class. Malachi wrote, uh, sometime after the second temple had been built, the religious Services had been reinstituted. In fact, they had been going for long enough now that apparently those religious services had degenerated into mere duties. And they were sort of a uh a bore, they were not done with any particular enthusiasm. Israel was in a spiritual bulgum. It was an uneventful period of waiting for God to fulfill his promises of the Messiah to come, to take away the sin of the world. And it was a low period spiritually for Israel. And so Malachi is a book which is a call to revival. You want a book on the revival? Read Malachi. It's a call to revival. And the grace greens notice. I believe that this is entirely appropriate for us to see how our giving fits in to revival. Because that's exactly the context in which Malachi discusses giving. It's in the context. context of a call to revival. Understand that then as we read from chapter three, verse and six, onto chapter uh on to verse twelve. Here then God's word, most of Malachi by the way, is God speaking in the first person directly. So hear God's word now as He speaks to us from Malachi 3. I, the Lord, do not change. So you, O descendants of Jacob, are not destroyed. Ever since the time of your forefathers you have turned away from my decrees and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord Almighty. But you ask, how are we to return? Will men rob God? Yet you rob them? But you ask. How do we rob you? In times and offerings. You under curse, the whole nation of you. Because you are robbing me. Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. Test me in this, says the Lord Almighty, and see if I will not throw the the floodgates of heaven and pour out so much blessing that you will not have room enough for it. I will prevent pests from devouring your crops, and the vines in your fields will not cast their fruit to drop it before its right. Says the Lord. Almighty. And then all the nations will call you blessed. For yours will be a delightful land, says the Lord, Almighty. Now you notice that in your bulletin outline there are two points that I want to break this text into. It discusses two things. First of all, robbing God in verses 7 to 9. And then secondly, testing God in verses 10 to 12. There are two principles of tithing that we see in these two parts of the text. Principle number one, that you see there, is the recognition of both The tithe principle is the recognition of true ownership, verses 7 to 9. The second principle of tithing is found in verses 10 through 12, the principle of what I call the freedom of dependence. Principle of the freedom of dependence. Let's consider these two principles now, as we see them in this text. First of all, robbing God. That's what verses seven to nine is all about. God says, Ever since the time of your forefathers, you have turned away from my decrees and you've not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you. But Israel asks, but how are we to return? You have something specific. God says, You want something specific? Well a man robbed God, and yet you rob me. You can imagine pulling up their hands in horror. What do you mean? We give a lot to you. We do everything we can for you. What do you mean? Rob you. How are we robbing you? In times of offerings, God says, You under a curse, the whole nation of you, because you are robbing me. Now, notice that God does not say there that the problem is that you lack gratitude. You're like generous enough with your offerings. That is precisely what he does not say. What he says is that you're robbing me, but not giving the whole tithe. Notice in verse 10, they're giving plenty. But they're not giving the whole time. And so God says that constitutes robbing him. And you see here a very significant point, a point that I myself did not realize until recently, thinking about this whole question. And the point is simply this, and if there's nothing else To get clear, we need to see this. It's a very simple starting point of this whole subject. Tithing is not giving to God out of gratitude. Tithing is a matter of giving to God. out of honesty. It is not giving to God out of gratitude that which is ours to dispose of. It is giving to God out of honesty that which is already his, that which belongs to him. The tithe belongs to God. And so the principle number one of tithing is that tithing is the recognition of true ownership. You see this through the whole Old Testament. Before the law. Notice, before the law, Genesis 14, Abraham goes to rescue his nephew Lot. And he comes against King Cater and Amor and others, defeats him, comes back and He's on his way back, he's met by a priest of the Most High God, Melchizedek. And you remember how Genesis fourteen tells us that Melchizedek blessed Abraham in the name of the Lord. And Abraham's response in Genesis 14, 20 was that he gave him a tenth. Or a tithe of everything that he had gained. And two verses later, Abraham blesses God as his creator. Abraham's recognizing where this came from. And so he's giving back to God through the world. This priest a tenth of everything that he has. You know, it's interesting to note the tithing is not unique to the Bible. It's not unique to the Old Testament Israel culture. The Babylonians tithe. The Assyrians tithe. The Sumerians tie. The Egyptians tie. Nothing to do with biblical revelation. Isn't that interesting? There's two ways you can look at that. Critics that want to rebuke the Bible say that that church's time did not originate with God because it's Not unique to his revelation. But there's an even better explanation of that. That explanation is that the timing principle has its roots deep in the antiquity of mankind, in the very creation ordinance. And the very root of God's revelation to men was that principle that I am the God of all, and you shall recognize that in giving me one tenth of everything that you receive. To simply recognize my ownership. And that can be distorted in these other cultures so that they tie To their false gods. But they still remember that principle, which God then recovered to Abraham. Then in Genesis 28, you see Jacob, the same thing. Again, before the law, Jacob goes out fleeing from his brother Esau, and he makes a pledge to God. He says as he's going up to his uncle, David, Lord, I promise that if you take care of me and if you prosper my truth, I will give to you a tenth of all I receive. Genesis chapter 28, verse 20 to 22. There again, without the Mosaic legislation is that principle of tithing. And that's why you see the Mosaic law did not simply command tithing, basically it was regulating what was already a common practice. written on this in Leviticus numbers and Deuteronomy, but let me give you just one verse on the Leviticus 2730, because it enunciates an important principle. Leviticus 2730 we read, There are times of everything from the land where there is rain from the soil, Fruit from the trees belongs to the Lord. It is holy to the Lord. Do you notice that line? Doesn't say, All these things are yours, and if you're grateful, you will give them to the Lord. What's it say about the time? It belongs to the Lord. It is holy to the Lord. Something which was given to the Lord because it was holy was a part, which was a symbol of the fact that the whole thing belonged to the Lord. And so God is saying, it's all mine. All the fruit of the trees, all the produce of the ground, all of the meat, the cattle, and everything that you have, it's all mine. But the tent belongs to me as a principle of ownership, so that you understand who's the true owner. of what you have. And who's the true provider of all that you receive? That's why in the Old Testament you don't re you don't read of Israel giving tithes to the Lord. You read of them paying tithes to the Lord. Because it's simply a principle of honesty. And that's why when you come to Malachi here and God's calling his people to revival, what does he say? He doesn't say you guys aren't grateful enough. He says you are robbing me of what is mine. Because you haven't given to me the time. It belongs to him already. Therefore, God is calling his people to honesty in paying the tenth of what they received. He said, but then if that's still true today. I don't see that in the New Testament. But there are two things we have to notice about the New Testament. Number one, first of all, because this is pre-maic principle, it is not originally part of the law, but it predates the law. It is not something set aside by the aggregation of the Solomonian law in Christ. Because it predates the law. Face that. It's a creation of it. And the New Testament never sets it aside. It never says that we have superseded that principle for something different. Paul simply talks about giving proportionately. That's exactly what we're doing. With ties into that. It never in any slightest way abrogates what was a principle all the way back to Abraham and into the very roots of the antiquity of man. Besides that, there's another principle to notice. Although the New Testament doesn't speak about tithing. Tithing was a very big issue in the New Testament then. Do you remember Jesus in Luke 11 talking about how the Pharisees and Eden carried the principle of tithing to where they tithe even their herbs and spices, their mint and their cumin? I don't know about you, but if you grow mint like we grow mint, I'll tell you I hate to have to go out and count every tenth meat plant to be able to give it to the Lord. The stuff grows all over the place. Like weeds goes up the walls on, you know, through the lawn and everything else. But you know the Jews were so meticulous in their time they had They were scrupulous in their tithing. Remember the man, the contrast Jesus gave to the Pharisees and Publicans? What's the Pharisee say when he goes up to God? I then feel not like other men, because I fast twice a week and I I what? Time all that I had it. Very big issue in Jesus' day. Isn't that interesting? Of all the things Jesus and the apostles were accused of in breaking the law, no one ever accused them of not timing. accused Jesus of not tithing. They accused him of breaking the Sabbath which he didn't do. But they never accused him of not tithing. They never accused Paul of that or any of the other apostles. And it was never an issue raised in the church because the roots of it were so deeply indebted there was nothing to have to speak to. About that. So the first principle is the principle of ownership. The second principle is that within the second three verses. A matter of testing God. The second principle of tithing then is what I call the freedom of dependence. See, tithing delivers us from the bondage of self-dependency. Tithing delivers us from the bondage of self-dependency. The world, Romans 12, 2 says, wants to squeeze us into its mold. And nowhere else is this more apparent than in the area of money. The world says to you, get as much as you can. Live as little as you can. Live just a little bit beyond your means on credit so that you never have quite enough. And then Charles says, just see if you can always be stretching a little beyond. A little beyond. As Christians then we have that principle as well but I need to give to God some portion of it. So what do we do? You know, I know how it works. I had the same struggle. We we gotta give to God just enough so we don't feel guilty, so That that's how we determine our giving. I'll feel guilty. But if I give just this little bit more, I'll feel okay about it. And that's what will determine how much I give. And if I give that much, well then I begin to spread, and so I back off a little bit. And anyway, so you said it has this internal thermometer of what you feel like is, you know, that's too much, and but this I feel guilty, and so I sort of squeeze it in between those two things. That wants to free us from that. Notice what he says in verse 10. He says now bring the whole time. All ten percent of income before taxes. Not every time. A lot of people fool around and say, well, you know, I mean you've got to take the tax up. Well, it's a lot easier for me because I do see it. I have to pay it out myself. But if you don't see it, you're still earning it. It's still that which is part of what you are earning, and in the SS is absolutely clear that hiding included the taxes. God says, bring the whole ties to me into the storehouse. Is there any food in my house? Test me in this. Beautiful indication. God says, test me in this. And see that it Well, who's our God that gives us that kind of command with that kind of promise? God says, now give me the whole tithe and to shut him in your head. Oh no, this is liberalism. It's laying a heavy on me. Look at what God's letting me to do. It's impossible. I can't do that. And then God lay up and says, Now test me. Well, this is really the principle of freedom from deep freedom of dependence. And God says, I want you to experience that dependence on me. I want to show you more than you could have guessed you would receive now, if you would just trust me. So God has called on you to test it. He says, Don't live like an orphan. Don't live like someone who feels like you don't have any father in heaven to take care of you and is anxious. Feels like you've got to get all that you can get and budget as close as you can and it's up to you to make it. God says, test me. in this. That involves two things. First of all, your step of faith in bringing the whole tie. That's verse ten. That says bring the whole thing. First Corinthians sixteen tells you when. He says bring it every Sunday, or if you're paid less frequently than every Sunday, bring it to the next Sunday after you're paid. But run the whole time, God says. And that is the purpose of verse 10. So that there will be food in my house, he says. But what he means by that, if you read the numbers in Deuteronomy and Leviticus also, is that this was the food for the Levites and for the priests. You see, they didn't they weren't farmers, they didn't own any property, there wasn't any other way that they made their living. And so what God is talking about this war is for the maintenance of the ministries of his church. It was also used for the distribution for the poor. And so there were two purposes for the use of the tithe. It was for the maintenance of the ministry of God's visible church. And second English for the maintenance of the poor within this community. So I'm not going to get into the whole hassle of whether that means the whole ten percent has to come here into our offering and whether any of it, you know, another two, three, five percent or whatever can go. to a parachurch ministry that you're supporting some particular individual through some tax deductible kind of thing and all the rest of it. That's the subject for another message, which I don't plan to give very soon. But what I was forced to say without any other confusing principles right now is that God says the tent belongs to me. And it is to be given in an accountable way. The simplest way, of course, is to give it through the local church and simply designated. Whatever you want it to go to. We ignor honor any designation to any ministry that is a ministry that we can give to in good conscience. But the point is that God is saying here it is for the maintenance of ministry. It's not some mystical thing that you give to God and serve has the celestial vacuum finger to suck it up into heaven. It is for the maintenance of the ministry of his church. That's what its use is. But then the second thing comes, when God says, My end comes in now, verses eleven and twelve. God's faithful provision to you. Verse ten also. Where he says, I'm going to pour out so much blessing on you, you don't even have room for it. Verse eleven he says, I'm going to prevent the pests from taking it, and from the trees from dropping their fruit. You see, Israel is undergoing some part times here. They were anxious because they never seemed to have enough. It was always getting taken away from them. Conservative ships were being uh foreclosing on their savings accounts, you know, and everything else was going wrong. No, I got a lot of money in community savings too, so I know what that's like. But there were all kinds of things that they didn't count on that were happening. And so God says, if you will set aside that test to me, I'll do two things for you. I'll bless you so much. able to receive it all. And secondly he says, I will prevent mossing. Isn't that exactly what you and I need for financial freedom? We need to know that God will give us all that we need for all of our needs at the time we need it, and He will prevent And being taken away. And that's exactly what he promises for us, you. That's exactly his promise to you. He says, Trust me and watch me provide for you. Brothers and sisters, in Jesus Christ, I want to challenge you this morning. This is a way to test the reality of Jesus Christ in your life. In a way that few other things will be able to do. Very observable. He can't listen. You say, I take a step of faith and give to God a tenth of all that I have. I just won't have enough. I won't have enough to pay my bills. I don't have enough as it is now. And I'm trying to give five percent. I just won't have enough. It is impossible. That's a test me. That says you want to prove me, you want to see my reality? I could give you a number of examples of how God has done this. I can give you examples in my own life. That was embedded upon me and upon my wife. The first test goes to the Lord, and how God has provided for our needs through the years. Well, without going into personal examples, let me share with you just two stories of examples of what God has done. a fellow who's a financial counselor, Mel Reese. He's going around churches to different churches giving financial seminars. One particular church he mentions that he was giving a seminar and it was between the afternoon and evening session. And this fellow in the congregation He was there, came up to see him and said this fellow was really down. I mean, like he'd practically look on the floor. He was really down, responding. He came to Mr Reeves and he said, Uh, I'm a terrible person. He said that I haven't paid a tithe to God for years. Said my finances are a wreck. I make a better than average income. My bills are more than I can pay. Every week I have to go to my creditors and I feel like a whipped puppy every time I come back from them and all their insults and their sarcasm. I can never pay all that I should be paying in my installments. He says, It's driving me crazy. I've got to do something about it. What can I do? And so Reese sort of smiled, you know, and he knew what he should do. But he's wondering if the public could receive it. We turned it to Malefact Reed. passage we're looking at right here. Turn into this passage. He said, My friend, there's only one thing you can do. If you want to see God work and get you out of this mess, you've got to give that first ten to him and then watch him work. That's all 12% He says, I don't have a chance to give. He says, There's nothing I can give. It's impossible. I don't know what God can do. And he talked to them for a little bit longer. And finally the fellow said, Oh well, what the heck? I might as well try it. Nothing else seems to work anyway, so Might as well go ahead. Because I guess that's not the best attitude, isn't it? And he said, I don't know. God says here, test me. And if you're willing to test them, then I take along with that. Fellow went home that day, he wrote out a check for one. And then because he thought this thing was so humorous. And because he could not deliver it, he would have had a generous offering in addition to that. You see, that's how the Bible distinguishes between tithes and offerings. The tithe is the test that belongs to him. offering the free will offering beyond that did you give out of gratitude. And so he added to his tithe a generous offering. And because he didn't trust himself to wait until Sunday to give that into the offering, he sent it in the mail that day just so he couldn't keep getting his hands off it and change his mind. Put it in the mail, and then a moment of truth came when he had to go to his creditors. He figured he picked the most irascible one first, and so he went to the meanest, most sarcastic guy first, and paid less than he had paid recently. Turned in the check. The fellow smiled and thanked him for it and said he was appreciated the fact that he was always on time. He couldn't believe it. He said he walked out of the office six inches off the floor. And then all the rest of his creditors. And he said in the first time he had ever seen one after another they were cordial rather than sarcastic. But that still didn't help his finances. He had peace of mind, he had a clear conscience, and he was poorer than ever. He now owed more than he ever earned before. His interest rates were calling. Two weeks later, when he came home from work, there was a couple in his front door. And they said, Is your house for sale by any chance? I said, No, my house isn't for sale. Why didn't you ask? And they said, Well, we were just driving by and we And looking for a very particular kind of house, and we noticed your house, and it was just the kind of house that we wanted. And so we thought we'd stop in just to see if you had any interest in selling it. They didn't know that two months before he had desperately tried to sell his house. house because he knew that if he could do that he'd have enough equity to be able to pay off his bills, the kids were gone, his wife and he could get a smaller house and I would take care of things. The house had not sold, not univaled. It was off the market. It was past the prime season for selling. It was the worst time of the year. The next day he sold the house to them. He said, I didn't even have to pay a seller's fee. I sold the house, had planned to pay off all my debts by later I found a house that was smaller, meets all of our needs, and then financially free. And then he had At this at the end. Why did it take me so long to learn to trust God? Why? Maybe for some of you this morning, this could be the whole new step of freedom and trusting Jesus Christ that you've never known. Why does it take us so long to learn to trust God? The other example I think of is the example of Mary Crowley. I don't know if any of you have ever heard of Mary Crowley. Mary Crowley is a single parent who uh didn't make very much money. And God convicted her of tithing. And so she writes in a book that she's uh written about this, about a particular struggle that she had one night that maybe Similar to a settlement that some of you are at her now and we'll have this afternoon. This is what she says. There is just no way that I could tie. Sitting at the kitchen table after the children were asleep, I figured up the stack of girls, my budget for girls. My rent and my housekeeping expenses, the bus fare for going to work and to church on Sundays and Wednesdays, and if I added ten percent to my salary on the desert side of my budget, there'd be nothing else at all for the miscellaneous columns. No money for Christmas presents, no money for for the kids. No money for the dentist. Oh, why do the kids have to have cavities? Lord, you see how it is, I pray. I want a tie, but I just don't have enough to take care of the kids as it is. The answer is answers to prayer often are. was not what I expected. Roman, it seemed that God was saying to me, It looks as if you're not doing such a hot job of providing for the kids by yourself. Why didn't you give me a chance? Why not? But I wouldn't have done any mathematics. I mean good days. I knew exactly how much money was in my paycheck from the insurance company where I processed premiums and claims all day. I had memorized fixed expenses. There were all these unexpected things such as dentist bills coming along too. Well, do you know I don't have enough, I argued. trust me, Mary? God asked. Well yes, but I was literally pacing the floor that night wrestling with an angel. By the time I signed my name on the pledge card for exactly ten percent of my salary, the clock had already struck midnight and I was exhausted. But somehow, it was a great relief. I didn't know how God was going to do more with nine pence of my salary than I could do with ten tenth, but somehow I felt that he was going to do it. Shortly after this, The moment she gets some more income, she started wearing a door-to-door home accessory kind of line, just to be able to bring in some extra income with some of the creative talents that she had, and she asked for God to use that to provide for it. Crowley knows that if she continued to tie faithfully putting that first before anything else, and thus then simply trusting God in what she was trying to do in augmenting her income, God built that into what is now home interior and gifts incorporated. Based in Dallas, Texas, with annual sales of over $100 million. And Mary Crowley gives far more than ten percent of that now with the Lord's word. Now, don't get me wrong, I am not saying That if you will tie for the Lord, he will make you a millionaire. I am saying that God says in his word, test me, and I will open the floodgates of heaven. To give you more than you could ever dream. Test me in this he says. The Book of Malachi is a book about the covenant and God's faithfulness to the covenant. God says, He has provided, he says earlier in chapter 3, the one who will come into the temple is his messenger. That one who is the fulfillment of his promise to take away your sins, Jesus. And if Jesus has come to die for your sins and to take them away, And to give you heaven, will he not live at or provide for you all the needs that you have financially, material? But the other side of that is, if you don't know Jesus as Savior and as Lord of your life, there is no and you're giving 10%, 15%, 20%, or 50% of your income in order to earn God's approval. Hiding is not a superstitious right there whereby we make sure that God's not going to zap us and that He will take care of us. It is given out of honesty and the principle of dependence. And if you do that, God will show himself faithful. I'm amazed at how many Christians have walked with the Lord for years, but have never dealt with this. think this morning everybody else here's probably dealt with this except me I doubt very much that you're alone. But it's an exciting opportunity for you to trust Jesus Christ and to see what he'll do. And so the advocation is This is excruciatingly simple. Use three criteria. Number one, figure your total earnings before it hatches right again. That's just for you. Not going to collect these blunt outlines. I assure you none will be left in the fairs today when we go around to pick up the phone. things up. Put down your total earnings before taxes. Then, very simple. Move the decimal point one place to the left. Some of us said, oh the God, pick a tenth rather than ninth, eleven, twelve, fifth, all kinds of things. And someone has said, it's because even a child can figure out how much it is. And you children, this applies to your allowance. It applies to you whatever your income is. Whether you're six years old, eight years old, ten years old, you begin at the very first dollar that you receive to set aside ten cents. That's the Lord's. And right on through from there. And then after you figure that out, give that amount next Sunday. Designer, under the great, wherever you think in the Lord's work, it ought to go. But make sure you do it by next Sunday. Don't hold off before the Spirit is finished speaking to you about this. And then Father notice at the bottom there's a pledge. He said, That's hard for you to say, but you're not the one stuck with my bills. Hey, listen, we're a community. And I checked this out with the elders and we agreed to make this pledge to you. the elder who's ahead of the deacon's fund. Give our pledge. If one month alone you are unable to pay any bill that you would have otherwise paid, evil pay out of the deacon's fund. Now how's that? Do you want to take that risk with you and test God to see what it is? If you say, but there was a bill that I could have paid and I gave it to the Lord, and so now I don't have the money, say fine. Tell us about it and write out the check for that bill. But we want you to see Jesus Christ. Is reality. We believe that the Lordship of Christ applies primarily to two things: our time and our money. Isn't it interesting? God says, Of your time, give me one day and seventh. Of your money, give me one tenth of all that you have. When you settle this, Those two issues with Jesus Christ, you're on your way to discipleship. Without it, it's Paul. Let's pray. Lord God, remember us here. words and we're sort of trembling because we hadn't reckoned on this this morning. We wanted some words of encouragement, something to sort of make us feel better, and we didn't plan on being challenged with something that gets right at the very roots of our beings. So God. We pray that you would give to those people who love you now and are really wrestling in this. Grace to trust you. Grace to be able to say, Lord, you say, you invite me here at Malachi. to test you and not to rob you. Lord, I've been robbing you for a long time. Now I want to test you. Lord, we pray that you would grant grace to that person to give the whole life. able to trust you in that, to see what you will do in the month of November, even as we come up toward Christmas. So we know a lot of people would be thinking, it's the worst time I could do it. I feel you know any other time, but this is the worst time in the world we know it's always the worst time. We ask that you will show yourself helping. Believe that community of believers might experience your faithfulness in a way that will set us free. Oh God, we know this this is a way of seeing the reality that perhaps some of us have longed to see. But we've been afraid to take the steps to save. Lord, we pray that for any of you who don't know you, who don't know the Lord Jesus Christ personally, their Savior and Lord, that they would not confuse this with some way of learning your faith. But Lord that you would show that person your claim upon their whole life to come to you for forgiveness through Christ and His finished work. We pray, Father, that then in light and belonging to you be able to experience your pervision. We give ourselves to you, though Lord. We pray that you will deal with us and that you will have the victory in each of our lives through Jesus Christ. Amen.