And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores, who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores. The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried. And in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and he saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side. And he called out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame But Abraham said, Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad things. But now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed In order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us. And he said, Then I beg you, Father, to send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers, so that he may warn them lest they also come into this place of torment. But Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent. And he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. May God add his blessing to the reading of his word, to the preaching of his word. Let's pray. Father, please. We pray that you would meet us now in a particular way, Lord, in a powerful way. In a way that we can leave here saying, We met with God. And you drew us close. You reminded us of Christ. And you presented to us Jesus as the way and the truth and our very life. We pray for this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Frequently in the flora household we have ESPN TV on. We're sports fans But we're not big fans of the world of poker. The World Series of Poker, apparently, did just occur this past Tuesday. We saw it on ESPN. This last Tuesday in Las Vegas of all places. Go figure. And a 23-year-old man named Ryan Rice won the main event And the $8. 4 million prize, and the diamond-encrusted bracelet that he held proudly above his head and kissed several times for the photo opportunity. An interview immediately following the final hand, the reporter asked Rice to describe how he felt, quote. It feels amazing. First, I want to thank God. Without God, I wouldn't be able to be here. And then he went on to thank his family and his friends and all his supporters. A little while later, the reporter posed the question, so you had this incredible certainty that you were going to win. What gave that to you? And Rice's response was simple to the point. I just think I'm the best player in the world. End quote. Now, I'll leave it to you to sort through all the ironies that might be there in hearing the young man's assessment of his life currently. One might even be tempted to envy the apparent financial security which has been thrust upon him. But before we let our fantasies go too far afield, let's place ourselves under the perspective-altering power of the Word of God. I sat in front of my TV screen Tuesday morning, envious of a 23-year-old man When in reality, if he were to know the treasure that I have been given, there might be a longing in him I don't know. Jesus conveys this parable here in chapter 16. It's the last part of 16, but the context of the parable is all of 15 and all of 16. In verse 1 of chapter 15, Luke records these words. Now the tax collectors and the sinners were all drawing near to him, and the Pharisees and the scribes of the law grumbled. saying, this man receives sinners and he eats with them. Jesus in these parables that follow, in 15 and 16. He confronts here the timeless war within each of our hearts. In our pride, we can't fathom a God who won't let us Obey enough to be pleased by him. We can't imagine that we can't obey enough in order to satisfy God's requirements. And even more of an affront to our self-centered sensibilities is that God delights to deliver the despicable ones. He welcomes tax collectors and prostitutes into his presence. They dine together. They fellowship together. They have supper together. He welcomes sinners like you and like me. He delights to deliver the despicable ones. And until we see ourselves as the despicable ones, we will never rejoice in the redemption that Christ has purchased for us. He secured it through his life, through his death, and through his resurrection from the grave. Our redemption is found in Christ alone. Hallelujah. All I have is Christ. So in Luke 15, Jesus describes through the parable of the lost sheep and the parable of the lost coin and the parable of the lost son, the prodigal, as it's parables referred to. The perspective that God has toward lost things. He'll leave the 99 to go and find the one. He will tear the house apart to find that coin. He will search for us. He will do what is necessary to bring us to an awareness of that faith. He'll turn it on for us and show us himself. It also, these parables give us the way in which we are to see our fellow human beings. The sinners, like us, who need a savior. Those who have some success in certain areas of life, we tend to look down on others who don't have the same kind of success. That's what Jesus is confronting with the Pharisees, with the scribes. They think that they are holy enough. They think that they've done enough to please a righteous God. It's a great reminder that James gives us. In chapter 1 of James's letter, he says, Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. Every good gift, every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. In other words, everything we have is a gift of God's grace. Everything we have. In Luke 16, then, Jesus turns the parables from how we view our fellow man or how God views lost things to how we ought to respond to material blessings. The beginning of chapter 16, he lays out this parable of the dishonest manager and how we're to steward and and and watch over the things that God has given us. And he ends that parable in the off-quote off-quoted Verse 13: No servant can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. And so we come to the immediate setting of the parable that we look at today. That's what Jesus has built toward. Jesus states emphatically for the grumbling Pharisees, who in Luke in verse 14 of chapter 16, Luke records that they were lovers of money. They enjoyed the comfort. that they had amassed for themselves. And the stinging indictment of Jesus words in verse 15, you are those who justify yourselves before men. But God knows your heart, for what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God. Do you see the setting now for this parable? He's built to this, if you will, crescendo where now Jesus, on the heels of all those parables describing the sinful attitude toward people and the sinful attitude toward material possessions, He combines those two thoughts in a story of two extremely different men who reach two eternally different destinations. Which prompts the one to pose two excruciatingly difficult questions. Not difficult because of the nature of the inquiry, but difficult because of the impossibility Of providing an answer that will satisfy the one who asked the question because of where the question is asked. So in the brief economy of Jesus' master storytelling ability, he gives two characters. He lays out the characters very quickly, very succinctly, but all words that he uses are purposeful and powerful. There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and feasted sumptuously every day. Jesus never gives this rich man a name in the story. He's not known by a name. He's simply known for what he's done. Now, mind you, there's nothing wrong with accumulating wealth. You need to not leave here thinking that we preach poverty. Abraham was a rich man. In fact, in the New Testament, we see Joseph of Arimathea, a rich man. He gave the grave that he had purchased for himself for the body of Jesus to be laid in it. So there's nothing wrong with accumulating wealth But it's the excess and the arrogance of this man that Jesus is trying to draw our attention to. He was clothed in purple. It's a Color of royalty. This man fancied himself a king of sorts. Some translations indicate that he was in the habit of wearing purple It's a very expensive process to extract the purple dye from the molluscs. Construct material for clothing. And just one robe would be expensive, but he was in the habit of wearing it regularly. And also fine linen. His undergarments were expensive as well to procure, to maintain. Nothing but the best for this guy. On top of his choicest clothing, Jesus described his lifestyle in just a brief set of words. He feasted sumptuously every day. He didn't save the chicken dinner for Sunday. It was every single day that this man had a feast before him. His table, I'm sure, was decked out like the opulence of the rich and famous. If you're thinking filthy rich at this point, that's where Jesus wants your mind to be. All those images Dictate that this man loved wealth and found his rest in the material possessions. Now consider the contrast. Jesus does this all the time. He flips it now to show the extreme opposite from this rich man. Here we have the crippled beggar Lazarus. He's laid at the gate, covered in sores, and desires to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. See the significant difference first. He's given a name, Lazarus. And the Jews in the audience that day would realize immediately this is a Hebrew derivative, Aliazar, which means God has helped. Lazarus' name means that I depend on God for all things, and God has helped me. He's physically handicapped in some way because he's been laid at the gate. It's been done to him. No man able-bodied in those times would ever lay by the wayside and beg for help. And in the place of purple robes and fine linens, he's clothed in sores Instead of feasting sumptuously every day, his daily routine consists of begging for scraps that might perchance fall from the table of the rich man. If he was able-bodied, he'd be what we would call the one who was wanting to dive in the dumpsters. He'd root through maggot and other various things to find something to fill his stomach with. So you see the contrast Jesus presents these two characters and the stark contrast between the two because the story continues. Each of us in this room today should be soberly reminded That there is more to our lives and our existence than just this life. The scriptures say that all have sinned and fall short of God's glory. The scriptures say that the payment or the wage or the just deserve of our sin is death. But a free gift that God gives through Jesus Christ is eternal life to the praise of his glory and grace In Hebrews 9 and verse 27, the writer of that letter says that it is appointed unto man to die once, and after that to face the judgment. Every one of us. Here, every one of us on this planet, we've got to appreciate with serious sobriety That this appointment with death comes to all of us. Like several of you, I know from Talking with you over the years, I've had the sad occasion to be in the room with a fellow human being when their last breath occurred I remember the very first time I saw someone pass away in front of me. The paramedics were doing CPR. And they were looking at each other, realizing that they needed to call it the time of death, but they needed to take that man to the hospital. And I remember thinking about that moment when his body was lifeless on the floor of his living room, how just days earlier he had been able to converse with his family members. Days earlier he had been able to talk to me. But at that moment, in an instant, all of those possibilities We're done. When death comes To each person, all that will be determined has been determined, and there's no going back I think that's what Jesus wants to convey in this parable. He wants his hearers to know that there's more than family and relationships and making money and buying things and entertaining ourselves. He tells the story to those who still have an opportunity to place their trust in the Savior. I've said it many times to many hurting people. If you're still breathing, there's still hope. If your loved one who's lost is still breathing, there's still hope that they would turn and trust Jesus Christ for their salvation. So two definitely different men at the point of death encounter two eternally different destinations. Verse 22 says, the poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried, and in Hades, that place of the dead, the intermediate state before the final resurrection of the body. In that place of the dead in Hades, being in torment, he lifted his eyes and he saw Abraham, and he saw Lazarus at his side. You see what Jesus has done is a complete reversal. Complete reversal. Decisively, definitively, each man's destiny. determined before they died, but it's in the second part of the story that Jesus gives insight into the nature of the final destination. And there's only two, and they are eternally different, eternally divided. While on earth, the meaning of Lazarus' name was an act of faith on his part. God has helped. But after his physical death, his faith was made sight. The fullness of God has helped was completely realized in Lazarus. Complete Ultimate rescue, ultimate healing, ultimate provision, ultimate deliverance. His response to the circumstances in his life drove him to a heart-level dependence on God for all things. Jesus uses that name to point that out. The covenant-making, covenant-completing God of Abraham was Lazarus' hope. Jesus is teaching that Lazarus had a faith in God, and that faith was credited to him as righteousness, as was Abraham's faith. They looked forward to the coming Messiah. And at the point of death, that was realized. He was ushered to the reclining position in the bosom of Abraham. That's covenant language. Jesus is speaking to Pharisees and scribes who would understand very clearly that this one Who was walked over, ignored, cast aside, was now embraced By the God of the Covenant. It's an intimate picture And it is one for us to pay attention to. Jesus is telling his listeners that Lazarus was a true Israelite by faith. You may be recall from Paul's letter to the Roman Christians in chapter 2, Paul says, For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly Nor is circumcision outward and physical, but a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit. Not by the letter of the law. His praise then is not from man. We don't boast in our works. It is from God, Paul says In Galatians 3 and verse 29, if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring and heirs according to promise. It's always by the Spirit If anyone thinks that the station or the lot that they've received in this life is a guarantee of something for the next life, we should take warning at that. The Jews who saw wealth as a sign of God's blessing were hearing this parable. And those of us who might think that sickness And downtroddenness is a sign of God's cursing. We need to take A hard look at what Christ is saying, that there is nothing but Jesus Christ who is our entrance into the kingdom of God. I want to paraphrase Galatians 5 and verse 6. For in Christ Jesus, neither being poor nor destitute nor being rich and privileged counts for anything, but faith working through love. Neither being poor and destitute nor being rich and privileged count for anything, but only faith in Christ working itself out in love. Which brings us to the fate of the rich man. The rich man died and he was buried. Significant words, every one of these words, packed with power. We make a lot of the death of celebrities in this day and age. You'll see a celebrity or a sports figure or political figure die, and the mass amount of people that show up is incredible. Cards and flowers and candles lit and things strewn up all over the fences and areas of the road where the funeral procession takes place. When Lazarus died, Jesus tells the story that the angels carried him away. I wonder if anybody even knows that that beggar man had passed away. He was ignored in life. But the angels, the angels, carried him to recline at Abraham's bosom The rich man died and was buried. And I wonder how many showed up for that funeral. I wonder how many attended the rich man's burial. Well let me say it this way, what does it matter? Because in an instant, just like that, it didn't matter at all It didn't matter the kind words that were spoken at the graveside. It didn't matter the remembrances of what he had done or not done. to others in his life. Jesus says that at the instant after his death, the rich man was in Hades, that place of the intermediate place of the dead, and he was in torment. Now this is a story that contains insight into what is after this life. It's not a comprehensive uh doctrine of the afterlife, but there are points in this story that I think we should take away and we should pay very close attention to I think it's safe to conclude from the brief description of the man's circumstances, if it causes us to shudder just these brief mentions. And how much more terrifying the reality of what Jesus describes really is. And it takes place for all eternity Ponder that for just a moment. Those two destinations, divided and forever. Which brings the story to the point where the rich man, from his torment, from his anguish , Cries out with two excruciatingly difficult questions. And I mentioned earlier the nature of these requests, what makes them difficult is The fact that there is no hope of relief for the rich man. It's not the inquiry itself. It's not the simple asking of relief or the simple asking to go share the news with my family. It's the fact that where he asks the questions from There will be no relief. There will be no mercy in that place. A rich man continues what he lived his life. What we see in Lazarus is a man now of grateful acceptance. What we see in the rich man is a greed-filled arrogance that still continues. He's making demands and requests, if you will. The rich man has become a beggar himself now of the greatest magnitude. How torturous it must be if but one drop of water from the tip of Lazarus's finger could provide some kind of relief. How torturous indeed And the flames that produce only anguish surround him. Give me relief, Father Abraham, he cries out, have mercy on me. Send Lazarus to dip his finger. It breaks the heart when we hear the story. For the man that Jesus depicts, he's continuing in his self-deceiving ways as he uses Father Abraham. As an accolade. This is a theme in Luke's writing. In Luke chapter 3, John the Baptist preached to the Jews of the coming Messiah. Strong rebuke. You brood of vipers who warned you to flee from the wrath to come. Bear fruit, rather, in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father, for I tell you, God is able from these stones on the ground to raise up children for Abraham. The message of John the Baptist is that God by his Spirit brings from death to life. We were all dead in our transgressions and sins. We were like stones on the pathway. And God brings faith to life in us, and we believe, and we trust, and we follow. God brings that about. We don't claim a heritage. The Jews couldn't claim a heritage. And this man still self-deceived, Father Abraham Presuming on that relationship that he never had. And Jesus saying again that there's only one way to enter the kingdom. Believe in Christ as your only hope for salvation. Believe in the Messiah who was promised, the Messiah who has come, and the Messiah who is victorious. Receive Him. Receive His life, His death, His resurrection. Place your trust in Him. Only He can save. And then Jesus gives us a chilling insight into the hereafter. Through Abraham's response, the tormented rich man crying out for relief Jesus tells us that those who reject God in this life will remember. Words of Abraham. Child, remember Should send chills down our spine. An eternity of remembering where hope was derived and Rest was derived apart from Christ. Remember the life you lived. Abraham is as if to say, the priorities that you had, it was for your comfort, your wealth. You didn't show the fruit of a life that realized its spiritual poverty. You didn't show the fruit of a life that That having been shown lavish mercy by God above strives to show mercy to others. That was not you. That's Abraham's response to the rich man. The one who suffered in this life is now completely comforted. That's Lazarus. But the one who was comfortable, and the one who placed his hope and his wealth and his status is now in torturous anguish and unquenchable grief. Sobering reality. Abraham's answer also causes us to realize the permanence of the place that he finds himself in. In verse twenty-six, besides all this, between us and you there's a great chasm, it has been fixed In order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able to do so, and none may cross from there to us. It's a great divide. There will be no breaching of that divide. It's permanent. If what might seem at first to be a display of compassion on the part of the torture man. springs forth from his lips. He switches his line of request. Don't provide me relief. Send someone to my five brothers to give them warning. It seems like he's got this compassion, but I wonder if what he's not maybe saying is, if only I had had a warning. I wouldn't be in this place of torment. Send warning to them. They need to hear this. And Abraham should not be construed as cruel in his response. This is just This response that Abraham gives brings glory to the justice of the Holy God, who extends freely Jesus Christ to sinners in this life. Abraham not only holds firm in denying the request, but I think he highlights what Jesus is trying to convey to the Jewish listeners in the crowd that day. They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. Now you understand that Moses and the prophets is a shorthand way, the law and the prophets, Moses and the prophets, a shorthand way to say the scriptures of the Old Testament. That which highlights the redemption plan of Almighty God. They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. And Abraham further asserts that the Word of God, Moses and the prophets, is the sufficient way to convey God's plan of salvation. If someone doesn't hear and believe God's word, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. If you don't believe God's word, God's works make no sense. We experience phenomenal things in this world, in this life, but they must be guarded and guided by the Word of God, or they make no sense. If someone were to rise from the dead, a miraculous act like that, Abraham is telling the rich man, they wouldn't believe because they didn't believe the scriptures. Now this may be most clearly seen as Luke proceeds in his gospel in chapter 24, on the day of the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Christ appears to two men walking on the road to Emmaus, a little village. And he asks why they're sad, and they answered, Are you the only visitor in Jerusalem that doesn't know what just took place here these last days? And they did go on to describe a prophet who was mighty in deed and word before God and all the people, and have a chief priests of the of the law and the rulers of the Jews delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him. And how they hoped they hoped that that one was the one to redeem Israel at that time. And Jesus heard them describe the empty tomb that the women had witnessed. And then he said to them, Oh foolish ones. O slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, and then this word, this verse. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, Jesus interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Wouldn't you have loved to have been on that road that day? To see Jesus, first of all, but to hear him expound on all of the Old Testament How it points to the redemption that God provides through the Messiah. As he works his way through a God who creates, as he works his way through the giving of the law, the patriarchs. The kings in Israel, the recovery of God's people, time and time again from their rebellion, through the prophet Isaiah. That the one would come from the root of Jesse. He would have no form or majesty that we should look on him, no beauty that we should desire him, he would be despised, he would be rejected by men, a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised. We esteemed him not, but surely He has borne our griefs and he has carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities upon him. The chastisement that brought us peace, and by his stripes we all are healed. The ultimate rescue, the ultimate deliverance for Lazarus was found in the Messiah that was spoken through the prophet Isaiah. And Jesus is that Messiah. He is our only hope for hope after this life ends for each of us And the people on the road to Emmaus said, Did not our hearts burn within us when he talked to us on the road, how he opened up the scriptures to us? I pray that my heart would burn within me. That your heart would burn within you to see Christ in the scriptures and to make him known to others. That's the testimony of the Scriptures. It testifies to God. But what is your hope? Do you believe that God is the one who delivers the despicable? And do you believe you are the despicable in need of deliverance? I think that's why that parable is told. There were people in that crowd. I believe there's people in this crowd that believe that they were okay enough. for God. They didn't have a view of God that was high and lifted up I want to close with a quote from a lady named Barbara Duguid. She's written a book called Extravagant Grace: God's Glory Displayed in Our Weakness. See if you find yourself here. Quote, you will never be able to find steady joy in this life. until you understand, submit to, and even embrace the fact that you are weak and sinful. Does that sound shocking? The truth is that only weak and sinful people really need a redeemer. You may think that you would actually bring God more glory through your strength and obedience than through failure. Yet the sovereign Lord of the universe appears to disagree with you. God is supremely interested in the glory of His Son and delights in the way that that glory is revealed in His love for wicked people. who continue to need his grace and mercy day after day. Accepting your weakness opens up new avenues of delight in your Savior New corridors of worship and all as you contemplate all that He is to you, as you really are, inside and out. Let me pray for us. Father in heaven, we pray that you would please God make Yourself, the preeminent desire of each and every one of our hearts. And cause us, Lord, to see the beauty of a Savior who would be crushed for our iniquity. And help us to acknowledge freely, fully, our iniquity And receive by faith the forgiveness and the righteousness that you provide through Jesus Christ our Lord. In his name, for his sake, we pray. Amen.