Continuing our series of the Psalm of Pong, we now come to chapter seven, verse ten. Psalm Psalms seven. Verse 6. I belong to my lover, and his desire is for me. However, let us speak one verse for this week. It's the 100th verse of the Song of Psalms. We spent five weeks looking at the first ninety-nine verses like an average of about 40 verses a week. So why am I going to spend one whole message or one single verse. Now because this verse is part of the refrain of the Solid Psalm. In order to understand the Pong, you must understand its refrain. Refrain is the key To understand of the message of a song. And the song of song has two refrains, and this is one of them. The other refrain is found, for instance, in chapter 8, verse 4, they be both into Jerusalem, I carve you do not around. That is a thing of purity. That physical love is not to be aroused with until it finds its expression in the This is the other reflection with the past. If the first refane is the refrain of purity, this is the refrain of possession. I belongs to my lover and his desire before me. This was saying appeared three times in the poem. And so for a text I want you to read those three times with just a bit of concept. The first time is in chapter two. In chapter two, you remember before the wedding, you had the lovers taking me to love the fourth time to have this beautiful day. like today. As he's sitting around, maybe it's a little bit cooler. That's the race delivering on as he says in chapter 2 verse 14 and done. When the cross of the rock in the hiding places on the mountainside, show me your face. Let them hear your voice. For your voice is sweet, and your face is lovely. Touch for us the foxes, the little foxes, the real babies are babies, but are new. When she says to him, my lover is mine, and I am his. This is her reflection, reflecting to himself, my lover is my and I am his. The second time you read this the same is in chapter six. The chapter A has been raised. In fact, you remember exactly the time when not only have they been married and grown This beautiful wedding night and honeymoon, but there's been a disruption. She's been ungrateful. She's driven it away. And her face comes to her and they say, Let's find that guy. We'll help you out. We'll get him back. In chapter six, Verse three, the entrance of my lover has gone down to the garden. So the village was fighting to browse in the gardens and to gather a minute. And remember she to gardens, as you read in chapter four. And when she is to be I am my lovers, and my mind is mine. He browses among the lives. Where the third one? If you read that kind of listen, we have it here in chapter 7, in verse 10. After the beautiful reconciliation, he's placed once again to his love for her as unchanged. It's not one foot less than it ever was when he first married her. And then he goes on in chapter seven to expand and say, even greater when he left her when they first away. And he speaks of tiny beauties and virtues and perfections. The response in chapter seven verse nine was made a wild of my loved to my lover, blowing changes over lips and feastings. I belong to my lover. And his desire is for me. That's the refrain. The refrain of mutual possession. I am. mother and my mother is mine. Which will delight us freedom in mutual possession. A freedom which is based not on a feeling but on a committed a threat that they have noted as a very presence of God. But they belong to each other once all and nothing can catch them. Absolutely nothing. I think I'm going to initiate a new practice in my two marital counts for reflections. To be there. I'm going to be good, I think, to have those as come as part of what we do. Wipe out a spaces of my place, of my life to you. Right long. And if I include in that a declaration in the presence of Jesus Christ that I will not devote success. But I think in our day you need to be explicit about that communication, about that flesh. Come to a place now where the divorce rate among evangelical churches each year to sort of closer to the divorce rate of the general population. And we needed to have a statement that says that I I am you and you are mine. Some of us will be married, some of you not. idea for us to write that down. To go home today and to write down a statement to say what yes for the person in the I just want you to know that the voice is not an option divorce. No matter what difficult to do. Whatever happens in our marriage, I believe to you and you for mine. And nothing will ever change. What God is saying together, let no one can find you. But I want you to go For some life, for some husband, I think that's all about. You couldn't happen to use this one if you heard about philosophy. God. Have you heard of Apple, this thing, and that thing? He thought never to get a divorce. And there creeps within that community. And that insecurity that possibly is an outside option. God heard it. I have angels and hear us and look at it and change that. It's the greatest philosophy that you can see going on. But what we just further can show you all that young people today consider that divorce is a probable excuse to know. No longer consider people as outside possibilities. Many people look at that now as something that they might have occurred to them. And so you see it as a all of that, people do not find their ultimate security in the relationship of the person of their lives. They find it with their careers and in their hobbies. You know what that is? They just expelled that the most service The marriage will say to marriage is my career is fixed. That is more traumatic to him than to say, My marriage is fixed. Wherever a career of a man fails, the marriage will almost all fail. If the marriage fails, the career will go off. And we come to a point today where marriage commitment has taken a very low power for many people. And we need to recapture the The security of the white soul commission. I hope that you are happy and feel secure to be able to do it in a church where two Christians know not divorce. That is Impossible, not unlikely, it is impossible in this church, according to apology. Because we believe the hope of the gospel means that no matter how difficult, how deep, how turbid the world is that you're going through and you're married, how hopeful. No matter how much you may say, the few of God and with not a shred of anything to go on, if they were taking a gospel, Jesus Christ can rebuild that man. And the only way that they may be a divorce. He just wanted a person backed up and says, I refuse to submit to the counseling, to the help, to the underground of my marriage under the lordship of Jesus Christ in his church. I want out. I'm legal. And when that person leaves from this church, we say that person is no longer following Jesus Christ, that's which the other person that was listening to First Corinthians said, it will have been united to an unbeliever who has now abandoned. them and the faith. And so two Christians may not go to divorce. The only way that people can go to divorce to get our fellowship is if one of them leaves and refuses the help of the body to bring out its marriage together. I hope that that's not a threat to you. I hope you don't chase under that. I hope you find that a tremendous sense of protection and security. That we as a body take our matter just seriously within our fellowship. And he is mine. And that's a lifelong statement. But let's trace the progression of this statement. Because you notice, perhaps, as I read it through, that it's not stated the same way each time. And I believe that the changes are very significant. Notice them. In the first case, in chapter 2, verse 16, she says, My mother is mine, and I am his. And then you see the chief thing is my desire to possess him. My lover is mine, along with the realization that I also belong to him. Now it's important for us to remember at this point that you cannot Untangle the love of the man and the woman in the Song of Songs from the love of Christ to the church. It was sort of like the song conduct recently at childlike, where I understand, pointed through fifteen thousand And everybody's phones were immediately cut off. Imagine a job of trying to put together those 15,000 lines and smash them all up so that your line wasn't hooked up to somebody else's or some other panic confusion. And you think That's the way the things of the fall of souls yet. Like 16,000 soul lines, and they're all meshed together, and you can't untangle the love of Christ and his church from the love of the man in the woman. Tells us in Ephesians chapter 5 that a man's foreign. life as he loves his own body. And then he said, this is a great mystery, but I speak of Christ and his church. And so Paul is giving us that principle of interpretation there by which we can understand this blending of these two streams. As their waters flow together into one river. God's law in the declaration of it. And you see it very clearly in there. My number is mine, and I am his is a parallel reflection of the language that God uses in the adoption of the Lord. of his people. It's the covenantal language that God love for his people. Do you remember in Genesis chapter 17 when the Lord made the covenant of grace with Abraham? You read in Genesis chapter 17 and verse 7, God says, That I will establish my covenant as an everlasting covenant between you, you, and your descendants asked you, for the generations to come, to be your God. The Lord said, I'm taking you, Abraham, to be your God. My person, and I am going to be your God. And somebody calls his people out of Egypt to adopt them as a nation of a road. In Exodus chapter 6 and verse 7, the way he states it's this: I will take you as my own people and I will be your God. And he takes me to sign up. Because I'm calling you to be a peculiar people for my own possession. And I will be your God. Dwell in your midst. And so you must be a holy people because I am going to be your God and you are going to be my people. And you need to see the rest of the law and the writings, and particularly the prophets, especially Jeremiah and Ezekiel. And it gives again and again there comes that statement. I will be your God and you shall be my people. I am my lover and he is mine. And that's like that's an Old Testament declaration. When Paul wants to call it for homeless. to a separate life by which we belong to him uniquely. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6, how does he say this? In 2 Corinthians 6 and verse 16, he says, what agreement is there between the temple of God and idols? For we are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will live in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. I am my beloved. Therefore, Paul says, come out somehow and be separate. says the Lord. Touch no unclean soul and I will receive you. I will be a father to you and you will be my sons and daughters. Says the Lord God Almighty. I will be your father. You will be my sons and daughters. I am your God. You are my people. I am my beloved and you're not my God. You see the flowing together of those streams of love. I'm that beloved and he is mine and banner flash. Now realize who it is that we're speaking of. Come to a seeing that fifth top and RC scroll how God struck down Moab and Abis in his ownness because Because they did not follow the precise instructions of how to approach the Holy God. See how God struck other dead because he mistakenly put out his hands in disobedience to study the ark. And he lost his life for it. See how God struck down the men of that Shemesh, seventy of them, because they looked curiously and disrespectfully to the ark of God's presence. See how Peter, we saw last year. For the Lord shows his power and his ownness and support for me. Try to see from this. John, writing in the book of Revelation, says, I saw the glory of the Lord and I became as dead. Because I sinned. it down as a horror when we're confronted with all of us. How many who understand us to appreciate what is being said to you when you read, I belong to him. And he belongs to me. In the words of Paul, he is my office, I am his holy place, I am his guest, and he my living food. I am his by penitence. He my by grace. I is my purpose. He is life by blood. He my support in hell I is God. I'm just lovers. He is mine. We need to understand the only way that we could become our beloved. The only way that God could set his life. He's going to send his own son Jesus to take our sin, to die for us, to give up this life as a sacrifice, so that by putting away our sin, he with that great love. Where he took us to himself. I could say that he says in Psalm of Psalm 7, You have you to my life. I gave you to myself and I set my heart on you because you're mine. And so we need to come to Jesus with awe and with wonder when we realize that we are given this language as a reflection of his covers, I and my beloved since he. My. My lover is mine. And I am him. I stand the day with the presence of Jesus the Lazarus. And consider it. Myself was sinner, condemned uncle. What is love for me? Then she goes on. And she states this declaration. In chapter 6, in a slightly different way. In chapter 6, remember in chapter 2, verse 16, she said, My lover is mine, and I am his. Well, in chapter 6 and verse 3, she says, I and my lovers. And my lover is mine. You see the difference? She reversed the order. First it was, my lover is mine is first, and I'm also his. Now, the focus is more on him. Well it's I belong to him and also he is mine. Now there's less of thinking about him in light of me or in terms of me, my blessing. And know thou thinking of me in terms of him and his glory. Notion goes on in chapter 7, verse 10. We say this one more time. And again, notice the difference. Now it's I belongs to my lover and his desire is for me. You see the difference? Your entire focus is on him. His most things now about his belongings To her. Now she is totally caught up in the wonder of the fact that she belongs to him. Now she is completely consumed with the wonder of his love for her. She knows the light. And the security of the fact that she belongs to me and his desire is for me. I believe that there are two thoughts that are involved with this statement. His desire is for me. You look at that. Why did she put that in? I belong to my lover. He's a statement against you, they're afraid of the other price. But that was even he thought his desire is for me. What did she mean by that? understand what she means by that, you need to understand that that Hebrew phrase, his desire is for me, appears precisely like that, his desire for or desire for someone, three times in the Old Testament. And the first time very important to understanding this verse. It's in Genesis chapter 3, verse 16. Take a look at that. In Genesis chapter 3 and verse 16. When there was the fall of man and woman from God In that bright and precious, perfect relationship that they had. And God came to the woman to pronounce the inevitable curse upon her as a result of her sin. He stated it in Genesis 3. 316 verse 1 I will greatly increase your pain to be childbearer. This pain will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband. And he Will rule over you. The phrase there, your desire will be for your husband if the identical reason to this desire is released in Psalm Psalm 710. Now what does that mean? sexualists that this verse means that it refers to a sexual desire. The fact that you have great pain in childbearing. But even in spite of that, you're still going to desire your husband. You're not going to be able to help yourself. Be so irresistible. And that's a curve to see because it's going to bring on you a lot of pain. I think there's something to that, but clearly it's not the point of permanent ideal. And I suggest two reasons for that. The first reason is That the same phrase is used for the third time in the very next chapter, chapter four and verse seven. And it's a little clearer what the intention is right there. When you look at chapter four and verse seven, you remember you're in the story of Cain and Eden. And Cain just offered a sacrifice. That God rejected, Abel is often one that God accepted, Cain's jealous. But you remember how the Lord came to Cain in verse 6 and he said, Why are you angry? Why is your face down test? If you do what is right, we cannot be accepted. But if you do what you're doing, you're not right. not see what it's like sin is crouching at the door, your door. It desire to have you. Say it again. Say it praise. Its desire is for you. Say that phrase. As in Genesis 3, 16, and so is Psalm 710. Now clearly that's not a sexual desire. Clearly it's not a desire for intimacy, a longing to be together. Since desire to masturbate. It's desiring to take you over. It's desiring to have you in its grip. And that is great one chapter in Genesis three sixteen. And so that's the first reason why I think that this is referring not to a sexual desire. prominently that marriage who would desire to master her husband. The second reason is simply because if you look at verse 16 of Genesis 3, you find that there are two parts to that verse. The first part of the verse, I Two parallel ideas. I will greatly increase your pains in childbearing with pain in the birth of children. And so you expect that the next two lines you're also going to have two related or parallel thoughts. And when you find it, in fact, your desire will be for your husband. Or to rule over him, or to master him, and yet he's going to rule over you. So that rule over there is not desired for you. It could be translated, he's going to have the rule over you. What God here I think is stating is that there is going to be now a tension within the relationship that he created to be totally harmonious. Whereas the man being the administrative head in a single situation Now because the head in a single situation, he abuses his power, she chased at the submission. So now he tyrannizes her and she chased from that and wants to get out from under. How many times? I've seen this in my own ministry. A couple comes to you, and the pattern goes something like this. The man came into the marriage, having no idea what it meant to protect his wife. American men seem to be raised by their mommy's enough very often to be babies. It's a perpetuation, I think, of the sinner's one generation or whatever. Just like that. So that's the way American American moms tend to treat their sons not the way they treat their daughters very often. They expect more of their daughters, more maturity. But for their son, you know, oh look on it, you know. He doesn't know any better. Coochie coochie could only sixteen years old, he keeps going, you know, making sure she makes his lunch and takes care of all his things and washes his clothes in college and everything else on it. And so because in the marriage, then here's her concept of protection. So usually in a marriage, that all of a sudden here's this woman instead of looking at him to protect it. The book is fine. Okay, what do you think this is? You know, my mom knows the fear of these things. New relationship. They expect you to take over in other of these functions. Now she becomes greatly discouraged. And she in fact reacts to this. She's put in great anxiety because there's within her that simple nature of which she don't find it hard enough to submit. To add to that the fact that this guy's leadership is no security, you know, polish my shoes and wash my clothes, and I think these kind of things we're talking about. All these kinds of things would really look at her more as a slave than a Doesn't have any concept of sharing his life with her, but then tells her that she's supposed to submit to him. And that produces in her a reaction. And so what she did. She begins to domineer. She begins to treat him like his mother. Because that's what she that's what he wanted, wasn't it? And then she begins to domineer him because she feels unprotected and because she feels resentment for this, she begins to punish him. So she begins to criticize his leadership. She begins to make it more difficult for him to lead rather than less difficult. Rather than to help leave, she absolutely abolishes the guy. And so what does he do? He abdicates total. All right, not good enough for you, forget it. So he backs off completely and walks through years of a cycle of self-pity. What do you mean? mag that God has put upon him in order to somehow bring about sanctification is beyond his reach to live with his Lord. She's thinking, why has God put her into such a position where she's so unprotected and needs to always take control to never bad on him to take initiative and to care for her and protect her. And so meanwhile she's constantly getting back to him those little bids to completely annihilate her self-image. But what do you see in the phone's false? In the Song of Songs, God says where Jesus Christ comes into a relationship, where there's redemption of that love, then what do you see in verse 10? You see? It's a reversal of Genesis 3. 16. Genesis 3. 16, the curses your desire will be for your husband to master him. So in a Psalm 710, what is her glory? It's that I belong to him. And his desire is to me. See that? Well that desire for me is not now a desire to masculine the human eye. It's a desire to be the head and to protect. Here's a very better illustration of this, unfortunately in some sense, from Not a Christian. But from a non-Christian author, Henry James, in his book The Bostonians. An excellent book made into a movie which was also excellent, which you like that. I don't know how many of you saw it. But it's an excellent illustration of precisely This point. One of the themes in that story, and Henry James wrote many things that reflected on human relationships, but he's precisely captured this point, the dynamics between them and me. It was written, by the way, at the beginning of the century, but it's about a nice 18th century feminist, who because of the tyranny of men, casts off all kinds of dependence upon men. But she says to completely isolated herself in any emotional dependence from any man. False relationships of dependence. to be with women and one woman in particular. And she has to cast off any restraint of any man. She has no parts of it. She goes around the country speaking against men. But there's this one man. And he pursues her. Christopher Reeves, you know, Superman. They get a hook like that on your back, you know, and you begin to rethink your theology of men and women's relationships. But the interesting thing in the movies is that this is the reads they work back on one inch. from his view of his position in a man woman relationship. He doesn't cater at all to her feminism. He says, if you are angry with me, I am the hair. Oh, she hates that. She runs, she calls an all kind of angel keeps going. He keeps pursuing that. And gradually, through the months and through the years, his message begins to get through. I may go into your head, but it's for one piece. Because I want to meet all of your needs. I want to one of you like you have never been lied. that I want to be in her head so that I can protect you and I can love you and I can help you to be all that you are meant to be. And finally she is the only one who she capitulates to us. And it's precisely what we see here. this woman's statement in following Psalm 710. This man is the one that I belong to. I can capitulate to him entirely and feel secure because his desire He's poor me. I secure good as love. And with that love there's no competition. You notice that right after this fiction, just to reinforce what I'm saying, so you're saying how poor the power is. What's the very next She says, Come, my lover, let's go to the countryside. Now, Captain Two, he has said, let's go to the countryside. Now, in this relationship of security and trust, she takes the initiative. She tells Says, keep my head. This is my explanation. Now she takes the initiative. Then in chapter 8, verse 2, look at she says, I would leave you. You see? Not that he's no longer head. No question about that. He is. But there is now not a competition or tension in that headship. But it's the headship of a desire in which there is security and freedom. And the second unit of this statement, I believe. Reinforces that idea. Not only do I belong to him and his desire is for me to become my heading protector, but his desire is simply for me to share his life with me. A desire for me to Love me completely. His desires for me, his affection and his attention, all of his desires are centered upon me. Now think of the gospels of Peter and John. I showed this only. Before the Son of His that is there through Peter. You remember, if you look in the Gospels, if you look at Peter's statement, his relationship with Jesus Christ, it's all in terms of chapter 2, verse 16. My beloved is mine, and I am his. Peter's always going around saying, Lord, how I love you. Lord, if you're up here on this mountain, let's build two tabernacles for you. And it's Lord, I will follow you. And Jesus says you're all easy. And Peter says, Oh no, maybe the rest doesn't know. I love you so much I will holler you to death. Even if I lose my life. You are the very first person to deny Jesus. Repeat it. The whole servant is intimidated with the love of Jesus. Then go to John. How does God describe his love for Jesus? Nowhere in the Gospel of John do you ever see a statement about how much John loves Jesus. Yes. In fact, how does God refer to himself? in the gospel of God. It's an ominousness. He never uses his name. How does it rebirth to himself? I am the disciple that Jesus lost. All of John's focus is not on his And who was the one disciple that followed Jesus all the way to the cross? The only one was John with his mother. John describes love for us. He says, you want to understand the essence and the heart of love. In 1 John 4, 10, he tells us what it is. And he says, this is love. Not that we love God. But that he loved us and sent his son to be a pleasing sacrifice for our sins. God says, the wonder of love. the Bible is morning. The high peace. And the His desire is for me. His desire for me. John says I lost in the word in desire. I am lost in a wonder at the fact of his desire to be so completely and true to a sinner such as me. The Puritan John Owen once, we were never near to Christ. But when we find ourselves lost in a holy amazing and this unspeakable love, the wonder of the love of a man and a woman is that my mother could love me. And so there is a herd of virus on me. And the level of this one for Jesus. He said he could love me. And so here is the virus. on me. And in that I find the security toward banding myself to Jesus' love. Do you see? Let's pray. Father God, we pray, right now, you speak to our hearts that there's somebody here, Lord, who needs to hold out again. against your love. A phrase that that love is a love that wants to humanize. That that love is a love which wants to grab a hold of that person and take their life and twist it and become something that they would be miserable with. Well, we clearly to have delivered them from that lie, from that self-perception. When you see that the most clear thing that a human being can ever say is that I belong to my Jesus. And his desire is for him. Here we pray. That you speak that says to our hearts to in our heart. What about our whole value based on life is if we can't trust you? But we exceed that reversal of the curse between the man and the woman. You are our God and we are your people. Lord, give us that security. Give us the delight to praise you and worship you in such security. I know these things should work in our marriages, but that might be not okay. But we have come into our marriage of slurview, redemption of the tension between the hearing of men and refuses to submit at the women so that he will come again that part of the mind of the man for the woman that's Christ lovely church and that joyful abandonment to his hatred protection. Lord fulfilled in us that our homes will be lighthouses for our society. The people would see the love of Christ displayed there. And that our desire is before another worthy praise for you to fulfill it in us as your people terms of our love for you through Jesus Christ. Amen.