In chapter 4, we're going to be looking at the third temptation of Christ, and once again, that explains the very clever sermon title. The third temptation. It'd be nice if we only had three to deal with, wouldn't it? And yet we come at the very end of this text, and we'll look at this more closely next week, with this idea that and Satan had Tempted him with all the temptations. He left him for a while When we think about this third temptation as the last temptation, we have a chance to look back at the other two as well and consider the fact But there is a sense in which these temptations are representative of all temptation. We'll see a little bit of that in the sermon today as we look in particular at this third temptation in the Gospel of Luke. But be aware that these temptations as we look at them are not so specific that you can't relate to them unless you've been in a desert, been hungry, seen rocks shaped like bread. and had Satan himself appear and tell you to turn him to. The level of specificity is representative and analogous rather than exact. Have you been tempted to end your need not want to wait on God for what He's going to give you in His good time? Or with the second temptation, have you been tempted to take shortcuts and do things that you knew were wrong in order to get something you thought would be right? What about this last temptation? What is it representative of that might make it a legitimate stand-in for a third of the temptations you and I might face? Let's pray as we look at this text. Almighty God, we ask your blessing on the reading of your word. Father, we confess that sin is something we struggle with every day, or better ought to struggle with every day. But Lord, sometimes we just willy-nilly live our lives not mindful of the fact that there is a tempter. And Lord, we are quick to say, oh yeah, we're sinners, we all sin, but how many of us can list out the number and the nature of the sins that particularly tempt us on a given day? Father, help us not to be outwitted by Satan because we are not unaware of his schemes. Lord, give us wisdom. And so we ask your blessing on the reading of your word And Father, in the preaching that follows, inasmuch as it is a faithful echo of what you have said and your word, Lord, help it to be effective. and communicating, in convincing, and encouraging. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter four, beginning with verse one, the Word of God. And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days, and when they were ended he was hungry. The devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread. And Jesus answered him, It is written Man shall not live by bread alone. And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time, and said to him, To you I will give all this authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me And I give it to whom I will. If you then will worship me, it will all be yours. And Jesus answered him It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve And he took him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from here, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you to guard you. And on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. And Jesus answered him. It is said, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. This ends the reading of God's Word. When I was a kid I had a picture bible, like perhaps many of you had when you were kids, and on the page that talked about the temptation of Christ It showed this picture of Jesus clinging for dear life to this very gothic looking spire and Satan, this real creepy red dude with horns, kinda beside him, obviously whispering something. Obviously whispering those words from Psalm 91. Throw yourself down from here. The Lord's going to catch you. God will send his angels so you won't strike your foot against a stone. And in my mind as a kid I always had this picture of Jesus trapped on the top of this great big spire over like a Notre Dame Cathedral type building. And I remember as a kid even thinking, well, how was he supposed to get down? Uh if he wasn't supposed to jump, what was he supposed to do? And you know, fast forward a couple years and you go to seminary and you You you learn a little bit about life and about uh ancient uh Israelite uh architecture, and you realize there was no pinnacle in that sense. The word translated pinnacle could be translated wing. Or point or corner. And when you look at the temple in Jerusalem, and I know it used to be the case that if you went to the Natural History Museum on the third floor in the very back on the left, There was a whole section of Israelite history, and they had this tremendous model of Jerusalem in the time of Christ. I don't know if it's still there anymore. I used to love going there And they have a model of Jerusalem, and you see all flat surfaces, no sharp pointy pinnacles. But the corner of the temple. The portico, the porch, the wing that jutted out to make the bottom southeast corner of the temple was a straight drop down to the bottom of the Kidron Valley, hundreds of feet , would certainly kill a man. And what I realized that, well, you look at that text, Satan takes them clearly in a vision to this point. It says, throw yourself down, there would have been other perfectly reasonable options for exiting that dangerous place. Things like staircases. You know, sometimes we feel like we are in a terrible situation and a temptation faces us, and there's not a thing we can do to get out of it except for the sin. And don't we read in Scriptures that God is faithful and just? And don't we read that when we're tempted, we're tempted not in any unusual way? But in a way common to others as well, and that God will show us a way out. There's always a way out. There is always an option. And so, especially for you kids who had children's Bibles with Gothic cathedrals, understand Jesus had a lot of opportunities to get down from this high place. None of which involved putting God to the test. But when we look at this temptation, I want us to think about three things that we see. About our tempter that will help us to not be so easily outwitted by him. And the first thing I want us to notice about Satan is his flexibility The flexibility of Satan. In these temptations, and they're representative of no doubt of many temptations, he was tempted for 40 days. We just have these summary things. three that sort of encapsulate them all in much the same way as the Ten Commandments encapsulate the entire will of God for us. It's a summary of the moral commands God's given us. This is sort of a three-part summary of the temptations that face us. And it's important to notice that Satan is able to, on the one hand, say to people like Jesus and people like you, you have needs God is not going to provide for you, therefore make bread on your own You see, in that respect, Satan is saying, if God really loves you, why are you hungry? Clearly, he doesn't love you enough. Go do whatever you need to do to get your own bread. And then he's able to take the exact opposite tack. And say, if you are the son of God, and notice this temptation, like the first one, is prefaced this way, if you are the son of God, throw yourself down from here. Exactly the opposite sort of temptation mechanism as we saw in the first temptation. In the first temptation, if you are the Son of God, how can you have needs? Provide for yourself. In this last temptation, if you are the Son of God, presume upon the fact that God always takes care of you And just jump off the building. It's the exact opposite. In one case, doubt your sonship to the point that you believe God will never take care of you. In the other case, doubt your sonship to the point that you continually have to force God's hand to prove it by doing things that are simply foolish. In Psalm 91, Satan quotes, well, Satan quotes Psalm 91. In verse 10, it is written, He will command his angels concerning you to guard you. If you've ever done any memory work in Psalm 91, Psalm 91 actually goes on to say, in all your ways. He will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways. Anybody here named Derek? Ah, we got a Derrick in the back. I love it. Derek is an ancient, ancient word, and it means way. And it is a word that summarized the way that we live. Not just the road, but the whole manner, the the conduct And like Middle English, the idea of conversation, how you live, where you go, what your job is. Conversation used to be a much bigger word than it is today. The whole point is in Psalm 91 we're told that God will guard us in all of those ways that are right and proper and good and true for us. That's the main point of Psalm 91 in that one verse. And Satan in his taking that verse on his lips leaves out that part. And just says, put God to the test. Jump off the building. Satan is not above taking Scripture itself. He is so flexible that he can use rocks that are shaped somewhat like a loaf of bread, and he can take the holy word itself. And here this goes to the second thing we want to observe about our tempter. We see that he's very flexible and think about flexibility this way. How many of you have ever heard of jujitsu? I should see a lot of hands, or judo. Evidently they're very close Okay, really? Only three of you have heard of Jiu-Jitsu? Why did my parents raise me to be Presbyterian? Let's just see if it works. Can you all just raise your hand and pretend you all know what you have heard the words you? There we go Does anybody know what jiu-jitsu means? It means the quiet way or the soft way. And the whole premise behind it, and don't put me to the test, because I will fail utterly. I never studied any mar martial art. But the whole principle behind that discipline is to use the force of someone else's strength against them. One of my favorite old teachers on scripture calls this temptation Satan's modeling of the judo technique. Because the force of Christ's defense of himself in the first temptation becomes the grounds of the third temptation. And be aware of the fact that the temptation that Jesus is subjected to is manifold. It has many parts. And Satan kind of like a a good pitcher in the Major League Baseball. uh world is is willing to throw a couple of brushbacks that he knows for a fact you're not going to swing at just to set you up for the outside corner strikeout. And be aware of the fact that however you have demonstrated strength and resistance to one temptation, that might be the very place where the next temptation comes. And he might even quote Scripture. He is that arrogant. But what do we see about the arrogance? Of Satan in the first place, we see that he's even willing to tempt Jesus, the incarnate Son of God. There is no shot that Satan does not know exactly who Jesus is right now If Satan is willing to tempt Jesus himself, if he's that arrogant, We must all recognize that we as children of the living God are likewise in bounds. He quotes Scripture. You see, for Satan nothing is sacred. Nothing. The only thing he worships is himself. And I want you to think about the fact that he quotes from Psalm 91. This is the one scripture that we see coming directly from the mouth of Satan. Now, after World War II In the area of Qumran, which is on the northeast shore of the Dead Sea in Israel, between 1946 and the 1950s Over a hundred thousand fragments were found, preserved because of the quality of the air and the atmosphere and the temperature that are known as the Dead Sea Scrolls. And in those collections of dead sea scrolls, scholars found a collection of scrolls that were used from the time of Ezra to the time of Christ. By the priests, the Levites, as texts for exorcism You know, it's not as if in the time of Jesus, that's the first time anyone was ever possessed by a devil or a demon or an evil spirit. That had been going on, no doubt, and still goes on in human history. And before Jesus came, it was very common for priests to do exorcisms. And the four texts that they used, three of them we just have little bits and pieces of and weren't able to identify. One of them, clearly identifiable, Psalm 91. And I want you to think about how strange this is. That the text, and it was by far the longest text of the four that were found, the text Used by the people of God up to the time of Jesus to cast out demons is the very text Satan himself quotes. Talk about arrogance. You shall not fear the pestilence, the terrors at night. You shall not fear anything. Well, that's the text Satan himself uses Dear Christian, do not think for a moment that it is beyond the capacity of your tempter. to arrange for you to be tempted on that which you think is most sacrosanct, holy, and dear to you God can tempt us to make a false idol out of anything. Pardon me, Satan can tempt us to make a false idol out of anything. One of the greatest sins that an ancient Israelite could commit was cannibalism. Now we don't have a lot of explicit texts in the Bible that say thou shalt not eat your neighbor. However, the command found in Genesis chapter 9, the early institution, if you will, of the death penalty, if a man sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed. That comes right at the end of a list of things God has given people to eat. And in the rabbinic tradition, that is the basis for why cannibalism is abhorrent. People are created in the image of God. They are, to quote a Disney movie, friends, not food. Now fast forward to the book of Galatians Some of you are familiar with the theme of the book of Galatians. Paul is writing to that church, and Galatia is not a city, it's a region. The church is in Galatia. are beginning to think that well in order to really be a Christian, a real follower of Christ, a real inheritor of heaven, you have to go through all of these ritualistic steps kind of first to become a good Jew and then you can become a Christian And by the way, and then we have to keep going on with some of these Old Testament Jewish traditions. And Paul writes to them, You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? So we have a debate that is running amok in that church. That church is divided on an issue that the Apostle Paul thinks is an utterly foolish issue. So it's a clear right and wrong kind of an issue. Are you following me so far? This isn't a gray area, this isn't a debatable issue Some people are flat out wrong saying salvation, justification consists of faith plus works And some people were arguing for the New Testament, Holy Spirit delivered, Christ modeled and taught, apostolic gospel, that we are justified by grace. alone through faith, not works, that none may boast. Amen? Now, so there's a right and a wrong But think about what the Apostle Paul says in Galatians chapters 5 and 6. He says, stop biting and devouring each other. Stop biting and devouring each other. You can be arguing for the right side of basic true theology And start to do that in a manner that is cannibalistic and earn the rebuke of heaven. John Howe, one of my favorite Puritans from the late 17th century, said this is surely a balmy and a queasy thought. I would think he meant balmy the way we might. But it is queasy, isn't it? That we can be arguing for something that is true in such a manner that we are guilty of heinous sin. That's a sobering thought. And it's indicative of the fact that, look, Satan doesn't care how you fail. He doesn't care if you fail defending cannibalism or if you fail defending justification by grace through faith. He simply cares that you fail. He doesn't care if you fail by doubting God's goodness in providing what you need. Or if you fail by being so confident and so needy in your dependence on him that you continually put him to the test. He simply cares that you fail. That arrogant spirit, Martin Luther called Satan And what is the objective of Satan? His objective is simply to get you to doubt your sonship or your daughtership of the living God. in such a fashion that you are constantly making him prove his love to you. Imagine the burden of being in a relationship with a person, whether it's a spouse, a child, a parent, a neighbor. Where you can never be satisfied that that person truly loves you, that they truly own you, that they're truly committed to you. And so every day of your life You are asking that person to prove again and again, over and over, the fact that you accept them, that you love them, that you care about them. Imagine how that would feel if someone treated you that way. Imagine if every day of your life in a relationship with somebody that was very dear to you, you were asked to prove again, as if you're starting from scratch, that you love them. Or that you know them and and favorably are impressed with them, or that they're just friends. What a burden that would be. And one thing that that would prove is how shallow is your love for that person. Because love always trusts. If I in my spiritual life Find myself asking God to give me some proof over and beyond the objective historical reality. That he sent his son to die on the cross after living a perfect life, that I could by repentance and faith be washed and cleansed of my sin be established in Christ, be indwelt by his Spirit. What does that say about me? God does not have to do one more thing to prove his love for me. All his answers have been made yes in Christ. All of his promises have been answered yes in Christ. And when you and I think about this temptation , We might think about ourselves on those occasions in our life where we've painted ourselves into a corner. And we feel like, well, no matter what we do, we're going to disappoint people. No matter what we do, we're going to break certain areas of our own ethical or moral code. No matter what we do, we're gonna mess up. And people can rightly and truly get themselves into situations like that. I would say whatever you do, do not put God to the test. Don't act foolishly and willfully and say, God, if you really love me, you're going to deliver me from this. What would you do if you were caught on a pinnacle? What would you do if you were taken to the top of a large building? Well, the only things that we can do as Christians is confess our sins and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And that is true whether you are on the top of a building or the bottom, sitting at a dinner table or in a desert hungry. Whether you're looking at the kingdoms of the world in their splendor, or on Skid Row wishing you could buy a pair of shoes Everything about Christ's life and what we see in his response to these temptations is I am going to trust God. in the worst possible place, in the most uncomfortable possible circumstance, against the greatest, most oppressive, cleverest tempter , Scripture is on his lips, and an absolute loyalty to God is in his heart. And so, dear Christian, What will you do if and when you doubt your relationship with God and you doubt that God is speaking in the scripture says, you are my child, because you have turned to Christ. Sometimes we do doubt our familial connection to God. We doubt that we're his daughter. We doubt that we're his son by grace through faith, adopted into his family. But when that happens, we we ought never to commit that first sin of rebelliously saying Well, if I really were your son or your daughter, I wouldn't be hungry. And since I am, I'm going to eat whatever I want But likewise, we should never say, if I am your son or your daughter, you're going to do this for me now. Temptation is hard, but there's one thought I want to share with you before moving on in these applications. In all of these saints, these uh these temptations Satan can't make Jesus sin. How many of you have ever heard the phrase the devil made me do it? Again, there's a couple such So five of you have heard this phrase. Let me introduce you to a phrase. The devil made me do it. It's what people say when they feel like I had no other options. Well, look at this, look at this chapter of the Bible. The devil couldn't make Jesus do anything. Notice the devil could only petition Jesus for Jesus to do something. You turn this stone to bread. You bow down and worship me You throw yourself off the building. You see, Satan couldn't throw him off the building. Satan couldn't make him turn rocks to bread. And Satan couldn't make him bow down. And remember, dear friend, Jesus was tempted even as you are, yet knew no sin. And we are tempted in the same ways that we see Jesus being tempted. The devil can't make you do anything. He can make it look really attractive. He can make it look really necessary. He can make it look pleasing and delightful to the eye and good for food, what he did to Eve and Adam in the garden. And he can do it in a way that accommodates your insecurities and your spiritual doubts. But he can't make you do anything. And think about the ways that you're tempted. Specifically this week, think about ways when you have your small groups or your community groups or your uh meeting with a friend for coffee and you're having a uh spiritual conversation. Talk about what are the ways in your life where you are tempted In particular, to put God to the test. Where are areas in your life where you're tempted to say, God, if you loved me, you'd do this for me? Do it now. Write them down. To be forewarned is to be forearmed. And pray for strength in those areas. Get accountability. Will you commit yourself, dear friend, to learning what the scriptures teach so that you're better able to resist temptation? Jesus only responded to Satan using Scripture. So the Word of God made flesh himself only quoted from the Word of God. And fascinating to me anyway, all of these three quotations come from Deuteronomy 6-8, which is an account of Israel in the wilderness Jesus did everything right in the barren landscape of a fallen hostile world between slavery and crossing the Jordan to the Promised Land. And you and I would do well to pay such close attention to Scripture between our deliverance from freedom, being born again, and our crossing that last river. and entering the promised land. And for any of you who are living in this hostile landscape of a world run run amuck And pick pick up, I was gonna say pick up any newspaper, but I'm showing my age. Go to any website, any news site. This is a crazy world. And you are left picking and scratching through this desert landscape, trying to find enough to eat, trying to find a sense of belonging, figuring out who loves you, figuring out What splendor and glory you can carve out of this world. Stop doing all of that. And understand that you are created in the image of the living God. designed for fellowship with him, and he invites you to fellowship with himself, even in the desert. You see, Satan comes to Jesus in the desert But the larger beauty of all of Scripture is that God comes to us in this desert. And his voice says, Come if you're hungry or thirsty. Come if you're weary and heavy laden. Come and find rest. And we do that by praying like this. Almighty God, we pray that you would bless us. Lord, we confess that we are in many ways tempted to put you to the test. We find ourselves either in in real life or in our imaginations caught up on pinnacles and we doubt your care for us, and so we would do foolish things and make foolish requests and demands of you. Lord, that go way beyond scripture or reason alike. And Father, we would do crazy things on the other side. To try to demand or to earn your affection, our sonship, our daughtership. Lord, we pray that you would help us to know in the midst of our Pilgrimage through this world, that you are the God who comes and seeks us out and invites us to come with simple repentance and childlike faith. And Lord, this is what we would be and do. Forgive us for our sins. As the prophet Amos teaches us, they are great and they are many. Father, lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake, and grant us a willing spirit to sustain us. Lord, help us to more and more want to do what is right. Lord, forgive us for erring in so many directions. Lord, help us. To be like Jesus. Forgive us of our sins. Cleanse us and wash us from all unrighteousness. and keep us until that great day of your return. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.