We are getting closer to the end of 1 Peter. So let's turn To 1 Peter. One of the things we find as we get close to the end of 1 Peter is he begins to go back to some of the central elements of his letter. In fact, there are very few books within the New Testament, none that I'm aware of, actually, that speak of The gospel in the context of suffering, the way that Peter does in this letter. And so he returns to familiar themes that he gave to us in the early chapters of the book. If you remember just for a moment, he says this in chapter 1. He says to them In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have to suffer grief in all kinds of trials These have come so that your faith of greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by fire, may be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. He now returns to this theme. And we along with him, as we look at God's word in looking uh in hearing Peter speak to us. in relationship to this very important scriptural theme, though also one that provides a lot of questions. And that is the proving ground of suffering. We turn to God's Word this morning, 1 Peter 4, verses 12 through 19. Hear now God's holy word Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for the judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will the outcome be for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if the righteous is scarcely saved What will become of the ungodly and the sinner? , Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me Heavenly Father, we thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ as we have already confessed our hope that He is the one who has suffered in our place. And yet in this life we also, knowing him, recognize that suffering is a part of this life. So Lord help us by way of your servant Peter to learn and to grasp. just a little bit of what you're doing in the midst of trial and suffering. But as you do so, we pray that you would place our hopes squarely on the one who is victorious over sin and death, who is with us and not far off in the midst of our trials. Help us we pray. In the name of Christ. Amen. We live as residents of the state of Maryland near the oldest active proving ground. In the United States. Aberdeen Proving Ground was established just six months after the end of World War I. It replaced Sandy Hook Proving Ground in southern New Jersey. It replaced Sandy Hook because they needed a larger place to test And to prove the worthiness of both weapons and weapon systems in the use of war for the protection of our homeland as well as in active war fronts around the globe. But one of the things that we learn about studying just a little bit of military history in the United States, we recognize the importance and learn of the importance of these proving grounds around the United States. And we rarely think of being thankful for these proving grounds. Largely because it's a mystery of what's being tested there. But one of the reasons we ought to be thankful for them is because weapons that are used for the protection of the United States and our allies here and around the world. Have come through a large amount of testing, a great amount of hardship and of trial, fire. Live weapons, live weaponry being used around them, their computer systems being tested under the harshest of conditions. Tested against those who would seek to infiltrate their systems, to dehabilitate them. They've been tested over and over and over again, not only to protect those who use them, but to protect those who who require their protection, namely us. So we scarcely understand The value of these proving gowns because, well, unless, well, okay, so I know this audience is largely made up of people who are responsible for a lot of those things, but that's beside the point. The issue is, even though we don't know and can't know what goes on there It is precisely the suffering and the fiery trial which Peter points to is a way in which we can also connect to what happens there. Our suffering and our trials are proving grounds for our faith. Peter wants us to see that a God who loves us Will allow us to go through trial and suffering so that our faith, our character, Is refined, purified, strengthened, and prepared Because without it, we don't know how strong our faith is Sadly, we have to recognize that in this life, it would be great to say, man, wouldn't it be nice if we could just learn how to be really peep good people of integrity? And strength , strong character in the good times, without the need for suffering and trial. The sad reality is that it requires testing But it is this. If the United States government values our safety and goes to the end that it can, spending billions of dollars each year To design, prepare, and test and test and test weapon systems to protect us. as a demonstration of their commitment to protect us, how much more Does not the love of God walk with us in the midst of our suffering to prepare us for his return? This is precisely what Peter wants us to hear. So let's look at it together. The reasons, the refinery, and the responses. of this proving ground of suffering. Reasons, refinery, responses. The reasons. Now here I want to be specific to the text, and that is, what are the reasons for the suffering in view for Peter in chapter 4? We have to say that it is quite clear that there are two ways in which he looks at suffering here. First, specifically, the suffering of Christians for being Christians. And secondly, suffering from sinful decisions and actions. Now, having said that, it isn't to say that nothing that Peter says here isn't also applicable to all forms of suffering. That is most certainly true. But what he has in focus here is a specific kind. And here he says to them, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you as though something strange were happening to you. He is writing to a group of people who have been socially ostracized, who've been belittled. who 've been insulted, who've suffered at the hands of persecutors for their faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. as those who once lived according to the world's philosophies and accepted practices of their fellow family members, of their friends. This was in the surrounding regions of what is modern-day Turkey, and so it was infected with all kinds of idolatry in the Roman Empire. And so, as he said earlier in the letter, they think it's strange that you do not plunge into their very activities. It's because they used to do those things and now they don't. And their reason for not doing so, it's not because they didn't formally enjoy them, it's no but it's because they now have a different Lord, a different king, other than their own desires and their own hearts And so now, as those who've submitted themselves to the Lord Jesus Christ, they are suffering for his name. But then he says, this should not surprise you. And the reason it should not surprise them is because if Christ suffered, Because of who he was, so is the promise of Scripture. So it will be for those who are of the name of Christ, who believe in him and trust in him. The reason for their suffering is not because they're bad people, or because they have bad luck, or they live in a in an empire or in a country that is particularly egregious. It is because that when we live our lives and profess faith in Jesus Christ and allow that to hold sway in our decision-making, in our relationship. in our work, then it will bring attention to the name that is above all names. And when that happens, people will stop inviting you to their parties, they will ridicule you, they will call you names, they will belittle you, they will call you an idiot. And it will feel very, very alone. But he says, don't be surprised Because it happened to the Savior. And he said the same would happen to you. But the other kind of suffering that he speaks to is suffering because of sinful decisions. Because the same reminder here in verse 12 is also a reminder to those who don't believe. He says we could also illustrate. interpret it when he says, Beloved, do not be surprised by the fiery trial when it comes upon you. Well he speaks of this fiery trial, verse sixteen, yet if any one of you suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify it. Rather verse fifteen. sorry, verse 15. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. So here's a sort of a a way of a life lesson, right? He's saying, this is what I have in view in regard to suffering. There are those who suffer because of the name of Christ. They allow it to form their lives and shape them. But also do not be surprised, people, that if you steal, you're going to get caught. That if you're a gossip or you meddle in other people's business, you're going to get doors slammed in your face. And you're going to be ostracized. Don't be surprised, people. And as well, if you are a murderer and you get put in jail, you lose your right to vote. You lose your freedom. Don't be surprised. But he says, But let that not be true of you He's holding out to us a life lesson. We are free With our wills to choose our decisions all day long We can choose the right path, or we can choose the wrong path. We can choose to follow Christ, or we can choose to reject Him and go on our own way. We are free to make that choice, but we're not free to choose our consequences The consequences of being a murderer or a thief or a meddler, a gossip. Those consequences will come upon you Like a wave. But his appeal is: let that not be true of you. Do you want a suffering that leads to consequences? That is not freedom, but enslavement, or do you want? Do you want to be united to the one who has been victorious over sin and death? Though they can persecute you, though they can make fun of you and ostracize you from society, they may even put you in jail. But what they can't do is they cannot enslave your soul. And it will not be because of your guilty or evil decisions, rather, it will be because of the name that is above all names, who suffered for you. We too, in his name, will suffer. These are the different reasons. Not all the reasons for suffering, but these are two that he has in view But the nuts and bolts of the text is really about the second point, and that is the refinery. It's not the what, but a little bit of the why of this kind of suffering. Now here he's specifically speaking to those who profess the name of Christ And this refinery we see here when he says, Beloved, do not be surprised by the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you. As though something strange were happening to you. This idea of fire And testing are two different words. This idea of testing is the word that literally translated is like something that pierces you. Something that pokes at you, something that tests you. And one of the ways you can learn the integrity of something is, well, how do you test the value? Of meat, where you can't just look at the outside of meat. Sometimes you have to cut it open to see. And so piercing is that same idea that testing and suffering can become something that pokes you. And it opens you up. And when it does, it begins to reveal what's on the inside in a way that good times and celebrating doesn't. And so it begins to prove the value, prove the integrity of something. That's what it tests. It's testing not what you say you believe, but how you actually live. Because in the midst of suffering, What is inevitable is what's on the inside will come out. Because when we're honest Go to a hospital, and you begin to see what our true selves are often like In 1958, my mother was diagnosed with something that was little known at the time and was often misdiagnosed. But she was not misdiagnosed. She was diagnosed with something called fibromyalgia. Some of you know of that diagnosis. I can tell you that for nearly 90% of my life, I never knew that. But over the last five years, my mother has been told by a doctor, he says, everything that you have is on a scale of 1 to 10 is about a 9. The bad news is that everything you have will I mean the bad news is, let me get this right. What did he say? I couldn't believe a doctor said this. He said, you have a lot of things that will really hurt you. But none of them will kill you. But there will be times where you wish you were dead. And when she shared that with me over the phone a few years back, I began to see a different side to my mother. She's four foot seven, but has a capacity and a level of for pain that I I could not fathom. I stub my toe, my wife will tell you, I stub my toe and I'm like ouching through the house. And I've begun to see over these last few weeks as my mother's had her hip replacement Is she a gracious person? Is she a thankful person? My mother and I have had our disagreements. But the integrity of her character is something that I haven't seen in quite this way. She's been tested. And she's being tested. There's something else that happens here to the Christian. It's not just that our faith is pierced and opened up to see its integrity or its value. Is this other word, which is literally translated purity? It's this idea that It's wonderful if we say what we believe. But the purity, the value of what we believe. He 's really tested when we are persecuted for the name of Christ, when we're belittled for our belief and faith. And it works like a refiner's fire. He tells us that indeed, when we are insulted for the name of Christ, we are blessed. That if we suffer for being a Christian, instead of being ashamed, we get to glorify his name. Because in the midst of suffering, like a refinery, it like fire to gold, it removes the impurities out of the gold. And gives to us its purity, its value. The same is the case with suffering That when we suffer for the name of Christ, what it begins to reveal is, is Christ really my trust or is something else? And it begins to reveal not what we say we believe, but how we really live. How do we live, Christian, if you call upon his name? This text forces me to the question. And it forced me to go back to one of the best books, if ever written, on the nature of suffering. Dr. Timothy Keller, a couple of years ago, wrote a book which I commend to everyone, everyone. Walking with God Through Pain and Suffering. It is a wonderful book. But I want to quote him because he says it far better than I. He says, Peter likens the Christian. With saving faith in Jesus Christ to gold filled with impurities. Mixed in with our faith in God are all sorts of competing commitments to comfort, power, pride, pleasure, and self. Our faith is largely abstract and intellectual and not very heartfelt most of the time We may believe cognitively that we are sinners saved by God's grace, but our hearts actually function on the premise that we are doing well. Because we are more decent or open-minded or hard-working or loving or sophisticated than others We have many blemishes in our character. We are too fragile under criticism or too harsh in giving it. We are bad listeners or ungenerous to people who we think foolish or too impulsive or too timid and cowardly or too controlling or unreliable. But we are largely blind to these things, even though they darken our own lives and harm other people. Then suffering comes along. Timidity, cowardice, selfishness, and self-pity. Tendencies towards bitterness and dishonesty, all of these impurities of the soul are revealed and drawn out by trials. And suffering just as a furnace draws the impurities out of refined metal ore. Finally, we can see who we really are. Like fire working on gold, suffering can destroy some things within us and can purify and strengthen other things. Or it won't And see, there's the dividing line for Peter. For those who are in Christ. The suffering will prove valuable because it will be the proving ground of the integrity of our character and our faith. Will reveal the true foundation upon which we live. It will reveal the impurities and blemishes in our character that maybe others see but are afraid to tell us and that we're blind to. But the suffering brings it out. Or it won't, and we won't see it. Perhaps suffering will lead us to be even harsher people, less generous, more angry. More self-focused. What will the answer be? Peter gives to us a list of responses I'll just quickly recount them. He says, first, rejoice, be glad, and praise Rejoice, be glad, and praise He's saying that for the Christian, that when you face suffering like this, the responses that come Are ones that seem more apt for the good times. But he actually says: for the Christian who suffers according to God's will, When he allows suffering for the name of Christ and our faith to come on us, that we can be a people who begin to thank God for it. To rejoice that we are sharing in the sufferings of Christ. But also to be glad that because as we go through it, our faith is strengthened. Our characters are being made more holy because we are reflecting the Lord Jesus as the suffering begins to remove our false foundations of pride or power. or success and takes us back to what our foundation ought to be as those who profess faith, and that is Jesus Christ. He's calling us to these responses. But if you read them, how is that possible? How can suffering actually bring about more integrity, more spiritual health? More holiness. I tell you, it is absolutely impossible for that to be the case If we and or if we do not know the Lord Jesus Christ Because the truth is this the Lord loves you so much. that his son died for you, not to make you a happy, smiling, good people. He died for us to make us holy. And the inescapable reality of this life Is that the process of being made holy is suffering for the name of Christ Because when we're honest, we want to trust in our own power and pride and success. But it's only in the midst of the crucible of suffering do we begin to see how much we're just relying on our own flesh. And we have Jesus along as an accessory to an already well-lived life. But Peter and the Lord Jesus desire something different for us. That Jesus is not meant to be an accessory. He is life itself. And Jesus Has walked in this life. He's walked in our flesh. And we can say, and only those who profess faith in Christ can say Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. I will fear no one. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of suffering for the name of Christ, I will fear no evil. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, and my sins and my impurities are brought to the forefront, I will not fear because perfect love casts out all fear. Because in that valley of the shadow of death, we have a Savior who's not just with us, we have the shepherd who went before us. And if Jesus is with us and has communed with us in his flesh, and has communed with us in his crucified body, and was raised to life on the third day. and communes with us by faith through the work of the Holy Spirit, and he is present here, then I can say to you, if you are a Christian, Jesus is with you. And no suffering will overcome you. It will hurt It may even take from you the life that you are now experiencing. Because death is still part of this life. But it will not separate the love of God from you. And I say this to you in the name of Christ. If you are not a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and you are suffering, I must tell you that coming to Christ will not mean the removal of suffering. I don't want you to have that image of Christianity. You may even suffer more as a result of being a Christian. But this I do know, that there is a love so pure, so powerful, so present, that it will never leave you nor forsake you In the midst of your suffering. And that Jesus has died for you. And I invite you this morning to know him And to know the freedom that comes with his salvation. And as a promise to those of you who profess Christ, And as a promise to those of you who do not know him, but maybe considering the gospel, I want to read to you a passage that I've read many times in this congregation. But I want to read it again because it is so dear to my own faith and walk. It is Romans chapter 8. He says this. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship, persecution Or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or the sword. As it is written, For your sake we face death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. No. In all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation Will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we confess that the proving grounds of suffering are difficult and we don't want them. And yet we recognize that we suffer according to your will for the name of Christ. We also have a whole host. Of ways in which we suffer, O Lord, which are still in view to us this morning. Sufferings in this life because of sin and brokenness. And that things are not the way they ought to be. Sickness and death, but also sin that brings about suffering because of evil doing. Lord, we bring all of this to you. And we bring it before you. And we bring our rag tag souls and hearts to you. And we ask that you would help us to taste of the love that will not let us go. That you would be able to transform suffering which is bitter and sour. To suffering where we can say, Blessed be the name of the Lord, that we will be made holy and pure. For the name that is above all names, Jesus Christ. In his mighty name we pray. Amen.