If you have your Bibles with you tonight, turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter two. This morning I'll read for us verses one. This evening I'll read for us verses one through twenty. Almighty God, before we read your word, Father, we pray that you would bless it to us. Remind us that indeed love did come down on Christmas. And Lord, it continues to come down. faithfully, regularly, morning by morning as your mercies are renewed, to every heart that looks to you with faith, every mind open to your truth, every will transformed by your Spirit's agency. Lord, we pray that we would experience your love and your peace and the joy that is ours in Christ, Lord, anew as often as we look to your great book, the Bible. Your word from heaven, given to us that we might know you and live. Bless this reading of your word to us, and Lord, in the preaching that follows. O Lord, make it useful in blessing, and guarding and keeping and encouraging. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 2, the Word of God, beginning with verse 1. In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus. that all the world should be registered. This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria, and all went to be registered, each to his own town. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. To be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child. And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth And she gave birth to her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn. And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste, and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them. This ends the reading of God's Word. You have heard that Christmas narrative, Luke chapter two, many times. As often as you've watched the Peanuts Christmas special. Plus, however many times you've been to Christmas Eve services like this one. When we have a familiar narrative like that, it sort of becomes almost cathartic in a way. We hear the name Quirinius, and we sort of get really comfortable. And we start thinking about Christmas trees and ornaments. And did you remember to put all the tractors with the tractors and the ducks with the ducks on the tree? And we sometimes don't listen critically, and by critically I mean carefully, to what the text is saying to us. Familiarity doesn't, in this case, so much breed contempt. as it does dereliction of hermeneutical duty. And that's a dreadful thing when that happens. If you were to read the Bible, you will find that from time to time God gives a sign for some specific great thing he's going to do. And when he gives a sign, it is always a great thing that he's going to do. And the sign is always specific and associated in some way with the great thing he's going to do. And so, if you were to pick up any set of Bible commentaries or listen to the lifetime preaching of your favorite preacher, whomever that might be You would find that whenever we find God giving a sign, usually a sermon or two, or at the best a paragraph or two, is dedicated to that sign, and why the sign of the serpent raised in the wilderness is appropriate. Or why that sign is suitable for the great act of God. Unless you come to Luke chapter 2. And in Luke chapter 2, it is amazing to me how quickly we, and speaking we in the largest sense, it's as if the church since the early centuries breezes right past the fact that Jesus was laid in a manger and the fact that that is given specifically as a sign to the shepherds who would know precisely what the manger was for. Now let's wind back a minute and talk about why that might be. First of all, to be born in a chamber, born in a manger would have been a symbol of great shame. It would have been something you wouldn't put necessarily on a resume. I know which hospital I was born in, Mercy Hospital in Urbana, Illinois. Or actually I guess the town was Champaign, Illinois. My wife knows where she was born. You may know where you were born. Jesus was born in a stable in a manger. Now, when you say, well, the sign that was given, maybe let's keep walking back a little bit and think about, well, why is it that we just look at these verses as sort of uh ephemeral or throwaway or extroverses. Well, because after all the shepherds needed a clue to know which baby was the one Maybe that's all this means. The angel is saying, okay, so shepherds, listen, here's the deal. A baby was born in the town of Bethlehem, and you're going to wonder which baby it was, because in a town of Maybe it's remember it's a small, insignificant town, oh little town of Bethlehem. It didn't even make the census recorded at the end of the captivity. In Judges chapter 13, when that particular book was codified. It's a backwater of a small town. Maybe there's a thousand people in there. Crowded for census collection. How many of those thousand women do you think gave birth that night? And so Intent upon not engaging in dereliction of hermeneutical duty, I give this little smell test. Those shepherds probably didn't have a lot of choices of newborn babies to pick from. In fact, statistically, there was only one baby born that night in the environs of Bethlehem. Every baby, from the child of the emperor to the lowest, meanest, most common, poverty-stricken slave in Ephesus, and I just almost set my hand on fire. had been wrapped in swaddling cloths when they were born. There is nothing signatory about that. And in fact, when we read that the shepherds find the baby, this is what we read. The shepherds say to one another, Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. No reference to the cloths. That's just the baby's going to be newborn. It's going to be wrapped in swaddling cloths. He's going to be lying in a manger. That's the sign. The sign of this great act of the redeeming God who watched Adam and Eve exercise the will he gave them to rebel against him by eating. And God said, I'm going to give them a Savior upon whom they can feed. And this is not lost on the earliest centuries of the Christian tradition. If we were to go back and look at the earliest visual representations of the nativity, the birth scene of Jesus of Nazareth. The Savior of the world. We would find that our earliest fathers and mothers in the faith would draw a picture of a manger. The earliest scratchings of this on walls, representations in mosaics, pictures in triptychs and diptychs, ancient forms of art in the first century's Hellenistic world. He showed just the manger, the baby hidden within, and an ox, and an ass. A reference to Isaiah's opening chapters, even the oxen ass know their owner's manger or feeding crib. But my people go elsewhere for food. And when Jesus is born and laid in a manger, the earliest church interpreted that fact. through the lens of Isaiah. Isaiah, who says, We must know our master's crib. We must know where we can go to get food that truly feeds. We descendants of a father and mother who ate forbidden food from a forbidden place must know the one table and the one place sitting from which we can safely dine to our soul's content. And consider Isaiah in chapter 55, when he's talking about the Messiah to come, the words that he puts in the Messiah's mouth. Come, everyone who thirsts. Come to the waters, he who has no money. Come, buy and eat. Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread? And your labor for that which does not satisfy. Compare this with what a contemporary earlier of Isaiah's Micah says in chapter 6, verse 14. You will spend your money on bread and it will not satisfy. A great picture of judgment And interestingly enough, this language from Isaiah 55, come, buy and eat, is the language of a birthday celebration, of a party. In the ancient world, they did things differently than we do today. When I have my birthday, I expect you to give me presents. Usually Bible commentaries. Sometimes the odd Snickers bar will work its way in. I won't complain. But we have a tradition where on your birthday people give you presents Well, in the ancient world, when you celebrated a red letter day, here's how you did it. You went into the marketplace, into whatever town or village or city you lived in. You took your festival budget, you dropped it on the table of some uh stall in the marketplace, and you said, Come, everybody! Come, eat without money, and drink without money, because I'm celebrating today. That's how it was celebrated And what would the Son of God, the Messiah prophesied by Isaiah, the one who filled the master's crib, be celebrating? when he stands up in the marketplace of the temple 's courts in John chapter 7, just weeks before his crucifixion. And says, come to me if you're thirsty, and drink, not if you have money, but if you believe. And this great message of Christmas that we often forget in our hasty readings of Luke 2, the sign of Christmas is that Christmas Jesus being born on Christmas will so refute the curse that we who would eat from anywhere to satisfy any and all cravings and be frustrated and empty at the end of the the end of the day, may come to him and be satisfied. Your Jesus this Christmas Eve, oh dear friend, he is food for your soul. He is food for your soul. He who says, Come to me and eat. This is my flesh. This is my very blood. He who would be remembered by a meal. Was born in a manger. The sign of Christmas is that he knows your emptiness. He knows that ache. He knows the gnawing and the growling. And he says, I am your great solution. And I give myself to you. And I so for the joy set before me embrace this life, this manger, this cross, and the joy set before me in Hebrews 11. Is the fact that you are his people forever. And for the joy set before him, for the anticipation of that great party, he celebrates by saying, Come if you believe. Come if you are hungry. Here I am in a manger. Here I am on a table. Commune with me and be fed and live. You're gonna have a lot of cookies this Christmas You're gonna have pie. You're gonna have a turkey or ham or lamb or whatever your family traditions are, all your favorite side dishes. As a preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I want to be sure that you're having Christ. Amen. He came in a manger for you, that you might be satisfied. Your sins completely forgiven. The debt for your sins paid on the cross of Christ. His perfect obedience credited to you for righteousness, that you might stand in the presence of God on that great day, invited to that banquet that will be heaven. Oh dear friend, today is a day with emptiness and sorrow. As a church we feel it. But today is a day to feed and be satisfied. Because Jesus Christ was born this day. Amen. Dear congregation of CPC, I love you so much. And there is nothing more I can do for you than tell you that Jesus is the answer to every question you will ever have. Jesus is the supply necessary for everything you've ever needed. Jesus is God's definitive yes to every promise he has ever made. And Jesus in his coming is associated with a sign that puts him completely at your disposal. Only be that early ox or ass and come. Come to Jesus Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise. Father, we are so hungry for so many things, and we go herring off at breakneck speeds in so many directions, trying to satisfy so many appetites. And Lord, calm us and still us and woo us and invite us, compel our hearts to come to you with this great sign of Christmas, that the Lord of glory was laid in a manger. And that we're no longer eating forbidden fruit. We are feasting on Christ. We no longer walk away from the table, hungrier than we arrived. We are at rest because we have been saved. Bless us. Oh Lord, my prayer this Christmas Eve is for any who don't know Christ. That they would recognize their great hunger, and recognize in their hunger the one qualification necessary to come to Christ and be fed. Come hungry. Be touched by Jesus as you lay hold of him for forgiveness. Come hungry, but leave holy Knowing that Jesus has given Himself for you, and you are forgiven. Hear our prayers, O God, we lift them up in Christ's name. Amen.