After that introduction, I'm kind of interested to hear what I have to say. Over the years I've had the opportunity to meet and work with a number of uh really pretty significant Christian leaders, uh largely through a connection I made, and I'm not going to tell the story with Chuck Colson. But one of those was Oz Guinness. And Oz was speaking in Boston, this is while we were living in Connecticut, and so we went up to hear him. And At the time, I was working on a book with a mystiologist on the growth of the church in the global south. So I said hi to Oz and you know we greeted each other. He asked me what I was working on. And I told him, uh I'm looking at the growth of the church in the global south, which is really explosive. I don't know if you're aware of this, but right now the church is growing faster than it ever has in history. The gospel, the kingdom is growing faster now than ever in history. But it's all happening in what we call the global south. It used to be the developing world or the third world. Africa especially, but uh lots of places in South Asia, China, uh Latin America, and so on. And so the question is, why is it happening there and not here? And I you know, so I told Oz this. And Oz looked at me with one of these almost fiddle looks. And he said, Well, they have a supernatural worldview. And that is really a lot of the answer. Because of course the unstated part of that is we don't. So, what does it mean to have a supernatural worldview? A lot of different parts of this. But I'm going to take a look as a way of getting toward this. I want to take a look at Luke 11. And we'll be looking at both the immediate context of what's going on in Luke 11 and then exploring some of its implications for us. So this is Luke 11 starting in verse 1. Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray as John taught his disciples. And he said to them, When you pray, say, Father, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, give us each day our daily bread, and forgive our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. and lead us not into temptation. And he said to them, Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within, Do not bother me, the door is shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything. I tell you, though we will not get up and give him anything, because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence he will rise and give him whatever he needs. And I tell you, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open to you. For every one who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent? Or if he asks for an egg, we'll give him a scorpion. If you, then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Now, he was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marveled. But some of them said, He casts out demons by Bilzebule, the Prince of Demons. While others, to test him, kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebubul. And if I cast out demons by Beelzebubul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judge. But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. When a strong man fully armed guards his own palace, his goods are safe. But when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil. Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. This is the word of the Lord. Okay, now this is going to seem like an odd place to start when it comes to talking about supernatural worldview. But I would like to suggest that in a lot of ways this is exactly the right place to start. I'm going to be drawing a lot of comparisons today between what I see in the typical American church and what we see in the churches of the global south that have a supernatural worldview. And in particular, I'll be looking at Sierra Leone, a small country in West Africa, actually one of the poorest countries in the world, the poorest in Africa and what's going on there. Because what's happening there is really really remarkable. But look let's look at the first half of this. This this passage falls into two halves, one on prayer. one on well teaching about demons. Okay. So the first half on prayer. What's going on here? To understand this, we need to know something about Judaism in Jesus' day. With the Babylonian captivity, it became impossible to perform sacrifices. And as a result, the Jews in Babylon started Saying, okay, what are the things that we need to do? We can't do sacrifices, we don't have a temple. What do we need to do? And they concluded that it w what was critically important if you can't do sacrifices is that every faithful Jew had to pray. And they had to pray three times a day. And eventually it turned into a rather lengthy series of prayers that were recited. In Jesus' day it was 14, it's now up to 18. And they're known as the 18 benedictions. Failing to pray three times a day like this is considered a sin in Jesus' day. This is known, by the way, as the amida, the standing. Now the problem is these benedictions actually take a while if you're actually going to do them. And the net result is that rabbinical students would frequently go to their rabbis and say, Rabbi, I've got a day job. I don't have time to recite the benedictions three times a day. Can you give me a shortened version? What it what 's the minimum amount that I can say to avoid sinning? Okay? And we actually have have records of this. We have r the the good parts versions of the the benedictions, the shortened versions of them from rabbis. And you know what? They look a lot like the Lord's Prayer in many ways. So what's going on here? Jesus ' opponents threw everything at them that they could. They never criticized his prayer life What that means is that Jesus was reciting the Amida. He was doing the 18 Benedictions or the 14 benedictions at that point, three times a day. He was also praying a lot at other times. He'd get up early before dawn. He'd stay up all night praying. I mean he prayed a lot. And but in particular, he also followed the Jewish ritual pattern of of of these ritual prayers. So the disciples come to him and say Teach us to pray. Note, the way John taught his disciples to pray. What's the good parts version? What's the short version of the Amida that we can pray while we're going about our our daily life. We're not full-time rabbis. We can't do do the benedictions. And so you will notice that here in Luke It's not what you see in Matthew. In Matthew, he says, when you pray, pray like this. And Luke he says, when you pray, say So he's giving up a prayer to recite. And you'll notice it's actually an even shorter version than what we get in Matthew. And we know, by the way, that this was the practice in the early church. In the the Didiche, which is the earliest non-New Testament Christian writing that we have, which talks about uh uh Christian life. It says that three times a day you are to recite the Lord's Prayer. So they're actually following the Jewish precedent here. So that that's the cultural context of what's going on here. Oh, by the way, why three times a day? I think that there's an important psychological dimension going on here. If you just pray when you get up in the morning or you just pray when you go to bed , You kind of lose track of God during the day. By returning to pray in the morning, in the middle of the day, and in the evening, you're bringing God into your daily life. You keep returning to him. And this is a very valuable tool for you to Keep in touch with God. Okay. So that's what's going on. That's the immediate context of what Jesus says. And then you will notice he talks about the importance of persistence in prayer and things like that as we move forward. So let's do a little bit of diagnostic for us about supernatural worldview here. Because I would argue that one of the ways that you can really tell if you have a supernatural worldview is what does your prayer life look like? Jesus was one of these people who spent a huge amount of time with prayer in prayer, as we noted, not just with the amida, but staying up all night, getting up early, all of these kinds of things. Jesus was living in intimate relationship with his father every moment of his life. If Jesus needed to spend that much time in prayer when he was so intimately connected with the Father. What does that suggest about the way we should be praying? According to a Barna survey I read I read about. I never actually tracked down the survey. The average Christian in America spends something like two to four minutes a day praying. And that includes grace at meals. Now, what that demonstrates is one of two things, and maybe both. But I would suggest the first of them is we don't believe in prayer, because if we did, we'd do it more. But the other thing that it might suggest, which is connected to the first, is we don't believe we need prayer. The place that I would look for that is, let's take another diagnostic. Let's look at the content of the prayer. In both Matthew's version of the prayer and Luke's version of the prayer, one of the things we are to pray is that God would provide us with our daily bread. Now, in Jesus' day, this literally meant our daily bread, the bread that we need today. He's speaking to poor people who very often are living Not just paycheck to paycheck, but day to day getting their food for the day from their work for the day. So they really had to rely on God to provide for them daily. I think we can expand this beyond bread just to our general needs, our physical needs How many of us actually need to pray for our daily needs to be met? How many of you, well, let's not personalize this, how many of us in America don't know where our next meal is coming from? How many of us don't know where, you know, uh don't don't know well, making rent may be an issue. But most of us really are living pretty comfortable lives. And in a lot of ways, that prayer, give us this day our daily bread, is one that frankly We don't at least think we need to pray. We say it because we're told to say it, but do we really mean it? Do we really rely on God for our daily needs? We are living in a culture that is so abundant And we are living in a culture that is so prosperous that frankly that prayer for most of us, I suspect, is largely meaningless. So we don't pray because we don't think we need to pray, because we've we've basically got stuff together. And like I said, we don't necessarily believe in prayer either. I want to contrast this with Sierra Leone. I mentioned that Sierra Leone is one of the poorest countries in the world, the poorest country in Africa. It is a country that is rife with corruption. Um Okay, to put Sierra Leone in perspective, they do not have stoplights in Sierra Leone because they don't have electricity consistently enough to use stoplights. Okay, that's the kind of poverty we're talking about. There was a when we were there, when I was there the last time, there was a pop-up medical clinic that my wife, who was an RN , participated in. And without going into all of the details, she was testing for malaria. Anybody who came in with a fever, she tested for malaria. Every one of them had malaria There was someone who came in with an infected wound on his foot and she said, you know, okay, I look at this and I think, okay. intravenous antibiotics, irrigate the wound, clean the clean it, change the dressing regularly, and so on. They gave them Tylenol because that's all that they had. And when they ran out of Tylenol, they had to stop seeing people until Lynn remembered she had a little container of Tylenol in her purse. And that allowed them to treat a few more people. That's poverty. That's what it really looks like. In Sierra Leone, they know they need God And so they pray. That book that I was working with with Oz is called The Kingdom Unleashed. I'm going to read you a section of this. Now, this is anonymized because Sierra Leone is a Muslim-majority country and we didn't want to use real names here. But in the organization I worked with there, this is their prayer schedule. And by the way, when I use the word fasting here, it means they don't eat anything until five in the afternoon. So they're fasting, breakfast, and lunch. So annually, there are 21 days of fasting and prayer in all churches starting on January 10th Monthly, one Friday night each month is spent for a half or a whole night in prayer. Weekly, every Wednesday or Thursday is spent fasting, and they break the fast with the church gathered for Bible study and intercessory prayer. Daily, there's 90-minute prayer meetings at 40 prayer centers in five countries. Weekdays, all ministry offices and schools stop at noon for 30 minutes of midday intercession. The last day of the month, all Christ's followers are encouraged to come out of their house and engage with their neighbors with prayer for God to meet their needs. So they go out and talk to their unchristian neighbors and pray with them. The last three days of December spent in Thanksgiving Day prayers and fasting. That's their regular schedule. And then they've got a number of other special prayer meetings for different sorts of things, which I'm not going to read through here. They pray constantly And you know, when they when people come to the medical clinic, one of the first things they do is they pray with them because they don't, they can't really treat them. They don't have what they need to. They pray constantly because they know they need to. And they pray intensely. Man, Koreans and Africans, you you you want to hear people pray. It's Well, uh the intensity of the prayer is is is is remarkable. And do you know what ends up happening? Miracles. And I'm not using that word lightly There are New Testament level miracles occurring in that ministry today. I don't know what your theology is on this, but I gotta tell you, if you don't think miracles occur, you need to rethink your theology. I have met a person who was the human agent through which God raised the dead. His attitude, no big deal. I was just the guy on the ground. God's the one who did it The number of things that are going on. Well, actually, in the United States, I don't know if you're aware of this, there are thousands of miracles that are medically documented that are happening today as well. Craig Keener , professor at Asbury Seminary, wrote a book on this called Miracles. That's a popular level. He did an even longer one, an academic level, where he studied all of this. These are well documented. I mean some of them are even on video. So miracles are in fact happening. Do we actually pray expecting them? Remember, after the prayer what Jesus says about persistence and expectation, do we actually pray expecting miracles? Do we actually pray in a way that if a prayer was answered, we would know it? Sometimes I think our prayers are so general that we're not sure whether God acted or whether it would have happened, whether we prayed or not. All of this, I think, comes from assuming really sort of at a deep level that things that happen in the world around us, things that happen in the visible world, happen because of visible causes. We forget the fact that we're living in a world That is permeated by a larger invisible world, and that God is here and is active in this world, and that our prayer actually makes a difference. Prayer, I think, is the key diagnostic for a supernatural worldview. I could tell you loads of stories about Sierra Leone and the miracles that are going on there, but I'm going to move on to the other half of this. At the end of Lord's Prayer in Matthew, we usually say , lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. There are technical reasons in the Greek, which I'm not going to get into, that suggest that that's not really the best translation. It should be translated, deliver us from the evil one. So it's a prayer for deliverance from, well, Satan. Now, Luke doesn't include that here, but I think it's convenient that he moves right into a discussion of deliverance. Which isn't really surprising because 25% of Jesus' ministry, more or less, in the Gospels, involves demons. Demons, unclean spirits, evil spirits, whatever. Jesus clearly believed that these things were there and that they were active in the world. And He clearly believed that there's a spiritual hierarchy involved. You know, Bill Zab is the prince Bill Zabull is the prince. And in fact, our Colossians reading earlier, where it talks about thrones, dominions, authorities Uh we look at that and we don't really, you know, we're we're wondering what you know is he talking about you know kings and rulers and things like that? No. In the New Testament era, when he was writing, those were words that were used to describe different levels of an invisible hierarchy. They are ranks of angels or demons. So when it says he is above all he created all things visible and invisible, whether thrones, dominions, or authorities He's talking about creating the invisible world there. That's what that really means in the period. That's the language that he is using there. So we know clearly that Jesus, Paul, all of the others very much believed that there is an invisible world with invisible denizens in it that affects this world. So what does scripture tell us about the invisible world? Now before we get here, there are two things that I need to say. First of all, a warning from C. S. Lewis. C. S. Lewis at the beginning of the Screw Tape Letters says that there are two equal and opposite errors we can make with respect to The first of them is to ignore their existence to make believe they don't exist. That's what I think most people in the West do. The other one is to take an unhealthy interest in them and to get too focused on them. Demons are happy whichever w whichever mistake you you make there. Okay, so we have to be careful not to get too obsessed or interested or focused on this. But nonetheless, Scripture does have things to say about it, and it's important for us to understand that. Otherwise it wouldn't be in Scripture. Of the other warning though comes from J. R. R. Tolkien. Lewis dedicated the screw tape letters to Tolkien. Tolkien was horrified because he thought that Lewis was doing something really, really dangerous and even thinking too much about how Satan works. Remember in the if you read The Lord of the Rings, Saruman falls because he studied the arts of the enemy too closely And he was afraid Lewis was going in that direction. So again, we've got to be really careful not to get too focused and pursue this too far. But having said that, Scripture does tell us things about the invisible world. What does it tell us? Well, first of all, I've got to take off my glasses because I've got notes here and I can't read them with these things. Ephesians, a lot of these, this comes from Ephesians. Ephesians 2. 1. It talks about Satan as the prince of the kingdom of the air. What does that mean? Well, to understand this, you need to understand how they understood the world to be structured. The Earth was believed to be the stationary center of the universe. around which was, well, the air, which ended at the level of the moon. Okay, the moon is on a sphere, a crystalline sphere And it it's embedded on that. And the air is everything that goes below that. And this is considered the first heavens. Beyond the moon, you're in the second heavens. And then beyond that, you're in the realm of God, the third heavens. Okay. So that's the structure. When it talks about Satan being the prince of the kingdom of the air, what it's saying is that Satan's domain is this world below the level of the moon. He's not involved in the heavens, as we would think of it. But this realm below the level of the moon, this is Satan's kingdom. This is why you also see references like in Ephesians 3. 10 to the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. The heavenly places are this first heaven, this realm of the air. So this was understood, this world and the the atmosphere and all that was understood as the realm in which Satan was active. in which he operated. Then in Ephesians 1. 21 you get rulers, authorities, powers, dominions. These are sometimes described as being in the heavenly places, but they're also described as being over this present darkness. So these each of these things was understood as having a different particular area of authority. Some of them are over kingdoms, some of them are over geographic regions, some of them are over, well, all kinds of different things. But note that they are the powers over this present darkness, Ephesians 6. 12. What this means is that the evil we see in this world has its origin not in people. We look at people, we look at political movements, we look at cultural social movements. We look at all of these kinds of things and that think that that's where evil is located. No. The center of evil is in this demonic realm that influences our world. And if we are really going to be dealing with this issue of evil, we've got to be thinking about it, not just in terms of we've got to deal with things on the political and social and cultural level and all of that sort of thing. But we have to recognize that behind it are these spiritual forces of darkness. We see this, by the way, in the book of Daniel. In Daniel, he talks about um the prince of of of Persia, the Prince of Greece, and so on. These are the spiritual powers behind these countries, these kingdoms. And if you read Daniel, it's pretty clear that that's what's going on there. Now, we also read in Colossians 2. 8, it was talking about the elemental um the elemental spirits of this world. The Greek word there is Stoikaea. These were believed to be Well, again, spiritual beings that were responsible for things within the physical world. Okay, so again, we see that showing up in Colossians. What do these forces do? They're involved on a personal level, they're involved with temptation. We see this with Jesus' temptation. Revelation 12. 10 describes Satan as the accuser of the brethren. Satan accuses us before God, but he also accuses us before ourselves. We know from the Gospels as Jesus is casting out demons that demonic activity can cause mental or physical illness. Doesn't mean that all mental or physical illness is caused by demons. Scripture is also clear about that, but some of it is And then of course you've got demonization, which is a better word than possession on various levels. You've got the people who study this uh define three levels. Uh let's see, it's obsession. Oppression, obsession, and possession. Okay. Those are the three levels that they define. But there are different degrees to which demonic entities can influence us. And as I said, they also have influence over nations. We see this in Daniel. They resist angelic work that is sent to aid us. We see this in Daniel And they have power over the physical world. Go to the book of Job. We see fire from heaven, probably lightning. destroying sheep and shepherds from Job. We see winds destroying the house that Job's children were in. Notice they're all atmospheric phenomena, Prince of the Power of the Air. This is what scripture tells us about these demonic beings. Okay? Here's the question. Do you believe it? Because our world tells you that all of this is nonsense. Our culture tells you that this is all nonsense. This is what scripture says is the nature of the invisible world. If we are going to recover, oh by the way, you go to Sierra Leone , they have no doubts about this. Because they encounter overt demonic activity on a practically daily basis. Deliverance stuff, curses , people with really wild magical abilities. This is stuff that they deal with all the time. So they don't have any question about this. The question is, do we? If we're going to talk about having a biblical worldview, if we're going to talk about having a supernatural worldview, Then we need to start taking this stuff seriously. Oh, and by the way, remember, why isn't the church expanding here the way it is in the global south? Os guinnists, it's because we do not have a supernatural worldview. Well, the good news about all of this is that Christ has the victory over all of these demonic forces out there. Our ultimate victory is secure. It doesn't mean that they're not still dangerous, and it doesn't mean that there won't be casualties along the way. Uh someone I work with a bit at the Colson Center had a lived in a neighborhood where there were people who were heavily into the occult and they didn't like the fact that they had Christians in the neighborhood. And they, well, did a curse on them, and their house was thoroughly demonized to the point where their children were getting claw marks on them Furniture was being turned over, the whole place was just a complete nightmare until that occult family ended up moving. Kids are suffering PTSD from it. It does happen. This isn't just horror books. It does happen. So there can be casualties, but the good news is Christ is victorious. And in the long run, if we take the big picture, if we take the long view, we win. So that's the good news. And the other part of it is that Scripture has called us over and over again to take a stand against these spiritual forces. We're told in Ephesians to stand firm with the armor of God. We're told um in in James to resist the devil. Over and over again, there are passages in scripture that tell us we're engaged in spiritual warfare, whether we like it or not. We're commanded. To be part of it. The Lord's prayer, deliver us from evil, is a deliverance prayer. Now, I am already two minutes over time, so I I can't really go into any detail on this, but this is something we need to be aware of. And we need to engage in. But the one hint I will give you here, to bring it back to the beginning, is when the disciples, uh when Jesus came down from the Mount of Transfiguration, and the disciples had a Uh you know, they they were they were having a a quarrel, an argument or something, because there was a kid who had a demon that caused something that's a lot like epilepsy. Looks a lot like epilepsy, and they couldn't cast the demon out. And Jesus casts it out, and the disciples come to him and say, Look, you gave us authority over demons before. Why didn't this one come out? Jesus says, Well, this kind only comes out with fasting and prayer. Here's the good news. Whatever else we may think about spiritual warfare, our ultimate weapon, right back to the beginning of the sermon, our ultimate weapon is prayer It's fasting and prayer. So however, you know, you may or may not ever run into someone who is Demonized. You may or may not ever have to deal with poltergeists or things like that, which I have had to deal with. You may or may not have any of these things happen with you. But you can still participate very actively in spiritual warfare by taking the mandate to pray about it seriously. It's worth noting if you look at the armor of God in Ephesians, you know, everybody looks at the image, you know, the belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, all these sorts of things What most people miss is that when you get through all of the images, at the end, Paul, in the space of, I think it's two verses, uses four different words referring to prayer. So put on all the armor and then pray, pray, pray, pray. That's the climax of the armor of God. It's prayer. So what I would encourage you to do at this point is to well examine yourself. Ask yourself the question, do I take this stuff seriously? Scripture clearly teaches it. Do I take it seriously? What's my prayer life like? What can I do to improve it? And again, there are loads of resources to help you with that if you want to improve your prayer life. But we really If we are going to see the kind of work of God that we need in America right now. Not just for the sake of saving the country or saving the culture or anything like that, but for the sake of saving our neighbors. For the sake of the advancement of the kingdom, we need to recover a supernatural worldview. We need to recover a strong and vital prayer life. And especially with the growth of the occult that we've got going on in the country right now, we need to recover an awareness of the invisible world and to engage the way we're commanded to inscription.