5 of Leviticus 18. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel And say to them, I am the Lord your God. You shall not do what is done in the land of Egypt where you live Nor are you to do what is done in the land of Sina, where I am bringing you. You shall not walk in their scatter You are to perform my judgments and keep my statutes, to live in accord with them. I am the Lord your God For you shall keep my statutes and my judgments, by which a man may live, if he does them. I am the Lord. I'd like to deal with this topic, with this subject in three aspects, and you have the outline before you if you picked up one on the way in that uh will help you follow along. One of the aspects of the first one is what this message said to the Israelites in their time. And the second is what does it say to us here in Columbia in 1979 And then I'd like to talk a bit about how we battle this problem of conformity. But first, what does this message say to the Israelites in Moses ' time? The book of Leviticus is foundedly full of law. If you've read it recently, you're certainly familiar with it. It has a great many uh major laws and minor, minute laws. Which almost all uh dictated by God to Moses. A phrase In uh this particular book it's used thirty times is, and the Lord said to Moses, in fact about uh twenty of the twenty-seven chapters begins. With these words, and the Lord said to Moses, and then follow instructions for the priests of that day and for God's chosen people of that day Putting the verses that we are going to deal with here in context, the following chapters, chapters 18 to 20, deal with the moral law. This is one of our most vulnerable areas. We all find it very difficult to struggle with God's moral law and its application in our lives. And God knows this. In these five verses, you probably notice that either the phrase, I am the Lord your God, or I am the Lord is repeated three times in five verses. It's as if God is reminding the people through speaking. He says, First, I am the Lord. So he's saying, this is the Lord speaking. This is Yahweh, the great I am. This is the person whose name is so awesome that you can't even pronounce it. This is the person who's sovereign over all things. It's almost as if we 're speaking to our children once in a while when they Don't seem like they're listening, they certainly aren't minding. We will say, Now remember, John, this is your father speaking to you And so God is making it clear who is speaking. The second point he makes clear is the relationship with the Israelites. And he uses the phrase, your God. I am the Lord your God. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. You are my people, and I am your God. In Leviticus 2. 8, we read. I am the one who sanctifies you. So God is making it very clear in these five verses who is speaking and the relationship of the one speaking and those being spoken to. Now after this clear statement of who's speaking, what is the message to the Israelite? The first are very clear. The first one is simply don't conform. If we look at verse 3 in the text, we read You shall not do what is done in the land of Egypt where you lived, nor are you to do what is done in the land of Sin where I am bringing you. You shall not walk in their statutes. Now statutes here means unchangeable rules or the rules that they that they are governed by. So this simply says don't do what those people do and don't go by their rules, don't follow their rules. And again, we're dealing with specifically at this point with the moral practices, sexual, morality, family relationship, worship, and the relationship of one person to another. And in chapter 18, a whole host of things are listed that are forbidden, present, things not to do. And then at the conclusion of chapter 18, after God has listed all of the things that the society does around them that they're not to do We hear some very firm words and I think it's worth reading those. Let's turn to the end of chapter 18 and read verses twenty-four to the end of the chapter twenty-four to thirty. But so do not defile yourselves by any of these things, for by all these the nations which I am casting out before you have become defiled. For the land has become defiled, therefore I have visited its punishment upon it, for the land has spewed out its inhabitants. But as for you, you are to keep my statutes and my judgments. And shall not do any of these abominations, neither the native nor the alien who sober in you. For the men of the land who have been before you have done these abominations, and the land has become defiled. So that the land may not spew you out You should be defile it as it has spewed out the nation which has been before you. For whoever does any of these abominations those persons who do so shall be cut off from among the people. Thus you are defeat my charge, that you do not practice any of the abominable customs. which have been practiced before you so as not to defile yourselves with them. I am the Lord your God A very stern warning and a stern reminder that they're not to follow the practices of the people around them Next, the passage simply gives us another very straightforward message, this time on the positive side. The text says, Follow my statutes. And we can turn to verse 4. And reading verse 4, we find that you are to perform my judgments and keep my statutes, to live in accord with them. I am the Lord, you're God. In other words, you're to follow the instructions that I give you. And judgments in this truth simply means the decisions made by God. You're to follow his will and his decisions Living in accord with them really means to walk in accord with them on a daily basis. And I think when you were studies here and and so many times when you're studying God's word, you will use that term and find that term to walk in God's chapter, so walk in the way that He wants us to go with the daily action. And over and over again, God has commanded the Israelites to obey his statute, to walk in the way that he would have them go. And finally, the point is made that with all this, there is also a promise If you do not conform and if you obey. And that promise is light, we can turn to verse 5, the concluding verse in this short section. For you shall keep my statues from my judgments, by which a man may live if he does them. I am the Lord. So this is a life or death choice as far as the Israelites are concerned. This is your light matter. This is choosing life or choosing death. And I'd like to turn to Deuteronomy 30, chapter 30. And let's let's look at that and uh read that section. Deuteronomy 30, the last portion, verses 15 to 20. I think if you Read this carefully with me. You'll see a dramatic passage that lays before the Israelites this choice of life or death Starting with verse 15 of Deuteronomy 30, see, I have set before you today life and prosperity and death and adversity. But I command you today to love the Lord your God, to walk in his ways and to seek his commandments and his statutes and his judgments If you may live and multiply, and that the Lord your God may bless you in the land where you are entering to break it. But if your heart turns away and you will not obey, but are drawn away and worship other gods and serve them, I declare to you today that you shall surely perish. You shall not prolong your days in the land where you are crossing the Jordan to enter and protect us. I call heaven and earth to witness against you today. But I have set before you life and death, a blessing and a curse. To change life in order that you may live, you and your descendants. By loving the Lord your God, by obeying his voice, and by holding fast to Him, for this is your life and the length of your days. That you may live in the land which the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give them So this leaves the choice very clear to the Israelites, the choice of life or the choice of death. In the early part of the of Leviticus 10, we read about two priests who disobeyed God's wills in terms of the way they were sacrificing. In verse 2 reads, And Philet came out in the presence of the Lord and consumed them. And they died before the Lord. They saved death In their actions. And all three numbers we read over and over again. While the people were disobedient, disobedient on a repetitive basis And God punished them with death. So this was a serious choice as far as the Israelites were concerned. So what God has said to them If you have I've made a promise of life, you're not to do what the Egyptians do, you're to obey my statute. And then comes life. Let's look at this passage now and see what it says to us many years later as we gather here in 1979. Let's make a transition from the time that Moses was talking to the people of Israel to the time of today. Between then and now, a tremendous event took place. At that time, the Israelites looked forward to the coming of the Messiah. Since that time, Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, has been given to us. To pay the price for our sins, to die on the cross for us. And what changes did this event make as far as we're concerned with relationship to the Israelites First, from all of the ceremonial law that the Israelites were bound to. Jesus Christ made the final sacrifice, he made the full sacrifice And it's no longer necessary for us in any form to make a sacrifice for the attainment of our sins. So we were freed from the ceremonial law Now, how about the moral law that we're dealing with more specifically today? The Israelites struggled to obey that law and could not, and God surveyed them over and over again And a point would come in time when you punish them with death. We can't obey that moral law either. They fall short, they stumble. But God has provided a way for us to meet that moral law, and that way is through Jesus Christ. We have met it in our place. So we are still commanded to obey that moral law just as the Israelites were. And yet and we, in response, obey that law out of love. The law served to drive us really to our knees before God and put us at a point where the state of Jesus Christ was helpless And we don't do that very easily. We don't reach that point very easily. We struggle with that. But the law has this impact on us We still have a choice to make, just as the Israelites did. We had that choice of life or death But our choice is put in a little different form. We choose to accept Jesus Christ for the atonement of our sins, or we reject him by relying on ourselves. Jesus said, Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. And does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death and into life. Another verse that lays before us this choice very clearly, I think much in the same way as the Old Testament laid it before the Israelites in this choice of life or death is John 336 He who believes in the Son has the light. He who does not obey the Son shall not see light, but the wrath of God abides on him. So we choose today as the Israelites life or death. And we make many choices in our lives. We start to make them as we're children and we continue to make them through our lives. We note what our major ones and we struggle over them. We make a decision as to what college we should attend. We make a decision as to what subjects we should take, what we should major in. We make a decision on our careers. We make a decision on where we're going to work. We make one on where we're going to live. And somewhere along the way in most cases we make a decision on our life note. The person who's going to share our lives with us until death through us part. But all of these decisions really Are manious when you compare them to this decision of life with Jesus Christ All of the other choices we make are put in context of that single choice And I would heard this morning that there are any and the body gathered before me who have not come face to face with that choice, that we do so today. Jesus says in the Gospel of Mark, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Requent and believe in the gospel. So I would urge that you confess if you have not done so that you confess your sins to Jesus Christ. And confess unto him the Things that tempts us all to want to run our lives, we're tempted to want to make our own decisions, to direct our own lives, to live in rebellion to Jesus Christ. Tell him that and confess that to him and ask that Jesus Christ remove that from you. And I can assure you this morning that when you do that, you're going to know a joy and a peace that you've never known before in your life. That's going to be something totally new for you. Now I can assure you too that Jesus wants you to do that. Another verse says in his instructions to us But this is good and acceptable in the sight of our God, our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. But Jesus wants you to do that, wants you to come to this decision. If God does bring you this day, to this point in your life, to make that decision, the most important one that you will make I would encourage you to share that with one of your elders, to talk with them about it, and share with them the joy of this kind of decision. And it's at this very point then that you will see the law in a new light. You will see the law as something that opens up before you what God wants you to do. And you will love him so much. You will love Jesus so much that you want to obey that law and you will begin to View it from a different perspective. So Jesus in coming didn't remove the law. In fact, in Matthew 517 we read, do not since I came to abolish the law or the prophecy, I did not come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it. In fact, Jesus emphasized on the law in his teaching. We're familiar with his teaching that says that harsh words are equivalent to murdering a person or or evil thoughts or murdering a person in your heart. And but a lustful eye is equivalent to adultery. So there has been no slackening, no lessening of the moral law in our time. We're told to be imitators of God and instructions and his reasons. We're also told, as the Israelites were told, not to conform to society around us. Romans 12, 2 tells us that this and do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the reunion of your mind. But we may prove that the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. So where I come out is that these instructions have essentially the same force on us today as they had on the Israelites. So let's see and examine how things are as we live in this community, whether it's Columbia or Burton'sville or Laurel. I wish I could say to you this morning that things are far different from the time of Israel from Israel's time, that they're much better. But I can't say that in all candor. It seems to me that the moral standards that we operate in that surround us are decaying each day. It is reported on the Federal Congress just recently that in the past year there have been more abortions in Washington, D. C. than live birth This being reported that the director of sexual abuse treatment center, the sexual abuse treatment center believes that about 40,000 of the sexual abuse cases recorded are cases of impact This is not something that is just a specific. We have become personally involved with this over the years, with the man. Tom recently reported, and I'm sure that m many of you saw this perhaps, and there have been a number of news commentators that have made comments on it, and that is the fact that Now that we can determine the sex of a baby before it's born, that it's becoming more and more popular to determine the sex and have abortion if the sex of a fetus isn't the one that you wanted. I was just yesterday I heard a news commentator say that the government had employed a theologian to work with them on problems and matters of this type, and this theologian was quoted as saying But he believes the person ought to have the right to abortion if the child is the fetus is of the wrong sex. Francis Caesar in his most recent book, Whatever Happened to the Human Race, I'll quote from him a couple of times. I would encourage you as that book becomes available to read it It's a it's a very uh stimulating work in terms of the kind of subject that I'm talking about here today. But one of his statements goes That current sexual mores, sexual permissive lifestyles, and the breakdown of a family demand abortion And at the same time, the availability of abortion contributes to a change in our sexual memories, our connective lifestyles, and the general family breakdown. Two are disrespectful. One just feeds on the other and tends to make things worse. What this past week, in in fact I prepared the sermon some time ago because I wasn't just sure when I was going to deliver it. A little bit depended on Alan Dean and his scheduling and timing. And so I've had some time to contemplate on this matter as uh as uh I sort of waited to spend this time with you. And I found that during this time I've been sympathetized a great deal to this subject. And just this past week and perhaps m some of you saw this, there was an article in the Washington Post and it has a picture of a seventeen year old girl feeding a baby of a relatively young uh Babies. And I'll just put two or three sentences from that. The subject of the article is baby teeth In other words, it's it's the thing to do. The sub uh setting is no segment of pregnancy, one's only clean phase And then it goes on to say she was fifteen and pregnant, a condition that until recently might have assumed might ashamed her family and forced her into a home for unread mothers. Today instead she's a celebrity among her peers. This goes on to show the reaction of the people, of the girls who had had this problem And the point of this whole article that really struck me was that as far as the school system was concerned the there was no indication at all of this being right or wrong. And this is the point I wanted to make from this article. There's no point of this being right or wrong. The article deals almost solely with how you cope with such a problem. And I think this means that we've lost something here in terms of our perspective to these particular things going on around us. Let me take from Caesar just one more time to kind of set the stage as to where we are today in this in in this land around us And how are we dealing with the changes that are going on in our society? Because what was unthinkable in the 60s is unthinkable no longer. The ease and speed of communication has been a factor in this. A protest in South Africa, for example, can be echoed by synthesizers in New York in just a few hours. Social conventions appear and disappear with unprecedented rapidity. The principles of the eighties and nineties will certainly include things What most people today find unthinkable or immoral, even unimaginable and too extreme to suggest. What since they do have some overriding yet since they do not have some overriding principle that takes them beyond relativistic thinking, then these become thinkable and acceptable in the eighties and nineties. Most people will not even remember that they were unpenseable in the seventies. They will slide into each new unpenseable without even a jolt. They will slide into deeply unthinkable without even a joke. Think back just ten years ago, the kinds of things that are on TV today that would have shocked you ten years ago. It's the if we can if you can set your mind back at that time, you will find a great real that's taking place now. that would have been a joking thing just ten years ago. These are not just scholarly views, uh views of Chaker and others. It was this last well within the last two or three weeks that a woman that God is witnessing to took her twenty-year-old daughter to a church service And the sermon was on moral standards. And when the daughter and mother left the service, the daughter said, Mother, the problem with that man is that he is twenty years behind the times. The problem with that man that he's twenty he is twenty years behind the times. Using technical instruments to measure things, we have what we call a calibration. And that calibration stuff the instrument at a reference point so that you know what is being measured. It gives you a point of beginning. And I would submit to you that this young woman Her only reference point is the twenty years of her life. Her only reference is what people have done around her in the twenty years of her life. And we could lay before us this morning a steel from say utter declavity over to following God's instructions on the moral law. Her calibration would be some place on there and it would be based, as I mentioned, on what she saw around her. And as that flips, as that change up or down , Her calibration will slide right with it. And that's really a frightening thought. But your point of reference This what society does around you, particularly when society today seems to be going so rapidly in the wrong direction The last kind of a picture is not a very bright one of what's going on around us. But let's spend some time and talking about how we can battle this problem, how we can battle conformity. Most of the changing moral standards, not all of them, but most of them that are addressed today, that are problems today, relate in some way or other to the families. Sexual freedom, abortion, divorce, adultery, breakdown of the family structure, unmarried couples living together, a whole host of these impends on family relationships. And so I'm going to spend most of my time viewing your family institutions and individuals as they relate to families this morning I think before we deal with ways of getting at the problem of conformity, we need to examine how it works on our lives. And I'd like to use just a very humble illustration that I think demonstrates that. The source of conformity begins with the very smallest of children here, as soon as there's hundreds of people around them. And what the people around them are doing. And it continues on, even at my age and and those older , conformity keeps working on your life. And it's it's not dissimilar from a piece of sandpaper that you see here. As it relates to a piece of wood, this is a piece of number. It's a good piece of wood that has straight edges, the ends are square. This could be used to build a cabinet if you needed one to size. It's a useful thing. The corners are all square. But if I were to take the sandpaper and just gradually work on the edges, a little here, a little there, if I worked on the corners a little bit guides a little bit in the in the surface of it, it wouldn't be very long before that piece of lumber would be absolutely worthless And instead of being something that could be used in constructing something, I would relegate it to a box that I keep in my workshop that I use for feeling and I would simply toss it away and it would become feeling. Let's prove that our that we're building blocks in God's temple. And I believe that society around us tips off the corners, the edges, as we compromise a little bit here in raising our children, and a little bit there We give a little on our standards here and modify them a little bit here. And so this younger folks and and children in school, this is particularly a problem, it's the kick and away process. And pretty soon, if we don't become worthless in building God's temple, at least our value is impaired from this shipping and wearing a waste. Don't praise God this morning that my illustration falls short, and it falls short at this point. That we are living stones in God's kingdom. That we are living stones in God's kingdom. And that we can be restored and that we can be built back and that we can be made new. And that's the important part. In 1 John 1. 9, we read that we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, to make us move completely. I saw as I was thinking about this picture as we were wondering where when this is going to end with all the slim and blue. I'm not that person kind of person by nature. I hate to paint that sort of picture, but I have to because it's realistic. But the topic that I've chosen this morning is full of hope. There's no question in my mind, it's a hopeful topic. There's every reason for hope, and that's because this can be made news. This can be rebuilt, this can be reshaped. We also are not confined to the calibration that I described as far as the young woman is concerned, a 20-year span We have a calibration of absolute and we're not enslaved by relativistic thinking that lays hold of us if we have not accepted Jesus Christ as our standard and our way of life. Let's talk then for the rest of our time about the task of arming ourselves for this battle of conformity. I think the first thing we need to do is to know the enemy around us. What are the movies like? What are what is going on in today's current in movies? What is the policy of movies? What is the quality of the TV show? We say, well, we've got a pretty good idea, but I'm not so sure. I'm not so sure I have a very good idea. It was just Well I guess a couple of months ago I was casually half listening more than watching a T V program or visiting in a home. And it was one of these family shows that that was normally thought of is acceptable. And yet the plot that evening was simply a plot revolving around a sixteen-year-old boy that had gotten his girlfriend segment And a line of the older sister will simply to that boy, I'm sure glad you stood up to your responsibilities and next to your responsibilities in this situation Again in the whole program, best to my knowledge, nothing about whether this was right or wrong. So I would encourage you to know what's going on in television shows Know what's going on in school. Know what's going on both in school and after school. This takes a lot of communication and patience, like Since they'll remember back as we raised our children, Dot was a good communicator and I think that she knew more of what was going on simply by taking time to listen and talk with our children on a daily basis. than we ever would have found out any other way. We're just opening our homes to the friends of our children, and this sounds like a pretty normal thing to do, but every once in a while we either get busy Well there are friends that are associating with us that we might just as well feel we don't want to have in our homes, but I would encourage you to have the friends of your children into your home And take time to talk with them, but more importantly take time to listen to them. If we could redo some of the things in our lives and raising our children, this is one that we would change. keep track of what's going on at a national level and I think you would be hard pressed to pick up a newspaper or any of the news magazines now without there being some moral issue that's being dealt with on a national level. Because that's going to be in your lives and in your living room in very short order. It was just um three weeks or so ago that we heard Dr. John Alexander There's the president of University. Uh Dr. Alexander was speaking to the university staff here in Maryland and I was particularly pleased to have the pleasure of joining that group. It was largely because there was a member here in the congregation that had started to transcriple with university and it was through out through that call that we were able, a couple of us, to join this meeting But Dr. Alexander made one point that really stuck in my mind. He said that the big battle in our in our colleges and in our school system throughout the school system over the next years Is going to be unhumanism. And he encouraged us to read two of the manifestos of the genus. have put out and we talked in the semi-school class just a little bit about humans and this meaning. Let me read one of the sentences in one of these manifestos This tells that we believe, however, that traditional dogmatic or authoritarian religions that face revelation, God ritual or food above human needs and spirits , do a good service to the human species. I would encourage you to read these manifestos. Al Harris has a copy in his office. I think you would find them reviewing. And then they're not made through often some manifesto. The little church we were in, I guess if there was any one thing that we saw as we look back on that now, we see clearly was feminism. And I really do believe that humanism is going to be one of the battlefields that we struggle on in the years to come. We must after or as we learn what these issues are in society, we must equip ourselves to do battle The Bible says that this is a warfare that's going on. And it tells us to put on the full armor of God. Suppose perhaps for your mothers or fathers and mothers that your daughter, your fifteen-year-old daughter comes back from school And said, Mom, I walked home with three of my friends this afternoon and all the way we talked about abortion. And all three of them believed that abortion was all right, that it was something we ought to condone and we ought to have. And I told them that I didn't believe in that. And they asked me why. And I said, because the Bible teaches that the abortion is wrong. Mom, what does the Bible teach about abortion? Would you be ready to help her with this question? I think it's an absolute must that we do, and as I did some inquiring around on this particular point , I I thought first that what was needed really is perhaps some classes with mothers and daughters and some classes with fathers and sons to deal with these issues And I still think this is probably a good way to get at it, but I did find out that you have in your Sunday school uh course coming up here, I believe. I don't know if it's being taught now uh this subject matter, dealing with moral issues, current moral issues. I talked to Barry Hufford and Barry was doing some work on that in the basic group, and I think some of these young folks are attending there But I would encourage you to make use of this time to dream fathers and sons and mothers and daughters Together and deal with these issues so that the fathers and mothers can be supportive, day in and day out, um, dealing with biblical answers to the issues around them. I was used to say though that This battle is not going to be won with information, even though it's information of biblical teaching, but rather it's going to be won by lies It's going to be one with lives in harmony with Jesus Christ. It's going to be one by prayerful lives. It's going to be one by lives who confess their sins to God each day. seek forgiveness. That was answered by particular perhaps a couple of months ago that Al Harris preached a sermon here we were visiting that day and it was on how to raise Christian children. And he is dealing with the definition of the word train in Proverbs twenty two six. Train up a child in the way that he shall go, and when he is old he will not depart from it I wonder if you remember how he defined train that day. If you remember that sermon, he said to train in that proverb is to give a case. And I think that is the answer and one of the biggest weapons is for us to give a priest of a Christian life as far as farming our children to be out in society, give them a case of a Christian family in operation. A case that would involve showing a husband and wife that are deeply in love. A husband and wife that stays husband and wife through a whole lifetime. A relationship with children that is open and loving, discipline or necessary. A household where the fruit of the Spirit abound. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. And there, I think, is where this battle will be won. It'll be run on the way we live in our family situations and that will give our youngsters strength to face these temptations that run about them. And just the final word as far as teaching our trading is concerned. Let's take a look at Deuteronomy 6, verses 4 to 7. I think this points out so vividly our responsibility in teaching our children Deuteronomy 6, verses 4 to 7. Fear, O Israel, the Lord is your God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart. And you shall teach them delicately to your sons. And you shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the ways, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. All of the teaching that our children's children get in Sunday school, in church, in basic, in all of the meetings they they attend is good in catechetical instruction. But the most urgent thing is that we do fix them in our house as we walk by the waves, as we sit and as we lie And I think what this verse is saying that we need to teach at the point of need. And this again is all of the things that are desirable seem to be difficult We ought to speak at the point of need. When a problem arises, we we need to be able to take time and deal with it at that point in time When the master comes home from school with a problem is the time to teach. If we can't do that, I think it would be helpful to encourage children to bring up the day's problems at family devotions and rather than dealing with things that might not be relevant that day, deal with things that are on the hearts and minds of your children. Just one final point in teaching our children. I have been guilty of this. You can see it in my own family devotional times. And that is there's a great temptation to deal with this matter of biblical teaching in in kind of a uh an unimaginative way, we tend to do it as something we need to do and it's urgent and that we just do it to to do it And I would urge that it's they must excide to do this in a stimulating way. I'd like to just re relate to you an instance that illustrates this. We when we visited Sweden so in Taiwan the summer The they showed us or brought out, uh he brought out the pre-world, a Bible book. And what they had done is to take a weekly notebook and put pages in it. And on this page we put a Bible verse that Justin had memorized. And the first one was God created the heavens and the work. And on that page we But all kinds of pictures of yellow star season that we've seen of trees and colour of a new baby after birth Creation of a baby, uh the beauty of the ocean. And as Busty ran to that book and opened the page, he would say the verse and he would point to all these pictures with a big smile on his face And you could just see that that verse had meaning in his life and had dwelling d dwelling in his heart. The formal devotions was similarly to a two-year-old sang a whole host of songs and most of them were animated and his grandparents had to participate in this animation just as well as the children But uh if them had a a Bible verse and this was also animated and one was fit Jesse's need and then completed what what was a very short prayer and Steve and Faye had time later for their own personal devotions. I could just see that what he was interested in the family devotional period. And what interested me most is that I believed that what they were using was learned from couples here in this conversation. And they were making their family devotions interesting to their children based on what some of these folks are doing here, and I would encourage you on that You might act out Bible stories, have young folks act it out in your family devotions, but put some effort into making your family devotions a stimulating time. Well I tried this morning to put this text that we're dealing with in terms of what's happening around us today. And the ask him out with what with Moses had stood before you with many.