Welcome and please be seated. My name is Bob Birkas. I'm the pastor here and it is just a wonderful blessing to see all of you here this morning. And uh Dick, sorry I I came up a little early and um it I was very excited to come up here. Today we're talking about baptism. And baptism is the first of two sacraments instituted by Christ that we as the church are to observe and to carefully commit ourselves to until he returns This morning for our text, we're going to be looking at a text that underscores the importance of baptism. It's a very familiar text, so if you have your Bibles with you, please turn uh turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew. Chapter twenty eight Almighty God, we thank you for your word and we ask that you bless it to us. Father, we pray that you would help us to rightly set apart your word from all other words. Lord, help us to look at the scriptures as, Lord, your authoritative words for us. As a sure guide for what we may know of you and what we may know of ourselves, how we should live. And Father, we confess that your truth gets crowded out by so many things. Whether it's our own opinions or philosophies, whether it's the world's agendas. Father, help us to be men and women, boys and girls of your word. and to take all thoughts captive accordingly. Father, bless the reading of your word, and Lord, in the preaching that follows, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, bless that as well. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. The Gospel of Matthew, chapter twenty-eight, beginning with verse sixteen, the Word of God. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore. and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, there's a lot in those verses, and I feel that it is almost uh expositionally criminal act to pass by wonderful phrases like, and some doubted, after we're told they all worshipped. Did you know that God can and will and does receive your worship even if it is mingled with doubts? Did you know that? There's a whole sermon there. The authority that Jesus has. There's a whole book of theology there In his command to his eleven faithful disciples, despite their doubts, he gives them an instruction to make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them and teaching them to obey. Now historically, the church has been right to recognize this two-step movement. Drawing people to Christ, establishing them in his covenant community, the church, and then teaching them to live sanctified lives. In baptism, we're reminded of the fact that we are forgiven, cleansed, washed, that we died with Christ. We are set apart to a new life. In sanctification, we're learning how to obey, working out our salvation with fear and trembling, because God is at work in us. Philippians chapter 2 So in looking at baptism, we're going to look at what it is, a sacrament. We're going to then look at what it does. And then we're going to talk briefly about who is to be baptized. So first, if we stop and think about what is baptism, well, it's a sacrament. Now, that might create as many questions as what is baptism? What is a sacrament? A sacrament, we believe, is an ordinance of Christ It's a law he gave us, a command we're to follow, but not merely that. There are many Protestant traditions that consider the sacraments mere ordinances, simply things God told us in Christ we have to do. We think that they're more than that. We think that as a sacrament and the three words that show up again and again in our confessions of faith, in our Westminster Confession of Faith, in our catechisms. in our Reformed Church polities are signifying, seal, and exhibit. If you were to be asked, and it's in our catechism, what is a sacrament? It signifies, seals, and exhibits the grace that is ours in Christ. And I want to briefly talk about what those words mean because we might think they're all sort of synonymous, especially signify and exhibit. But they're not If we go back and we look at and you can look at dictionaries, by the way, to tell you what words meant in the sixteen hundreds. They they're out there, especially in these days. Wrote these words signify, seal, and exhibit. They meant specific things. First of all, signify means it has meaning that it represents. To signify something. For example, if if this ring on my finger, it's it signifies that I'm a married man. It has meaning. It's not just jewelry. It's not just aesthetic, although that is a meaning in itself. It carries with it a vital message to all who can see it and understand it. Everyone familiar with Western culture sufficient to know about the double ring ceremony knows that, hey, he's got a a band on the uh well, the ring finger of his left hand, he's married. The sacrament of baptism and the sacrament of Lord's Supper have meaning. They signify something. We're going to talk about what that is. But they also seal that something. What does that mean? When we think about a seal, we think about a marine mammal. We're thinking about Maybe a decorative little decal you get from the Hallmark store to put on an envelope. A seal in the ancient world, in the world of both the Old Testament and the New Testament, is very different from that. A seal was also very different from that in the 1600s. A seal was something, could be wax or clay, sometimes it could even be metal Some kind of alloy that is impressed upon a subject and stamped, and it by its being attached to that document or that chest or that door It conveys authority, it conveys legitimacy, it conveys ownership When we talk about baptism as a sacrament that signifies something, that means something, and seals that something, we're talking about a lot more than just getting wet. We're talking about the fact that in baptism, God has sovereignly determined to put his mark upon us. We'll talk more about that in a moment. Right now we're thinking briefly about what signify, what seal, and what exhibit mean. Signify, it has meaning. Seal. It with great authority attaches that significance when it is performed, when the sacrament is observed. And lastly, it exhibits. The sacraments are ordinarily, we believe , to be publicly administered. We don't, as a Reformed Church, in the Presbyterian tradition on the shoulders of the Puritans, ordinarily engage in private baptisms or private Lord Suffers. Yes, if you are a shut-in, I with another elder or deacon or family members or friends from your community group will come and I've already here in my year and a half tenure Had the Lord's Supper at retirement homes just for five or six people, but even that is set up as a worship service. I read a call to worship. We have a prayer. We sing a verse or two of someone's favorite hymn. I expound the word briefly. So if you're shut in, don't worry. I won't make you listen to a half-hour sermon. But there is a sermonette. depending on the capacities of the person who is the shut-in. And then the Lord's Supper and a benediction These ordinances, you see, are designed to they they signify something, they seal it to God's people. And they are to be observed by one another and even the world itself. When we observe the Lord's Supper, for example We are told that we declare or proclaim Christ's death until he comes. We are exhibiting something by virtue of our Committing ourselves to the observance of that ordinance, that sacrament. So baptism is a sacrament. It signifies something, seals something, and exhibits something. But you might say, well, what exactly does baptism signify, seal, and exhibit? Now in the notes today I have more scriptures written than is usually the case, and we're going to refer to many of them. Don't feel like you have to play what uh some of my pastor friends call Bible bingo and keep up with me because I have what is called a prepared Bible. Notice all the tabs. So I'll quickly flip back and forth. You might have trouble typing those uh biblical references into your your phone to get there. In the first place, baptism signifies, seals, and exhibits our death with Christ. Let me read from Romans chapter 6. In Romans chapter 6, verses 3 to 4, this is what we read. Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried with him, therefore, by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Now we're going to talk a little bit more about baptism and its connection to newness and life in in a moment. But right now, notice Baptism Signifies, seals, and exhibits the fact that we died with Christ. Now, what does that mean? That means that when Christ died on the cross We who have repented and put our faith in him are united to him such that when he died, there is a very real sense in which spiritually we died also. Galatians makes this particularly clear. When the law looks at us, it sees a corpse. The wages of sin is death, and when the law comes knocking to try to execute its just judgments upon us, it finds that we have already died because we died with Christ. We were baptized in him. And therefore the law passes on. Christ died for us. And we are able, as the blessed children of God, to avail ourselves of the other use of the law. Learn how to joyfully obey it, to demonstrate love for God. And to quote a popular pastor who I don't think understands the phrase as well as ought, live our best lives now. walking in newness of life, saying no to sin, because we have been baptized with Christ and died with him. Baptized into Christ and died with him. So our death with Christ is in some respects logically the first thing that baptism signifies. It also signifies our union with Christ. Here we are going to look at Galatians. In Galatians chapter 3, verse 27, we read this. Well, I'm going to start with verse 26. For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male or female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. This is an important doctrine that has so many levels of significance for us today. When we are baptized, we are baptized into Christ. Each of us alike, irrespective of any of the other categories that we carry. Gender, ethnicity. Wealth, status. None of that is relevant. If we're baptized into Christ, we are baptized into Him. We are so united to Him that we are putting Him on. We are growing into Christ-likeness, whether we're from Norway or Nigeria. Makes no difference whether we're man or woman, old or young, rich or poor. Baptism is this great leveling sacrament in which we all simply come as sinners who've repented of our sins, are looking to Christ by faith and committing ourselves to Him, and we are in baptism. Signifying, sealing, and exhibiting the fact that we are with Christ, He died for us, and now we are so closely identified with Him. That we will be like him. We will put him on. We will grow into Christ's likeness. The objective of ministry, as Paul puts, and as every Christian pastor ought to put, the goal of ministry is to present everyone perfect in Christ, mature, whole in Christ. Baptism also signifies, seals, and exhibits the washing away of sins by Christ's blood. In Acts chapter 22, Acts chapter twenty-two, verse sixteen. This is what we read. And now, why do you wait? To new converts who would put their faith in Christ, the question is posed, why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name The baptism is so closely associated with the beginnings of faith that it is recognized as something that signifies not only our death with Christ, but our absolute cleansing from sin. In Revelation chapter 1, verse 5, we have a description here that is associated with baptism by many church fathers and Puritans alike. that we receive grace and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come and from the seven spirits. who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead and the ruler of kings on earth, to him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood. The blood of Jesus is the great antidote or detergent. That completely wipes out our sins. The fact that He died for us, and therefore we died with Him. And His death is reckoned ours, just as His life becomes ours. When we baptize, we are signifying, sealing, and exhibiting the truth. That Christ's death for us and his shed blood wash us completely of all our sin. And the last thing I'll mention here with respect to what baptism signifies, heals, and exhibits, is our admission to the visible church. We're familiar with uh the Acts chapter 2. That's after uh the Pentecost Day sermon, and Peter says that uh About 3,000 were baptized and added to the church that day. We might be less familiar with the 1 Corinthians text. In 1 Corinthians Now I so carefully prepared this Bible. And I can't oh, there's my tab. You know, preparing a Bible is only as good as your vision. You've got to be able to see your bookmarks. Listen to what 1 Corinthians 12, verse 12 says. For just as the body is one and has many members , And all the members of the body, though many are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews are Greeks, slaves are free, and all were made to drink of one spirit. So, baptism, like circumcision in the Old Testament is the sacrament of admission into the visible church, the communion of saints, the people of God. Baptism is what we do upon becoming Christians. We are baptized. That is an important note. Everyone embraces believers' baptism. Can I get an amen? Thus far we are in perfect accord. We all recognize that at the beginning of the Christian life, we are to present ourselves for baptism. And in baptism, we are being connected to the body. That's one of the reasons that in Presbyterian churches, baptism is associated with church membership We baptize people and they join the church. We don't baptize people and they join the church years later. Upon joining the church, They also upon being baptized, they also join the church. In fact, one cannot join the church without being baptized. We don't baptize again. We believe one baptism is sufficient in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. But baptism, whenever we do participate in that sacrament, we are signing, sealing, and signifying these truths We have died with Christ. We're united with Christ. We are forgiven, washed totally clean by his blood. We're renewed by his spirit, and we are a part of his church Now I'm realizing that I skipped by renewal by the Spirit. That's very important. Let's look briefly at Titus chapter 3. In Titus chapter 3, we read this. God, our Savior, appeared and saved us. He saved us Titus 3. 5, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life Now we're going to skip over now and take a look at Ephesians 5. 26. Ephesians 5. 26, we read this Husbands love verse twenty-five. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Lastly, let me look at Colossians chapter two. Colossians chapter two verses eleven to twelve. This is what we read here In Christ, we also were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands. Circumcision, the Old Testament sign of inclusion in the body of Christ, baptism, the New Testament sign. In him we were also circumcised, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with Him, having forgiven us of all our trespasses. Those three scriptures, by the way, these are all the proof texts attached to these statements in our church's catechism, in case you're wondering where these came from. These three statements together give us this picture of baptism in which we're baptized not just into the death of Christ, but in being buried with him, we're raised with him, and the baptism, the fact that we Aren't submerged and left. We aren't gotten wet and a and continually, perpetually wet as it were, but rather it is a once for all, and there's an after the baptism. Just as we die with Christ, we live with Him. We're washed, we're renewed, we're cleansed, we are established in a new principle of living We have in the words of John Murray, a theologian from last century, translated from this fear of death and sin and the dominion of the devil to That spiritual sphere in which Christ reigns by grace, and we are free to obey. This all is represented to us in this signing, sealing, exhibiting way as often as we observe the sacrament administered. Well who is to be baptized? It is unanimously agreed upon throughout church history that all who believe in Christ are to be baptized There is no class of person who can say, well , I don't need to be baptized. I'm just a Christian without it. Baptism is in some respects one of the first great acts of obedience of the new believer. We present ourselves humbly to engage in that sacrament that Christ has instituted. But what about our kids? We as a church baptize believers and their children. We did that just, I believe, last week. We'll be doing that again in a couple of weeks. Why do we do that? I'm not going to say everything that could be said about that, but I'm going to say several things that could be said about that. First, remembering that baptism is, as we saw in the Galatians text, the replacement, if you will, for circumcision. We don't circumcise. Circumcision is a bloody sign. Administered in anticipation of Christ shedding his blood for us. Christ shed the blood once for all. We now have a bloodless sign that looks back at what Jesus did for us. But the function of circumcision as something that signifies seals and exhibits is essentially the same. It's certainly better clarified in the New Testament, but it still functions as the sign of inclusion in the covenant community. And in the Old Testament. God makes it very, very clear in Genesis chapter 15, but more clearly in Genesis chapter 17, that this is a sign for you and your children. That circumcision, that the sign of inclusion in my covenant people, doesn't just involve you, it involves you and your children. And at that point, it is specifically stated that circumcision was to take place when a baby boy was eight days old. Infants also are part of the covenant community. But what does that mean? Does that mean that all children born of covenant people are saved? It didn't mean that in the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, many Israelites were circumcised. The earth swallowed up Buried them, they fell under the judgments of God, they died estranged from Him and are consigned to the distant remoteness of hell for eternity. The sacrament itself does not save. But the sacrament is a sign that you and your children are part of the covenant community. And just as Esau sold his birthright for a bowl of pottage, it is often the case That men and women and boys and girls walk away from their birthright, their inheritance, their place in the visible church, the communion of saints. And trade it in for anything from a bowl of soup to a pair of sneakers. The children of believers receive the covenant sign of the Old Testament, and we believe they receive it also in the New. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, the Apostle Paul is giving marriage advice, and he says as an exhortation, if you become a Christian and your spouse is not a Christian, don't divorce them. Because who knows, wife, whether or not you will save your husband. Sounds like an Armenian statement? That's what the scripture says. Understand God's sovereignty, understand human responsibility. Who knows, O husband, whether or not you will save your wife? Similar language to when the Apostle Paul says to the Corinthians elsewhere that He labors, does everything he can that by any means he might win some. Of course God does the winning. But you do the striving and the working and the lowercase W winning as well. Never ever think these sacraments or some blanket simplistic doctrine of sovereignty absolves us from agency and from the responsibility that God has assigned to us as humans to work. We dare not make that mistake. We hold both together. What's interesting to note about that 1 Corinthians text is that Paul therefore says, otherwise your children would be unclean. But as it is there holy. Because God sanctifies the unbelieving spouse. That doesn't mean they're saved. That's clearly indicated by the fact that they might be saved by the ministry of the believing spouse. But they are set apart, they're sanctified such that in the eyes of God the child of one believer and one unbeliever, even if that child was already born when that believer becomes a Christian and is married to an unbeliever, that child is not unclean in the eyes of God when it comes to looking at his covenant people. Again, that does not mean that de facto that child is elect. Many, many Christians throughout history have had children grow up and walk away from the faith It's tragic, it's heartbreaking, but it happens. But God has decreed that He will be a God to us and to our children, our offspring after us, even to a thousand generations. That's 20,000 years, if you consider a mere 20 years a generation. God's covenant For us and for our children that requires the sign to be placed upon our kids is called in Genesis 17 an everlasting covenant, not provisional. Jesus nowhere and the New Testament nowhere suggests that kids are not to be baptized. And that would be almost necessary if I were to not baptize my kids. For me, I recognize different folks have different ways of looking at it. My perspective is that if there's such a radical change that the covenant no longer includes my kids, That would be explicitly stated somewhere. In Luke chapter 18 , Jesus says this. Well, Luke says this. Jesus will chime in. Now they were bringing even infants. The Greek word is brefe. It means newborn. It means tiny little baby. It doesn't mean toddler. It doesn't mean kindergartner. It means infants. Newborns. Now they were bringing even infants to Jesus that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called to him, saying, Let the children come, and do not hinder them. Now, this doesn't mean that he baptizes them. That would be stretching this text. However, listen to what he then says. For to such belongs the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God belongs to the infants of his people, in a way that we dare not neglect. I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like one of those infants, shall not enter into it. And we don't believe those children were mere props. We don't believe that our kids Are not regarded uniquely and specially and in a treasured way by the covenant God, the God who is for us and our offspring. We also do not presume upon that grace and assume that we are not to work hard to raise our children up in the fear and admonition of the Lord. And we do not deny that God has in his mysterious will Determined that some of our kids will grow into that faith and it will flourish and blossom And continue on till Christ returns, and others like Esau will not. But we do commit ourselves to observing that sacrament understanding how it places us with Christ in his death and resurrection. How it is a promise and a sign and a seal and an exhibit even to our kids. that they too are inheritors of this promise and God does in fact work in them in ways that we can't understand, even infants. such that when an infant dies in infancy to a covenant family, I don't have doubts that they are with the Lord But the questions for us as we think about baptism should first of all be personal. Are we Christians? Have we received the sacrament instituted by Jesus? Have we been baptized in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? And just because it may be suggesting itself to some of your minds, I I have pastored people in the past who have wondered if their baptism counts because they were sprinkled instead of immersed or poured instead of sprinkled. That word baptize literally means to wash. And when the the Jewish rabbis in the two centuries before Christ came translated the Old Testament into Greek, the language of the New Testament, they use the word baptizo to translate what is explicitly the Hebrew word for sprinkle when the blood is sprinkled on the horns of the altar during the sacrifices. The word also means to immerse. The word also means to pour. So we would be hard-pressed on biblical grounds to insist that any one of these we call them modes of baptism is the only one that works. In fact, we as a church confessionally are committed to our Westminster Confession of Faith, which sp says dipping the ancient 1600s word for immersion is not necessary, but pouring and sprinkling are also modes of baptism. Whether you were immersed, sprinkled, or poured, does not matter. The only question is, were you baptized in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? And if you were not, I would urge you to consider carefully the words of the Lord in Isaiah chapter 1. Come. Come, let us reason together. Though your sins be like scarlet, I will wash them white as snow. That promise That anyone who is a sinner, who puts their faith in Christ, and who believes that Jesus died in the place of sinners, that by believing on him we might be buried with him in his death, be raised to newness of life, be forgiven of all our sins. That is a promise, an offer made to you, as often as the gospel is preached by whoever is preaching it. The only question is, will you lay hold of it? And will you receive Christ and accept him and rest upon him alone as he is offered for salvation And lastly, how can you, Christian, improve upon your baptism? When we think about sacraments, are Christian life in general, sometimes we have an almost allergic response to thinking that we actually have anything to do, that we actually have to grow, that we have to we we tend to want to fall into this sort of de facto uh call it hyper-Calvinist thinking, well God does everything, I'm just along for the ride. Our Puritan fathers and mothers believed very firmly that all of us who observe a baptism are at that time called upon to using their words improve our baptism Have you ever, as a Christian, sat back and thought, okay, how am I improving my baptism? Let me ask you this: if you heard someone say that in your Bible study community group, would you think they were a heretic? Westminster Larger Catechism, question 167. How is our baptism to be improved by us? Listen to this. I'm very excited right now. The needful but much neglected duty of improving our baptism. is to be performed by us all our life long, especially in the time of temptation and when we are present at the administration of it to others. By serious and thankful consideration of the nature of it and of the ends for which Christ instituted it The privileges and benefits conferred and sealed thereby, union with Christ, newness of life, presence and work of the Spirit And our solemn vow made therein by being humbled for our sinful defilement are fallen short of, and walking contrary to the grace of baptism, and our engagements by growing up to assurance of pardon of sin, and of all other blessings sealed to us in that sacrament. By drawing strength from the death and resurrection of Christ, into whom we are baptized, for the mortifying of sin and quickening of grace, and by endeavoring to live by faith To have our conversation, that word back then used to just mean life, not just what we said. But to have our life in holiness and righteousness, as those that have therein given up their names to Christ, and to walk in brotherly love as being baptized by the same Spirit into one body. That's the answer. With one one editorial comment. That's the answer. And it's a challenge to me as a pastor when I administer baptism to be asking myself, am I improving upon my baptism? Am I doing the work of mindfully reflecting, reminding myself of, experiencing anew, being willing to grapple with the fact that I have not yet grown into all that has been sealed to me? My sins have been washed away, but I I I keep on splashing new stuff on myself. I'm still a sinner. I don't walk by grace, by faith, by the Spirit, guided by the Word, as consistently as Jesus did. Or even Peter Or really nearly anyone else I know will. There's a sense in which we're called upon not to think of baptism as, yep, did that, check the box. but to rejoice in the fact that we were baptized and to be working out the graces, if you will. Working out our salvation with fear and trembling, knowing what God has worked in us to will and to do. And to do so consciously. Not to neglect the duty of improving our baptism and working hard. Working hard. Remember, sanctification. is the work God does in us, but it also includes our work with and in Him. It's very distinct but inseparable from justification But we are called to reflect on these things together. Amen. Baptism, far more than water. Far more than just a rule for faith, a sacrament by which God mysteriously does profound things in our lives and in our families' lives. Almighty God, we thank you for the grace that you give us that is portrayed for us in the gospel We thank you for the grace that is shown us in the sacraments, Lord. This morning we're especially thankful for baptism that reminds us that we did We died with Christ. We have been washed of all our sins. We have been raised to newness of life. We are being renewed by your Spirit. We are being in every way. Lord, blessed by you. Father, we ask that you would help us never to take this for granted But to reflect upon it, to cultivate it, to not just appreciate, but to act upon all of the promises that baptism makes. And Father, we pray that you would help us. Lord, help us to live the Christian life. We cry out with King David in his prayer of repentance, grant to us a willing spirit to sustain us. Lord, having forgiven us, help us. Give us a deep desire and the assistance of your spirit and the truth of your word that we might stop stealing if we're stealing Lord, that we might put away idols and flee from idolatry, that we might avoid every mention of sexual immorality. Lord, that in all of these commands that Scripture gives to Christians who have been baptized, that we might embrace them as calls to action. And that we might embrace them with optimism and courage because we've been baptized, and because of what that signifies and seals. And exhibits all the courage we would have if daily we remembered we are baptized. Help us to live like baptized Christians. Dead in Christ, alive in Christ, washed by Christ, filled with his Spirit, united in that simple message of salvation. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.