Um we looked at uh last week the last verse of Ephesians, and uh a verse that I'm very grateful for because in that Paul reminded us That uh grace be to those of you who love our Lord Jesus with an undying love that Ephesians has not been about Mastering the four postures, which are, remember, what? Sit , kneel, walk and Stand, very good. And we all got him down, you know, but it's really not ultimately about saying, I know the four postures of Ephesians and you don't. Or, you know, gospel grammar that uh the commands of chapters four, five, and six are based on the facts of chapters one, two, and three. You know, it's not even just about the fact that in Ephesians we are commanded to be in your experience, what you are in Christ. or the precious truth of learn learning to live out of the gospel. All these things, you know, can become jargon to CPC folks. We got it all down. The insidious thing about that is we can begin to feel superior And we know more about Ephesians than other folks, and um miss the fact that the book is not about all that we know. It's about loving Jesus. Grace To those of you who love our Lord Jesus with an undying love. And so as we come to Finally lead this kind of figured uh 125 was a round number, so we kind of cut it there. I actually started planning 21 messages on Ephesians. Grew a little bit. We'll see what happens in the next one No, I'll do Psalms the next one. That'll No, just kidding. But um you know and I I look at that And think that it's about loving Jesus, it prompts me to remember that there's nothing more that I need or desire in my life than to love or to be loved. There's nothing more that you desire, is it really, than to love and to be loved. Someone worthy of your love and someone who has loved you and who can be utterly counted on. And there is no one like the Lord Jesus. No one in your life like Him. So let me ask you, as we conclude this whole thing, the bottom line. Do you love Jesus? Do you love him Not just do you know him, do you know theology, do you know the principles of Ephesians, do you love Jesus? Do you wake up in the morning looking forward to spending time alone with him? Time to express your adoration and affection to him. Time to hear what he has to say to you. to speak to you the treasures of his love. Do you shape your priorities By that love for Jesus? Are there things that you do simply because you love Jesus? Not because you're expected, not because you must But simply because you love him. Are there things that you don't do? Simply because you love Jesus. You think of your love for him. Um, how do you feel when I say the name Jesus Do you feel a tinge of warmth and affection, desire toward him? You love that name Or you feel nothing, maybe even slightly uncomfortable. Or if you are a believer, you belong to Jesus Christ, you've committed your life to him, you're walking with him. How would you compare your love for him now to say five years ago? Or if you've been walking with him that long, uh ten years ago, maybe before the Ephesian series Yeah, how would you compare your love for the Lord Jesus to when you first became a Christian? I can recall when I first became a Christian driving to college campus. And everything was new. I didn't come from a Christian home. Faith was new. Jesus was new to me The idea of having prayers answered and seeing him work in my life was new, and I just didn't know much about him, but I just loved him Do you look back wistfully on that simple, new, fresh love? You know, Christian life should be like a marriage. The honeymoon's over, but it continues to deepen and there's still the passion. Maybe for some of us we feel like, yeah, the honeymoon's long been gone and I don't have that passion for Jesus anymore. Kind of like we've gone our ways and I've been disappointed, don't understand him, some of the things that he does. I still do the things that I've done. I still go to church. I'm still part of the body. Don't worry, I'm not leaving. I'm not going anywhere. I wouldn't know where to go if I did. I'm so used to being part of the Christian community in the church. I just couldn't imagine myself anywhere else. But Somehow the love, that sense of intimacy and delight, has gone out of it Do you identify with that at all? Do you ever think about the Ephesians as real people? I mean, you know, they weren't just some idealistic Super saint congregation that Paul wrote to. Sometimes we tend to idealize the first century Christians. They were real Christians. Well I don't think they carry their Bibles under their togas and they're always ready all the time, you know, just radical Christianity. They didn't have the same problems we do. They did Whatever happened to the Ephesian church after they received this letter? Do you ever wonder about that? I don't know, it was maybe a year ago. Brian Law said, I hope we're going to finish the series on Ephesians by talking what happened to the Ephesian church, you know, because the Bible does speak about that in another place. Actually, the Bible continues to speak. You know, if I really was an Ephesians addict, I could keep going. Because, you know, there's actually four letters to the Ephesians I mean they think there's one letter in Ephesians. This is just 1 Ephesians. There's 2 Ephesians and 3rd Ephesians and 4th Ephesians. Then there's another one on top of that. You see, when Paul established the church at Ephesus, he was there for about two and a half years, and when he left, he placed Timothy in charge of pastor. of the church at Ephesus. So he wrote the two letters to Timothy. They were to Timothy as pastor of the church at Ephesus. So those really are letters to Ephesians. Then after Timothy left, you know who became the pastor after him? We don't know from scripture, but there's a very early tradition with some substance that the Apostle John became the head elder of the church at Ephesus. And the early tradition goes that John's first letter was like Paul's, a circulatory letter that had as its primary recipients and first stop the church at Ephesus. So 1 John is also to Ephesus. What I want to call attention to this morning is none of those, but rather the very last words to the Ephesians that we have in Scripture. They were written about sixty miles west of Ephesus from a barren rocky island Sixty miles off the coast of the mouth of the Caester River, where the city of Ephesus was located in what is now Western Turkey. These words were written by their former pastor, John, but are actually the words of Jesus. In the book of Revelation, chapter 2 and 3, we have Jesus' seven letters or words to the churches of Western Turkey or the Asian province of the Roman Empire at that time And those letters were written or rather even spoken by Jesus himself. John was simply recording them. They were spoken at a time when the church was enduring increasing persecution under Nero and the emperors after him. That is symbolized by the beast from the sea in Revelation. Also is a time of increasing heresy symbolized by the false prophet or beast from the land. And it was also a time of increasing immorality symbolized by the harlot of Babylon in the book of Revelation. Put them together and you've got what? 666, the counterfeit Trinity, one short of 777 And we could get into a bunch of things talking about what all that means and what the letters mean. But all I want to do this morning is look briefly at the first of those seven letters that Jesus gave to the churches, which was addressed to the saints at Ephesus. And so if you have your Bible, turn to Revelation chapter 2, or if you don't, there's always Bibles in the back there for you to pick up to. But it's also going to be up on the screen because I want to highlight some things and it's easy for you to see it that way. Let's hear God's word. The last words to the church at Ephesus. To the angel, by the way, angel is a messenger. So it's literally to the messenger of the church, probably some commentators, many think that means in each of these cases to the pastor, to the preaching, teaching, elder of the church. and therefore to the church represented by and incorporated uh in him. So it's to the pastor and the church in Ephesus. Right. These are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands. I know your deeds, your hard work, and your perseverance. I know that you cannot tolerate wicked men, that you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false. You have persevered and have endured hardships for my name and have not grown weary. Yet, I hold this against you. You have forsaken your first love. Remember the height from which you have fallen. Repent and do the things you did at first. If you do not repent, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place. But you have this in your favor. You hate the practices of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches, to him who overcomes, I will give the right to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God. These are the words to the church at Ephesus. They are also the words to the church at Columbia. And so let us hear them as if they are to us, for they are. I want for you to notice six things from this brief letter. One whole letter that I will preach on in just one sermon. Don't say it can't be done. Six things to notice. First of all, the commendation he gives them, then the concern he expresses for them, then the commands that he gives to them, then the promise he gives to them And then the epilogue to the Ephesian Church, and finally four specific applications to us. First of all, notice the commendation He commends them for three things, and you see them up on the next slide here. You see them in three different colors. First of all, he commends their diligence. That's the first blank That's their hard work. He says, You work hard. I know your deeds and your hard work. And uh that certainly could be said to the folks at CPC, you work hard. Uh you just look at uh a couple weeks ago or last week, uh the Fall Harvest Festival and you think of all the people uh Sandy and Barb that put together all the work of coordination, all the people that they said just came out of the woodwork in the last week. In fact, people that were ready to serve that um didn't even have jobs assigned. So many people willing to do work and you know see here's Charlie Lees and he's playing, you know, four sets in the band and then afterwards he's vacuuming for an hour downstairs with five bags of popcorn and everything else and You know, and all you people are just working and you're just serving and and you know, and I were getting geared up for upward and you know that's gonna be for months and you know, hundred more people that are involved in ministering to all these people. Besides everything just goes on every week in the nursery and the children's church and the setup and the takedown and the soundboard and Then you got the deacons and all the people that they serve and the trustees and the elders and you know yesterday most of you don't even know it but here's a a subcommittee of the trustees, budget and finance committee, they spend a whole half of their day Saturday. going over a budget to prepare us for 2003 so it's thought through carefully and presented priorities so that we are able to act on it. And that's just after Al Burkas has spent half of somebody's lifetime putting all these figures together You know, and putting all this stuff together so that we have something to work at. So many things. Now notice this in verse 2. A lot of things you do, and you don't get much thanks. And I know that. And there's a lot of people who don't notice all the diligence and the labor of what you do here in this body. Verse 2, Jesus says, I know it. See, he says, I know your deeds, I know your hard work. I hope that's a comfort to you. Because if you're doing it for Jesus, he says, I know it. I know what you're doing Others may not know it, they may not recognize, but I know it. Be encouraged. The one that matters most He knows everything you've done, all the sacrifices that you've made, all the hard work you've put into it. And he not only knows that, he knows your perseverance. That's the second thing. He commends you for your perseverance. He goes on to say, I know your deeds, your hard work, and your perseverance. Then verse 3: You've persevered and have endured hardships for my name and have not grown weary. Some of you have endured a lot. Some of you are in tough marriages, and you're sticking with it. Some of you have health problems on and off or constant pain, limitations. You persevere. You have an abandoned ship. You don't say, well, the Lord doesn't answer this, give him three months. I'm out of here. You persevered. You've endured, some of you enduring persecution as these Ephesians were enduring from the cult of Diana. Some of you are enduring other hardships and difficulties that few or maybe no one else knows. But again, Jesus says, I know what you're enduring for me. I know the toughest things in your life that you continue to serve me I'm aware of that. Be comforted. Thirdly, he says, I know your orthodoxy Again in verse 2. I know you cannot tolerate wicked men, and you've tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false. Verse 6 You having this your favor, you hate the practices of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. Evil men, false apostles. The Nicolaitans, you reject the error, you love the truth. Because you know the truth is what honors God and the truth is what benefits people and the error is not something to be taken lightly. You hate the error because you know it matters And you know it's interesting, as a side note, when you look at verse 6, I hate the practices, and you hate the practices of the Nicolaitans, you know we don't know who the Nicolaitans were We don't know what their practices were, we don't know what they taught, what the heresy was. Nobody knows. Which prompted in me an observation of how heresies come and go and pass off the scene And don't even leave a tray sometimes. You know, you might be one Oprah and you're the big deal for that week. And your book is number one on the New York Times bestseller list, and it's there for weeks, and everybody's following you And they all think this is the greatest thing and this is the insight in how to live successfully if it doesn't follow scripture. A generation or a hundred years from now, people won't even know what it was How many still follow Tom Harris in transactional analysis? How many of you even know what it was? Big thing in the seventies? How many of you still follow the rationalists and the sophists and some of those other things that were big deals in their day? And so yeah, we need to hate the heresies and we need to fight them. But on the other hand, don't ever get too upset and concerned that maybe the gospel's in jeopardy. Nikolaeans come and go. The gospel continues to expand and capture the hearts of more and more people around the world. But he says it's good that you stand against the error. I am delighted to be part of a congregation that fully supported me and us together in 1984 when we were expelled from the Interface Center in Columbia. Because we had the audacity to believe that a person needed Jesus Christ to go to heaven. We were the only congregation there that believed that But we weren't about to flinch on that. That was not a side issue. And Jesus knew that. And Jesus says, I commend you for standing for the truth. And then verse 4 kind of hits you like a slap in the face. Verse 4, let's say, yep, yep, yet I hold this against you Now come on, Lord. You have diligence, perseverance, orthodoxy? What's your problem? Well he tells you, you have forsaken your first love. Whoa, that's kind of a jolt. You see, all those things diligence, perseverance, orthodoxy Without the first love, that root passion and intimacy with Jesus turns sour. Diligence becomes drudgery. You still do the ministries, but now you're more critical of others who don't do them And you've lost your joy in serving the Lord. Now that doesn't mean that we don't need breaks. Let me be clear on that. Uh Eric Johnston should not be forever the head of the setup and ushers. Uh there should be somebody who takes that over someday. Sandy, England, will not be the head of the nursery forever and ever. Ben nods and says, Amen. Uh, you know, John Baker will probably not always be heading up the soundboard. You know, this there's breaks we need. We need turnover. I'm not saying if you're spiritually mature you'll hang in there till the Lord comes and whatever you have, but If there is that loss of love for Jesus, whatever we're doing becomes drudgery, doesn't it? And the perseverance becomes self-righteousness. You continue to hang on with the death grip of the flesh, but suddenly there creeps into your thinking the mentality of a victim, you begin to feel sorry for yourself, you lose your joy and any sweet sense of the presence of Jesus to sustain you in that trial. And your orthodoxy becomes brittle. Still holding to the truth, the attitude becomes a little feistier, more judgmental, a little harsher. This month, the Evangelical Theological Society is going to have their annual meeting. They're going to be discussing a difficult topic: Evangelicals' relations with non-Christian religions. Promised this to be a lively time. But in the last couple of years, some of those who are involved in that as evangelicals have said they've noticed a disturbing trend And that is a meanness in the discussions. And so back in the spring, they put together a document called The word made fresh, a call for renewal of the evangelical spirit. 110 evangelical leaders signed it which was a call to a return to a greater sense of charitableness. Now I'm not necessarily endorsing that document. It also in endorses a greater toleration and it's there's some strengths to it and some weaknesses to it. But I'm just using it as an illustration to help us to see that without the love for the Lord Jesus Our stand for what is true can become brittle. And truth, when it's disassociated with love, becomes ugly. One of the ugliest and most ironic things that I see from time to time are reformed people proud of their superior understanding of grace. How ironic. And if you are here as a Baptist Charismatic, not familiar with even what the Reformed faith means, but you hold to the gospel of Jesus Christ and love him, you should feel acceptance You should feel the love of our congregation and the sense of participation and fellowship fully. If you are outside of Jesus Christ, you should feel our love, but you should feel that you don't belong simply because the reality is that until you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ, you're not part of that body. But we must always demonstrate with truth the love that we have for Jesus as it's expressed and reflected to one another who are in our midst. Now, having said this, Jesus says, I commend you for these three things, but I hold this against you. You've forgotten. You've abandoned. You've turned away from your first love. The very thing that Paul exhorted you at the very end of the letter of Ephesians Grace to those who love our Lord Jesus with an undying love. And so he gives three commands in there in verse 5. Remember the height from which you have fallen, repent and do the things you did at first. If you do not repent, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place. First of all, then three R's. Remember Remember where you were thirty years ago or whatever it was, remember and return. Maybe it means for you and for me to this afternoon before we come to the Lord's Supper tonight to take the book of Ephesians and read those six chapters and pretend that you have never read it or heard it before. Come again and look and say, suppose I had never read this book, and it comes to me fresh in the mail from this founding pastor who started this church, and I'm going to read it now, and be stunned afresh. With the startling truths of the gospel, of what you are like without Jesus Christ and the difference that He makes. Come and look and remember. There's nothing that will fan your love for the Lord Jesus. Nothing does for me like remembering what difference He has made in my life. What would I be like? Without Jesus Christ. And remember your life before, and remember the height of that first flesh love that you had for him and then repent. That's the second thing. Repent that it's not there any longer Repent, that is, turn around. Confess, Lord, my heart is cold, and refuse to continue to allow that to be the case And uh you kids here that have the little kids at church, boy, you get the whole sermon right there in a nutshell. You take those little circles, find the letters for that, put it in there And if you if you adults are saying, so what are you getting at? You know, just fill those little blanks in. You'll you get it right there. See? It's all boiled down. Grateful for having that Uh but there it is. You know, I mean what's more important? Maybe you need to say, look, I I I gotta take a half of that. I gotta take This afternoon, a couple hours. I need to just get along with God. I need to come back. My life has drifted. God, you're showing me now. I'm doing the same stuff, but it's out of habit And I need to stop and I need to repent because I have dismissed the relationship. And then he says, if you do not do that, look at that at the end of verse 5. He says, if you do not, then I will remove your lampstand from its place. That is, you will no longer be a representative of me. There's nothing sadder to see than a church that continues business as usual And it's lost its lampstand. It no longer is a gospel church. You go and there's politicking and bickering and maybe even some good things that are going on, but There's no longer the power of the Spirit and the love for Jesus. And you know, there's no guarantee that couldn't happen at Columbia. We're not guaranteed that our lampstand will not be removed. Why are we exempt from what has happened to so many other churches? We need constantly to be examining our hearts. Do you love Jesus? Do you really love him? And then he says to resume the things that you've done. That is, you know, verse five, do what you did before But do it now with a return to the gospel motivation, motivation by grace. And the promise that he gives in verse 7 is that he who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches, to him who overcomes I will give the right to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God. Wow, what a hope! Someday very soon the bridegroom will come and they'll say, Come to the feast, come and eat. Eat from the tree of life, which is lining up and down the street of the New Jerusalem. For healing for the nations, and you and I come and we feast and we eat and every possible delight of our being is satisfied beyond your wildest imagination. You remember the honeymoon that gets better and better and you find that that Jesus satisfies so much more fully than you ever imagined here. Right now it's just the first fruits of that. And I was driving this morning here and I was just thinking that, Lord, make that new in my own life. And what I found is as I began to think about that, I was pulling up here, I thought, Lord Jesus, I want to see you I just want to see you. Wow. Imagine what it will be to see you in your glory and to see your eyes as they gaze to me with that love that I can't even begin to understand now. And I eat there at the tree of the fruit of life with paradise, and no more death or crying or weeping or pain or disappointment Do you look forward to that? Is that on your heart? Does that fuel you day by day? Did you think about what Jesus has in store for you? That's his promise. Now whatever happened to the Ephesian Church? Well, the best we understand, when they got this letter, they repented. They responded And God brought renewal and revival to the Ephesian church. The only evidence we have of that is a letter from Ignatius, a bishop, in the early second century. In which he describes the vitality and the life and the glory of the Ephesian Church in most extraordinary terms. And then, gradually again, it began to subside. And over the next decades and generations Over the next couple of hundred years, the Ephesian church grew dead and cold, the lampstand was removed, a missionary visited Ephesus in the Middle Ages He was only at that point a slum, just a few scattered ruins, and he found three Christians who could possibly be called Christians. They barely remembered the writings of Paul and John. And now it's a ruin. And tonight I'm going to bring a few photos of the Ephesian Church. And the Mazurskis were there a couple years ago. They have a few photos. Maybe you can prevail on them. and uh show you what Ephesians looks like now. What Ephesus looks like. And there's no guarantees for Columbia Presbyterian. It's the grace of God that sustains us. So what do you do? Very, very briefly, four things. Remember, as you see, excuse me, repent is first. That is, recognize the drift in your own life. And determined that you will not accept things as they are. You're going to stop. You're going to take off. You're going to do something, but you're going to say, Lord, I've got to get back my heart with you That's top priority. Number two, remember. Remember what he has done for you. Come to the Lord's Supper. That's what it's for. To remember Jesus. That's why we have it. First Sunday of each month. Come and remember. And as you hold that bread, as you hold that juice, that you remember love is measured by the degree of sacrifice it's willing to make. Lord Jesus. How much did you love me? You took on a body. Who were omnipresent and spirit from all eternity. And you took on the confines of a body, and in that body you lived and you shed your blood and you died for me. For me, because you refused To let me be lost. No one has ever loved you like Jesus Remember his love. And then read. Read the gospels. Read how he Treated people like you and see his tenderness and see again the demonstrations of his love. Read the scriptures with your heart and not just with your mind. And finally, lastly, rest. Come and rest in him. Come and bring your burdens and say, Lord Jesus, here I come and and Lord, I'm sober and I have all these things and I fret. You know I find it helpful when my heart begins to drift to talk aloud to him. To keep my mind from wandering and it helps me to be honest and to imagine and saying, Alan, what do you want me to do? Lord, Lord, here's where I am. I'm confused, Lord, and just remember what he's like and rest in him who bids you to come. And to find your rest sitting in Him. But beware, beware. Do not focus on your love for Jesus. As Tom Reggie from Ephesians 3, the whole point of the book of Ephesians is that we focus on his love for us. the height and the depth and the length and the breadth to know the love of Christ. If you focus on your love, you will simply be more depressed and more discouraged. If you focus on the love of Christ Here is love, 1 John 4. 10. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and gave his life a pleasing sacrifice for our sin. That draws you to Jesus. And I will pick it up from that point tonight and finish it as we come to the Lord's table. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you would come and speak to our hearts, and if we've drifted from you, Lord, we pray that you would not allow us to go on business as usual. But then we would stop and that we would come and get our hearts restored right before you again That we might continue to do the things that we have done, once again motivated by grace and by the gospel that is fresh in our minds and hearts. Lord Jesus, we love you and we want to love you more. And we will never love you more by thinking about how little we love you. We love you more by thinking how much you love us. Set our hearts upon yourself. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.