We are experiencing together Psalm 287 for the purpose of making that verse the song of our hearts. Psalm 28:7: The Lord is my slave and my. hear. My heart trusts in him, and I am helped. Therefore, my heart leaps for joy, and I will give thanks to him. in Saul. Last week, you remember we looked at the Lord as our strength. This week we go on to examine that verse and see him as our shield, just in case you had missed that that's the theme. this morning. I'll tell you once again. It's Shium. I would uh encourage you also as we go through this verse uh to consider memorizing it. Uh it would be a good exercise. It's a very encouraging verse. It's one that's worth uh being able to remind yourself of various times in the day, particularly in times of discouragement, times when you need to call upon the Lord to know that he's with you in this way. As we consider this matter. Remember the context that we discussed before. David has been called by God to be the king, his anointed one over his people. But jealous Saul is not about to relinquish the throne, and he's been hunting David. And he has trapped him. He was David was betrayed by the citizens of Kila, who he had rescued, and these people have betrayed him and they have turned him over to Saul, and his life is in peril. We read in those beginning verses that he cried out to God as his rock. He said, Lord, if you don't hear, I will go down to the pit. I've had it. There is no other hope. Hear my cry for mercy as I lift up my hands toward your holy place. how God had wonderfully answered. And in verse 6, we read that after this time he praised the Lord. Praise be the Lord, for he's heard my cry for mercy. God has answered. He delivered Saul. He delivered David. He delivered called Saul back to go and chase the Philistines, and on the other occasion even rubbed it in by enabling David to take his jug and his spear right from the side of his head while he was sleeping. And so from this David gives this personal testimony, the Lord is my strength. The Lord is my shield. Perhaps as he was writing that, perhaps there in those rocks by in Gedi in the wilderness of Zip, he had a shield laying beside him. The kind of shield that's described here in the Hebrew is uh probably uh one of those uh very aggressive kinds of shields that was used for someone who ran with a sword, not one of those big body shields, but this is that smaller shield that protects the ship. the body, uh made usually out of wood and covered with leather or with bronze, and it was a shield that one could run with into battle. And this is uh perhaps what David was looking at. Perhaps he had that beside him as he was writing. And he thought, just as that's protected me in battle, so Lord, you are my shield. And he had that visually in mind. And I think that image is to give to us at least two things that remind us of our own situation. And I want to just bring these two facts out to us from that image shield this morning. The first is that we are in a battle. And the second is that we have a perfect protection in that battle. The shield is a military image. It reminds us that we are in a battle. And secondly, it reminds us that in that battle we have a perfect protection in the Lord. I think that one of our biggest problems. in reading the Psalms is that sometimes they seem too big for us, don't they? I mean, you know, here's David. He's a king. You know, I'm a school teacher, an engineer, you know. Here's David. He's that stuff walking. wives. I have trouble loving the ones that I've got, you know. It just doesn't seem to relate to his whole situation. He's fleeing for his life in the wilderness of Zip with 300 armed men. All Saw's armies are changing chasing after him. The only thing I fight are the creditors. The only thing I fight are the tools. He writes in a life that's large and yet Life seems so small. David was the king who said, The Lord is my shield in battle. And yet my life seems so hungry. How can I relate to this song? problems are getting the kids off to school anymore. The only battles that I get involved in are the ones between my five-year-old and my seven-year-old trying to break them up. The things that uh concern me are what are we going to have for dinner tonight? How am I going to pick fix the car the cheapest way and succeed. The things that uh I fight are being able to cope with the droning complaints of my co-workers at work. fighting the temptation to gossip when I know that what they're saying has some truth to it and I'd really love to enter in and I'd love to do them one better. The things that I fight are a busy schedule. I fight the assignments That are due this week at school, the tests that I'm going to have to take. How do I relate what David's talking about being a shield to the kinds of battles that I seem to be fighting? The humdrum minor crisis. Of my life. And yet, as I try to put those two things together, I'm struck with two things. Number one, that the Bible is for all of our experience. It is not just written for soul. And so that image of Shield pertains to every one of us, because the Bible is for every one of us. And the second thing that I'm struck with is The amazing emphasis on military images in the Bible. The amazing emphasis on military language. Again and again and I've listed them there in your bullets and outline so that we don't have to Look them up that you can check them out later. Notice the way God is addressed, He's called my defense. He's referred to as my fortress, not only in other places in the Psalms, and there's right here in Psalm twenty eight in verse eight. One that follows the Lord is my shield. He's a fortress of salvation for his anointed one. He's a hiding place for us. He's a refuge. Eighteen times in the Psalms, he is called a shield. To his people. And so there is something to be learned from this. And it's simply that God is trying to get across to you and to me, you are in a battle. There is a battle going on, and you need A shield. Don't miss that. God wants to impress upon us that behind the humdrum experiences that we may get lulled by, there is a terrific battle going on. And God wants our eyes to open. To see that, for you'll only see that battle with the eyes of David. Eugene Peterson in his book Trav and Light referred to Abraham as a man for whom the invisible was more real than the visible. God said to Abraham, Abraham. Abraham, I am your shield and your very great reward. And Abraham could see that. Jesus said, He saw my day and rejoiced. Abraham could see his need for a shield. He could see God as his reward. But he saw it with the eyes of faith. And God wants you and for me this morning to see that we are in a battle through the eyes of faith. One of the greatest classics of Christian literature ever written. For a long time, the very bestseller outside of the Bible was John Bunyan's Pilgrim. Progress. A book written primarily for the purpose of us seeing as believers that we are in a battle and that God is our defense and our shield. To help us to see the analogy of a battle in the Christian life and our pilgrimage as we move along in there. Donald Gray Barnhouse of our own century wrote a book many years ago called The Invisible War, in which he sought to alert Christians to the fact that we are in a spiritual battle, that we need spiritual eyes. to see in order to appreciate the fact. You wonder why those temptations seem so powerful at times. You wonder why there are times when you're determined to say a word for the Lord Jesus Christ to some friend. And it seems like everything in you cries out to be ashamed of Jesus Christ. And you say afterwards, why was I ashamed of Jesus? I love him. Why, when it came to the point where I could say something to that person I've been praying about for weeks or months, Did I cop out? Why is it that when I look at the bills and they seem to overwhelm me and I'm tempted to try and cut corners and give a little less to the Lord and back off on this and compromise a principle, because that seems like such an intense struggle? But you see, that's the spiritual battle. That's not just psychologically explained away. You and I are in a spiritual battle, a deadly conflict. And God wants us to open our eyes and see. The Lord is my shield because I'm in a battle. And he wants us to understand that. He wants us to see those pressures and those tensions that we experience week after week as spiritual issues and not just spiritual psychological issues. Just this week there was a woman who was in my office. She was talking about we were talking about spiritual things and I presented to her her need for Jesus Christ. As we talked about that and there were things and that she liked about it, and then we talked about some things she wasn't so sure she liked, and I talked to her about if she trusted Jesus Christ that he would be the Lord of her life and he would take control of her life. Immediately I could sense a tension. And she She wept. And she said, I'm not sure I like that. You think there was a battle going on there? You bet there was a battle. An intense spiritual conflict. Spiritual issues of whether I will submit my will to Jesus. Jesus Christ, in total, as a policy of my life, or for some of us, in a particular area in which I'm holding out, will I give to him my life? But not only does the Lord want us to see from this that we're in a battle. He wants us to see the perfect protection that we have in that valley. The perfect protection of his shield. One day in January nineteen seventy, I was out praying along the Potomac River. There was some snow on the ground. And I was praying through Psalm 115. Psalm 115 has the image of Sheol. And I was reading in Psalm 115, verses nine to eleven, O house of Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and shield. O house of Aaron, trust the Lord. He is their help and shield. You who fear him, trust in the Lord. He is their help and shield. And I began to get the idea that the Lord wanted me to see that he was my help and my shield. I say I trusted him. He said, say it three times over. I am your help and your shield. And I was praying that the Lord to show me what that meant. Just at that moment, or just a minute or two after that, I was walking down the trail, and right in front of me, about fifty feet down the trail, was this beautiful red fox. I don't know if you've ever seen a red fox out in the woods. Uh I seemed to come across them. of various times, and they're always beautiful, but they're never more beautiful than when you see them in the snow in the winter. When their fur is just bushy red and they stand out there glistening against the white snow. And he didn't see me because he was so preoccupied about something. And as I walked down, I was wondering what it was that so preoccupied this box that he didn't even notice my presence. And then I heard it. The barking of dogs coming up the trail after. Finally he turned around and he noticed me, and if an animal could ever have an expression could speak that and he looked at me just like, oh no, not you two. And he turned around and he started lurking off the other way. And immediately, for some strange reason, it just popped into my mind, you are in desperate trouble, Fox. And I want to be your shield. I want to experience what that means to be a shield towards someone who needs it. Now, with three huge dogs coming after that box, that might not have been the wisest decision to make at that moment. Because as I glanced down the trail at these dogs coming up, one was this huge black master, some shaggy thing. I don't know what it would have been. Huge. He was followed by a German shepherd that was full-size, but he was smaller than him, and he was followed by a safe redown. Now, how this big black fish. This German shepherd, this sacred arm, all gathered together in a pack to chase this fox. I'll never tell you. There they were, all coming up, single file of this trail. And so I decided that we and a shield, I would stand there, and I stood at the top of the trail. As they came up, they could. see me until just the last minute where the fox had been. And so I, you know, capitalized on all my uh wildlife lore and experience with dogs and uh figured there's only one thing that I'm gonna do. You know, you have to bluff a dog. Now I'm not recommending this to you kids to try. that it has worked for me from time to time, but it doesn't always work. And I can tell you a story afterwards about a time when it didn't work. But this time it did. It came up the trail and I popped out the lion to bridge and I went! Well, the first dog was so shocked at it, he didn't know what to say about him, but he just blocked, turned around, and bumped into the German shepherd. He sprawled down. a hill and the two of them turned around and then passed the sacred or go in the other direction. Well he didn't know what was going on, so he just turned around and followed the other two back down the hill. As I looked down the trail, the fox was long gone. And I thought But that fox is probably thinking if he could think as well as he could express himself, boy was I lucky. Low did I get out of that way. Little knowing that he had nothing to do with that. I was his shield. I thought how many times, Lord, am I in situations confronted with evil or temptation or danger? And you are my shield. And I don't even realize it. I think I was lucky. I think I pulled out what Wasn't I glad to escape? And not realizing, not having the eyes of faith, Lord, you are my shield and my help. You are my perfect protection. Why? Just as you have been that perfect protection, you are. were my perfect protection because you sent your own son. And he confronted Satan. And when he confronted Satan, you who said you would be the shield of your anointed one, he says there in verse 8 in Psalm 28, that I There will be a fortress of salvation to my anointed one. You removed that shield from your son. You took it away just at the moment when he was in the greatest danger as he faced all the forces of hell. And you removed that shield from him. And all hell broke loose literally. And Jesus faced vulnerable and without any defense all of the curses and the attacks of all of Satan and his hosts. And Jesus Christ suffered and perished with no shield. So that when I come to God, I will find in him a refuge and a perfect protection. Because that Jesus has risen. Again. It is now to me my refuge. So that Paul says in Ephesians chapter six, oh brothers and sisters, you best heard of this because this is the scripture that I want to read to you this morning. Ephesians chapter six. Paul says the same thing that this image of Shield is seeking to bring out. You and I are in a spiritual battle, and we have a perfect protection. Paul says there in Ephesians chapter 6, beginning with verse 10. Finally then, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. Trouble is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly mountains. You and I are so tempting. to psychologize, aren't they? So tempted to see cause and effect over the materialistic or psychological realm. And Paul says, Don't be deceived. The battles that you're going to fight this week are spiritual battles. They have a spiritual Dimension. They're not just personality conflicts that you have with that person you can't get along with. That's a spiritual conflict. And it has spiritual implications when you can't forgive, when there's bitterness, when there's struggle, when there's temptation, when you want to back down, when there's Shame of the Lord when you want to compromise a principle. Paul says, these are spiritual battles. Therefore, put on the full armor of God. So that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground. And after you have done everything, Everything to stand. Stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled about your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place, with your feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. In addition to all this attention, Take up the shield of faith. What's that shield of faith do? Well, with it you are able to extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil eye. And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, and pray that the Spirit on all occasions, with all kinds of prayers and requests, with this in mind, be alert and always keep on. pray for all the saints. Why? Because you're gonna battle. If you have that helmet of salvation this morning , you must start by taking at that your feet with the gospel of peace. The belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, and the helmet of salvation. And if you have never trusted Jesus Christ as your own personal Savior and Lord, as the one who is the substitute, the The shield taken from him, so that God's curses for all who break his commands were poured out on Jesus. And that's where you need to begin. For he'll never be a shield and a refuge to you until he's a shield and a refuge to you from his own law and his person. That come, as Sandy reminded us this morning, on all those who break that law, his shielding is to the upright, to the righteous, to those who have received that righteousness in his own son, Jesus, as a gift, and not some. That you can earn. But you see, the interesting thing about a shield is that it's external to you. You don't uh a shield isn't part of you. It's something that you have to hold separate from you and something which is given to you. And so that shield which God provides for you in his salvation is something you receive, a gift from him by Jesus Christ. And it's a complete shield, it's a complete protection that he describes. The shield we notice here, and in Peter, it's Sandy Red from us, doesn't say the Lord is my shield. What is the shield? Faith. Faith in the Lord. Peter puts it interesting. He says that we are shielded by the power of , we are shielded by faith in the power of God. So God's power is our refuge. And our shield is the faith by which we lay hold of God's power. and his protection. In fact, in Psalm 28 , that shield , very interesting. In Psalm in verse 7, you have the uh the fact that the Lord is my strength, then in verse 8, he's the strength of all his strength. people, but in parallel to my his being my shield is the fact that he is a fortress of salvation. The shield now is so complete it's like a whole fortress to surround you. But that fortress is in his anomaly. It's for his anointed, and because his anointed was left defenseless and suffering. You and I have that fortress to get into for the Lord to protect us. And so my point's quite simple this morning, just two things that I want you to see from this. a battle, whether or not it appears to be true. You and I are in a battle. When you're watching TV, when you're making choices, when you're interacting with people, there's a spiritual battle going on. Satan's influences against The Spirit of God's influences and need his armor to take that shield of faith in order to be protected. And that's the second thing. That protection is complete. It's complete. It's perfect. It will Never fail you. It makes a big difference whether or not you and I are aware of that battle. I have never known a mature Christian who was not very conscious of the fact that he was in a spiritual battle, that the issues that we were talking about Society were spiritual issues and not simply psychological issues with natural cause and effect. I remember the first time in my own life that I was struck with the reality of the spiritual value that we're in. It was a 1969. But just a couple of months before, a big burly fellow by the name of Rick from a motorcycle gang who had been heavily into drugs had committed his life to Jesus Christ. And Rick and I would meet for times of disciples. On this one particular evening as we met, Rick had a question. He said, Alan, what do you think of Ouija boards? Well, I haven't had a whole lot of experience with Ouija boards. And I said, Well, I don't know a whole lot about them. Tell me what you've been doing with this thing. They started describing how he had been meeting with his girlfriend and another couple, going with his Ouija board and asking certain questions, and the answers turned from simply the board into automatic writing. And he said, as this person Would write in this trance. They would write things about his life, and he told me some of the details. He said, things that this person could have never known about. Precise and detailed in the years that have gone past now, I forget exactly what the details were, but they were very confused. There were things that only a person who had known Richard's childhood or had heard him tell could have known. And this was being written by someone who didn't even know him automatically on a piece of paper. And he said, What about that? And I said, That doesn't sound like that's a belonging. It sounds like you're involved in an occultic practice and we better flee it. And he began to talk about some of the implications. He wasn't too convinced at first and he said, Well that seems like one, it doesn't seem too bad. And he described uh what he described for him, what was going on, and some of the things that that had led to. Of the things in his former drug experiences. And as we talked about that, we discussed it probably for two, two and a half hours, and was getting on toward midnight. Then we had an experience that I shall never forget as long as I live. Simon Simultaneously and independently, both Rick and I were overwhelmed with the realisation of another person in the room. There was nobody there, no one we could see. But we were overwhelmed with the realisation of another presence. And it was the presence of absolute evil. Both of us simply looked at each other, we didn't even have to speak. In fact, I don't think we spoke anymore. All we did was pray. Because we said we've been meeting for a couple hours now, and I think we ought to close with a word of prayer. We simply cast ourselves down on the floor and we started praying. We prayed for protection. We prayed for deliverance. Rick. We prayed intensely and fervently, laid hold of every promise of God that we could think of. When we got up, a half hour or so later, and Rick left. I had in the next three or four four days, an experience that followed from that that I've never quite had since. It was such a realization of the reality of the spiritual battle that I was in, that it was the most precious thing that I can I didn't pray in those days after that because it was time to pray. Prayer was no longer hunger. It was a necessity for survival. Temptations lost their power to me for those days. Because I couldn't fall around with that stuff. There was a battle going on, and I had experienced something on the front lines in the life of my friend that had scared me. And it had driven me to find God as my shield. Things took away. On a different perspective. My values were altered. I saw toys for what they were. I saw the reality of knowing Jesus for what it was and the preciousness of it. And that's the same experience that you and I can. have whenever we realize that we are in a spiritual battle and that the Lord is our shield. We need, brothers and sisters, to be aware of that. And we can be sold all to forget it. Someone in our congregation who's had experiences that I think have enabled her to particularly understand this is the Alba Major. The Alba works in the prison system. And she's in contact with evil in a way. that most of us don't get to have that experience. And Dialva has seen in her own experience of how the Lord's promise to be her shield is an absolute necessary reality. In fact, in my thinking about this, in the conversation that I had with her a couple of weeks ago about this, I really thought that she could describe that better than I could for me. So I've asked her to just tell you something of what the Lord has shown her about being her shield. In the battle that God's called it to. Well , you can't do that. I asked him to share this. I told him I was willing, but I didn't know if I was able. Because the Lord's presence to me, through my experiences, anytime I'll get it together. Okay. The Lord's presence has been so precious. to me through my experiences that I find it hard to talk about it without crying because I'm just so overwhelmed with what he's done. I've been working in a prison, a male prison for over three years now, and God has brought a couple things to light from um my experiences there. Before I went into work in the prison, like Al said, I knew that there was a spiritual battle. I thought that was a role meat concept. You know, when I would read about it in the Bible and I What a nice analogy that was, you know, and how that must be in the Bible so that we would get all geared up, you know, as Christians and kind of be super motivated to be out there witnessing and all that sort of thing. But when you constantly in the presence of people like in the prison who are not only passively being used by Satan but who are actively working as hard for him as we try and do for the Lord, then you can see very clearly how the battle lines are drawn. You can see that there is no middle ground, there is no D and Z. Okay, in this battle. You have to choose which side you're going to be on, because you're going to be on the side where you're either actively or passively used by Satan or want to be on God's side. You also see too that the stakes are very high. These are people's souls that are at stake. And like the Hamletton just saying, but Satan is on to cool hate. Martin Luther has to have a most thorough and intimate appreciation of what I was talking about today. Because Sat this is not a game. Satan is out there to win those souls, to keep those souls. The same battle that I see going on in the prison and as I was speaking down at the picnic a few weeks ago, sometimes this world that we inhabit seems very unreal to me because when you're there working in a place And you're battling so clearly, you h you all the time hear the battle cry and you all the time know that that it's going on and you want to be actively involved in it. So I just there are fewer barriers in the prison to perceiving the battle. It's the same everywhere. There are just there's much less facade, much less niceness, much less cushion there. The second thing is before I started to work at the prison, I didn't have that having any fears. I mean the natural and fears of growing up single my whole life being single my whole life or um you know all these sorts of things. But I'm not naturally a fearful person. And I think while working in the prison it seemed like Satan was determined to build that into my character, fear. Because when you walk with people um all the time whose lifestyle is one of violence and you have very little self control and when you walk through mobs with these men every day back and forth to your office it's like walking to the Valley of the Shadow of Death on a routine basis. Um I would try and counter I I think I had I had as many conversations with Satan since I started this job in the I've had with God because say or else I just became more aware of it. He would always be saying to me, What um how God was not going to protect me, that God did not cherish me, that I was dispensable and that's true. a sense. He always takes the truth and distorts it a little bit. I am dispensable. My body is dispensable. You know, but my soul is a um in safety with God. I've had people in ships from me as close as allies to me, threatening to kill me. I've had men, you know, I've had a man You know, that he's gonna cut off my head with a butcher knife when he gets relief. You know, other threats that have been made against me. So I've I've learned that to work there I walk with fear. And I walk alone. If it weren't for the Lord. You walk it your whole life you walk alone. You just don't always realize it. But you do walk alone, accept that the Lord is with you. And what I found was it wasn't good enough to just use scripture to fight with Satan when he would be making accusations against God. Sometimes it would get to the point where fear almost incapacitated me. I was just so afraid of all the things that were were around me and afraid that I was going to be devoured by Satan that I could almost not function at work. So sometimes rather than sit there and go through all these scriptures and and fight against Satan. I would just have to to tell Satan, listen, Jesus fought me. He owns me. Okay? What I'm going to do is get behind him. I'm hiding. I'm tired of this. I can't handle this anymore. I'm going to hide behind Jesus and you have to go through him to get to me. Okay? Because I'm not going to entertain this anymore. And it was only at those times, out of my desperation, that I could really enter in to God's rest. And I just want to say that he's been a most marvelous protection and refuge. That wasn't easy for her to do. Thank you, Now. Let's pray. Lord, as we hear the Add's words and we see your word. We think of our own fears. We think of those things that have incapacitated us. We think of temptations. that have overwhelmed us and had repeated victory. And Lord, some of us this morning are seeing A new, maybe others for the first time. What it means that we are really in a spiritual battle, not a psychological battle, not a natural. natural battle, but a spiritual battle on many different levels. And that you have provided yourself as our shield. Lord Jesus, just as Liana can hide behind you in these times of desperation , every one of us can hide behind you. We can take your word as that sword, and behind behind that shield of our faith in Jesus Christ, that we can find you our perfect protection. Lord, we pray that you'd show each of us what that means in our own situations. Whether we need to come to know you as our refuge from sin, its curse, and its punishment. Or whether having settled that we need to find refuge from you in you, from our fears. from our temptations, from misplaced values, to see you as a shield in the battle, so that we realize that we pray because we must live by prayer. Lord, open our eyes that we might see both the battle and the protection that each of us have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.