So we need to come back and remember after all that. What are we here for? What is the holiday about? Uh you know, uh just stuffing all this stuff into our carts. So what we do at Columbia Presbyterian for the first few weeks of Advent is we look at one of the messianic prophecies. And we've been doing that now for a long time, so we are up to the 21st messianic prophecy. That we are looking at. We started at Genesis 3. We're not now into Isaiah. The last three years we've been looking at the songs of the servant And uh there's about fifty of these altogether that I plan to look at. I uh I told NBC a few weeks ago uh that uh A few years ago I had said to you, there was about 50, and I said, I I haven't, you know, when I get up to the end of the series, I'm not sure what I'll do after that. And uh Max Bilke came back to me at the end of that service And he said, that's easy, Al. He said, you just start it over again, because most of us will have forgotten the first ones. And now Max is with the Lord. And he is there with Jesus, seeing and waiting for us to join him, knowing what he looks like Fellowshipping with them. How the time moves. Well, this year's messianic prophecy is an especially exciting one Because it is the messianic prophecy most quoted in the New Testament of any in the Old Testament. There are at least 41 references in the New Testament to the passage that Tim read to you from Isaiah 52 and 53. And these These verses are some of the clearest teaching in all the Bible on the work of the Messiah, the servant of Jesus. And the meaning of the cross. Substitutionary sacrifice is mentioned ten times in this passage. It's as if this passage was written on the very hill of Golgotha In the shadow of the cross during the hours of Jesus' suffering. And yet it was written 750 years before that occurred. Don't let your familiarity with the passage and with the gospel blunt the supernaturalness of that. That is like some highly unique and unusual event taking place now And somebody writing about that in 1250 A. D. with precision of accuracy. So we want to look at this. We want to look at this passage. It's a poem, a poem of five stanzas. Three verses each stanza. The first in chapter 53, verses 13 to 15, is kind of a prologue and an overview to it. And I'll be doing two messages on that this week and next week, and then just an overview of chapter 53. No chance of covering all of the riches of this in the three weeks that will go so quickly here this year. So what we'll do is just the overview and then I'll pick up the chapter 53 in some more detail next Christmas, Lord willing, and if the Lord Jesus hasn't come to get us all. Um but we need to bask in this to restore us to some sanity after a half hour in the register line, don't we? Notice that the very first word of this poem, this song, is the word see. Look! Old translations say, behold, stop, look, here's something extraordinary. Get your eyes off yourself for a few minutes. And look to see this servant. Look at him. Now we're not known for living in an age of particular spiritual maturity And uh what is it that causes a people to be deeply spiritual, to be mature? Well, I think there's nothing that accomplishes that more than looking at Jesus And so what I want to help you to do, as I need to help myself over these next three weeks, is to do what Isaiah says. See, look, look at Jesus. Get your eyes off yourself for right now. All of your insecurities and your worries and all the things that didn't go right this past week and that you dread about the week to come. And look, see. Look at him. See what he's like. And what he's going to do is he's going to show you in verse 13 How Jesus is exalted above all else. And then in verses 14 and 15, he's going to talk to you about how he has been humiliated below all else. Look again at those verses. See, my servant will act wisely. He will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. Just as there were many who were appalled at him, his appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man, and his form more beyond any human likeness. So will he sprinkle many nations. And kings will shut their mouths because of him. For what they were not told they will see, and what they have not heard, they will understand. So this week his exaltation. Next week his humiliation. How does he speak of his exaltation? In three ways, there in verse 13. The first is that you notice he says, see, my servant. This is God Himself, Yahweh, the covenant God of the Bible. This is God speaking, and he calls the servant my servant. Remember, this is the fourth of the servant songs. The others in chapters 42, 49, and 50 all speak of this same servant, and all of them had this idea, had the word my or his. That this servant is in an intimate relationship with God Yahweh. My servant. And in fact, if you read verse 13, you almost get the idea it's like a proud father. See? My servant? See him? Yeah, that's my son that hit that home run. That's my son that just ran for that touchdown. That's my son that's going to that Muslim country with the gospel and risking what he has. That's my son that just found that cure for that disease that's perplexed everyone. My son, look at him. That's kind of the idea. God is proud. He's looking. He's saying, see, my servant, look at him. And why? Because notice what he says. He will act wisely. Now That is a very difficult phrase. It really has no English equivalent. In fact, if you have different translations of the Bible, you see they translate that in a lot of different ways. NIV says we'll act wisely. The footnote says we'll prosper. You look at your translation, whatever it is, you know, you'll see there's different ways of translating. Now, why is that? Well it's because not only is there no English equivalent for that Hebrew and by the way, well I'll get to that. Not only is there no English equivalent for that Hebrew word But it involves two thoughts that are woven together. And the two thoughts are, first of all, that He will, and by the way, I translate it here, trying to wrap it all up in B, the blanks there, he will succeed in his wisdom I think that kind of gets at it. The Harris unauthorized version of the translation you see listed down there that kind of catches the flavor of it. He will perform brilliantly. That kind of catches the flavor of it. And what is it that makes it difficult? Well it's because it refers both to the character of the person described as well as the result of what they're going to do. So In the character that is described, that's the next blank, it's a person who acts wisely, like the NIV says. That's part of it. For instance, in Psalm 119 and verse 99 David says, I have more insight than all my teachers because I follow your word. The word insight is the same word as the word you have here. In 1 Samuel chapter 18 and verses 5 and 20, David is described as doing everything so skillfully, he just excelled in what he did, he yelled prudently. You know, just everything he did, he just did it right, and people looked at him. Wow, look at that. He just succeeded in in the wisdom of his activity But it also has the idea of leading, not just acting, but there's a leadership quality that is connoted in that word. For instance, in Jeremiah chapter 23 and verse 5, the words used where the Lord says, The days are coming when I will raise up to David a righteous branch, a king who will reign wisely. And the phrase there, reign wisely, is the same word in uh Isaiah 52, 13. We will reign wisely, do what is just and right in the land Uh so it's somebody that just kind of does everything skillfully and right. It's interesting that the the Hebrew word is actually Shaquil So next time you see Shaquille O'Neal you think uh Hebrews I mean uh Isaiah fifty two thirteen just does it all right, you know, he just knows how to go in there for layup and There it is. Well that's the word. And um so it has the idea of leadership, you know, it's the it's the hero of Isaiah 11 who rules with insight and wisdom, understanding, peace. But it's not only the character of the person, it's also the result of what they do. And that's the second, that's the next blank there, the result. The result is that they succeed in it And uh so now David, if you put the overhead up there, I want to see these things put together. Look my servant, see this, my servant It is these two ideas put together. He will perform brilliantly and he will act wisely and succeed phenomenally. That's really the idea that is That is communicated through that one word. He's going to perform brilliantly, he's going to act wisely, he's going to succeed phenomenally. For instance, in Joshua chapter 1, a very familiar passage where the Lord says to Joshua, Verse 6, be strong and courageous because you will leave these people to inherit the land I swore to their forefathers to give them. Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the law my servant Moses gave you. Do not turn from it to the right or to the left, that you may be successful wherever you go. The word successful is that same word. You will succeed in everything that you do. Now it's interesting. This word is used of Joshua, it's used of David, it's used of Solomon. Because in all these three cases, they were all successful. They all dealt prudently. They were all wise and skillfully, and they did the right thing, and God blessed them. It's interesting when you look at them, all three of them failed, didn't they? You look at Joshua. Don't turn to the right, to the left, but you'll succeed everywhere you go. So Joshua consults with the Commander of the Lord's armies and he says, Here's how you're going to take Jericho. Very strange operation here, marching around blowing trumpets. Okay, but whatever you say, Lord, and he thinks it And Jericho falls. And Joshua is successful. In the very next town, Ai says, ah, this piece of cake, you know, you guys take the day off, we'll just take 3,000 up and go mop it up. And he fails miserably because he doesn't consult the Lord. So he is successful, but he's not reliable Then he had David. And it says, you know, David was just successful. He was dealt prudently. He was he was so wise in what he did. He's the hero who takes Goliath as a young boy with five smooth stones against a giant nearly thirteen feet tall, and he comes against them in the name of the Lord, and he takes Goliath and he is successful. Then some years later, he takes the wife of one of his trusted, devoted captains, Uriah, violates her, and has Uriah killed. Successful. And I'm very reliable. Succeeds at one point, utterly fails at another. We take Solomon, who succeeded more than Solomon in his rule to establish peace and prosperity for his nation. And the word is used of Solomon in that way. And yet, who so miserably failed because of his greed and his lust, establishing all the alliances, involving foreign gods Raising up a son who would divide the land and bring on bloodshed and war failed miserably in his legacy. Did you notice as Isaiah uses this word, there is no qualification. He doesn't say he's going to act wisely for the most part and then go on to talk about his successes, but on the other hand But there's absolutely no qualifying of his success. This one, in contrast To all the Old Testament characters and heroes, is simply going to Shaquil. He's going to do it With no error, no compromise, he will succeed phenomenally And he will be entirely trustworthy. And the most amazing thing is that you have that same idea in Isaiah 53, verse 10, when it talks about how he will succeed. You notice that yet it was the Lord's will to crush him. And you know, Isaiah has to make this point because in verse 4 he talks about how he was smitten and afflicted, and we thought that it was because the Lord was Angry at him because he had done something wrong. But Isaiah says, we were mistaken You see, he right at the outset he's saying, don't think that this one's sufferings are be are going to be because of something he has done He will succeed phenomenally. He will act with prudence and righteousness at every point. And the particular point That he will be successful is when the when it's the Lord's will to crush him, verse ten again, and cause him to suffer, though the Lord makes his life a guilt offering, he will see his offspring And prolong his days, and the will of the Lord will prosper in his hands. How is he going to prosper? How is he going to succeed? It's a guilt offering. That's going to be the focus of his success. Oh. Strange. He will be a successful guilt offering. So you have a strange description here of a hero And then Jesus comes and he succeeds phenomenally at every point. He's driven into the wilderness, he confronts Satan, not just the demons, but Satan himself. And Satan throws everything that he can at him in order to get him to deviate from the course the Father had set. And he faces Satan, and he doesn't back down. And he succeeds The Pharisees try to cause them to slip up and try to chart them. You have again and again the description of that How they come to him and say that uh, what do you say? Should we pay taxes to Caesar? And they think, but, you know, he says yes Then the Jews are gonna get all up in arms if they says no, then we'll get the Romans on his back. We got him. Jesus says, give to Caesar what is Caesar's and to God what is God's Matthew 22, 22 says, when they heard this, they were amazed. And so they left them and they went away. Somebody else says, I know, I know how to get them You know, this this business about the resurrection, it's really got some strange ideas here. What if a woman has seven husbands, one after the other? Which one's gonna be her husband? So they tell him, hey, which one's gonna be you know, we got you now. Make 'em look foolish. Jesus answers in verse 33 says, when a crowd heard, they were astonished at his teaching. And finally they say, Well, you know, let's let's have 'em deal with this issue. You know, we've been debating this one for years and having fun with it. You know, how how does David say to his son, Lord, in Psalm 110? I mean if it's his son, he's not his Lord. If it's his Lord, he's not his son. So which is it? And Jesus answered that, and then Matthew says, no one could say a word in reply, and from that day on, no one dared to ask him any more questions. He's brilliant. You can't slip him up. You can't unnerve him. You remember in John chapter seven Jesus went to the feast and he confronts the people and he teaches them, puts them in touch with their thirst, and offers himself to quench that thirst. The Jews are getting madder and madder, and finally the temple guards went back to the chief priests and the Pharisees who asked him, Why didn't you arrest him and bring him in? The guards declare No one ever spoke the way this man does. And that's his speech. One of his miracles and his wonders of all that he did. To the time he stood before Pilate and then heard and back to Pilate, beaten, mocked, and scoffed put on trial for excruciating death penalty. And he makes those who are his tormentors look foolish in the majesty of his demeanor. He performs brilliantly. And so it's absolutely clear that when this one is crucified, it's not for his own faults, it's not for his own sin. But it's for yours and it's for mine. As Isaiah fifty three, verse five says to us, He was pierced for our transgression. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him. And by his wounds we, you, are healed. And yet that's not the last word. It's not simply that he's a hero who's given his life for the others, and we remember him with reverence and awe, but Isaiah goes on in verse 13: See, my servant is going to act wisely. He's going to perform brilliantly, he'll act wisely and succeed phenomenally, and he will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. You know, the Hebrew communicates emphasis and extreme by repetition. And so in Isaiah 6, holy, holy, holy, the angels sing to the Lord, and that means really, really holy. And so Isaiah says here he's going to be raised, he's going to be lifted up, and he's going to be highly exalted. Those three terms in the Hebrew probably don't mean different things so much as they are simply the idea repeated for emphasis. In other words, he's going to be exalted to the highest place above all else. You know, raised is he's going to be high. Raised and lifted up, he's going to be really high. Raised and lifted up and highly exalted means he's higher than everything Every rule and authority and power and dominion in this age and the age to come, God is going to exalt them to the highest place This is the one Jesus, whose name every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that he is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And this is probably the passage that Jesus had in mind when he talked to the disciples on the road to Emmaus, and he said, Didn't you know that the prophet said that Messiah would suffer and be raised and exalted? You remember Peter and John refer to this passage explicitly in Acts chapter 3. Remember after Jesus' ascension and Peter and John are going after the Holy Spirit has come upon the church, and they're into the temple to worship, and they see this blind, I mean this crippled beggar. And uh they say, we don't have any money to give you, but um we can give you what we have in the name of Jesus. How about you rise up and walk, you know? Would that be okay? Yeah, you know, it sounds like a good deal, forget the money. In the name of Jesus, they speak to him to rise, and he's healed, and they take that opportunity, Peter, particularly, to declare the gospel. And he refers to this passage in Acts chapter 3. Very, very interesting. It's worth your taking a look at this week. I don't know how many of you have used last week. I prayed for you, if you did, to meditate on your thirst and Jesus quenching them. But this is another great passage because it shows you the fulfillment of what Isaiah is talking about. In Isaiah chapter 3 and verse 13 Peter says, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus. And when it says a servant Jesus, that doesn't mean that Jesus is not God, that Jesus is below God. It doesn't mean that the servant idea is demeaning. What it means is that he's referring it back to this passage in Isaiah 52. See my servant. It's the servant that Isaiah is talking about. So that clues you. Oh, he's talking about that passage, the songs of the servant. He's glorified. He's exalted. He's raised up his servant, Jesus. You handed him over to be killed and you disowned him before Pilate, though he had done decided to let him go. You disowned the holy and righteous one and asked that a murderer, Barabbas, be released to you. You killed the author of life, but God raised him from the dead. And we are witnesses of this. Then verse 18 This is how God fulfilled what he had foretold through all the prophets, saying that his Messiah would suffer See, and then he's to be raised. Verse 24. Dead all the prophets from Samuel on, as many as have spoken, have foretold these days. You are heirs of the prophets, the covenant that God made with your fathers. Verse 26, when God raised up his servant, he sent him first to you to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways. That's good news. What is it that we're to learn from this? Let me offer it to you Five lessons that I think you can gain practically, that I can gain from this for your life this week. First of all To increase your confidence in the Bible, it's rather amazing when you consider the supernatural prophecy and fulfillment here. Just take three instances that I've talked about. The contrast, first of all, with Joshua, with David, with Solomon, all of whom this word is used that they will succeed, but all of them failed. And yet in Isaiah 52 and 53, you have no statement of failure. This one is going to succeed phenomenally He is going to be perfect. And you see that in contrast. That's a bold statement. And yet, whether people worship Jesus or whether they simply admire him, no one criticizes him. People down through the ages always look with respect and reverence at the person of Jesus because there's no flaws that you can pick, there's nothing that you can say that he did wrong. And that is depicted 750 years before he came. No one else ever fulfilled that. And Jesus fulfilled it perfectly. How could Isaiah have known that? Secondly, notice the seemingly contradictory statement he makes that just There's no way to even conceive at that time of it being fulfilled. It says he's going to be at the highest place and he's also going to be at the lowest place. He's going to be the most degraded of men and he's going to be the most exalted of men. How can you be both? And you try to describe things, well, I don't, you know, think about, well, one part and another part. You can't conceive of it really. But then after the life of Jesus, it's all very clear how that can be true, isn't it? Don't let the familiarity with it blunt the supernaturalness of someone writing 754 fifty years before. That there would be one who would come, who would be at the very lowest place, and also be at the very highest place. And then thirdly Notice that he describes his success, particularly in terms of bearing sin of others. What other religious leader bore the sin of his people? Muhammad never bore the sin of his people. Buddha never bore the sin of his people. Moses didn't bear the sin of his people. No religious leader has ever born the sin of his people but Jesus. No one has ever come close to fulfilling the prophecy of Isaiah 53 other than the person of Jesus. He didn't come near. He fulfilled it precisely. Exactly as Isaiah wrote it. How could Isaiah have known that 750 years before? That there would come one who would be crucified And that he would bear not his own sin, but the sin of others, because he'd be eligible Where you look at the fact that his work is centrally described in terms of a guild offering, that's the second lesson. And so if you don't know Jesus this morning as your guilt offering, at least say it advisedly to you, you don't know Jesus. Because that is the central focus of the success of his work. If you look at Isaiah 52, 15 and then compare what he says in 53, 10. The focus of his success, the prospering, the success is in being a guilt offering for sinners That brings you to the third point. The appeal is not simply to your mind so that you acknowledge it, but it's to your conscience Notice again in Isaiah, and excuse me, in Acts chapter 3, where Peter talks of the fulfillment of this, he says in verse 26: when God raised up his servant, he sent him first to you. To bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways. We want the blessing, but we don't want to acknowledge our wicked ways, do we? You say, I want to know this Jesus at the holiday season and know that he's with me to guide me and help me as I pray to him. But Peter says, in order to know him, you've got to first acknowledge your wicked ways. You've got to acknowledge that you haven't obeyed him, you haven't lifted him at the highest place in your life. Your life should revolve around him. It should center on him. Every day it should be, Lord, how can I lift you up today? How can I give you the place that you deserve in my life? How can I show you to be the wonderful Lord and King and Master that you are? We have so much trouble minding them ourselves. Been reading through the Mitford books, I don't know how many of you have read any of those, but you know, you say, Oh yeah, you read 'em because it's about an old pastor. Uh good book though, you know. It's this old Episcopal rector and got a lot of wisdom and one particular point he's uh dealing with this sexton, a crotchety old guy who's uh been in a hospital and somebody's trying to take care of him, but he's so nasty to her that she's having a pretty rough time with him. So he goes in and speaks pretty roughly to the sexton And uh his name's Russell and pick it up there, Russell heaved a sigh and he said, You're right, father, you're dead right. And I know it. I'm the roughest old top you ever seen when it comes to minding. That's why I fought the Lord so long. It meant minded him if I asked follow him. He's about boring me out, fighting them. Not to say I don't respect them, but do. I just don't want to mind him. The uneducated Russell Jacks, thought the rector, had just put the taproot cause of the world's ills into a few precise words. Is that the case with you? You respect him. He's high. You just don't want to mind him. He's not Lord. He says, you can't exalt me without minding me. And you can't mind me until you realize your wicked ways and you receive me as your guilt offering. That's what he offers to you this morning. Believe me, he's saying I'm not so sure that's true. How in the world? What more proof do you want than somebody writing seven hundred and fifty four fifty years before that this is going to take place and it takes place exactly as he said and he offers himself to you this morning, what else could he do? If you've never received him, bow your knee, prostrate yourself before this high, exalted Jesus. Who invites you to come to be your guilt offering? And not only that, but because he is so competent, he's been raised to the highest place. That means whatever your burden is Whatever you need this morning, this week, he's able to take care of it. Because he succeeds phenomenally For his shape. He's able to take your burden. He's able to take care of you. He's able to meet that need that's in your life. He's able to satisfy you. He's able to take it through this week. Trust him. And then finally, if you really see him as high Realize that for many Christians, coming into the month of December becomes a time not of spiritual feasting, but of famine. A time when Christians go through December and they say, Boy, you know, I haven't met with the Lord since before Thanksgiving. Why? Because I've been celebrating the holidays. If he's really high and lifted up, the central focus of your life, what about determining that you're going to take 20 minutes each day? The first 20 minutes of your day, and think about Jesus. With your mind off of yourself, see him, why he deserves to be high and lifted up, what he's done, how he satisfies you. And just get your mind off yourself onto him to start the day. Let's pray. Father, how we need to do that Lord, we recognize that we're a people of wicked ways who are self-centered and we don't want to mind and we want to just kind of stumble on through and have you bless us here and there. That you show us here this morning, Lord Jesus, that you are Lord, Lord of all, or your Lord not at all. And so we come, we come realizing that your word is so faithful, just amazing the prophecy that was fulfilled. Lord Jesus, how you've done everything perfectly, even the description of your life and your words is amazing to behold. We want to come and rest our lives in your care. So now that you meet us and you desire to meet us and take those needs, take those burdens, take those sins, and release us. And so we come to you as needy sinners in Jesus' name. Amen