If you have your Bibles with you today, I invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter eleven. I'll be reading for us, beginning with verse thirty-seven through verse forty-four. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And as Gary reminded us in the call to worship, you are not a God who has remained silent and told us to seek you in vain, but you are a God who has spoken. And you've spoken in a way that can be understood, Lord, by people from the Stone Age and people from the Rocket Age you like. And Lord, we marvel at the wisdom of your word. And Lord, we also marvel at our resistance to receiving it. Lord, forgive us, bless us with the wisdom to hold fast to your word. Lord, may we hear it read and know that this is safe This is true. This is right. And may we see you. And Lord, be called closer to you through the reading of it And Almighty God, in the preaching that follows, only inasmuch as it is faithful, make it memorable. We do ask that you bless both the reading and the preaching of the Word. So thankful that you have promised to use both in accomplishing your purpose in the life of preachers like me and congregations like us. We ask these blessings in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Luke chapter 11, beginning with verse 37, the Word of God. While Jesus was speaking, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him, so he went in and reclined at table. The Pharisee was astonished to see that he did not first wash before dinner. And the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness. You fools. Did not he who made the outside make the inside also? But give as alms those things that are within, and behold, everything is clean for you But woe to you, Pharisees, for you tithe mint and roux and every herb, and neglect justice and the love of God. These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. Woe to you, Pharisees, for you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. Woe to you, for you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it. This ends the reading of God's word. We have a habit here of saying thanks be to God after the word is read, but when we read a text like that, are we really grateful? Sometimes maybe we'll be a little confused, a little bit intimidated. Oh no, is this about me? But we can and ought to be thankful even for a text like this, because it shows us the heart of Jesus and it shows us the opportunity of sinners. Here's what I mean by that. Let's go back to last week. If you were here, I preached a sermon on the light in us, about how Jesus was telling the people of his day. that their eye is the lamp of their body, and using pre-scientific relevant ideas that would have been commonplace in Jesus' day. They believe that your eye sent forth a kind of light and apprehended or grabbed an object and brought it back into you, and that what you brought back into you through that lamp of your eye That's what gave you the quality of light within you. So that if you looked at good, true, beautiful, bright things, you were full of brightness and goodness and glory. But if you chose to look at poor, despicable, worthless things, You became that instead. That's why Jesus says, just prior to this episode we've read about, that we should be careful or see to it That the light in us not be darkness. And now, after Jesus is saying these things, a Pharisee comes and invites him to dinner. And Jesus To my knowledge, never refused an invitation to dinner with anybody, regardless of what it would have done to his reputation. He would meet with anybody to discuss anything. He would be interrupted by anyone, clean or unclean, Jew or Gentile. He would stop on a dime to give his undivided attention even to someone like me For someone like you. And so this Pharisee says, Come to my house for dinner. So he goes and he reclines at table. They didn't have you know, I I often I'm I'm a little jealous. They didn't have to budget for buying chairs in those days You just had a lower table and you all kind of reclined and you laid down and you propped up on an on an on an elbow. That that famous picture of the Last Supper where you have Jesus and the twelve disciples all facing one direction, sitting at chairs, never happened They were laying down, reclining, resting on propped up on an elbow at a low table. So here they are eating. And what is the one thing that the Pharisee sees and notices? That Jesus hadn't washed his hands. A traditional requirement, not a biblical mandate. The Pharisees eye reaches out and grabs a hold of the fact that this guy has not checked all my boxes. And he was astonished. This guy is not as careful to follow the human traditions as we are. And Jesus, knowing all things and certainly what is in the heart of men and women, he says to him, Now, you Pharisees , Wash the outside of the cup, but you're not mindful of what's on the inside of you. That's the idea he's getting at. Elsewhere we read that he teaches the Pharisees in particular that it 's not what goes into a man that makes him unclean, but rather the uncleanness within that comes out. This idea of the Pharisees as being a people who inside are full of greed and wickedness, but outside are full of visual, observable, external behavior that is good and right by all of their standards is foolish He says, You fools, did not he who made the outside make the inside also? Could you really think for a minute that God only cares about what you're doing as it's measurable and visible and weighable by your peers. Don't you realize that he created those things that shape your wants, your desires, your attitudes? How could you think for a minute that God is only concerned with whether or not someone's hands were washed? He cares about the state of their heart and their attitude towards others. And he says then to them, give as alms those things that are within, and behold, everything is clean for you. Jesus is making the point that truly pleasing God starts on the inside and expresses itself on the outside. And I quickly want to make one statement very clear, especially to you kids who are like little Bobby Birkas, little little Pharisees. Don't think for a minute that because you don't feel like you want to do it, you shouldn't do it at all. That is compounding your rebellion against God. Just because I don't want to do something and I don't feel like it would be authentic doesn't mean I should not do it. Because one of the fruits of the Spirit is self-control. And think about self-control for a moment. Self-control is almost the antithesis, the opposite of authentic behavior. My authentic behavior is often me at my worst. My self-control is me saying, even though I don't want to do this, I'm going to. Even though I do want to do this, I'm not going to. Self-control is as Chamberlain, the Union Colonel at Gettysburg, said it would be listening to your higher angels Self-control is deciding that I am not going to do what I feel most naturally I should or want to do. Instead, I'm going to do what I know is right. But as we grow and mature in our relationship with Christ and our dependence on the Spirit and our knowledge of the Word of God. We are more and more able to say, I am going to please the Lord by doing this, and our obedience more and more as we walk with Christ will come from the inside and express on the outside. Larry Crab, a Christian counselor that I've had much respect for over the course of my own life, talks about how that kind of sanctified life comes from the inside out, and it is a goal. But in the absence of right motive or right affection, we can never defend bad behavior Our behavior must be good, and our attitudes and motives must also be good. Therefore, when our attitudes are wrong or our behaviors wrong, we must repent and turn and grow. And present to the Lord a life that is a cup cleaned on both the outside and the inside. And you'll notice that Jesus takes it right to the problem that at least this Pharisee had. He points out that you are clean on the outside, but on the inside you're full of greed and wickedness. And he says, flip that script. Instead of looking at others and wanting to get what they have, give as alms. Take of what you have and give to those who don't. And behold, everything is clean for you. Reverse the dialogue that you have with the world around you. Instead of looking at the world and thinking, I want, I want, I want. Look at the world and say, I can give, I can give, I can give. Radically different. And the trouble with the Pharisees. is that they were so focused on the externals and doing right that they paid no heed to what was on the inside. There was a a 19th century preacher and theologian named George Smeaton. And if you only know one thing that George Smeaton ever said, this is it. Are you ready? God does not fail to adduce motives. Did you catch that? What is, according to the New Testament, the words of both Jesus and the words of Paul, the fulfillment of the law? Love. A motive. An attitude that drives action. It's never bare external obedience. It is an obedience that flows from a renewed inner person who has encountered Jesus and been changed Jesus follows this brief diagnosis of the problem with three woes. And the balance of this sermon this morning is going to be about those woes because they're very important. When we think of woes, we think perhaps of an angry prophet saying, Woe is you, and we think that they're kind of angry and judgmental, and there's a finality to that woe being declared. And that misses much of the point. We could be well served if we looked at the woes of Jesus and thought of them as sharing a quality of alas. You see, there is a tragedy to an image bearer of the living God, so privileged as a Pharisee to have such a deep knowledge of the Word of God, but yet have that motivating Repentant, faithful grace, and love for God and neighbor fail to actualize itself in external behavior. There's a tragedy to that that Jesus is highlighting and declaring these three woes at this one table where there are Pharisees present. And the first one of the tragedies of the Pharisees' perspective on external behavior being the sum of the law. And a neglect for internal matters is that it yields incomplete obedience. Look at the first thing he says to them. Woe to you, Pharisees. For you tithe mint and roux and every herb, and neglect justice in the love of God. These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. Notice that they focus on things that can be easily measured and weighed, boxes that can be glibly checked. Yep, I tithed on all the herbs in my herb garden. And there was debate among some of the Pharisees at that time about which herbs you needed to tithe on. This was an actual debate. You can actually see this. Even in the Talmud, debates about which garden herbs, you know, not cash crops as we'd understand it, need to be tithed on. And so Jesus is saying, look , This is a tragedy here, and that you are careful to the utmost to tithe on everything. Even things that some of your peers think, well, I'm not sure you need to tithe on that. You're tithing on everything But what you're not doing is these greater things. And remember, these are things that are more internal, loving God. Having the right attitude towards your Creator. And from that right attitude, doing justice. And doing justice is about personal actions. It's not about cheering for the right politician. It's about you being committed to do what is right for the people with whom you interact. View doing right by the strangers you meet in the marketplace or the neighbors who live beside you. And Jesus says that a view of the good life, the spiritually healthy life, a view of what we would call the Christian life that looks at external behavior. Runs the very real risk of focusing on that in such a way that these bigger issues get utterly neglected There's one danger that we sometimes face here, and it's a danger I'm particularly aware of. I I won't ask for a raise of hands, but just answer this in your heads. Have you ever been called a Pharisee? Okay, I have been called a Pharisee. And I'll tell you why I've been called a Pharisee. I've been called a Pharisee because since I was in my mid-twenties, I began to care deeply about obeying God. I began to care very, very deeply as a young seminary student about whether or not my behavior reflected A love for God and an acknowledgement of His greatness and authority over my life. And so some of my seminary classmates who didn't have quite the same level of conviction there accused me of being a Pharisee because they were okay with watching R-rated movies with nudity in them and I was like, no, I'm not gonna do it Now, that's not being a Pharisee. Being a Pharisee is not caring that the outside of the cup is clean. Being a Pharisee is about not caring whether the inside of the cup is clean. Notice what Jesus said with regard to tithing. These you ought to have done without neglecting the other. Just because someone cares about obeying the living God and conforming their life to the standards of the Ten Commandments And imaging Christ through deliberate obedience in every way they can, that does not make them a Pharisee. That makes them a follower of Jesus Christ. But we cannot be exclusively focused on the external visible measurable obediences. We have to also not neglect the greater issue of where is my heart, where is my mind with respect to the Lord Jesus and all that he's done for us. Am I depending on the Holy Spirit, or am I depending on myself or others? Am I focused on what will glorify Him, or am I focused on what will please me? The Pharisees' great mistake is not that they cared about tithing on the dill and the herb and the basil and the oregano. The great problem is that that's all they cared about. Do you see that? Being a Pharisee and looking so hard and close at the outside without looking harder and closer at the inside, results in this incomplete obedience that is stunting of growth And may indicate that there's not a real life there at all. And that's a tragedy. There's another tragedy, and that personal exaltation seems to be the accompaniment of this kind of perspective on the life in every way. Look at the second woe. Whoa. To you, Pharisees, for you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplace. This is about power and prestige. You love the fact that you get the best seat in the synagogue. In the synagogue in that day, there was a chair called the Moses seat. And if you were to go to an old in fact, if you were to go to an old church, say you go back to England or Scotland in the mid-1600s, the days of the great Puritan movement that gave us the Westminster Assembly. and is in some sense uh ground zero for Presbyterian churches like ours, in terms of timeline anyway And it was often the case that you would see a row of chairs at the b at the front of the of the sanctuary, the main meeting. And then in a synagogue from the first century, you'd see other bench seats usually along the edges Not often in the rows like we would have pews, but along the edges. And uh we have the way that church architecture developed by the time you get to the 17th century They they had taken the pews along the edges and kind of put 'em in rows so more people could fit in more easily. But they left the chairs up front And growing up as a young boy, before this church was planted in 1978, my family, and I was just a little boy in my single digits, We attended the Mother Church for Columbia Presbyterian Church, which was a church that no longer exists, Covenant Orthodox Presbyterian Church in Burton'sville. And on the stage at the front of that church, there were There was a big chair in the middle and a couple chairs on either side that elders would sit in and the pastor sat in the big chair in the middle. Does anybody else remember that? That is a that harkens back directly to that historical notion of having the important seats. And I would never say it's a sin to have such seats because there was a great convenience. I used to fill a pulpit at a church in Burbank a lot that used an old church building that had its architectural roots in more of a Lutheran tradition where there were still rails. And for a guy with my vision, it was really tricky to get from the pews all the way up to figure out where the pulpit was, and it was off to the side as that architectural tradition indicates. It was far easier for me just to sit up there and then it was time to preach, stand up and preach, and then sit back down again. So th don't think it's a sin to have that architecture in your church. But the issue with the brand with the Pharisees is that They want it as a central core value to be seen up front. And the best seat Was the big Moses seat in the middle, the one with the tall back, that said, you are the godliest, wisest, most righteous person in the room. Focusing on externals, things that can be measured and weighed by others, leads to that kind of spiritual rat race over and over again. And the love to be greeted. The love to have people say, oh, that's so-and-so. The love to have people clamor to shake your hand in them all. Focusing on externals makes externals valuable, and you begin this vicious cycle of needing more and more. And how many times do we see pastors fail, ministries collapse, because the emphasis is on power, prestige, influence, basically getting the best seat? It's tragic. But I think that perhaps the greatest tragedy is invisible corruption. Look at this last woe he declares, woe to you, for you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it. You know , people desire deeply to have marked graves in the ancient world, where their names would live on and therefore their reputations would. And and I'm not saying that's a bad thing. Famous people would have tombs that were above ground and were whitewashed. And now one of the reasons they were whitewashed, in fact Perhaps the most significant reason they were whitewashed is so that you would not miss them. Because according to the rules of righteousness in that day based upon the commands we have in those texts that I list out from Numbers and Leviticus. If you touched the grave, you were unclean. And therefore, you made sure that a tomb was whitewashed, not only so that it looked good from the outside, but that so the people saw it. So the people noticed it, lest they accidentally touch it and become unclean and not be able to go to the synagogue or the temple. Now the Old Testament commandment was with respect to touching bodies, but remember the Pharisees were about what they called fencing the law. And if they said, well, you're unclean if you touch a body, let's be real careful and make sure that we don't even touch a tomb. That's the thinking. And here Jesus is saying to the Pharisees, You have become such that with your false counterfeit, shallow righteousness. The people around you think that you indeed are righteous, and they will strive to imitate you and be like you, and unbeknownst to them, they are tainted by your corruption as they follow in your footsteps. That's the idea here. You have become like an unmarked grave. And the people who walk in your vicinity without even knowing it become unclean. And what a troubling thought that by our attitudes, by our character We might be such that people, inasmuch as they become like us, become unclean Isn't that a dreadful thought? For those of you who are parents, you will understand my pain when I say this. It kills me when I see some of my worst habits in my children's lives. Anybody else killed by that? Just destroyed. And I thank my God for Peter's epistle that says that in the gospel we have all that we need for life and godliness. And I can point my kids past me to Jesus. But that also makes me deeply, deeply desirous of growing and changing from the inside out. Such that when my kids walk over the grave of my life, it will be to them a blessing and not a temptation. I strive to model for them repentance, inasmuch as there is no unrighteous, no not one, and not a one of us has thoroughly and conclusively and consistently modeled righteousness for our kids or one another. But you know what we can model? Repentance. We can tell people, don't be an imitator of me, be an imitator of me as I imitate Christ. Look through me to him, but don't ever let your eyes stop on me. You see, this is an attitude that the Pharisees would not have been able to apprehend with their emphasis on measurable binary yes or no checkbox spirituality. They would never have been able to rightly apprehend the depth of the sin that characterized and continued to shape their life. And Jesus doesn't want us to be a curse to others. He blessed us that we might be a blessing. And when he called us to live a life of repentance and faith, that repentance should shape our entire life, as Martin Luther said. And our faith is constantly in the fact that Jesus Christ, in his act of obedience, he was righteous for me, and his righteousness is that in which I stand. And O children, kids of mine. Christopher, Margaret, Timothy, Nathaniel, if only you would see that my every hope of heaven is tied up in the fact that Jesus lived and died for me. And my life is simply a humble effort to love him well and imitate him carefully. To be clean on the inside of the cup and on the outside as well. A Pharisee will never be able to articulate that vision for life because they are focused on the outside of the cup. Well, what about us? Are we guilty of neglecting either the inner or the outer part of the cup? Maybe you're a Christian who all you care about is whether or not you are happy with Jesus and you think that the law is of no relevance to your life. Church history calls these folks antinomians against the law. Church history also calls them heretics. Jesus said, if you love me, you will obey me. He says that multiple times in John chapter 14 through the end of that gospel. If we refuse to obey the living God, we conclusively prove that we do not love him and we are not his. If we desire deeply to obey him and are growing in our obedience, repenting of our failures, then we are acting like his children. That's one kind of error. What about the other? Are you perhaps neglecting a vital personal deep connection to God through a repentance and faith that sees Jesus Christ as the one who died for you, paid the penalty for your sins, was raised for your assurance, and reigns from heaven. For you. Do you love him? It's always fascinating to me that that's the question Jesus asked Peter three times after his resurrection. Do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? To have a love for Jesus that cannot help but express itself in a careful, intentional, studious obedience to his commands that are summarized for us in the Ten Commandments and lived out in his life from Nazareth to Judea. What a beautiful life that would be. The desire of every Christian heart to honor the Lord by the life we live in dependence upon Him. Are we committed to living in light of Philippians chapter 2, verse 3 and 4? Considering others as being better or more important than ourselves Refusing to want to be the most important. Refusing to want people to think, oh, I'm the brightest light. I'm the most talented, I'm the most gifted, I'm the most beautiful, I'm the most Whatever. And I would submit to you that this is something every one of us struggles with. I glory in the fact that my ears are bigger than yours. If that were only all that my shallow, silly heart thinks is boastful. Think about yourself. Do you really think others are better or more important than yourself? You know, true story. Back in 1987, I was finishing up my first year of college. I graduated from Wild Lake High School in 1986. I'd had something of an epiphany in my own personal walk with Christ uh in the first semester of my college year. And I was assigned by the session back in that day, and I don't know if any of those elders are still elders here. Wayne Coke may be. Um but for a while he was at Sand Town, so I don't know. Uh but they assigned me to work with the high school youth. Dan Wecker, the guy who runs Elk Ridge Furnace Inn, he was the youth director at that time and so I was working with him and he said Well, we're going through Philippians the youth group, why don't you lead the devotions for the kids? And so I actually read these verses Philippians chapter 2, verses 1 through 4. And I got to the part, but in humility consider others as being the NIVs to say, better than yourself. One of the girls in the youth group hand goes straight up like this. And let's call her Mary. There was no Mary in the youth group then. I said, yes, Mary? What if they're not? Is that not how we actually internalize that verse? Consider others as being better than ourselves. God, the Spirit, even hints at the fact that that is actually our attitude because he says, consider. He doesn't say acknowledge. He knows that natively we think we are better than other people. Are we willing to avoid that pharisaical temptation to think that we're better than others? What about are we guilty of leading others by astray, by our self-interested and incomplete obediences to the living God? You see, if I'm okay with a sin in my life, however defensible it might be by secular or external standards, I am paving a path for others who might see me as a mature Christian to follow. And it's a hazardous path. Because it does not acknowledge the authority and the holiness of the living God. I do not want my life to be an unmarked grave that people walk over unknowingly. And how will we respond to Christ's lament over these effects of sin? You see, the fact that he was willing to say, alas, and give a painful truth That, as we'll find out next week, was actually very offensive to people at that dinner party. It was nonetheless an invitation to change. How will you respond to those laments, to those woes? Will you turn to this Jesus who speaks the truth in love and give him your hearts as well as your hands? Give him your minds as well as your actions. Pray with me. Almighty God, we ask that you would bless us. Lord, we pray that you would forgive us. For whatever fair sac or tendencies we have, forgive us for thinking we are better than others and putting ourselves over them. And Lord, uh It leads to complaining and arguing and so many other things that are not desirable for your people. Lord, help us to be painfully biblical in how we look at our attitudes, our loves, our desires. and the actions that come from them. Lord help us to be painfully biblical, not neglecting things like the tithe, but Lord, focused on loving and doing good things for the right reasons. And Lord, help us to truly be a blessing to others As we in humble reliance on the grace of the Holy Spirit seek to live a life becoming one of your followers. That is our membership vow And that is what we are called to. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.