Oh, your Bibles to Psalm 102. When your bulletin outline, the reference was omitted, but the uh title, the eternal inheritance, taken from our text. Psalm 102, verses 23 to 28. This Psalm 102 is an anonymous Psalm. Don't know who wrote it. You could call this Psalm a for someone who's just found out they have cancer. It would be very appropriate for someone in our day to discover that, to use this psalm to help them to express their respect. response to that situation. Describe somebody who's moving along in their life and they're just going along thinking that perhaps the old adage of three score in ten years doesn't pertain to them. Maybe they're exempt from that. You know, we all tend to think that our lives will just go on and on and on. You give very little thought to death until all of a sudden there's that little lump. You into the hospital, and the doctor says, I'm afraid to smoke. religion. And all of a sudden the span of years that seemed to extend without end before this person have been cut short, and their days have been numbered. And life now all of a sudden Seems so brief, so brief. See in verse one: Hear my prayer, O Lord, let my cry for help come to you. Verse 3: For my gains vanish like smoke, my bones burn. Burn like glowing embers. Verse eleven. My days are like the evil shadow. I wither away like grass. Like Longfellow once wrote, it's not so time. His reckless hand has torn out the pages of light to light the fires of passion with, we all of a sudden realize the days that remain are few in number. And it's the same to give us perspective, but it makes a particular There's a particular point in this perspective, which is very helpful for us right now. Because in this last week we just finished seven years of meeting together for worship as a church. And now we begin our eighth year. That I think it's helpful for us to realize as we move into that eighth year that we'll see in this psalm. And so I thought that it was appropriate for us to look at this for this Sunday as we begin the eighth year of our existence. Let's then take a look at the Look at God's Word in Psalm one hundred and two, and I will read aloud as you follow along in your Bibles from verses twenty three to twenty eight, which is the text we will consider together. Psalm one hundred and two, verses twenty three to twenty eight. must hear God's holy word. In the course of my life he broke my strength. He cut short my days. And so I said Do not take me away, O my God, in the midst of my days. Your years go on through all generations. In the beginning, you laid the foundations of the earth. And the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish, but you will remain. They will all wear out like a garment, like clothing you will change. them and they will be discarded. But you remain the same, and your years will never end. The children of your servants will live in your presence. Your descendants will be established before you. There's three things that I'd like for us to consider this morning from these verses. Can you see the many bullets in that one? First of all, I'm like for us to consider God's eternal being. Secondly, to consider my eternal inheritance. And thirdly, to consider the eternal cost. First of all, to consider the internal personality of the personality of the personality of the personality of the personality God's eternal being, in contrast with my own brief days. Verse 23 says, In the course of my life, he broke my strength, he cut short my days. My days are short enough. And you've cut them short even further. My days are so short. You know, it seems like uh just last year that I was graduating from college, and now I have a daughter that's in the Amazing. And you look back and the days and the years seem to go so quickly. Your life seems to accelerate as you live longer. And you long for a few more years. An older man who's recently found out that he has cancer. He has a six year old son. He was saying to a friend recently, Oh, for three more years. Just until he gets to be nine. My life is so short, Lord give me Three more years. And then he contrasts that, that longing in the shortness of his own life, with God's life. He says, He's cut short my days. And so I said, Lord, don't take me away. Oh my God, in the midst of my days. Your years, on the other hand, they go on forever and ever, through all generations. And he's struck with that contrast of his own limitedness. He's bounded by mortality. And he looks at God and he says, all of a sudden I appreciate for the first time what it means that your years never end. Because now I'm struck with the brevity of my own life. And I realize how very short it is. And then verses 25 to 27 explains. Expand on that thought of God's eternity, of his eternal being. And he makes two points in those verses for us to notice. First of all, he looks back at the beginning and he thinks that God has existed from eternity. He says there in verse twenty five, In the beginning you laid the foundations of the earth and the heavens or the work of your hands. You were before all things. Very hard for us to imagine that, isn't it? of the mind when we think that the heavens and the earth were not always here. You ever stop the thing that may sit out in some summer evening and you're looking at the stars and you look at the earth and all of a sudden you realize there was a time when this did not exist. There was a time when there was no earth. Well there was no Columbia. There was no Maryland. There were no hills and rivers and valleys. There were no seas. This entire planet did not exist. The stars did not exist. There were no light. There was no air. There was nothing. We can't conceive of nothingness. But there was a time before the universe. And before the universe, God was complete. He existed. But he was the one who eternally existed before the universe. You can't imagine that, but maybe you have one way to just try to conceive of it is to imagine in your mind a sheet of paper standing before you. And that sheet of paper goes all the way as far as your eye can see, into infinity in this direction, and it extends as far as your eye can see on through the hills and into the horizon in that direction. And standing before you, if you look at that sheet of paper, Extended both directions is a one-inch line. And that one-inch line before you on that piece of paper is the span of all of human history. And you look at that span of all of human history from Adam down to the presentation. present and on through the end of the ages, and there is one image. And if you look back your direction, you look back this way, a few feet you see behind the span of all of geological History and the history of the universe. Just a few feet. And beyond those feet, you look in that line ends, and on beyond that, the paper extends, on beyond the hills, across the United States, on and out past the earth to the moon, to Mars, out planet, past our solar system, on and on and on. That paper extends. And that's God's being. And all geological history of the universe is only just a few feet in the dimension of that. Standing before you. If you look at that, you don't look the other way. Man looked towards the future. Psalm says, in the beginning, you made the earth. You were there far before anything existed. What about the future? Verse twenty six. He looks at the future. Verse twenty five is the past. Verse twenty six, the other direction, toward the future. And he thinks about that and he says, there's gonna come a day Then they will perish, and yet you will still remain. They will all wear out like a garment. Like clothing you will change them, and they will be disguised. I thought about that, as reflecting on this. That's an absolutely staggering image when you think about that for a moment. Look at what he's saying there. He's saying, as I look at all of geological time and all of the history. history and the life of the universe, I look at that and I realize that in terms of your existence, God, it's like a change of clothing. That's how brief is the span of the universe in terms of eternity. You know, to try to illustrate this, I was tempted to try and get some old clothes and try to dig out some old suit, you know, something that I could wear up here with a nice wide 1960s tie, you know, with all the colours and you know, have it even come out like this. you know my lapels were all nice and wine and I'd come up here and they'd all think I'm kinda crazy or I'm trying to you know try to get your sympathy for a race 'cause I got these old clothes or something. And then I'd come out and I'd say, you know, see, now this was in style. You know, just few years ago. But we've all discarded clothes like that. We've gotten rid of them. They're no used to it anymore. It was just something for a brief time. A lot of us in style and why aren't any holes in it and any stains and grease and malt. and all that stuff. All that stuff and we're still clean. And we wore it just for that brief time. And then think of all the clothes you've thrown away. Think of all the clothes you've given to Good World, Purple Harden, you've given them to the rescue mission, you've given into the um women's uh thrift shop and it's in all these different groups. Year after year they're recycled. And this verse says, That's the way the universe is to God. That's in fact I created it and there it was and I served it. Perfect for a time. But I'm going to set it aside, I'm going to make a new heavens and a new earth for my people. And that whole span of geological history is like the change of clothes to God. staggering image when you start to think of God's eternity in the light of that. How long are we talking about? I read some things on this and then I just uh briefly checked with uh Doug Mac and Lori to make sure I was Best guess of the age of the universe, according to astronomers now, would be about ten to fifteen, probably closer to fifteen billion years. The universe so far has Existed for perhaps 15 billion years. Our solar system, which emerged probably from gases and dust off through gravitational poles, perhaps, coalescing together and forming into the sun and then the planets of our earth. Our solar system has occurred perhaps in the last five billion years. And those gases, as scripture describes it, without form and void through eons of time, millions and billions of years. gradually coming together. God's not in a hurry. But with God in his majesty and his transcendence didn't need to be in a rush. And through all that time God has formed gradually by the word of his power, the universe coming together. And over eons of time, the universe, the solar system, our planet formed into the present shape. And we look at that in our life Maybe what? We've lived twenty years, thirty years, sixty years. We're talking about a couple of billion years that the universe has existing. And remember as I reminded you before, the only way I know to grasp a whole of what a billion is The easiest way I know of that is when you think of a boxcar of a train. You think of a freight train, you know, and you kids like to count the cars as they go past on the trains. You think of one of those boxcars and how huge it is. You walk around there for a while. You look how tall it is and how wide it is. If you fill that boxcar with grains of wheat, that boxcar would hold a little less than a billion grains of wheat. Grain to ceiling, wall to wall, grains of wheat in the box. That's a little less than a billion. And we're saying that if you lined up 15 boxcars, that's how many years the universe has existed over that. Maybe five of those boxcars or more, our solar system has existed. And God says, and I'm going to remove that like a change of clothing in the light of my existence, in the light of my eternity. But there's a very insightful statement. You notice in verse 26. It says, they will. will perish. Now astronomers are agreed that this is in fact occurring. That in fact the universe is aging. That in fact soon the cell supply of hydrogen will run low and if that happens it will be begin to cool relatively for the sun and as it cools it will expand but of course the sun's so hot that as it expands it will burn up the inner planets and finally engulf them. The oceans will boil and all life will cease on the planet Earth. Now before you uh panic and run out to check all the temperature trends to make sure when this will happen, they figured that that would be about six billion years in the future. So there's probably nothing for us to worry about right now. But the scripture says that before that happens, God Himself will intervene. Revelation chapter 20 and verse 11, John says, I saw a great white throne in him who was seated on it. Earth and sky met when presence and there is no place for them. A cataclysmic ending. Second Peter chapter 3 verse 10 describes it this way that the day of the Lord will come as a feast. The heavens will disappear to the war and the Will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything in it will be laid bare. God Himself is going to move abruptly at a point in time. At what point we don't know it could be very soon. But God Himself will intervene. And he will bring an end to the heavens and to the earth. And it will be like a teenager who's taken their clothes and they said they're out of style now. I'm going to put them away. I'm going to throw them away. They're No use to me. They will be discarded. And God will create a new heavens and a new earth. But now, in the light of that, notice the second thing. Consider our eternal inheritance. Because you see, While we have begun to put soberies just a few years in the light of these billions, God says that our life will continue as long as his into the future. He goes on to say, but you remain the same, and your years will never end. And the children of your servants will live in your presence. Their descendants will be as Established before you. We will exist as long as God. And God says that our inheritance of lion will be as long as He endures. And we're not a people today that are much given to meditate on eternity, aren't we? Our nervous haste witnesses to how bounded to time we are. We're especially reminded that I thought of that this morning, you know, Dan's running around six o'clock in the morning calling Glenn comes dashing into the office and he's trying to get it, you know, some idea of uh what the order of worship is going to be, Casey's going to be leading the thing, you know, and then c then comes in at the last minute and says, Well that's okay, things are off here I am, you know, we don't know who's leading who's praying I fortunately I remember who was preaching, but you know, everything was just running around and and that's so so typical of so much of our lives. Things film up in the air, we're running around and all we do is cope with the present moment. And God wants to call our attention. attention here this morning to eternity. He wants to say, you live that present moment in the light of unending years with me. Draw back. Stand back and look at your life than the light of eternity. That's what this psalmist is doing. The first eleven verses of this psalm are a vivid description of a person in pain and suffering, realizing all the pressures upon their life and how limited their life is and the pain that they are going through in that. He talks about eating ashes for his food in verse 9, mingling his drink with tears. He's having a left time of it. And in the light of that, he then says in verse 12, But you, O Lord, sit in order forever. You renowned endures through all generations. And then he goes on and he reflects now on the church. He says, I'm going to think about God's people and he says, Oh no, that's just more problems. Then he gets to think about the church and all of its problems and he begins to think of all the struggles he sees there and the weaknesses here. And then he reflects on the fact that God belongs to his people. And they belong to him. And so he's pledged to hear them. And verses twelve and twenty-two describe how the church church in its trouble will have God's ears. Verse seven He will respond to the prayer of the despite. He will not despise their plea. God has pledged by his covenant to hear it. But then the climax of all of this, you see, is he reflects back on his own trouble in verses twenty three to twenty. 27 is that there is an eternal inheritance. The children of your servants will live in your presence, and their descendants will be established before you. means never to be moved, to be established forever. Isaiah 51, verse 6 puts it this way. Lift up your eyes to the heavens. Look at the earth beneath. The heavens will vanish like smoke. The earth will wear out like a garment, an image, and its inhabitants die like flies when the frost comes. But my salvation will last forever. And my righteousness will never fail. God's salvation is an everlasting salvation. Ephesians 1, which you just heard that a little earlier, he says there to a considerate Your inheritance, verse 18. I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you might know the hope that He's called you to, the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints. That inheritance which is an example of the world. eternal inheritances we're well reminded in Second Corinthians chapter four, at the end of Second Corinthians chapter four, verse sixteen. Therefore Paul says, We do not lose hearts, though outwardly we're wasting away. Whether it's cancer, whether it's anything else that gradually is wearing down our body through age. Yet inwardly he says, we're being renewed day by day. For our life and momentary troubles are achieving force and eternal glory far outweighs them all. And so we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is unseen. For what is seen is really temporary. It will be removed like the change of a garden. Whether a billion, five billion, ten billion, fifteen billion years, with the change of a garnet. Obliqueness our eyes, but what is unseen is eternal. And you and I will be before God, established in Jesus Christ. And Satan's kingdom will be. been destroyed, and all sorrow could have been removed. So that we will stand before him, established in his presence in the paradise that's involved in the very presence of God and all that that means. We will exist longer than the stars. You'll look up at the stars and you say, you know, there's a star and maybe the light left that star 500 years ago that I'm looking at. Left that star long before I was even. been born, but star, you don't know anything. I'm going to last longer than you. The God who made you is going to change you like a change of clothes. But I'm going to be in his presence forever through Jesus Christ. Finally, if we think of that, we can't but think also of the eternal cost of it. The eternal cost of this. Remember how that's obtained. Almost seems to say in his poem here that you can't understand my world, Lord. Notice verse eleven, contrasted with verse twelve, My days are like the evil shadow, I giver away like grass, but you O Lord, sit and throne forever. You endureth with all generations. Verse 23, don't take me away. In the course of my life, he broke my strength, he cut short my baseball. I said, Don't take me away, my body. God in the midst of my days, again, but your years go on and on through all generations. Verse 27, you remain the same and your years will never end. What can you understand about mortality? What can you understand about the thoughts of an athlete dying young? What can you understand about facing death in the prime of your life? What can you understand about being bounded by mortality? And then all of a sudden we remember. The verses twenty five to twenty seven here are quoted in the New Testament. If you know where they're quoted, you're looking at your bulletin outline. They're quoted in Hebrews chapter one. Verses ten to twelve. And those words are addressed to Jesus. Those words are the response of the Father to the Son, saying that your throne is forever. He's speaking of Jesus as the one who who is the God, the Lord of Lords, who has existed forever. But what's the point? If you go on to verse seventeen, if you go on to uh down in the uh the next chapter, chapter two, verse fourteen, as he continues this train of thought, This one who has existed forever, he says, well now, since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity. Jesus became fully human, so that by his Death. He might destroy him and hold the power of death. That is the devil. And that by his death, he might free those who all their lives were held slavery in slavery by their fear of death. Do you understand what he's saying? Saying, God, you don't understand mortality. You don't know what you're what it means to be cut down in the prime of life? The Lord responds, just wait. And so perhaps a thousand years later he wrote and he said, Look at my son. I gave my son for whom I created all this universe. As a gift to him. And because of my love for you, my people, I gave my son to come in human form and live a limited span, and in the very time of his life, he was cut. death, but he was cursed, and he was flogged, and he was crucified, and he suffered the most awful death because of his love for you. Does God understand death? Does God understand in his eternity what it means to be cut down and bounded by mortality? Oh yes he does. And the only reason he does is so that you and I could live with him forever. So that our inheritance could be an eternal inheritance longer than the span of the stars. And so because God has to curse sin, and you and I, as creatures who had sinned against him, who were worthy of And deserved his wrath to be living an eternal death. We're delivered from that. Because Jesus took that death for us. Jesus suffered it for us so that you and I would have. life. He paid his life, as Hebrews 2. 17 says, an atonement, a substitution, paid for our sins, so that you and I would never die. So if you if you think about that, it it ought to make your heart leap. It ought to make you rejoice as you think of what's set before you and it looks before this week and it's all the pressures and the things that I have to do, all these things that are before me. But I'm a child of eternity. I have an eternal inheritance with my Father. I will outlast the stars. The life that I'm living now is such a brief life. But I'm investing it for eternity. And so you come to the beginning of our eighth years. And we as a church then begin our eighth year of existence. And what is our purpose? You remember from Ephesians chapter one, you heard it again this morning. To worship God, first of all, to know Him. And to give our worship and our adoration to Jesus Christ. Our second purpose, to edify, to build up one another, to remind one another, verse 18, of that eternal inheritance that we have, and all that we have in Jesus Christ to become the life thing. And then thirdly and finally, verses nineteen to twenty three, to know his power, to see that power demonstrated as we see people who are now at enmity with God come in. realize their rebellion against him, to bow their knees, to confess that, to repent of it, and to come to Jesus Christ for salvation and to see him bring people to himself, to see him exercise that power and change lives and in a change society. And so this is why we exist. But the thing that I want to remind you of, brothers and sisters, this morning, is how very brief is the time that you and I have to fulfill that purpose. God has given us seven years. The beginning are eight. How many more years do we have before Revelation 2011 is fulfilled and the Lord Jesus comes, and earth and heaven leave at his presence? How long do we have? To worship him here by faith? How long do we have to build one another up, to encourage one another as we're s as we're involved in that struggle against sin? How long do we have to see the power of Jesus Christ By faith demonstrated in this life against his enemies. Subduing all things to himself and bringing people to himself in a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Very, very grief. Oh so grief. In the light of eternity. And so in the light of eternity, let us examine our priorities. In the light of eternity, let us examine our career goals, our family goals, our Ghost in our life in the body of Jesus Christ. In the light of eternity, we look and we say, We're called together to pray for one hour tonight for leadership in this church. In the light of eternity. What's the best thing? use of my time this evening. The time is sober. In the light of eternity, what should I do in combating evils around? And we see the opportunity this Saturday for us as a number of pastors In this area, to protest at Howard County General Hospital against the evil of abortion. And a number of people have said they want to join and encourage us, and it could be a very strategic time. And we'll talk a little bit later about how strategic that might be. Uh later on in the service. But what about that? What should I do with my time as these opportunities are presented? We can't take advantage of them all. None of us can. But what is the best investment of my life? life. When I see the needs about me, when I see the opportunities for ministry. I'm really encouraged as I see more and more people responding to the gospel through our congregation and the opportunities are multiplying for ministry and for leadership. In the light of the geological ages of history, in the light of the fact that you and I are going to outlast the stars in being established and standing before God, our time here is so great. So believe, let's examine our life. And let's invest unlike just a few years with Jesus Christ and the building of his life. He says, your years will go on for eternity, and the children of your servants will live in your presence. Their descendants will be established before you. Are you numbered among his children with that hope? Let's pray. Lord our God, I tremble to think of anyone here this morning. You would stand before the God of eternity. And the earth and the heavens themselves would flee at your presence. And to say, I knew that offer of eternal life. I knew of the love of Christ and the sacrifice that he made in coming out of eternity, to give up his life, and to bear for the rest of eternity a limited body because of his great love for his people. And I refuse that offer. And so there stands before that person nothing but eternal death, eternal suffering and anguish. Oh Lord, turn the hearts of From such foolishness and arrogance to come to Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray. For those of us who have given our lives to you and belong to you. Oh Lord, help us. Help us to see how to breathe for our lives in the span of eternity. Help us to see, O Lord, how the very best thing that we can do is to invest our lives. So pity the work of your kingdom, to seek to be of utter usefulness to you, Jesus, in anything you want from us, to serve in any capacity. Lord, open our eyes to see. How to use our lives, how to balance our priorities in the light of eternity. We pray for each one of us which will show us what that means. For Jesus' sake.