Um remaining with us this morning and have your Bibles, please turn to the book of Psalms. This morning we'll be looking at chapter 27, verse 4. As we continue our series looking at the attributes of God, we sang it in one of the songs today, behold. Behold our God, this invitation to look upon who our great God is. And so we've been going through various attributes, and today we're going to be looking at the beauty of the Lord. Our God is beautiful. Have you ever considered that? Have you ever considered the Lord's beauty? Let's do that this morning. From Psalm 27, verse 4, one thing I that have I asked of the Lord, David writes, that I that I will seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Father, may we indeed be sharing in the rejoicing that we have of of knowing you as you've made yourself known, to see all of your attributes, how you perfectly embody all of them in in in both the the how profoundly simple you are. And yet, how transcendent and glorious and majestic you are. In all of your attributes, we give you praise, and this morning help us as we contemplate your beauty. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, they say, whoever they are, right? They say beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Now, you probably have heard of that phrase, but uh the phrase first kind of showed up in print by uh Margaret Wolf. Hungerford. She was writing in the 19th century. But this idea of the beauty is in the eye of the beholder, is traced back much further, all the way back to Plato in Greek philosophy. Shakespeare wrote something similar. He said, beauty is bought by judgment of the eye. Maybe a little bit more cynically, Benjamin Franklin wrote, Beauty like dominion is but supported by opinion. So what is it? What is beauty? Does an object possess what is beautiful Or do we project our perceptions and inclinations upon something, ascribing it as beautiful? Now people have studied this. There are tons of books and poems and music lyrics and the ways this has been written and discussed well forever. We're wrestling through is beauty objectively qualified or merely subjectively experienced? And so the debate goes on. And whichever way you think on the matter, we can at least say this, that beauty is at some level, it's sensory, is it not? Neuroscientists at NYU have observed that when looking at a work of art, the same part of the human brain. is activated for everyone. Now, there is a difference, however, in the experience of beauty because not it's not the same for everyone. Because the intensity of that activation behind that, or that part of the brain, varies according to the personal reflection. So it all lights up the same, but the intensity of how it is activated varies on personal reflection. We can be inclined to a beautiful face. We can see beauty in a pleasant demeanor and a kind heart. To geoscientists and rockhounds, you perhaps see the beauty in the symmetry and the shape of rock formations. To a musician, it could be the mere phrasing of a musical notation on the page. But to all who are patrons of music, it's just that the sounds are pleasing to the ear. To some, you might be immersed in the process of the artist, and that that actually cultivates a deeper appreciation for the work of their hands, but but to others, it's just simply Is the work pleasing to the eye? A friend of mine who is blind appreciates the inner beauty and character of people, and I think he is right on. But he also thinks the commander's recent win was a thing of beauty, so I guess his eye beholds something. If beauty is so subjective and personal, then how do we consider the beauty of the Lord? This is incredibly important to think about because it is something that we can give meditation and contemplation to There are things to explore and to see layers upon layers of God's attributes. But as with anything that is beautiful, you stand in awe. And you are amazed at his beauty. And so this is important to understand God's being and to know him as he makes himself known. So as we explore in this series the attributes of God, let us this morning contemplate the beauty of the Lord. So there's three main things from this verse that I want to draw our attention to. We see how David in this song, this poem, he is prioritizing the search, he's pursuing the source, and he is perceiving the splendor. So, first, prioritizing the search. Bono once said that he hadn't found what he was looking for, but David here sings that this psalm is exactly what he has found. Now the details of the Psalm don't give specific information about a particular situation in David's life. But we can see from verse 1 that the psalm is this quiet contemplation in the face of very loud circumstances. And what David might have been facing, he writes down this meditation of his heart, where he comes to a place where he is facing the Lord. And he sees his light and salvation. Just see if you can relate, as kind of walking through the Psalm. Psalm verses 1 through 3, we see how there is fear in the face of adversity, uh, adversaries. David is asking, whom shall I fear? And he poses these hypothetical scenarios. Evildoers? Should I be afraid of evildoers? Should I be afraid of adversaries and foes? Should I be afraid of armies and the rumors of wars? In verse 5, David is exploring the Lord's protection. David is resting on what the Lord will do. The Lord will hide me in his shelter. The Lord will conceal me in his tent. The Lord will lift me high on solid rock. In the faces of his challenges, David knows where to find help. He knows where to find his refuge because he knows who. He knows who is his strength. He knows who is his refuge and shelter. There are several places throughout the psalm where we see David's responses that come from these questions. And applying where he rests himself upon. What rock, what strength does he find himself resting on? We see then how it flows to his response. Just for example, in verse 6, we see that David is moved to worship. He gives sacrifices. He shouts and gives songs of joy to the Lord, as we were even called this morning. Singing songs of joy to the Lord. Our very worship is in response to who He is. Verse 11, David seeks guidance. He wants to be taught, and he wants to be led in the Lord's way. And then verse 13 and 14, as the poem concludes, David reminds himself that he can wait upon the Lord with trust and with courage. How does David do this? Because he has a compass that points the way David prioritizes the search. He seeks after the Lord. He doesn't seek elsewhere He doesn't, he's not left wondering where he could go. He knows where he goes and he prioritizes his search. And as this passage points, Likewise, we must direct our search for beauty by pursuing the source of beauty. That connects together to our next point as we pursue the source. Beauty captivates the mind. Beauty transforms the heart. On May 27, 1992, a mortar shell fell upon a market in Sarajevo, killing 22 people. Veteran Smelvovik, my brother-in-law is going to make fun of me, who is from Bosnia. Sorry. um for mispronouncing his name. But this musician was devastated by the tragedy. And he felt powerless of what he could do. But But in the midst of that powerlessness he had a vision for beauty speaking into the brokenness that surrounded him. And it was giving birth to great hope for twenty-two days He would put on his formal black uh tails and his white shirt, and he would go out to the rubble of the market and play his cello. One person who viewed this and was moved by it wrote this. I knew I had come to the heart of sorrow. as well as the healing courage. This musician sought to make something beautiful, to inspire something beyond death and destruction. We see this all over the world. There's a in another time, but certainly similar circumstances, Bob's bombs in Baghdad compelled musician Karim Wasfi. To go to a site of an explosion and play his cello. In an interview, Waspe said this. That it was his attempt to reach the equilibrium between ugliness, insanity, and grotesque, indecent acts of terror, to equalize it, or to overcome it. By acts of beauty, creativity, and refinement. These are wonderful sentiments that truly inspire But the Bible isn't merely telling us about the power of beauty in of itself. Beauty that inspires and transforms must point to a greater story with deeper beauty. Dutch theologian Herman Bavink writes this about beauty. All creaturely beauty is transitory and changeable. It is not beautiful by itself, but my participation in a higher, absolute beauty, the pinnacle of beauty The beauty toward which all creatures point is God. It's important for us to ponder this, to consider the greater beauty that we are to pursue. David desires above all to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of his life. He's connecting this place With the presence of the Lord, where he's longing to sit, where he's desiring to be, so that he might See the face of the Lord, to be in his presence. David pins his quiet contemplation in the face of loud And even violent circumstances. And there is a place to make beauty. But David shows us a better way that gives context to why we are moved by beauty. This psalm is a way to inspire us as the people of God that we might be moved to worship, that we might pursue the true source of truth. The true source of hope. The true source of love, so that we might have a vision for what's beautiful. David is pursuing the face of beauty because he's pursuing the beauty of the Lord. And it's when we're prioritizing our search, when we're pursuing the source. that we're moved into this perception, this sensory experience of the splendor. So verse 4, we see this perception of the splendor. We see David showing us how we experience the Lord as our light and salvation. He says to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. Something that he longs to do. Again, that connection between the place. And the activity with the purpose. Now, David is living in a time where that is tightly connected with the temple. Now, even in David's time, though. The glory of the Lord, although it resided in the temple, there was access for everybody everywhere. As Matt preached last week on the omnipresence of the Lord. There is a way that we are accessing the living God dwelling in his presence because he is dwelling among us. But now, even more fully, more beautifully, more completely, we have this experience of the beauty of the Lord and this inquiry in his temple because of Christ. We are to gaze upon him in the knowledge of who he is as he has revealed himself, not as we invent him or how whatever devices we invent for ourselves. You see, many things are beautiful, but our temptation is to confuse these things that are beautiful with our subjective opinion, and confusing that with being of the Lord or being a representation of the Lord. And so we easily pursue derivatives and counterfeits. But what David is doing here is sort of like, not completely, the metaphor breaks down, but it's sort of like the U. S. Treasury. People can be easily fooled by counterfeit checks and currency. But the U. S. Treasury doesn't spend its time anticipating every potential fraud. They spend their time, they study, they look upon, they discern the fake only because they can identify the real. And you see, brothers and sisters, this is important because it is so easy to shape our tastes according to our own inclinations, our own passions. Our own lusts of our eyes and lusts of our flesh. And even those could be good things, but they are falling on secondary or or or or But away from the glory of the Lord. We can think something is beautiful, but it might not be reflective of the truth. The goodness and the beauty from the perspective of God's creational purposes and redemptive accomplishment in his son Jesus. We can take something that reflects his beauty from our perspective and make it into this ultimate thing. And so it's no longer setting our attention on the original, but settling for that which is counterfeit. So David, here in the temple, he is inquiring of the Lord. He is seeking to be in his presence all the days of his life to consider the beauty of the Lord in the face of the ugliness of his circumstances. David glances upon his circumstances to look upon the face of God Upon seeing his pleasant and delightful countenance, he comes to know and enjoy the light and salvation of God. And he finds himself strengthened. He finds himself girded up to endure. He finds himself encouraged and uplifted as he waits upon the Lord, despite his circumstances. The beauty of the Lord is a wonderful way to capture the totality of the Lord's being. He is beautiful. Not in a way with physical representation, but the totality of all of his attributes, his perfection. All the attributes that we walk through this past year and are only just touching and scratching the surface of what we can look upon. Meditate upon, contemplate. The word here in verse 4 in the original language can be translated as pleasant. Delightful, being lovely. The word is used in verses like Proverbs 3, verse 17, in speaking about wisdom. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. In Psalm 90, verse 17, the word is used to describe the favor of the Lord our God to be upon us. This idea of favor and pleasantness and delightness and loveliness. There is a beautiful imagery that is found all over Scripture of the face of God. Looking upon the face of creatures, the face of creation, the face of those who are made in his image. Remember earlier when I quoted Bavink, where he said the pinnacle of beauty is God, well he goes on to write this. The Lord is supreme being, supreme truth, supreme goodness, and also the apex of unchanging beauty. God is the highest beauty because in his being is absolute oneness, measure, and order. He is lacking in nothing. This picture of beauty is similar to what David says in just the previous Psalm. If you flip over to Psalm 26, verse 8, David paints a similar picture by connecting this priority and the pursuit of beauty with God's glory. His weightiness, his majesty, his splendor. He possesses such qualities because he is. And has been, and will ever forever be. I think I made up a word, will ever He is. Past, present, and future. He is glorious. He is beautiful. Such beauty, such majesty, such glory has perfectly manifested in the person of Jesus. Fully God, fully man. These are the claims of Christianity. We're wrestling through the reality of there is one God, creator of all, who is worthy of our praise. And yet this man Jesus, in his authority of teaching, his authority of miracles, and certainly as he walks to the cross, As he lives a perfect life under the law and submits himself to the death of a Roman cross That would be the end of the story if we don't also have our faith and our joy that He is raised from the dead. This is the majesty of Jesus, where Paul writes in Colossians chapter 1 that Jesus is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for by him all things were created in heaven and on earth. Visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things. And in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things. Whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. Oh, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. Paul is always, I said this this morning in my class, Paul, no matter what letter he's writing, somewhere in the backdrop, he's saying, let me tell you about Jesus. Let me tell you about who he is, what he has done, how we might glory in his beauty, how we might stand amazed at his love. That we might know God because we have been reconciled back to Him through Him. This is to inquire in His temple because the temple has been torn down. The veil between the Holy of Holies and God's people has been ripped asunder from top to bottom, and the people of God are now living stones. Who are built together to be his body, to be his temple. And in his temple we inquire of God, that God dwells among us. Do you consider his beauty, brothers and sisters? Consider the beauty of the Lord. Recognizing God's presence dwelling among us in Christ. Looking upon beauty is like a breath of fresh air. The morning sunrise, the cool breeze, and and right now it's getting cooler. But we crave it. Looking upon beauty is like the shining sun as it flourishes the blue skies with beautiful majestic colors of golds and pinks and purples and oranges and it's never the same. And though the beauty of the sky changes, the beauty of our Lord is unchangeable. And we are moved by him. We are transformed by him. We are anchored to his beauty, and we are no longer tossed. About all of our life, that which is challenging and changeable and stressful. It's how the psalmist can say in Psalm 23, That the Lord prepares a table in the presence of my enemies. It's how David can be singing these things in Psalm 27, that he would seek after the Lord's presence in the midst. of his challenge and strife. Because he recognizes that the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? And in a way, the beauty of the Lord is like the ancient um art of Kinsugi. If you're familiar with the artist Mako Fujimara, he is a wonderful artist. I probably actually get more from his writing than maybe his actual art, but they go hand in hand for him. The process of making art is a process of gazing upon the Lord. In his book Art and Faith, The Theology of Making, he has a great chapter on what kinsugi means. It comes from two words in Japanese: it means gold and reconnecting. And if if you've ever heard of this art form, it repairs broken T-ware. It takes broken pieces and it puts it together with layers of lacquer and and powdered dust of gold. And in this process of coming together, the pieces are reconnected, the function is restored, but even more so, the beauty and the value is multiplied. Where these teacups and these teapots that go through this process are actually valued much more than they were before they were broken. The care and the attention given to this teacup by the one who has mastered this art is beautiful in of itself. And it's a process that is a great picture of what our great God is doing. Kinsugi is creating beauty through brokenness. And so when we gaze upon the Lord, we are acknowledging and we are marveling. We are moved. By the master craftsman who is taking what is broken in our lives and he is mending us. He's repairing us. He's restoring us. And the story of the gospel, of what God is doing, is telling the story of how the beautiful one is making all things beautiful. And so in Christ we're to place our heart of gratitude and experience this peace in Him. And we become like that person who was commenting on the musician from Bosnia. That we come to a place of acknowledgement. That in his beauty and the awareness of our brokenness, we come to a place where we see the heart of sorrow as well as the healing courage. And this is the great news of the gospel that it is not me that repairs myself, but it is him with great care and attention who is making me new. And by faith I praise making you new. It is why I love the sound of the cello so much. I can't remember if I've said this before you or not. The cello I love because the same The draw of the bow can draw out in one note such deep sorrow and sadness, but such rich joy. In Christ, we are moved to see His artwork in the midst of our troubles, in the midst of our sorrows, in the midst of all that we are challenged by in this life. But we can prioritize our search because we have been found in him. We can pursue the source because we have been seen by him. And we can perceive the splendor and marvel in his glory. So to you, I invite this wonderful meditation to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord this week and always. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we rejoice and indeed, we look upon your beauty and we are affixed by it. Grow our heart that we might share in the rejoicing of David, that we too might long to be in your presence. To sit in your dwelling that you have made in Christ, that we are being knitted together as your people. Forgiven. Brought from alienation to welcome, from brokenness to repair All in Christ, we lift these things up. May you, by your spirit, continue to renew us each day by faith. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.