If you have your Bible, please turn with me to the book of Colossians in the New Testament. And we're going to be looking at verses nine through fourteen. We're focusing this month on the mission of the church, particularly how God's kingdom come. as we pray in the Lord's Prayer, how God's kingdom come frames everything for us. It frames the gospel itself. It frames how we go about communicating the gospel, and it frames the scope of who needs the gospel. And maybe even more importantly, when we sometimes forget or we get tired, the kingdom frames how long we work, how long we're in this task. Last week, uh Tito Padilla was one uh who is one of our mission partners, um, he works with training under-resourced pastors and church leaders in Latin American countries. And he he encouraged us from the book of Ephesians that missions begins with the eyes. What we see shapes what we do. Today, as we look at Colossians, I want us to consider who we are informs how we live. So hear now God's word from Colossians 1, verses 9 through 14. And so from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you. Asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. Bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might For all endurance and patience, with joy giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Father, bless our hearing of your word. And bless this time that we might have it understood better in our mind and in our heart, that your spirit would bring us into greater Understanding, moving us to deeper faith, and equipping us to live in light of that faith as we look to you, O Christ. In your name we pray. Amen. My uh wife and I knew a man who I'll call Derek. Um in St. Louis. And what was interesting about Derek , he he always had this kind of phrase that if you were around him long enough, you picked it up. But when we first met Derek, we were just explaining where we're from and he took great interest in us and just said, that's my people. And we're like, oh, oh, are you from around there? And he's like, Oh no, no, I'm from Kentucky. And and I'm like, Oh, okay. Um, alright. Um So I just thought it was a little odd at the first time. But then we were on a trip with some folks and and Derek was there and we were in Michigan and and Derek was looking around the scenery and interacting with the uh just people kind of in this downtown area. And he just looked around and said, these are my people. And uh, which is interesting uh because actually they weren't, of course. He's from Kentucky, living in St. Louis, saying that in Michigan, right? But the more time you spent with Derek, you heard him say this phrase a lot. In more modern times, our minds often conceptualize people in terms of nation states. that encompass geopolitical borders, like I'm an American, she's a German, he's Peruvian. Sociologically, we think of people in terms of groups that perhaps share common language or history or culture and customs. I'm English, so-and-so 's Cherokee, so-and-so's Tijuana. So relationally, though, we also think of people in terms of families. Networks, tribes, who are the people like us? Where do we fit in? These relationships often begin with our immediate family, of course. They go out into the extended family. and the stories of generations. And of course we incorporate our friends and acquaintances in all of these webs, web of relationships too. But what did my friend Derek mean when he said, These are my people? Well, of course, he rarely meant geographically , but he often meant what he took to be shared commonalities. He he was connecting. He was connecting with us. He was connecting with people around him. And he saw that connection at a deep level. And he related our stories and their stories to his experiences with familiarity. And in many ways the Bible describes stories of peoples Relationships of families and the interactions between neighbors in similar ways. The places we reside and the people we live beside shape us. And how we grow into our sense of place and our sense of people impact then how we come to view others. And so a common refrain that we see throughout Scripture is covenantal relationships, a rhythm of I will be your God and you will be my people. We see it again and again. I will be your God and you will be my people. Our passage this morning draws our attention to the fact that we sometimes take for granted what it means to be God's people. We can sometimes settle into our routines, we can become complacent with our lives, and we can be dulled in what we believe. And this can create two extremes. On the one hand, we can think our group has it completely together, and everyone else must prove themselves to fit into our paradigms. But on the other hand, we can criticize our group so much to the point that we think we've lost the script that we must now become defined by something new that grabs our attention. Colossians is for us. Because Paul is speaking into their lives and saying, don't be bored with your lives. Don't become enamored by other philosophies that tap into a knowledge or tap into a power about the world that gives you more excitement. Or a greater sense of meaning and purpose in your life. Our passage today reminds us of what it means foundationally to be the people of God's kingdom. So what we're going to look at in these verses, 9 through 14, we're going to look at how the people of God's kingdom have been impacted first by God's mission. And so how? How are God's people impacted by God's mission? Well, we're going to divide the passage into two main sections, and we're going to take them in reverse order, okay? So verses 12 through 14, the people of God's kingdom receive God's redemption. And verses 9 through 11, the people of God's kingdom live to reflect God's glory. So we're going to take these one at a time. As we look at this letter, uh this passage of this letter, we we need to be reminded that Paul is writing to the Christians here in this ancient city called Kalase, which is in modern-day Turkey, and he's riding from prison. And as Paul often does in his letters, he he begins with thanks, he begins with prayer And verses 9 through 14 is one such prayer. And he's building on what he started in verses 3 through 8. And in the prayer, he reminds us of the story of being God's people. So the people of God's kingdom, as he brings out in verses 12 through 14, receive God's redemption. Okay? So let's look at this from two vantage points. First, God's redemption is personal. So look at verse 14. Paul says two important things about God's people. They are redeemed, and they have forgiveness of sins. The word redemption would be well understood in the ancient world. It comes from the slave market. It is being bought with a payment. It's being set free. It's being delivered from bondage through a ransom. And so when we hear redemption, hearing that is an amen and an amen in our soul that through Jesus He is the mediator of this redemption. His life, his death, his resurrection, the very work that is culminated on the cross pays the ransom for our deliverance. But Paul, he kind of gives a shade to this. He gives a shimmer and a shine to the beauty and the splendor of this redemption because he he goes on to just mention what one aspect That this redemption entails. And he says, the forgiveness of sins. You see, God doesn't just save us from our circumstances, he goes further. He goes deeper. He releases us from a captive condition by canceling our sin. We cannot gloss over that. I am created in God's image for God's purpose, but in my sin I am rightfully deserving of God's displeasure. My sin is against him, it's against his holiness, and it's against his righteousness, and yet by his grace and by his loving kindness through Jesus, I am pardoned. My guilt is canceled. In him we are forgiven. And so we see this redemption is personal. I receive it But not only is God's salvation personal, look at verse 13, where we see God's redemption is what I like to call cosmic. I didn't come up with it, of course, but it it it captures the totality of God's salvation. God uses images and turn or I'm sorry, Paul Uses images and turns of phrase to describe God's actions. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. He has transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. He moves us from here to there. He accomplishes. He rescues. So we have to ask rescues from what? Well he he says this this domain of darkness, Paul is turning a phrase on the word domain and kingdom. He's contrasting two spheres, two realms, if you will, one realm being of the evil one, the great adversary to God. But God doesn't just rescue us from that realm. He transfers us to another realm, to the kingdom of his beloved Son. Perhaps in the last few days, few weeks, you've been watching uh the the the news coverage of Hurricane Ian. Just imagine the footage you've been seeing. Imagine a person caught in their car as the water level rises. They need to be rescued, but but what if a first responder came to them, rescued them out of their car, Pull them up out of the water and put them on the roof of their car. It would be ridiculous The rescue would be half done. The person in the car needs to be pulled out of the treacherous condition that they're in, and they need to be brought to a new place of safety. They need to get out of their wet clothes and be wrapped in warm blankets. And given a new set of clothes. This story of redemption is one of God's calling and one of his people receiving. Again, that rhythm of I will be your God and you will be my people. It started with God calling forth creation. It's very light out of darkness. And what began good became corrupted by our first parents as they fell into disobedience. But God's purposes will be sustained and his promises fulfilled He planted a seed of hope to bring a lineage of redeemers to mediate life from death. This is the story of God's redemption. In Genesis 12, he began to call a particular person. Who takes on the name of Abraham, the father of a multitude of nations? He was called out of one land and from one people, and called into the promise of another land and another people. He was blessed to become a blessing. And so we see this story of redemption continuing with the giving of the promise of an heir through whom God's covenant would be established from Abraham to Isaac to Jacob. To deliver them out of bondage in Egypt so that they might be transferred. I just jumped ahead. I got carried away a little bit Because that's where the story's going. In this covenant, the seed of hope is sprouting And with the story continuing, God is remembering his covenant, and we see him raising up Moses to lead out the descendants of Jacob, to deliver them out of bondage, out of Egypt. So that they might be transferred to a new kingdom where the Lord is their God and king and Israel is his people And this story of redemption through another mediator, God's particular purpose of a particular people, budded into a vine for the living God. And this story continued. God fulfilling the promise that the prophet Jeremiah says in chapter 31 of a new covenant. Where we see in the fulfillment of Jesus being the mediator of this new covenant, whereby all nations are welcomed into the household of faith as children of Abraham. Walking in New York City and a more conservative sect of Judaism kind of sometimes will ask you as you walk by, are you Jewish? And I just walked, I just quickly said, no, but I'm a child of Abraham. This is the promises fulfilled in the gospel. As Paul says in Galatians 3, Verses 26 through 29, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you were baptized into Christ, have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring. What Paul is not saying is that there's no longer distinctions, but what he's saying, the distinctions do not keep us at bay to know the promises of God, but rather we are brought into the wholeness and the full fulfillment of His purposes. Likewise in Ephesians 2, Paul says, You were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. Like the rest of mankind. But God being rich in mercy because of the great love with which He loved us Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together in Christ. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God. This, brothers and sisters, is the work of God's mission in the world. He is bringing about the redemption of all things, and does that by bringing us out of one condition and puts us into another. The one condition that is death, decay, and darkness, but through Jesus we have a new condition of life, of renewal and light. And so we receive this redemption by faith. But we have to ask to what purpose? And that moves us into the second point. Which I've taken the passage in reverse order, though, looking at verses nine through eleven, where we see the people of God's kingdom live to reflect God's glory. In verse 9, Paul prays that we will be filled with the knowledge of God's will, with all spiritual wisdom and understanding. The whole paragraph really anchors itself to that verb, be filled. Paul is calling our attention to what we have in Christ, and so we are to be filled by the one who forms us. We don't have to pursue hidden knowledge or extra knowledge. We don't have to invoke a power or perform a work that gains some hidden access in in some other way, except by the way the living God accomplishes and fulfills through Jesus. He is the way, the truth, and the life. He is both the shepherd and the door. He is the bread of life and the resurrection of life. God's people are not to be defined by it might be foreign to our ears. It's not to the context in Colossians, and it's increasingly not foreign to our situations in this world. But God's people are not to be defined by cultish esoteric philosophy, but God's people must be carried uh God's people must not be carried away by anything that takes our eyes, our minds, our hearts, and our very bodies away from what he says in verse 10, walking in a manner worthy of the Lord. The people of the kingdom we have been transferred into walk in the light of the king who has qualified us. And what does he do? Paul describes four characteristics of the inner transformation that marks the people of God. Verse 2 mentions 2. First, the people of God's kingdom bear fruit in every good work. Paul gives thanks here and earlier in verse 6 that the kingdom in essence is like a garden where God plants, God causes the growth, and he delights in the bounty of the harvest. It's bearing fruit. It's multiplying. It's reproducing. Similarly to Ephesians 2, verse 10, where we are his workmanship. And we are to reproduce our very lives because his DNA, so to speak, is with us. The second thing in verse 10 is that the people of God grow in the knowledge of God. This refers to both increase in quantity and quality. Sometimes there is certainly a quantity of resources. Sometimes it's overwhelming to determine what's the quality of those resources, but how we might be growing in knowledge. Again, Paul is stressing. That the people of God, it's not something more that you have to go find that's secret, or something that has to be added. on top of what you've believed at the beginning. This is the beauty of the gospel that is a gift by by grace. Everything we have For salvation is explained, proclaimed at the beginning of when you hear it and believe. All that is necessary for salvation is there in seed form. Whether you have the intelligence of the smartest person, or whether you have the possessions of the wealthiest person , whether you have the wisdom of the wisest, it doesn't matter Because all that is necessary is given at the beginning. But we are to grow up into it We are to grow in the wisdom of God's salvation. We are to grow up into what is revealed in God's scriptures. We are to grow up into the fullness and the awareness of the implications of of this great salvation and how we are to live. We are to respond to his salvation. And we are to spend our lives and even into eternity plumbing the depths and exploring the riches of God. So it's bearing fruit and it's increasing in knowledge. Third characteristic that Paul mentions is in verse 11. The people of God are strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. How? How is this strength shown? He puts some qualifiers on it, with endurance and patience. God 's strength is all powerful, yet is channeled in his people with a capacity to engage difficulty with fortitude, with resolve. And while we experience such challenges, we are to have an inner experience of forbearance. I love that juxtaposition. If you're trying to tap into what the world offers in power, You're tempted to recognize what power you lack and you want to claim some power over your circumstances And the message of the gospel is that God is all powerful and he enters into your space and your time and your life. And he draws us into the power of his Holy Spirit, but it does not look like the world. But rather, in his wisdom, it often seeks to shame what the world thinks. It is displaying something different of God. It is not our strength, but rather his strength in us. And verse 12 brings us to the fourth characteristic. The people of God are marked by joyful thanks. Now, just a point of curiosity if if you care about such things, there there is an interesting uh question or interesting uh kind of dialogue whether the phrase with joy uh goes with verse 11 or uh as if characterizing the endurance and the patience. Not only to endure and be patient, but do it joyfully That's appropriate. But also you can look at it as it goes with verse 12, as if joyfully giving thanks. Now, I think the grammar allows for both. And I think is the beauty of the original language, actually, the ambiguity allows us to see how it's connected. Both expressions are to be joy-filled, a reflection of the gratitude of our heart, and it's to be directed to God, the Father. And as we persevere in his strength with joy, this is what displays the very wellspring of our hearts as it's connected to the root of that spring of life in his salvation. Take special note of these four characteristics. They're not exhaustive for the life of the Christian, but they are important of what Paul is building out for the people of God. For us to meditate upon God's word, to explore his wisdom, but always for us to embody them, to live them as we mature in Christ. And then take special note that all four of these characteristics are passive. We receive them. They're being accomplished in us by what was accomplished in the life and death and resurrection of Jesus They're being applied to you by faith. You are receiving them as benefits of his redemption. And being passive, we're being filled, and that's the very core of his prayer, that we would be filled with what we already have in our union with Christ. So just as a plant, some of you are green thumbs, I would like to be, um I am not, but just as a plant receives CO2 from the air H2O from the water and nitrogen in the soil, the plant just grows Let us, like the plant, put ourselves individually and corporately into the conditions of God's grace that fosters growth in us so that we may live lives that are pleasing to him as we reflect his glory to the world. This brings us kind of to the end of just meditating on what it means to be the people of God's kingdom. The people That are part of God's kingdom are the very people that have benefited from the story of God's mission. We share in his inheritance, his very promises fulfilled. They are poured out in Christ. That's to be in the kingdom of the beloved Son. is to be bound up in the very realm, the very sphere of what God is doing to redeem and renew all things. The people of his kingdom know they are blessed, not because they are good, but because God is merciful. The people of his kingdom know they are redeemed. Not because they're privileged of themselves, but because God is gracious. The people of his kingdom know the source of their lives comes from being filled with the knowledge of his will. And his people know they are resourced by that power to walk in ways so that they might display the beauty of the light of his kingdom. And as my friend Derek so often would say, we see in this passage how our Lord Jesus is saying to the Father, These are my people. That you have given to me and I have transferred. I have rescued them from the dominion of darkness and I have made them into my place my land, my community, my new people. Our status has changed completely and fully through the work of the Son. And we have access to God fully through our union with Christ. And this is how we can join with Paul in his prayer that we would be filled with all that is already ours through Christ. This is how we start mission. We have to be recipients of God's mission in our lives through the cross. We respond by faith, and when we have plumbed the depths, and we will never get to the bottom from our own perspective in this life, but as we plumb the depths of this great story of redemption, This is the very motivation of why you could look out to the world and see with the same eyes as our God with love and compassion. With hospitality and welcome to say, come. This is the savior by which you can be rescued. This is the savior by which you find freedom in him. This is the story of our salvation. This is what we need to be telling each other. This is what we need to be reminding ourselves of the work of God in our lives as we seek to live it out. in our community, but also together partnering in mission. Let us pray. Father in heaven, help us. We pray as Paul prayed. May we be filled To be filled with your spirit, to be filled with the knowledge of your will, to be shaped by the power of your salvation. Help us. We forget. We neglect. So, O Christ, help us to realize that which we have from the beginning you carry out to the end through and through. Encourage us this day that we, not by our own ability, not by our own power, we rest And the promises of God as your people, because you have made us sons and daughters of the King. And to this we give you praise. Amen. Please stand.