To the uh one message this fall in our regular series on Ephesians, uh the only one for the fall The last one was in July, all your comments aside from that, but I can't get off of Ephesians for anything else. So last one was in July And um we stopped at verse 15 of Ephesians chapter 4. One verse short of finishing that section. I had hoped to finish it this summer, didn't quite get to, but um Verse 15 was where we ended, and this morning I want to finish verse 16. Then the holiday series begins in two weeks. And uh we'll be that'll take us through till New Year's, and then in January, I hope to begin the whole new section of Ephesians chapter 4 verse 17 on through the end. But because it's been so long, a quick review of where we are to put verse 16 in its context in case you forget what this was all leading up to. It unfortunate, you know, things came in and you know, what are you gonna do? But um verse sixteen's actually kind of the climax. of this thing. And so to kind of crank up again to see why that's the climax, we need to look back at the beginning of chapter four. Remember chapter four, verses one to sixteen are divided into two parts. Verses one to six focuses on the unity that we have in Christ, and then verses 7 to 16 on the diversity that we have in Christ. In verses 1 to 6, we see the unity of God's saving grace. Follow along as I read God's word there. Paul says, as a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. You and I are exactly the same in the way that we're saved. And in the grace that we've received for salvation, you are saved exactly the same way that the Apostle Paul was saved. Your record before God is the same as his record before God. No matter what you do, you may be more effective for the Lord. But you will not be more loved by the Lord than the Apostle Paul, because your record of righteousness is Christ's record. And every one of us have exactly that same record if we have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. Amen? All right. Celebrate that. As we said last Sunday evening, you are not under probation. Jesus Christ has given you his righteousness. That's his first point. And then verse 7, you remember, has a big but, because now he goes and contrasts that unity whereby we are all identical in our salvation, the grace we've received. To now talk about the diversity of serving grace, unity in saving grace, diversity in serving grace. But, he says, to each one of us grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. This is talking about serving grace now, in which we're all unique and different. No two of us exactly alike. Jesus Christ decides what gifts you have been given to serve the body, as Christ has apportioned it, you see. And then in verses 8 to 10, he elaborates on the power we are given in that serving grace. This is why it says that when he, Christ, who gave us those gifts Ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. Then verse 11 and 12 speaks of the leaders as the preparers of those who are exercising the gifts. Verse 11, it was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers. For what purpose? To prepare God's people for works of service, or alternate, same phrase in the Greek could be to equip the saints for ministry. Prepare, equip God's people for the saints, actually the word saints in the Greek, for works of service or for ministry. Alright? That's the leader's job to prepare and equip you for ministry. To what purpose? What are you ministering for? What is it you're seeking to accomplish? When you ask yourself, why should I invest my time, my talents, my gifts, what am I seeking to do with them? Well, you're told at the end of verse 12 and then verse 13, so that the body of Christ may be built up until what? Until we all reach unity in the faith, in the knowledge of the Son of God, and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Three things. Remember, he's talking about there. That you will, verse 13, come to deeper knowledge of the Bible. That refers to your convictions. That you will also grow into a deeper love for Jesus refers to your affections. That knowledge he talks about there is that intimate personal experiential knowledge of Him. And then thirdly, that you will reflect Christ as Lord, referring to your character. So convictions, affections, and character. Know your Bible, know your Savior, reflect your Lord. That's the ultimate goal of the building up of the body for which you are all gifted and equipped by the exalted risen Lord Jesus. that we will be able to do that for each other. This is in contrast then, verse 14, so that we will no longer be infants. Tossed back and forth by whatever latest book or seminar or preacher we heard on the radio or watched on TV, by the ways blown here and there by every wind of teaching, by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming Who want to make a name for themselves, who want to gather a following, who want to be able to say that uh these people are under their ministry, whatever But this is the contrast that you will be able to discern the input whether from me or anyone else. Like the Bereans to take your Bible, look at it, read it, examine it, and say, but this is what God says. And I have the big picture, I have the scope of it. Don't know all the details, lots of questions, but I'm no longer just Turned 180 degrees because I read this book and here's the secret to Christian life or whatever else it is that I see. How do I do that? Then he goes, verse 15, the how. Alright, so that's how that's different. He's talked now about The unity, the diversity, here now is the how of God's strategy for the building of the body. Verse 15. Instead, Speaking the truth in love. Remember, that phrase in the Greek we said we saw was simply truthing in love. Instead Truthing in love. That is holding on to the truth, living the truth, as well as speaking the truth in love to one another. We will in all things grow up into him who is the head. That is Christ, Messiah. That's how we do it Then finally, after all this, the last question he deals with is, who does it? Verse 16 Who does it? Well, of course, this has got to be referring to those really committed Christians. You know, the religious type. who seem to have more time on their hands to get involved in church activities and be in small groups and involved in various kinds of ministries and who like to sing in choirs and playing bands or you know do whatever else that these Christians are doing with Bible studies and all that stuff. These people have more time and energy for this stuff than the average Joe or Judy like me, who just simply don't have the time to do that. What does verse 16 say? Who? From him The whole body, growing and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. You see it? Look at it again. From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. I call verse 16 the demolition of the edification of the church. This phrase, the edification of the church, that you see there in your bulletin outline, is not Original with me, it's coined by Bill Beckham, the author of the book, The Second Reformation. Excellent book. I recommend it to you. And it's based on a story told by Henry Bosch about a clerk named Eddie in a country store. Customer came into the store and they said, Where's Eddie? The boss said, He ain't here. He don't work here anymore. Oh. Have you thought about a replacement to fill his vacancy? Nope. Eddie didn't leave no vacancy. Eddie didn't leave no vacancy. You see, Beckham goes on to point out that the church of Jesus Christ is full of eddies. And guys, who have they left, don't leave a vacancy. You don't notice whether they're there or whether they're not. Consumers instead of producers. And he didn't leave a vacancy. You know, the typical church today, it is said Has 20% of the people doing all the ministries for the other 80% who come and receive from the ministries that are given. This is utterly contrary to the New Testament church. First point I want to make: there are no eddies in the New Testament church Look at verse sixteen once again. From him the whole body. That's the first blank Put that in there. The whole body. Whole is the first blank. That's W H O L E. Alright Every supporting ligament, second blank is every. Talking about no exceptions Third blank, each part does its work. The word each, talking about every person, every age Whether you're 16 or 66, whether you're 10 years old, if you know Jesus Christ, if you have come to trust him and serve him and love him, you are part of that body. And if you are part of that body, you are part of verse sixteen, what Paul's talking about. Beckham goes on to make the point in this book that during the first three hundred years of the church It was pretty much a mobilized task force to fulfill the Great Commission in which everyone was a minister and a producer, and there was very little dependence upon professional clergy or buildings. You stop to think about it. The early church somehow amazes me through the week to imagine this. Functioned without administrative assistance, without fax machines, without telephones, without computers, without all this stuff And somehow, without the facilities, without the technology, without all these things The church of the first 300 years turned the world upside down and transformed the Roman Empire so that by 312 A. D. after A couple of decades of intense persecution seeking to wipe out Christianity, the Emperor Constantine declared the Roman Empire to henceforth be the Holy Roman Empire in which Christianity was the official religion. It had overcome and it had transcended all of the powers of the Roman Empire in their attempts to squelch it. Constantine said We capitulate. Jesus Christ is Lord. Christianity is now the official religion. And that was the worst thing he could have done. Because from that point on, Christianity turned from being an organism of people who were mobilized as a group of ministers to accomplish the Great Commission. into an organization with the official clergy who were paid to do ministry. Buildings that were then erected where programs took place to do ministry. And the church lost the sense of every member ministry wherever they were, seven days a week. And we've come to a place now where we target people who shop for churches. And that's a very accepted term. We're shopping for a church. I understand what it means. And you can mean by that that we're simply looking for the place where God wants us to be, but uh All too often it does not mean we're looking for the place where we'll hear the gospel preached and where there'll be an opportunity for us to use our gifts to grow as disciples. and to most effectively be able to build the body and to reach our community. But it means who has the best parking places, the most upbeat worship that engages me, good nursery. various facilities, good programs, a place to drop off our kids for youth group, pick 'em up, scrubbed, discipled, inobedient. You know, all these expectations came across this article. Um Beckham quotes from this It was in uh Christianity today about a church that was seeking to do this, a quote from it. He says, Our church jumping into the new world of evangelism via niche marketing. has recently begun reaching out to an underserved target group, the Frequent Flyer. Because so many people in our upscale community travel through the week, we spared no expense. Our seats now have individual air conditioner nozzles, reading lights, and usher call buttons. A seat belt sign comes on automatically when the preacher starts to say something controversial Oxygen masks and air sickness bags are also located in the pew racks. Our frequent attender plan rewards consistent attendance with discounts toward overseas travel to the Holy Land, of course. Our first class seating pampers to those who make generous contributions to the Church Building Fund by allowing them to exit the service during the last verse of the closing hymn. After a few months, however, things started getting out of hand. Some of our frequent flyer newcomers have begun making requests for special treatment. They want vegetarian meals and alternatives to sermons provided on headsets. And pillows and blankets. How far should we be willing to go? The elders met last Wednesday and decided to create an ad hoc committee to consider the newcomers' special requests. Niche marketing, evangelism is great. Where do you draw the line? Well, indeed, where do we draw the line in what we're doing today The problem is not simply that the church today is filled with so many consumers, four-fifths consumers, one-fifth producers. But it is that the consumers so often drive the energies of the producers. It is the consumers that demand certain services. That are such a level that the rest of those in the body who would like to be reaching their neighbors and like to be in fellowship groups to do these things are so busy running programs in order to fulfill the demands of those who are shopping for the best church in town that they're worn out and are not able to engage in the basic functions. Of Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 to 16. Truthing in love, being equipped to reach out in the community, and to reach people with the Lord with the gospel of the Lord Jesus. So we have to produce the kinds of services people come to expect in our nursery, our children's church, our various programs. And these things, there's nothing wrong with them in themselves. We should have a good nursery. We, as you know, have made a very high priority of staffing our youth ministries. It's an attitude. And maybe the best way of getting at the heart of what that attitude is is to simply ask you a personal question that you alone answer before God. If you were to leave Columbia Presbyterian tomorrow, and God called you away, what vacancy would you leave in ministry? What ministry vacancy would be left because you would be gone? Now Let me hasten to say, honestly, that most people who leave CPC, when people move, go to other places, uh do in fact leave a vacancy. And some of those vacancies really hurt. So I'm not implying that most of you don't. I'm simply concerned that as we grow as a church There's more and more pressure for us as a church to be expected to Staff and to fund certain programs that can sap the energy of the original first century church In simply doing the basic work of ministry, in reaching the lost and in discipling the saints. From him, the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part is doing. It's work. We should notice the loss of everyone. And many people we do. But who would miss you? What ministries would suffer if you were to leave Second point. The New Testament church, all the members are connected. You see that in verse 16? From him the whole body joined and held together. By every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. First blanks there, fitted together. We're all being fitted together. Secondly, we are knit together by every supporting ligament. Joined together, fitted together. The word joined together only appears one other time in the New Testament. It's in chapter two of Ephesians and verse twenty-one. In him the whole b building. The church there pictured as a building. And uh as another image from body. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. You see, we are stones who are being fitted together, he talks about there, so that we are rising together in that connection that we have with each other. Uh knit together is the other image he uses here. Knit together by every supporting ligament. That is literally in the Greek every ligament of supply. The word supply that he uses there is a word used of Supplying a theater course lavishly so that it is able to produce a production. of beautiful harmony as they together are singing. The idea is that it provides what is needed in order for people to function at their best. It is a mutual connection and interdependence. This speaks of the need that we have for other Christians. You realize the word saint is used sixty-one times in the New Testament. Of the sixty-one times that you read that basic word for Christian in the New Testament, saint. Sixty of them are in the plural. Only one time is it used in the singular, and that is in Philippians chapter 4, verse 21: greet every saint. So that you can honestly say that the solitary saint is utterly unknown in the New Testament. The saints are always spoken of collectively, interdependently, and joined together. There is no such thing as a solitary saint in the New Testament. Paul stresses the corporate solidarity of the saints in the way he speaks. Look at again, verse 16. When he talks about the body, he says it grows and builds itself up in love. Singular pronoun, singular verb, speaking of its corporate arty, corporate solidarity. He doesn't say they build themselves up. He says it builds itself up, the body, joined together. And that is why we speak of cells at Columbia Presbyterian. Technically not cell groups, but cells, because cells are the basic unit of life in the body to grow and to multiply. This is what Paul's talking about here: a body that is living and growing by its cells multiplying in growth Redeemer Church in Manhattan that we visited speaks in connecting what we talked about last week, about the gospel As the power of God to salvation. Tim Keller, the pastor there in the introduction to their manual, speaks of how the gospel functions in their groups. And I say amen to this for us. Let me read what he says. Our network of fellowship groups service the nervous system of our church. In them, the gospel is used to motivate people toward a richer relationship with God. In them, the groups, the gospel is used as a balm to apply the wounds that we incur in this broken world. In them, the groups, the gospel is used to call and to motivate people into the service of God's kingdom. In response to God's grace, people are urged to develop lives of moral beauty, integrity, and other-centeredness, and to discover and use their gifts. to carry out ministry both within the congregation and to the world. You see the connection between this and last week, both in the morning, the power of the gospel, and in the evening. In the Lord's Supper service, the testimonies of God's power and his grace within the various groups, within, particularly the cell that was leading us in the service that evening. I hope that you can see from that and from what we see here in verse 16. This is not Al Harris telling you you need to be in a fellowship group. That you need to be in a cell or you need to be in face-to-face relationship with other believers. This is Jesus Christ saying That his body functions as from him, the whole body, including you, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, every ligament of his supply grows and builds itself up as each part connected to the other parts in face-to-face fellowship is doing its work. Third point. How is this done? Through supernatural power. You notice again how the verse begins. From him. You see that? From him. The whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. Again, as we talked about last week, these are not human support groups where we get together and we're encouraged simply because somebody else cares for us. Whether we live or die or had a rough week or got fired or kept the job or whatever else that happened, we asked them to pray for. It's not simply the human support That is essential here, but it is the supernatural power and presence of the risen Christ Through ordinary people that makes the fellowship groups, the cells, to be what God uses to build the body up in love. I think it's significant, and I think it's very instructive to us today, in the end of the 20th century. Currently, the largest churches in the world. Are not churches who are staffed by super personalities with major programs and funding? The largest churches in the world today are churches of ordinary people meeting in cells in which the supernatural presence and power of the risen Christ Is working in supernatural ways. You take Bogota, Colombia, in South America Over a hundred thousand people in one church in cells reaching that city. Or you take in Africa, the Ivory Coast. Over 120,000 people meeting in cells in a church that started less than 10 years ago. in which their over half the congregation is unemployed. You say maybe that's why they're able to grow so quick. They got a lot of time on their hands. Well, they may have time, they don't have a lot of resources. We take the largest church in the world in Seoul, Korea. Over 800,000 members. It grows at the rate of nearly a hundred thousand people per year. They have nearly a hundred thousand staff just equipping people being set aside to keep the function of all the body Staggers my mind. I don't know about you. But you see what's significant about this is that you look at these things and your your attention is not drawn to some person. But your attention is drawn to the supernaturalness of Christ and the power of the gospel. That as these people are living out in these face-to-face relationships. Just the way verse 16 is talking about here. From him, every part of the body connected to the other parts of the body. are building itself building themselves up in that body by truthing in love so that they're growing in their convictions, their affections, and their character. So that they're reaching out with that gospel as the power of God to salvation to their contemporaries who see community, community that our world is so desperately looking for Finds all kinds of counterfeits for is cynical as to whether there can even be community, even in marriage. Brothers and sisters, you and I had that community, the genuineness of it in Jesus Christ All we need to do is function. Just as Paul says here in this epistle, be what you are. Let the gospel of Christ flow out of our lives in connection with one another to see what Jesus will do from Him. Do you remember in John chapter 15, Jesus said that you and I function in that power from him? Remain in me, and I will remain in you. No branch can bear fruit by itself. It must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. I am the vine, Jesus said. You are the branches. If a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. The question is not your ability. It is simply your availability to Jesus Christ. And I think God tests that with us in the most basic and humbling levels. It's not a question of am I available to reach my neighborhood for Christ? Am I available to preach or to teach or to do these things? But starting off, am I available to work in the nursery? Am I available to help in children's church and the ministry with those kids? Am I available to help with setup? Right now, the counter teams for counting the money really could use another set of people to help them Or the soundboard. You notice Henry sitting back there an awful lot by himself. Some people have moved away, had to uh relinquish that ministry. Right now it's Henry and John. This is not a recruiting speech. It's simply an illustration to you that as we look at how the body functions, Am I available to the Lord Jesus for those things that within our body He wants to do A number of you were blessed by the women's seminar on marital intimacy, they called it, just uh last week. You know how that got started? By the women in our cell talking about the need that women have to get these kinds of issues out and open. And so began to put together some ideas, organized, and pulled some other people in on that. That's how that happened. The body simply functioning as a body to minister Sheila Mace stands up here and says, here's a ministry for women to help to equip in homemaking in order that we can become more like Mary and a little less harried as Martha. Comes from seeing a need. She organizes, gets a few people together. That's how the body functions. That's how we, brothers and sisters, are to function together as the body of the Lord Jesus. One last example. Remember last week, last couple of weeks, I spoke about Martin Luther and how God used him to transform the 16th century and be one of the main leaders of the Reformation. Much less known is the person who ministered to Martin Luther. Who was it? A mope by the name of Johann Stopitz. Stopitz knew something of grace and the gospel. He was the one that was worn out with Luther's confessions. He was the one who cared for Luther, who appointed him as chair of Bible, so that he'd have to learn the gospel. It was Stolpitz, who when Luther was in trouble, sought to protect him, who sought to care for his ministry, to ban it, and to help it and to encourage it. Where would we be without stoppants? Brothers and sisters, it's not just those who are well known. It is every part of the body available to the leading of the Lord Jesus. That causes the body to function in building itself up in Jesus Christ. Are you available? That's really the only question. Let's pray. Lord, in just this moment we want to hold ourselves before you to make ourselves available to you, that we would be ministers. Producers and not consumers like Eddie. That we would contribute to the edification of the church rather than the edification of the church. Lord, that you would connect us with our brothers and sisters. That we'd see that as not something that's negotiable, but that we would be in face-to-face fellowship with them. And Lord, that we would be available to you as we are connected to you, Lord Jesus, that living vine, so that we as the branches from you Are able by the power of the gospel to see that power of the risen Christ through us to do things we could not imagine sitting here alone. Make us each available. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.