Welcome and please be seated. My name is Bob Dierkus. I'm the pastor here at Columbia Presbyterian Church and I'm delighted to see all of you this morning with no confusion about whether or not we're worshiping today. No weather. I love that. If you have your Bibles with you, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 6. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 6, I'll be reading for us, beginning with verse 20. First, I'm going to turn my phone off. Let's pray Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for this day. Lord, we do thank you that we can lean on your arms. And Lord, one of the ways we do that is by trusting in your word. Father, we live in a world in which we're surrounded by words. Words come from every corner of every issue and every debate, and sometimes our heads spin, Lord, we don't know what to believe or who to trust. Father, we thank you that in the midst of that maelstrom of opinions and narratives, Lord, we do have your word. And it is solid, it is precious, it is very sweet to us as Psalm 19 describes it, and it is certain. And Lord, help us ever as your people to hear your word as an authority from you, exalted above all things but your name. Father, bless the reading of Scripture to us. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, in as much as what is said is faithful. And a good echo of what you have communicated to us in your word, Lord. We pray your blessing on the sermon as well. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 6, beginning with verse 20, the Word of God. And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples and said, Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh. Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude you and revile you and spurn your name as evil. on account of the Son of Man. Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven. For so their fathers did to the prophets. But woe to all of you who are rich, for you have received your consolation. Woe to you who are full now, for you shall be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. And woe to you when all people speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, I want to invite you to go back with me 2,000 years. And imagine for a moment that we are living in, give or take, the year 30 A. D. Maybe we're a Gentile from Tyre or Sidon, which is in present-day Lebanon Maybe we're a Jew from Jerusalem or Judea. Maybe we are a very pious religious person. who is very faithful to all of the commands God had given through Moses. Maybe you are a very religious. Gentile, and you worship Baal and Ashtaroth or any of the Hellenistic pantheon that was creeping in to the Levant. Maybe you're wealthy, maybe you're poor, maybe you're healthy, maybe you're sick, maybe you're young or old, male or female. Imagine you're someone in that great crowd of people who is gathered at this, as it's presented in Luke, the very beginning of the superstar era of Christ's ministry. Remember, as we've gone through the Gospel of Luke, we see that up until this point Jesus is beginning in Luke chapter 4. He's just doing small engagements, if you will, in synagogues. And towns are coming. And sometimes nearby villages are coming. This is where he's From the world's perspective made it. He's no longer playing at a small tavern or a bar. Now he's at Merriweather. Now the crowds have gathered, and they have gathered from north to south, from Jewish to Gentile corners of the world in which he lived. And these are the first words gospel writers Matthew and Luke put in the mouth of Jesus at the beginning of this phase of his public ministry, when multitudes are coming. From regions, not from simple towns and villages. And I want you to imagine how shocked you would be When irrespective of which category you fell into when I invited you to consider whether you were from Tyre or Jerusalem, rich or poor, male or female, Imagine that the first things he had to say were an entire, complete repudiation of your entire lived experience. The first things he said were things that you would have been obliged out of your own intellectual integrity to say that's not true. Blessed are the poor. That word blessed, the Greek word makaroi, that could be translated happy. Happy are the hungry. Happy are those who weep? Wait a minute. Happy are you when people hate you and exclude you and leave you out and despise you? And then, well wait a minute, what about this? Now let's take the other side. If the poor people are happy, why is it such a terrible thing to be rich? Why is it terrible to have enough to eat? Why is it terrible to be happy, to laugh? Why is it terrible if everybody likes you? You see If you and I were to sit down and write about what is the good life, we would be very inclined to say, and we would qualify rich. But we would certainly say not poor. We would certainly say to have enough food on the table. We would certainly say happy. With a good sense of humor, and we'd certainly say loved and respected and appreciated by the people in your world. And Jesus, ever the careful teacher, always interested in getting to the very marrow of the soul of his audience. is doing something that we need to think about very carefully as we are here in the 21st century looking back 2,000 years. He's taking ideas like kingdom. He's taking ideas like Beatitude or Proverb. And he's taking ideas like disciple. And he's exploring them in ways we would sometimes prefer not to. And so before we look at what the blessedness of these different conditions and the dreadfulness or woe of these conditions, truly are, we need to think about what Jesus is doing with respect to these words. Let's start with the word blessed. Or happy if you have an older translation, happy are the poor, blessed are the poor. And what does that really mean? Well, if we go back into the ancient Hebrew idea of what it means to be blessed, we'll find that that word makes its first appearance in Genesis chapter 1. And God made man and woman, and he blessed them. First thing he does. And that word blessed has at its etymological roots this notion that he put them on their knees before him. He put them That's a very grossly wooden translation. To be blessed means to be by God put in a proper relation to himself. We could think of being blessed as having God show us favor And let us know who we are and how we relate to Him in ways that will be eternally beneficial. Favored by God are the poor. But woe to those who are rich. Notice it doesn't say cursed be the rich. He says something about the rich that Jesus will say later, that it's harder for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven than it is for a camel to uh pass through the eye of a needle. You'll recall that Dominican saying, that saying of our Lord. And you see, it's a fact. When we go back into the Old Testament, Proverbs chapter 30, King Agar, he is offering a stunningly simple prayer that echoes some of the sentiment we're going to unpack. He says, Two things I ask of you, O Lord, give me neither poverty nor riches. Do not give me riches that I might forget you, and give me not poverty that I might not steal and so dishonor your name. You see, at both ends of that spectrum resides spiritual danger. Oftentimes if we are rich, if we are well-fed, if we are happy, We can get ourselves into a state where we think we've got everything together. We're doing great. We don't need God. And sometimes if we're on the other end of the spectrum and we're just full of grief, paralyzed by fear, starving to death in whatever way we consider that, relationally or nutritionally, and utterly without resources to address our basic needs, poor in the worst sense of the word. There's a spiritual danger that we will revile God for making us so. What God is saying is that He shows favor to people. in every circumstance. And he shows his favor to people, not just in these gross, materialistic, mechanical ways of looking at words like poor, hungry, and weeping. But in the greater spiritual realities that he's alluding to, which we'll get to in a moment. What does it mean when Jesus says, Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. What is the kingdom of God? The kingdom of God, we tend to think of in sort of geographic, political, spatial senses. We tend to think of it like, well, right now we're in Howard County, we're in the Kingdom of Columbia, we're uh We're in the United States of America. We tend to think very geographically and politically, and we we have really for well over a thousand years looked at this idea of kingdom of God and thought of it in terms of territory. And that's really not the correct way to look at this term, kingdom of God. Kingdom of God, the idea of kingdom, isn't so much a noun that refers to A place, so much as it is a noun that refers to a reality. The kingdom of God is not so much the place that God rules, but it is the fact of his rule. The kingdom of God, we might consider it like the kingship or the royal authority of God. If, for example, I was a Roman soldier in the first century, even say 30 A. D. , it was well understood that wherever I went, I brought the kingdom of Rome with me. Because I was in submission to the reign of the Caesar. The kingdom of God is that recognition and that acting upon the rule of God in our life. It's not something that gets enshrined by passing the right rules and empowering the police officers to enforce them. The kingdom of God is something that I bring into any circumstance in which I arrive and I am determined that I am going to live as God's man or you are going to live as God's woman. in that restaurant, in that school, in the classroom, in your workplace, in your cubicle, where you are going to be a a small spot in a dark world in which God's rule is manifest. And that's why it says, yours is the kingdom of God. You, through you, God is exercising and demonstrating his rule, his authority, his power in your life. And if God will do that even in the life of the poor and the hungry and the grieving and the reviled by our culture, He can do that in anybody. When Jesus says the kingdom of God is in your midst, it's among you, this is the greater truth he's getting at. That when we decide that in loving, humble respect and gratitude and appreciation for the majesty of God and the truth of His Word, decide that we are going to live. Following the example of our Savior in obedience to the God who made us, God's kingdom is present. When we decide to ignore God and to put his commandments on the shelf, and to ignore the example of Jesus, the exhortations of the apostles. We are dimming the light of the kingdom. And we are choosing to operate in conformity with a different kingdom altogether, the kingdom of this world. And these beatitudes are, if nothing else, an utter repudiation of the values of the world. The kingdom of God is something that those who are favored by God Are privileged to possess by living their lives in submission to their God. And that has nothing to do with the state we are in right now. I can be a Christian through whom the principles and the power of God who has a rule is expressed to a fallen world. Irrespective of whether I'm healthy or sick, male or female, rich or poor From Northern Europe and ethnic descent or the global south makes no difference. Makes no difference at all. We forget that, don't we? Blessed, Kingdom of God, and the word disciple. Three words that are of particular importance Notice that this is a word that Jesus says to the disciples. If you'll remember from last work last week, we observed that in the verses leading right up to this, just two verses before this, we read that this is full of three groups. The apostles, those are the twelve he picked. The disciples, those are the many, many crowds, perhaps thousands of people, who have are following Jesus, and a disciple, remember, a disciple is this. Someone who follows another, to learn from them, to become like them. All three of those things have to be present if you are truly a disciple of another person. You are following them to learn from them to become like them. And this is exactly what these people following Jesus. They were following Jesus to learn from him so that they could be transformed. So that they could be spiritually different, so that they would be born again and act like it. And so the disciples are the recipients of these Beatitudes. Notice. And he lifted up his eyes. He, Jesus, lifted up his eyes on his disciples, not the crowds. And he said, yours is the kingdom of God. You see, the kingdom of God doesn't in some Marxist sense belong to the poor. There is not a shred of evidence that anything related to Marxism can be supported from Scripture. I'm not ashamed to say that. Don't try to take Scripture and impose a human ideology, whatever it may be. Upon the holy word of God. This is a word given to the disciples, that the disciples who happen to be poor are possessors of the kingdom of God. If you're poor and you're not a disciple of Christ, yours is not the kingdom of God. And be very clear on that. There is nothing in terms of oppression or lack of oppression that qualifies anybody before the face of the Almighty. The only matter of concern is whether or not your sins have been forgiven and your faith is in Christ. Period. And we have to be aware of that in our current climate today, where we tend to attach so much value and meaning to things like poverty, hunger, sorrow, popularity. You see, Jesus is challenging the people of his day and the people of our day by saying there's something far more fundamental and significant than that that cuts through all of those categories and makes them irrelevant. And what are those things? Point two in your outlines that are in the bulletin. Says, what are the four virtues that give evidence of God's favor? Because he presents as virtues poverty, hunger. Grief, and persecution. Now when Matthew, and we have to remember again Jesus is not speaking in Koine Greek right now. That's the language of the New Testament, the language in which it was written. Jesus, we happen to know from the Gospel of Mark and John, for example, it's crystal clear. Jesus was speaking in Aramaic. Kind of a language very, very closely related, almost indistinguishable in many respects from Biblical Hebrew. Aramaic was the language of the people living in Palestine, the Jewish people during that century and in the centuries preceding. And so Mark and Matthew, pardon me, Luke and Matthew are both taking Jesus' Aramaic Beatitudes and translating them into Greek so that they could be published to the entire Mediterranean world. And when Jesus translates this very same beatitude, blessed are the poor, he translates it this way, Blessed are the poor in spirit. And when Matthew translates the next one and says, Blessed are you who hunger, for you shall be satisfied, he translates that: Blessed are you who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for you shall be satisfied. You see, Jesus, once we consider what Jesus says here about the blessings and the woes, the beatitudes and the dangers of life, looked at in terms of the categories we use on the surface, Jesus is taking those categories and pushing them into your very soul. And what he does here is remarkable. If you stop and think about it, yes, indeed, there is a certain kind of poverty that is essential to anyone who would experience the favor of God. You see, you cannot experience the favor of God unless you have done a deep dive within yourself or descend within yourself as John Calvin would have put it centuries ago. And recognize that there is something that separates you from God. There is a condition that pertains to the deepest Most intimate parts of your soul that is unacceptable when it is contrasted with the utter holiness and beauty of God. There is something that pertains to you and me alike called sin. And only when I recognize that, only via repentance and faith. Can a soul be made right with God? Whether you're King David after cheating with Bathsheba and killing her husband, or whether you are the youngest child here today who stole a cookie from the cookie jar. The way to the Father is through repentance for sin and putting our faith in that great sacrifice for sin, the Passover Lamb. Jesus who takes away his people's sin. There's no other way. Unless I have a poverty of spirit that says, God, I have nothing to offer you. I have no gifts or graces or powers, first of all, that I haven't received from you. And I can't do anything good for you to make up for the wrong I've done, because anything good I do for you right now is simply what I should be doing right now. You can't make up for what I did wrong yesterday. Lord, what can I do? And God says, as the children in our communicance class learned this morning. Look to the serpent lifted up on a pole if you've been bit by the snake, Numbers chapter 21, and you will be healed. That's all. Acknowledge that you've been bitten and are poisoned And look to the provision of your God, the sacrifice He provides. Jesus, his eternal son, who is lifted up on the pole. Acknowledging your poverty, look to Him. And what about hunger? Satisfaction is something we all want. Discontent is something most of us have, at least at times in our life. And there's a sense in which discontent is a virtue in the Beatitudes Blessed are you, favored by God are you who hunger, because you will be satisfied. And understanding this in the sense in which Jesus intended it, not simply to refer to a lack of calories and nutrition. But to a lack of expressed and internalized godliness in our life, there's a sense in which Jesus is saying, you who have the very favor of God, you are hungry. How many of you have figured out why I'm wearing gold in burgundy? Dan Ryan, looking at you, buddy. Okay. Think about sports for a moment. I was this morning. And think about all of this references to eating that happened and all these cart these commercials that make me laugh really loudly sometimes about How they say the NFL is just a scheme to get people to eat. Very clever advertising. Some of you have to watch the NFL to see those ads, but but you know they uh Basically talk about how athletes now say, I'm hungry, meaning they really want to go out there and win. Or feed me, that means throw me the ball. Or we're gonna eat, that means we're gonna win. You all familiar with this? You can pretend I can't see if you have your hands up or not, so don't worry about it. This idea should make a lot of sense to us because we use this idea of hunger metaphorically to express this notion of I want to compete and I want to succeed. Spiritually speaking, blessed are you who hunger and thirst for righteousness, because you will be satisfied. And what a beautiful verse. What a glorious beatitude. Those of you who desperately want to become more like Christ and with humility and repentance are pushing on in the spiritual walk of discipleship. You will be satisfied. Perhaps not as quickly as you'd like, but you will. Because God, as Philippians 1 teaches us, He completes the works he begins. And he's begun a work in you, and you who are hungering and thirsting to be more like Jesus, you are a disciple upon whom his face is directly aimed at. And saying, Blessed are the hungry, you will be satisfied. And of course, we will be well fed in heaven. But even now, We will be fed. What is the supper? What is the blessed peace and assurance we get from worship, from fellowship, from using our gifts? There is a sense in which we who long to become like Christ, indeed, as we Strap on our cleats and walk out onto the field of life, determined to bring the kingdom of God with us. Jesus Himself, by His Spirit, is with us, and we will grow. Not that we'll never fail or lose a scrimmage here and there. But beloved, the season is ours. We're in the playoffs. Amen? What about sorrow? How can we say, blessed are those who mourn? Well, the scriptures teach us very clearly that there is a godly sorrow that brings forth repentance. And we're back to the beginning, aren't we? There is a sense in which, if I don't ever grieve my own sin, I have great concern when I ask myself if I really know Jesus. If I am never affected by the fact that I hurt other people, I wrong them, I dishonor my God If I never ever have that sinking grief that I have done wrong, I probably have what the Bible describes as a seared conscience. If every time I lose control of my temper, of my words, of my body, I blame it on other people. It's possible that I don't know Christ. It's possible that I've never repented. If I can't think of the last time I sinned, it's possible. But that's all I do. You see, God's favor rests upon people who are poor in spirit. Who are hungry for righteousness, and who know what it is to grieve not only our sin, but the effects of sin in our world. If you don't care at all what's happening in Venezuela or LA or the Middle East or Ukraine, why? Blessed are those who mourn, who weep, for they will be comforted. Well what about loyalty? This greatest virtue in the Beatitudes can basically be described as loyalty. Notice it's not blessed. It's not an experience of God's favor just to have people hate you. I can motivate people to hate me in ways that have nothing whatsoever to do with God or His work. I can talk a little bit too much, say, about the commanders. And a certain elder will not like me as much, perhaps. And that's on me. We can provoke people around us in ways that are very ungodly, and they might hate us. And there's nothing about that that suggests God's favor I might have people want to exclude me, and that is simply because I'm a jerk, I'm selfish, I'm completely suck the air out of a room. Everything has to be about me. There's all kinds of things I can do to experience all of these terrible things. Exclusion, spurning my name as evil, reviling me. All of these things are things that can be done, and I can deserve them. And there's nothing blessed about that. You see, there's a condition, a qualification to all of those experiences that makes them blessed. It's when people hate you, revile you, exclude you on account of the Son of Man. When people cannot bear your presence because you're poor in spirit, hungering for righteousness, And weeping for sin. Because you are intent on bringing the kingdom of God with you in your personal conduct and the way you express yourself and interpret the world around you. If those things cause the world to despise you, that is a sure sign of God's favor. Jesus himself was hated. The prophets were hated. Jeremiah was going to be killed until one elder in Jerusalem spoke up for him and they threw him in a well. Loyalty to Jesus, an absolute refusal to depart from him, regardless of the social pressures. To compromise, to deny, to ignore, to compartmentalize your faith as if it has nothing to do with how you do business or engage with your neighbor. Humility, a godly discontent, a humble sorrow, and loyalty to Christ are virtues that are sure signs of God's favor. Not health and wealth, and popularity and happiness. Don't we need to hear that today And don't we need to hear that there is a spiritual danger that is kind of the equal but opposite end of the seesaw here? That when we have rich or are rich in spirit and think, I'm such a great person, God would surely like to have me as one of his people. That kind of arrogance. spiritually toxic, eternally deadly. Satisfaction, being at ease with where you are in your current sanctification. Thinking, you know what? I don't need to be any more like Christ than I am right now because you know what? I'm I'm a pretty good person. And my mom will agree Not a healthy place to be. A place of great spiritual danger. Laughter. Some of you know I love to laugh. There's not a day goes by in the office when we're not laughing about something, usually me. But this picture of having a life built around the idea of nothing but humor Blithely ignoring your sin and its effects in the world, making light of everything, taking nothing seriously. This is in the great wisdom tradition of the Israelites. A great, it's a calamity. It's a disaster. It is dangerous. Popularity Woe to you when all people speak well of you. Doesn't that cut across the grain of the current climate in our day where we have such an emphasis on winsomeness? That we don't want to say anything that could possibly offend anyone. And at some point we have to really examine our navels and say why. Jesus said many things that enraged many people, but he said them humbly and with love. Can I really be more popular than my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? All people did not speak well of him And we need to be careful that in our pursuit of being winsome, we're doing it for the right reasons, to not unnecessarily offend. But the reality is, if you look from Genesis chapter 1 through the last page of Revelation, if we are being faithful and true to the Word of God and declaring the whole counsel of God, There are going to be some people who are livid, no matter how carefully we parse our verbs. And we can't be afraid to do that. One of the great cautions that the prophets of the Old Testament were very aware of. We cannot fear the faces of men. We cannot live our life overly concerned with what other people think of us. We need to, in the words of Max Lakato, live our life before an audience of one, be concerned with whether he is looking at us favorably, and then do everything we can to humbly and carefully love those around us. Well, this has been a long sermon, four points. How can we apply it as the people of God? The first thing I'd like to ask you to do is consider which side of Christ's teaching you're on. Are you one of his disciples? And do you need to be encouraged to think joyfully about the fact that you are blessed. He has shown you favor because of these greater spiritual states, irrespective of the external condition of your life as it is today When I am poor, when I am diseased, when I am mourning, when I am persecuted, am I able to say, Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. And am I able to take solace and comfort from the fact that he has given to me his kingdom? And I am his and he is mine, and tomorrow is coming. Or am I completely bound by my experience of life today? You who are disciples of Christ, think And pray on that. Discuss it in your community groups and in your families. And if you're on the other side of Christ's teaching, if you're not a disciple of Christ, Ask yourself if you truly are living the blessed life, or if there's not that voice coming from somewhere in the back of your soul saying, you know, there is something far more to life than wealth. Satisfaction, happiness, and popularity. There's something more. What is that? And I would say it's having peace with your Maker, fellowship with your God, knowing the presence of the Holy Spirit, having your sins forgiven. by Christ Himself. There's three things that these beatitudes compel us to do in living our lives. One Look back to God's word regularly. Notice that both in the blessings and in the woes, Jesus goes back to the Old Testament prophets, those Hebrew giants who are our spiritual fathers on whose shoulders we stand. Be sure that we are living our life in a way that's commensurate with theirs, that we are walking in their footsteps, that their shadow is a cooling comfort to us. And that we are treated by the world the way they were treated by theirs. Look back. Look into the words of the prophets, the scriptures, study the word of God. It is sacred and it is true. So that's looking back in the current world right now. Embrace God's rule in your life. Yours is his kingdom. He is your king. You carry his kingdom and manifest, you show his kingdom by acting as if he's your king. Consider carefully what God has said for you in the various seasons and circumstances of your life. And look forward to God's reward. Notice that all of these blessed statements, all of these statements regarding the favor of God, Point us forwards and push us into the future, for we shall be glad, we shall be happy, we shall be satisfied. And we must live our life not with one foot in the grave, but with one foot in heaven itself. We look back on the scriptures, we look up to the law of God in our life, and we live it and we look forward. to our sure future. Dear Christian, will you do those things? Dear friend who is here, will you consider them as well? Let's pray. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your word that challenges us and Lord, sometimes it rebukes us. Lord, I confess that too often the index of my happiness or the state of my life can be completely explained just by looking at numbers on a spreadsheet. How many people like me? How many dollars do I have? What's my blood pressure? How many calories did I get today? Father, help me to live in light of these greater spiritual truths. Am I pour before you, recognizing all of my treasure is in Christ? Do I grieve my sin in ways that are healthy and tend towards reconciliation with you and others? Am I hungry to know you better and to follow you more closely and to better show forth your grace? Am I willing to endure the hatred of everyone? In order that I never deny your name. Oh Lord, help me. And Lord, help this congregation of which I'm a part. that we might grow in godliness in this way and truly experience your favor as we show forth your kingdom longing for the day of your return Lord, if there are any of us here today who don't know you in this way, we pray that you, by your grace and mercy, might beautifully and gently show us our poverty Show us our grief. Lord, show us our hunger, and show us our need to be loved and known by you. For we pray these things in the matchless name of Jesus Christ. All God's people said. Name it was