So on the threshold of another month of missions, February this time, and uh we will be planning in the foreseeable future to have our months of missions in February, even though it's not alliterative as March was. But uh there's some scheduling reasons for that. And I want to offer to you uh in anticipation of that uh some thoughts from God's Word, Colossians chapter one in verse six, the sentence that's at the end of that. That's Colossians 1, 6b Not 16, for those of you who may be wondering what happened to the last twelve chapters of Colossians in your Bible. Colossians 1-6, put the colon in there. And uh you may remember, those of you who've been around for a while, that last year, as we began the Y2K series on biblical prophecy, that I began that series with Colossians chapter one, verses three, to the beginning of verse six, because those verses speak of our faith and our love in Christ being springing from the hope that we have that is stored up in the future. And so um we will be actually returning to that series. It isn't finished, you know what happened to it. It just kind of, you know, is it uh there's actually about six more messages, three in March and three in May, that we'll be looking at. But uh what I would like to do is this morning I purposely did not cover verse 6 when we went through that. Because verse 6 is a very climactic statement that Paul gives. It's a highly prophetic statement. about the what the gospel is and will be doing. And so let us uh look at God's word now and I will read Colossians chapter one, beginning with verse one all the way through Verse 6, and then pay attention particularly to the thoughts in verse 6. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. And Timothy, our brother, to the holy and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae. Grace and peace to you from God our Father We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus. And of the love that you have for all the saints, the faith and love that spring from the hope that is stored up for you in heaven. And that you have already heard about in the word of truth the gospel that has come to you. All over the world, this gospel is bearing fruit and growing. Just as it has been doing among you since the day you heard it and understood God's grace in all its truth. Three points, brothers and sisters, I'd like to make from that last sentence. All over the world, this gospel is bearing fruit and growing. just as it has been doing among you since the day you heard it and understood God's grace in all its truth. Three points as we enter into our Month of missions. First of all, the gospel is the truth about God's grace. Gospel is the truth of God's grace. It's not just that the gospel is about grace. We hear a lot about grace today, but the point is here, you see at the end of that verse, is that you've understood God's grace in all its truth. What is so wonderful about the gospel is that it's truth. One of the most disturbing trends that I'm seeing. today in religious trends, I guess you might say, is the proliferation of cute stories on the internet about God Uh these are stories that uh seem like they all got spawned from the mother of all cute stories, the one about the footprints in the sand, you know, with the two footprints, you know, and then There's one set of footprints and wiser one, God says, Well that was when I was carrying you. And that's been precious to a number of Christians. I don't want to demean that, but what it's spawned are a number of stories which claim to know what God is saying. Let me give you an example. It just came through my email this week. Not from anybody here of course. I wouldn't dare, would I? God's boxes. I have in my hands two boxes which God gave me to hold. He said, here's the word of God, see, he said Put all your sorrows in the black and all your joys in the gold. I heeded his words, and in the two boxes, both my joys and sorrows I stored But though the gold became heavier each day, the black was as light as before. With curiosity I opened the black, I wanted to find out why, and I saw in the base of the box a hole which all my sorrows had fallen out by. I showed the whole to God and mused aloud. I wonder where my sorrows could be. He smiled a gentle smile at me. My child, they're all here with me. I said, God, why give me the boxes? Why the gold and the black with a hole? My child, the gold is for you to count your blessings. The black is for you to let go. Well, you know, I don't know if that gives you a kind of a warm appealing inside, but the thing that you see y is there is this kind of a subtle way of saying this is what God is like and this is what he says. And the stories that are like this have always in common that we're basically decent people who are trying to do the best in a tough world. And God's there to help us out and to just say a few encouraging words, carry our burdens, and do things like this. It claims to know what God's saying And what Paul's saying here is the the grace of God is known in its truth There is only way we know one way we know what God says. We will never come up with an accurate picture of God. We'll always make him what we want him to be to accommodate us His holiness, his hatred of sin, uh his majesty and all his perfections, his absolute right to rule and reign in our lives will never be much part of these stories. What is there is it kind of centers around us. God's here for us. But you see, Paul said in Galatians chapter 1, I want you to know, brothers, the gospel I preached to you is not something that man made up. I didn't get it off the internet. And you know, that's rather in paraphrasing. He says, I didn't receive it from any man, nor was I taught it. Rather, I received it by revelation from Jesus Christ. So the first thing to notice about this is that the grace that Paul's celebrating here is known in all its truth. The fact is that this truth has bad news at first for you and me in the claim God has on your life and my life as one whom He's made. And whose claims we've spurned. You will not see in the kind of stories that circulate today the reflections of Hymn 246 in our Hymnal, you know, the one about man of sorrows, where the stanza goes, guilty, vile, and helpless, sweet, spotless, lamb of God was he. Done fit Do we see ourselves as guilty, vile, and helpless? Well that's the way Paul saw us here. He goes on to say that you and I on verse uh 12 and 13 have been rescued out of a domain of darkness. He says in verse 21, you were once alienated from God and were enemies In your minds because of your evil behavior? That's the truth. The truth is that by nature we're God haters. Maybe obvious, maybe subtle. Just uh a couple weeks ago, in fact this last week, I came across an interview uh with an author, Wendy Commoner. I don't know if you've ever heard of her, 1992. She wrote the book, I'm Dysfunctional, You're Dysfunctional. She has a new book out now, just published. It's called Sleeping with Extraterrestrials: The Rise of Irrationalism and the Perils of Piety. Wendy Commoner is no believer. In fact, she does not have much patience with people like you and me. In the interview, she says this When I think about the question, does God exist? I put it in the category of things I can't worry about. Questions I can't know the answer to. My feeling is that even if God does exist, it's really not my job to worry about them. If God exists, He's going to exist whether or not I believe in Him. He'll be fine without me. In fact, something that really bothers me about public religiosity is the mandate to worship I don't have a lot of respect for the view of God as some authority figure who wants you to come and kneel before Him every week There's a sense that you are to go to your church or your synagogue or your mosque or whatever it is you go to and in some way abase yourself before the Lord That seems to me to be such a demeaning way of seeing God, such an expression of human vanity. When human beings imagine God, they imagine a king, they imagine a flawed human being who needs to be worshipped. What do you pick up in that to see the? It's very polite, but it's there's this acrimony, this hatred of a God who presumes that we should fall before him in worship. Paul says, You were once alienated from God. Verse 21, you were enemies in your minds because of your evil behavior, but now he's reconciled you. By Christ's physical body through death to present you holy in his sight without blemish and free from accusation. You see, the grace that he's talking about here makes no sense apart from the truth. You've understood God's grace in all its truth. And so the wonder of the gospel Is that you and I have received the truth of what we're really like. And God has told us that He has sent His Son, Jesus. To bear our sins and to restore us, to forgive us, as he says in verse 14, in whom we have received redemption, the forgiveness of our sins, all undeserved. It's God's grace, you see, in all its truth. You see, the gospel has to first work in you before we can talk about missions. But that gospel is not to be admired from a distance. It's a gospel that has got to be in our very beings. You notice verse 6. Says, all over the world this gospel is bearing fruit and growing just as it has been doing among you The word there among is the Greek word en which is very much like our English word in, it can mean among, but its primary meaning is in And so Paul is saying here, not only among you, he's saying, just as the gospel has been doing in you since the day you heard it, the gospel has been working in you. It's been growing and bearing fruit in you. The gospel must always be in you if it's going to bear any fruit in your life. Another popular book that's just recently out. It's called The Seed of the Soul. Anybody read that or heard of it? Didn't think so. But you will because it was featured on Oprah this week. So it is guaranteed to become a best seller. The author, I think his name was uh something like Gary Um Ziker Zika. was uh on the show and I caught a little bit of it on Monday. No, this was on Monday, it went Tuesday through Saturday Uh so I was home and I got a little bit of it, but uh he was making this point. He says, most of us seek to get our sense of well-being from externals That is, you want to feel good about yourself and by having people admire you. And you want them to admire you either because of who you are associated with or the clothes you wear or the house that you have and how you decorate it or the kind of car that you drive, or the kind of job that you have, or your advancement in that job, or whatever it is There's always something that you feel like if if I achieved that or if that happened, if I had that, people would admire me and then I would feel secure. And he says that's absolutely false, and I'll prove it to you. He says just think about the next thing that you want, the next goal that you have Something to acquire, to do, to perform, to be recognized for. Think of whatever it is. What is it you're striving for right now? Now he says, imagine that this week you accomplish it You get it or you have it or you're recognized for it or whatever it is, you achieve it. You've done that now, he says, let me tell you. Or he said, let me ask you Are all your problems over now? You know, now you feel secure. Now you've you know you've all your self-esteem has hit you know right there at the top. Now it's all He said, no, he says, you know that's not the case. He says, you know that it's not really something outside. It's really something inside. And so hey, I'm going, amen, Gary. Hey, preaching. You know, and then he says, well, you know, what you gotta do is you gotta look inside and see all this great stuff. You know, you see all these gifts and this wonderful stuff in you and And as you release that or are in touch with that, then your gifts and your goodness are released in what he calls authentic power Well you lost me there, Garrett. Because when I look inside, I don't see all this good stuff that's just waiting to jump out Paul says in verse twenty one, once you are alienated from God because you are enemies in your minds, because of your evil behavior. The Bible says that when you and I look into ourselves, we see corruption, we see spiritual bankruptcy, we see self-centeredness, we see things that we're ashamed of. Pa And so that's why the gospel is such good news. Because it says that God sent his son Verse 13, he's rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the Sonny Loves, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Verse 21, you were alienated from God, enemies in your minds because of your evil behavior, but now He has reconciled you by Christ's physical body. He kept the law, and he died through death, you see, the curse of the law, to present you holy in his sight. Not because of anything you've done, but because only of what He has done, without blemish, free from accusation. That's the grace of the gospel. Amen? You're free from accusation And so the gospel, Paul says, verse 6, bears fruit in you. It's all throughout the world, but the beginning it's bearing fruit in you. What's that fruit? Verse 4 and 5. He says, the fruit of faith and of love that comes from the hope. That you have because you are free from accusation. Your life is right before God. And you can look forward to meeting him, either when he comes to receive you or when you go by death to stand before him. He says down in verse 10 that it bears the fruit. You see, use it again. We pray this in order that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and may please him in every good way, every way, bearing fruit again. In every good work, growing in the knowledge of God. You're growing to know Him more and more. And every time there's a trial in your life. Something that is painful, something you don't understand, that doesn't make sense. What's it do? It forces you to expand your knowledge of God beyond what you already know that doesn't fit, to incorporate that trial. Somehow, God's goodness and faithfulness is consistent with this. Because it doesn't seem so, there's something I haven't understood about him. And as that happens, then you deepen in your knowledge of God. That's the fruit of the gospel at work in you. Now Paul says that's happened in you because someone shared it with you. He goes on in verse 7, you see, you learned this Not by going on the internet or just by thinking it up or going outside and having a vision. You learned it from someone who shared it with you, like Epiphers with the Colossians. You learned it from Epiphers in this case. Our dear fellow servant is a faithful minister of Christ on our behalf and who told us of your love in the Spirit. And everybody here in this room who belongs to Jesus Christ has some epiphers. If somebody who cared enough about you, they shared the gospel with you. That may not have even been personally. It might have been on a TV or radio. But somebody cared enough that you personally, individually in most cases, or generally, people without Christ, would know about the grace of God and all its truth in Christ To share with you the gospel. And I got news for you. Even though you may think that that happened for 2,000 years, from the Colossians to somebody after them, to them, to them, to them, down for 2,000 years. So finally somebody shared it with you and you thought, great, God's purpose has been accomplished. I have heard the gospel, I have believed, I'm going to heaven. Great. Thank you very much, Lord. And that's where it can end. That's not his purpose. The purpose is that you be an epiphras to somebody else, and that it continues on. And so Paul says here in verse 6: all over the world. The gospel is bearing fruit and growing just as it's been doing in and among you since the day you heard it and understood God's grace in all of its truth. And so The third point is that the gospel is bearing fruit and growing all over the world. God's original intention in Genesis chapter 12, verses 1-3, is that you and I, like Abraham, through the Abrahamic covenant, said to Abraham, I am going to bless you, and you will be a blessing to the nations. Colossians is the fulfillment of that, as Jesus Christ has come in fulfillment of the promise to Abraham And you and I in Christ are now continuing in that Abrahamic covenant, that we have been blessed, that we would be a blessing among the nations. And so Colossians is simply saying that. Colossians is simply saying God is fulfilling the Abrahamic covenant. God did it in Paul's day. Just in martyr About the middle of the second century wrote these words. There is no people, Greek or barbarian, or of any other race. By whatever appellation or manners they may be distinguished, however ignorant of arts or agriculture, whether they dwell dwell in tents by We'll wander about in covered wagons, among whom prayers and thanksgivings are not offered in the name of the crucified Jesus to the Father and Creator of all things. That's middle of the second century, one hundred and fifty AD. Half century later, Tertullian adds these words: We are but of yesterday, and yet we already fill your cities, islands, camps, your palace, senate, and forum. We have left you only your temples. And R. H. Glover, in a book, The Progress of Worldwide Missions, wrote that on the basis of all the data available, it has been estimated that by the close of the apostolic period, the total number of Christian disciples Had reached a half a million. Half a million Christians by the end of that first generation. At that point, it is estimated that there were about 360 unbelievers for every believer Two thousand years later, with the multiplication of the world's population to uh well over five billion. The estimate right now is that there are approximately four unbelievers for every believer. There are over two billion Bible-believing Christians on the face of the earth. That is absolutely staggering. One of the most exciting things that you can consider is missions. I mean you know maybe you're gonna get caught up in the Super Bowl today. I don't know, you know, but you know there'll be a lot of yelling and screaming and all that and you say this all this, you know, and six months from now who's gonna remember who won or who lost it But you know, here we're all excited about this. And God is bringing the nations by the thousands, by the millions To the foot of Jesus Christ, fulfilling this verse to glorify his name. And are we excited about that? Do we look at this next month and say, Nah, I can't wait this boy, this is a great month, you know? We're gonna talk about what God's doing in the world. We say, ah, it's a month of missions, I hope I can get some. Without feeling too guilty or bored or whatever, you know, and get get on the march, get back to who's the Antichrist and all that stuff. Hey man, this is a big month coming, you know I mean just think about this. Let me give you a couple of statistics to just kind of use your imagination. 1960 Seventy percent of the Christians on this planet lived in North America or Europe. Forty years later, 2000, it is exactly the reverse. Now, 70% of the Christians on this planet are outside of North America and Europe. Only 30% of the Christians today are now in Europe and North America. For instance, a couple of examples. In 1960, there were about 8. 5 million Christians on the continent of Africa. Today, 63. 5 million, 40 years later. Latin America, nineteen sixty, a little over five million believers. Today, forty-five point seven million Asia, nineteen sixty, there were about a little over seven million believers. Today, over ninety million believers. In Latin America There were in 1990 about 400 million Latin Americans. 40 million were evangelical Christians. In ten years later, this is a different uh group of people, but uh from all of Latin America, that 40 million has grown to 60 million in just ten years. People are becoming Christians in Latin America at the rate of 400 per hour. Churches are starting every day. The countries of Brazil represented here. Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador are either at or crossing to the majority of their populations being evangelical Christians. Mexico is currently 40% evangelical Christian. It's absolutely staggering. Staggering. All over the world, this gospel is bearing fruit and growing, just as it has been doing in you. I mean, what does that do to your heart? You see what you're a part of, what God is doing? Peru was possibly where my wife became a Christian, even though she was not Peruvian. She's from Pennsylvania, but she was on a missions trip down there when God got a hold of her. And she looks back now and thinks that's probably where she gave her life to Christ. Just recently I heard of a couple that was with Wycliffe missionaries. And just recently I read about a a Wycliffe couple in Peru. They were driving along and uh A um guerrilla band stopped them in the road, uh hijacked their car, took their car, took their generator, took their movie projector and equipment And as they were taken off, uh the missionary couple said, You might as well take the movies too. So they grabbed the movies, took everything off, threw it in the car, and took off. Well these guys were kind of bored in the mountains in their hideout and they thought, you know, what are these Rambo movies or something they're showing up here and make money and so they fired up the generator and popped the movie in, of course was the Jesus film They watched the thing seven times, and a large proportion of the band dropped their arms and gave their lives to Jesus Christ. So when the missionaries next met them, they were believers. I mean, there are dozens of these kinds of stories that are going like every week I hear these kinds of things. It's just amazing. Think about what to tell you. Go on for a couple of hours, but It's just amazing what God is doing. All over the world, the gospel is bearing fruit and growing. You see, we're kind of in the backwater of Christianity now. I mean we're in the area that's kind of tough. We're the unreached people. It's the other areas, Asia, Latin America, and Africa, where the gospel is was really they're the centers of Christianity now. Um just again a couple of other things that God is doing. Just to give you a couple of ideas. In Indonesia, the percentage of Christians is so high the government won't print the statistic. which is probably over thirty percent of the population. The last accurate tally of Indonesian Christians was in nineteen seventy-nine. That revealed that there were two more two m more than two million Muslims who had turned to Christ. After 70 years of oppression in the Soviet Union, Christians numbered about a hundred million, five times the number of the Communist Party at the height of its popularity. The government of Papua New Guinea recently mandated Bible teaching in every school in the country. More Muslims in Iran have come to Christ since 1980 than in the previous 1,000 years combined. Before Khomeini's revolution in 1979, there were about 2,000 Iranian believers. After years of intensified persecution, now there's more than 15,000, and that was a few years ago. Somebody coming out of the first service said they heard a statistic by a reliable source just this week that the number of Christians on the face of the earth has doubled since 1989. Doubled. I mean what this is saying, this is saying that we're not becoming Christians like this. It's saying that the world is becoming Christians like this. You see, and we're sitting here thinking, ah, what's God doing? You know, my neighbors are not interested, my own family. And so we we have this very self-centered whole hum kind of attitude. Paul's saying, The grace of God and all its truth has been working in you and all over the world. The gospel is bearing fruit and is growing. The question is just, are you and I part of it? Are we mentally part of it? Or are we out of it? Will we come to that last day, the end of our lives, and say, you know, I think I missed it. I mean God was doing something really exciting, and I was caught up in all this trivia, small aspirations, and I missed the big thing that God was doing in my day. Of course, what we don't like to hear is that the gospel is growing the fastest where there's the most persecution. Um that's just an amazing thing. You know, you take the Sudan, for instance, that's the fastest growing church in the world Do you know that in the Sudan, the Muslim government has made it its goal to eradicate Christians, to either convert them to Islam or to eradicate them Over the past six years, one and a half million Sudanese have been killed for the cause of Christ. Over five million have become refugees fleeing for their lives. That's a quarter of I mean that you know quarter one and a half million, that's a quarter of the Holocaust, and five million refugees. We think what a terrible thing that was. And it's the fastest growing church in the world. Thursday mornings during these weeks, we are showing five-minute just snapshots of video. of persecuted areas of the world where the church is growing. And so if you've never come to one of our Thursday morning concerts of prayer, you might want to choose one. We showed the first one on Sudan this Thursday And um by the way, the government did pass the Sudanese Peace Act. That is, the Senate passed it. It's in the House of Representatives now. Pray for that. Got a letter just this week from Senator Sarbanes in response to my call. saying that uh our government has ceased most of its economic uh r relate relations with the Sudan because of the terrorist activities Pray for the house to pass that bill. We're in exciting times. You know, 300,000 Christians a year lose their lives for Christ. A word war, but it's a war where Jesus Christ is conquering the nations. And so we see Red China, we see in Sudan, we see in other areas where there's persecution. How the gospel is growing in a way that simply cannot be stopped. Can't even be understood, let alone stopped. And we saw some of these in the videos last couple of Sundays. Remember at the end of the video, there was all these cities, names that popped up on the screen. Those were all cities where you could talk about amazing things and the work of the Holy Spirit that's going on. We see this even in our own country. I mean, even even though we may feel like we're kind of the backwater and not much happening in the United States, there's still, I mean, God is at work. I mean January 14th, Washington Times. I don't know if anybody saw that Jane Fonda has professed Christ. Lauren Johnson emailed me that article. Have it here in case anybody wants to see it, but don't know her heart. But here's a woman who stood so stalwartly against Christians and the gospel. Ted Turner, her husband, of course, was head of an intervarsity group when he was in college. And then his sister died and he turned against the gospel and against Christ. And since Jane Fonda has become a Christian, they have now separated and um it's producing a lot of turmoil in the ha in their family. I mean God is at work. He's at work here. You know, you're going to hear next week the testimony of a couple of become Christians right here and are going to profess faith publicly next week. Don't miss that. All over the world, the gospel is bearing fruit and growing just as it's been doing among you since the day you heard it, and understood God's grace and all its truth. So we have three goals for this conference. And you see them there in your outline. The first one that we catch a vision of God's Word and His purposes. And that's what we're hoping. You don't understand his intention. What is God up to? What does his word say? Do you understand that? Do you see that as you pray for his will in your life? Do you see his big purpose? What God is up to. And how you can be part of that? Third, secondly, catch the vision from God's world. So that you see in these next four weeks, bigger glimpse of what God is doing. This Saturday we're going to have, we're going to start off the conference with a banquet. And it's our international banquet, the annual banquet, here this Saturday, that's before next Sunday. Don't come next Sunday and say, oh, was that this week? I sorry I missed it. I thought you were going to say it was afternoon This Saturday, okay, right after Upwards Basketball. And uh 530, we're gonna have a panel of people from within CPC who are international folks, born from other cul in other cultures or or um or cross-cultural folks, people who have lived in other cultures, to talk about missions. See what God is doing throughout the world. Then thirdly, you see the purpose is to obey the vision as a willing, world-conscious disciple. But the gospel is working in you and in me. That we see from this week what God is up to, what he's doing. And that that means the mobilization of every believer at Columbia Presbyterian. It's not just for the mission-minded folks. It's not just for the World Missions Task Force. It's for all of us As we understand we are part of this in some way, mentally, you see. It's an attitude. It's not a matter of geography. It's a matter of attitude. It's availability. It's simply saying, my life, my agenda, who I am, where I'm moving is part of what God is doing. It's shaped by kingdom priorities. Ready for that? Ready for the trip? Ready for what God's gonna do? Then let's begin. Let's begin by praying. Let's pray. Lord, we want at the beginning of this time to just offer ourselves to you, to say, Lord, show us the gospel at work in us. And see the amazing statement of your truth and your grace that has changed us. If there's somebody, Lord, here, who has never been changed by that. May your truth come to convict and your grace. be revealed to them in a Savior who has taken the sin of sinners who believe in him. And we would all share at that statement. The gospel is at work in us. And Lord, may none of us miss out because of small ambitions or narrow vision what you are doing and what we are part of in our day. That we would grow in the windows of our mind being flung open so that we might see more of who you are and what you're like and what you're doing. And to be part of that, teach us, make us open, available, and teachable. We pray in this next month, beginning with Saturday night, in Jesus' name. Amen.