Turn with me in your Bibles to the Psalms. We are continuing our series this month looking at various Psalms of Ascent. And this morning we're going to look at uh Psalm 127 and 128 together. Of course, it's an age-old conundrum. What makes a person happy? As pilgrims going up to the house of the Lord, what these Psalms of Ascent represent is families. It's communities, whole villages going up to Jerusalem to to praise God in his dwelling place, to praise him in the presence of the city of David at the temple, and they are going to rejoice. In all the Lord has given. So as we today, as pilgrims, go to seek the Lord, may we be mindful. of Psalm 127 and 128 and consider the Lord's blessing. Follow along as I read. Unless the Lord builds the house, those who labor in vain, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest. eating the bread of anxious toil, for he gives to his beloved sleep. Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior of the children of one's youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them. He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate. Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways. You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands. You shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you. Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house. Your children will be like olive shoots around your table. Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the Lord. The Lord bless you from Zion. May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life May you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, bless us in the reading. Bless us as I seek to declare what is true from your word as we seek to be encouraged in our faith. As we see Christ, as we see your abundance, help us to receive your blessing. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. There there was a man with a big house. He had an important job and he had a good reputation. Is he blessed? Another man recently received news that he will be let go from his job at the end of this quarter. Is he blessed? There is a child who lost her parents this year to COVID-19. Nobody you know, but just that's happening in our nation. Is she blessed? A young couple welcomes their third child while another couple grieves their third miscarriage, who is blessed. Blessings are a topic found throughout the Bible, and like the people in the Bible, we can easily reduce blessings to our circumstances. And this is kind of how our inner lot logic works. If my life is going well, then I'm blessed. But if if I experience affliction or some form of lack Lacking or failing, then then I might begin to wonder, even if I don't say it, I might begin to wonder it in my head. Am I though? Am I blessed? I think we we naturally long to receive blessing. We look for it. We look for it from our parents. We look for it from our communities. We look for it in the things we give our our time and attention to, the things we value. We like that to be Blessed back. But as we can easily misplace our desires for our blessings in our circumstances, such as our family, our possessions, our security. We can also easily confuse our striving for the Lord's blessing. And we can easily neglect the purpose that blessings serve. And in a time where it seems like curses are more prevalent in our own homes, our our communities, on the television, our our nation, our world Psalm 127 and 128 reminds us that the Lord is blessing. And it's a pointer to how the Lord's blessing is more powerful than any curse. And today, as we look at these two psalms , I want us to recognize how they fit so nicely side by side. And really, together they fit with Psalm 126, which was preached last week by Pastor Randy, that the three of these Psalms form a triad. As the people of God would journey to Jerusalem, they would tell stories of the Lord's salvation in the face of their enemies. They might confess their worry and anxiety about life's precarious nature. all the while renewing their hope and trust in the Lord who provides. And this triad of Psalms walks them from their sorrows and it ascends to their happiness. their happiness that is ultimately fulfilled in the Lord Himself. So this morning I'll comment on you know, parts of these Psalms, but I want them mostly to be our doorway into the the broader topic of blessing. So we'll look at three main things, three main categories. We'll see first how the Lord is the source of blessing. Next, we'll discuss the Lord provides flourishing as blessing. And then lastly, the Lord gives purpose for blessing. So let's look at that first one together. The Lord is the source of blessing. Now we see this in both Psalms all over the place. First off, the idea of even blessed Being blessed. That's a passive experience. You're receiving blessing, which implies that there is a giver, there is someone who is bestowing blessing, and that is found throughout in these two Psalms. One of the many reasons that I enjoy backpacking so much is that it simulates an experience of a pilgrimage. Walking mile after mile, hour upon hour, it really makes me aware of my thoughts, it makes me very attuned with my surroundings, and I'm I'm drawn forward by my goal. Which my overarching goal is to walk the Appalachian Trail section by section. And each one of my trips represents my steps. One foot in front of the other toward Katahdin, the summit in Maine, which I'll probably get there in like 15 years. But in these trips, I'm keenly aware of my needs. I pay attention to how much water I'm carrying. I map out the next available opportunity for that fresh flowing water. I I I pay attention to the to the sky. I I'm I'm estimating how much time is remaining in the day, how much daylight. I'm Watching for the weather, trying to anticipate what might be coming around the corner. I look for a good place for shelter that provides adequate protection from the elements. but also a place that gives rest and peace for my body. And with each step, my whole self becomes more and more synchronized with my aspirations. But also my limitations and time. The barrier between the mundane and the glorious thins in these moments. My human experience is is in relationship. uh to the divine and it expands the gloria uh the glorious vista overlooking a valley, being on a on a peak Seeing wildlife, hearing the noise of the breeze, hearing a stream flow, all of these things are moments that converge where I am acutely aware that the Lord is the source of all blessing. The Irish poet John O'Donohue has written a little book called To Bless the Space Between Us. And in that book, he writes many things I'm going to reference today throughout the sermon, but the this first quote describes what a blessing is. Now, um he he writes this a blessing evokes a privileged intimacy. It touches that tender membrane where the human heart cries out to its divine ground. A blessing is not a sentiment or a question, it is a gracious invocation. Where the human heart pleads with the divine heart. Now, humans have have pondered these spaces forever. And I think it to be human is to be familiar with that gracious invocation, that pulling of our heart as it pleads. But how we define the source of the blessing becomes a very significant mystery, a very significant follow-up question. Now, some people find a cold cosmic mystery beautiful. They find it something that can be sensed uh with their um experiences, their their eyes, their touch. Those things can be sensed, but yet it's unattainable. It can be experienced but unknowable. And for some that that's comforting, but I find that so unsatisfying. Thanks be to God that in his transcendence he comes close, he draws near, and he discloses himself. Personally, and he and he says this all over Scripture, something to this effect. I will be your God and you will be my people. He discloses who he is and he welcomes and he invites into covenant relationship. We experience the infinite and the eternal as it enters into space and time. and and reveals that he is the source of such gracious invocation and truly we find intimacy. Now people in all societies have their own words, their own vocabulary, their own experiences that describe experience as a blessing. People also have thresholds, which is a term that O'Donohue uses in his book, that serve as cues to navigate those spaces in our lives where we experience blessing. They might be a transition of some kind. And blessing becomes a doorway that we can walk through that space between us, between the Lord, between one another. And although I I believe ultimately that all blessings are from the Lord All people experience them by his common grace. But Psalm 127 and 128, as well as throughout all the scriptures, But here we see the attention of the singer is drawn to find his heart fulfilled by a particular divinity, a particular divine heart named the Lord. The Lord is God, who is the source of blessing. And as the Lord is the source, we see that what is provided is flourishing. And it's all over these two Psalms. The image is very uh there there's there there's familial language, there is a sense of um fruitfulness of of growth and expanse and multiplication and and and teaming and and and on and on and and all of a sudden you're you're you're captivated and your mind is pulled back to the story that the Lord is saying from the beginning. I love the zoo. My girls love the zoo. One of the reasons why I love it is it's it's a microcosm of various kingdoms and kinds of animals that are all placed together in these small versions of their habitat Um and we the visitor get to witness um amazing beauty and variety. Uh that is if of course we see them, um if they're not out of their cage or if that exhibit is not under construction or something like that. But but we get to see beauty and variety from all over the world, all across various ecosystems. Right here in our own backyard. And we get to see these snapshots of their behaviors, the things they may eat, how they might interact with each other if there's multiple kinds in the same exhibit. But we also witness fellow humans behind the scenes laboring to care for these animals, laboring to work together for their conservation. And it's it's like this in this psalm. It's not explicit, but it it is it's in the background, it's in the it's in the soil, if you will, of these things. Uh of Genesis 1 and 2. So it's easy. Put your mind in place of a pilgrim, somewhere in Israel traveling to Jerusalem. A pilgrim would very naturally recall their vocation. And what I mean by that is to be an image-bearer, to be made in the likeness of the Creator, to be called a co-creator, to be called as a steward of the Lord's creation. And likewise these pilgrims would be mindful of not only is it their vocation, but their part of a calling that is to be a part of a people. The children of Abraham, the children of Isaac, the children of Jacob, the Lord's heritage, where he tasks them to be fruitful and multiplied, to be rooted. and to be planted in the land he gave them. And this story is certainly f uh beginning from Genesis 1 through 2, but it is the the bedrock. of what captivates the imagination of the people of God, understanding who they are as a people in a place in relationship with the Lord. And the flourishing that's presented in these Psalms as well as throughout Scripture is both personal and communal. It involves the overlapping spheres um of life. We we see pictures of a house, a home. We we see a city and a place. We 're caught up into the idea of what our labor might be and our securities that we place our hopes in or our trusts. When home and city are challenged, or our labor comes across as fruitless, or our security threatened. We tend to shrink away from the Lord's flourishing and pursue our own happiness on our own terms. So that we still may pursue stability or still pursue our version of heritage at the expense, though, of our covenantal relationship with the Lord and the communal belonging we have to one another. That poet, that Irish poet O'Donoghue writes this While our culture is all gloss and pace on the outside, within it too often It it uh within it is too often haunted and lost. The commercial edge of so-called progress has cut away a huge region of human tissue and webbing that held us in communion with one another. We have fallen out of belonging. Consequently, when we stand before a crucial threshold in our lives, we have no rituals to protect, to encourage, and guide us as we cross over into the unknown. The people of God, by the very disclosure of who God is, the very revelation of His Word, have these markers, these guideposts. as the people of God. And they then, as we do now , they sometimes carried out their vocation quite well. But similarly to them as we do now, we we don't always uh carry out that vocation. We can fear and we can selfishly undermine flourishing of the whole because we actually are seeking the thriving of the self. And in the economy and the ecosystem of what God is doing in his blessing, it's reversed. It is we see him pouring out blessing That is upon his people, upon his creation, and it involves and welcomes people to see themselves as recipients of that blessing. People who are participating in what God is doing in the world. And so we see how the blessed person, the happy person here, is the one who desires the Lord's flourishing The one who wants to be in that relationship with the Lord, to receive the blessing, not because it's just the blessing But it's actually wanting to be close and intimate with the one who is doing the blessing. And in that relationship, it's the happy person is the one who walks in his ways. So as we think about the blessing that God provides, the flourishing that exists as His blessing in our lives, our families, our communities, that vision of what flourishing is meant to be. We come to the final section today, that the Lord gives purpose for blessing. This is something that can It can be lost in these two psalms because these are well-known psalms, especially if you've come to these psalms to think about children. Think about children you want to have, to think about children that you may have, to even grieve children that you don't have. Maybe you avoid this psalm altogether because it's painful. If the Lord's overflowing provision of blessing for the personal And the communal flourishing was an article of clothing. The thread that stitched together those scenes would be the Lord's creational intentions. While his redemptive purposes would be the embroidery that gives finer detail and fuller beauty to the fabric. In his book Mission of God by Christopher Wright. It's a big thick book. It is transformative. It's foundational. I haven't even finished it. It's been ten years, but it I come back to that book again and again. But this big fat book, the the thesis statement is simple. God's mission is the blessing of the nations. God 's mission is the blessing of the nations. And we see this in Genesis. We see his creational intentions, the flourishing of his creation, a people. Who get to be co-heirs of the cosmos with him, but we see that crumbling and challenged and cursed Genesis 3 and Genesis 4. And a people who 's trying to pursue what it means to be created. Having these seeds of the promise, the promise of what is God going to do to bring about his redemption, the reversal of the fall, the reversal of curses. but actually to pour out blessing. And we come to this interesting contrast. In Genesis 11, we see a people seeking to gather in a city of their own making to build a tower that reflects their own self-importance and self-sufficiency. And in the end, their toil is fruitless because they were not seeking the source of blessing. They were seeking a name for themselves and a sense of self-blessing. Contrast that with what comes next in Genesis 12. And this really becomes the fulcrum that we see of God working in a particular way. He calls a man. He calls Abram. And after he scatters the people in their city and at their tower, the Lord calls out A people and a nation. And in Genesis 12, we see Abram is called to go from his country to go to a land that the Lord would show him. The Lord would provide a heritage to Abraham that would carry on this covenant relationship through his offspring And that was challenged. Because how how how do older people um there there is a um a there's limitations I will say that. There's limitations to that. But yet Abraham believed. He had faith that God would keep his covenant promise. And we see that being carried out through Isaac and Jacob, all the way through a people that builds a house, the house of David. And the Lord would pour out his blessings upon the nations. Because there in Genesis 12, 1 through 3, Abraham is blessed so that the nations would be blessed. This is the heart of God. This is the mission of God, the purpose of his blessing. Now, we see that the a people who is in covenant relationship with the Lord. around Sinai. They are delivered out of their bondage and they are given God's gracious law. And they're again we hear those echoes of I am your God and you will be my people. Here is how you are to live. This is how you to walk in my ways. Questions of like how can an unholy people live in the presence of a holy God? Well again God makes it possible by pouring out blessing, showing his grace, and making it possible. But the law in the land that is particular to the people of Israel through the covenant of Moses was meant always to be temporary. So it's why Paul doesn't go to Moses in Galatians. He who does he go to? He goes to Abraham. He goes back to an older covenant, a more foundational covenant, where it begins with the call of belonging and a vocation. And those things still stand. And in that blessing of Abraham, we see the fulfillment of God's redemptive purposes that ultimately are fulfilled in Jesus Christ. As you are pilgrimaging, which I don't even know if that's a verb, as you are um I almost said it again, as you are walking up the road to Jerusalem Our hope is still in Jerusalem, but not because of its city or place, but now the dwelling place of God is in his people. The living stones, the living temple not made by human hands, as we see The city of David being reoriented, restructured, included between those who are Of the covenant and those who are brought into the covenant. Where in Christ we are Jew and Gentile in one family, one household. At one point uh in the musical uh Fiddler on the Roof, um if you haven't seen that this year, it's It's a good one to watch. Um Tevya and and Goldie are husband and wife, and there's a wonderful, powerful um scene where they are celebrating Sabbath. This picture of working six days and resting one to Come to the end of your labor to seek rest, to seek peace. But it's always fragile Because when you consider their context of where they were, considering the the plot of the sh of of the of the musical and the p and the movie, if you've seen it. The challenges that God's people had faced for millennia, it was always fragile. How do you carve out that space between us to experience God's blessing? And so there's a powerful song where uh Tevye and Goldie sing a Sabbath prayer. And it it's similar, at least in tone, it it's similar in substance to the psalmist in these Songs of Ascend. I'll just read a few parts of it. But they sing, May the Lord protect And defend you. May he always shield you from shame. May you come to be in Israel a shining name. May you be like Ruth. And like Esther, may you be deserving of praise. Strengthen them, O Lord, and keep them from the strangers' ways May God bless you and grant you long lives. May God make you good mothers and wives. May the Lord protect and defend you. May the Lord preserve you from pain. Favor them, O Lord, with happiness and peace. Oh here our Sabbath prayer. So the psalmist going up to Jerusalem is acutely aware of the similar fragility. of that space of blessing and the precarious nature of life, all the while placing their trust and their faith in the Lord who blesses. And what's powerful about the musical, if you remember it, the fiddler, the fiddler on the roof, it's a metaphor for the whole movie. The fiddler represents survival. Survival in a life of uncertainty, precarious, just like a fiddler on the roof. Making, um, Tevya says, trying to scratch out a pleasant, simple tune. without breaking his neck. So how do you go about your life It's easy to reduce blessing to just your circumstances. And if I'm okay, if things are going well, then I'm blessed. But the blessing that the Lord bestows, the blessing that the Lord gives, Is so much bigger, so much more powerful. It gets us beyond our current circumstances. Where you might come to this psalm and say, Yep, this is me. I'm blessed. Or you come to this psalm and you say. I don't think this will ever be me. Will I be blessed? The psalmist is a personal vignette into experiencing good circumstances, don't get me wrong, but he even draws us out broader as he concludes Psalm 128, the Lord bless you from Zion. The place, the city of David, an old term for Jerusalem. But the Lord bless you from Zion. May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life. May you see your children's children Peace be upon Israel. In the place of precarious nature of life, the fragility of life We see the Lord's blessing overflow. And there is hope. And so here, when we come to the end of the Psalms , these two particular Psalms, but really any of these Psalms We the singers are welcomed into a story where we are invited to receive blessing To live and thrive in what God bestows, to desire and dream in all that he accomplishes through his redemption, bringing his people together in a reconciled relationship to himself. to experience deep bonds of belonging and abundant hands of hospitality that welcomes you and shows you the way to live. Shows you the way to work, shows you the way to rest and enjoy the peace of God's covenantal blessing. I'll leave you with this last final quote from O'Donohue. He says, It would be lovely. If we could rediscover the power to bless one another. The blessings that from the Lord are from Him to you. The blessing involves a flourishing that may involve your circumstances right now, but it includes you in the abundance of what he's doing to his people and in the world. And it certainly is always in the backdrop we see the purpose of blessing, how the Lord is blessing the nations through his covenant. This invitation to be his people and for him to be your God. So in a final passing thought, When you come to these end that these two Psalms, I ask you, what changes in your life knowing the Lord blesses you? What would it look like upon receiving his blessing to bless others The Lord bless you. Let us pray. Father, in heaven, we give you thanks and praise for all that you provide, all that you show, all that you reveal about who you are. And we are eternally grateful for that covenant that is rooted in your word in the very disclosure of who you are. But it is perfectly fulfilled in your son Jesus, the Son of David, as you are building a nation, a people unto yourself. that that where we might labor and fail, you are building a house and a city to your glory. And we are blessed by you. In Jesus' name, amen.