I've been thinking and I've been reading and pondering this message uh literally for months. You may remember that uh It was almost a year ago that we began our study of spiritual warfare from Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 to 17. And during that time and in that study, there were two topics I have not covered. One is the topic of occultism, and the second is the topic of territorial spirits. Some of you may not even know what that is, others quite familiar. And I have decided that before we leave that whole topic of spiritual warfare, I would like to speak on occultism today from God's Word. And uh in September I would like to address the topic of territorial spirits. We've seen, of course, an astounding uh upsurge and resurgence of occultic interest in the Western world and in our country in the last twenty, thirty years since I was a teenager. I remember back in uh nineteen sixty eight when uh Rosemary's Baby was released, that was a big deal. Uh now films like that, Blair Witch Project and other things, you know, are pretty commonplace to us. In Europe now there are far more witches' cubins than there are churches. Astrology, horoscopes in the daily newspaper are so commonplace, in fact, even hearing people whose lives are guided by them, CEOs Not just cooking the books, but just all kinds of guidance that these people get from it. The wife of a former president uh directing her life through occultic information. Uh these things have become rather commonplace to us. So much of contemporary music, rock music has occultic lyrics as part of the theme And the video games, the computer games, so many have occultic dark themes. Take for instance the very popular, very popular uh game Return to Castle Wallenstein Wolfenstein. Um that's a game where you must uh overcome the evil undead, who are the dark knights, led by their leader who is in league with Satan. And um this this kind of theme, you know, it's kind of the spooky, spectacular sort of thing, predominates a lot of these games, Diablo and a number of others So all of us have been in contact with that. You've been in contact with it, particularly you teens. Some of you kids are seeing this kind of stuff and the games and the things that you play and are in touch with. And uh so what's occurred to me is that uh while we have been studying Ephesians 6 Verse twelve, where Paul is quite clear, we wrestle not, struggle not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. And we've talked about six pieces of armor for the Christian to put on, that is the gospel, in order to engage successfully in spiritual warfare. But all the time we're living on that level and talking about that, there could be some of you who have been dabbling in or involved in a kind of a secret life with occultic things. And I'd be naive to think that that were not true. So I feel that it's important before we leave this subject to engage it directly. Get it on the table. What does God say about occultism, occultic activities Let's think about what they are and what God says about it and uh be clear on where we as Christians um should both be guarded and delivered from such things. Now, the first thing I need to do then is to define the occult. So if you see in your outline, the first thing is what is the occult? Um I define it, I think the an accepted definition is the occult is the attempt To gain supernatural knowledge or power apart from the God of the Bible Now the emphasis there is on supernatural. It's not just knowledge or power, but the attempt to gain supernatural knowledge or power apart from the God of the Bible. It's the word comes from the Latin word occultus, which means things which are hidden or concealed. There are many texts in scripture that speak about this. It would be very easy to do a whole series on this, but I am constraining myself, disciplining myself rigorously. And I'm trying to um actually limit this whole vast subject to just one message today. Uh and I've chosen has my text for it, Deuteronomy chapter 18, verses 9 to 13, which uh assemble uh um kind of the broad scope of occultic activities and then speak to what God's Mind is on that. So if you haven't already done that, have a Bible. And if you ever come and don't have a Bible, remember there's a rack of Bibles in the back. But please turn to Deuteronomy chapter eighteen, verses nine to thirteen, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Deuteronomy And you remember that this was given to God's people by Moses just before they were entering into the land of Canaan, the land of Canaan was a land that was rampant with occultic practice. It basically held an occultic worldview. It was the logical conclusion of where the Western world is headed. and where much of the third world countries and cultures already are in their occultic involvement. So this is God's word to his people and through them this is God's word also to you. about this subject. Moses says in Deuteronomy 18, beginning in verse 9, God's word, when you enter the land the Lord your God is giving you, do not learn to imitate the detestable ways of the nations there. Let no one be found among you who sacrifices his son or daughter in the fire, who practices divination or sorcery interprets omens, engages in witchcraft, or casts spells, or who is a medium or spiritus, or who consults the dead Anyone who does these things is detestable to the Lord. And because of these detestable practices, the Lord your God will drive out those nations before you. You must be blameless before the Lord your God. Now, you see in this that there are two basic streams in occultism I mentioned the definition is the attempt to gain supernatural knowledge or power apart from the God of the Bible. So the two blanks there, the two streams that are mentioned here are knowledge and magical power. First of all, you see, knowledge is mentioned. Verses 10 and 11. Let no one be among you who, you see, practices divination. who interprets omens , a medium or spiritist, or someone who consults the dead. These are all occultic activities that have to do with knowledge. um interprets omens, refers to astrology, that is uh gaining knowledge from the stars cardamancy, gaining knowledge from reading cards, palm reading, all these kinds of things. You notice he starts the the person who practices divination. The word divination is from the Latin word divinari, which means to foresee something. We have a deep craving, don't we, to know the future. We w we just want to know uh what's going to happen. Um and that's not just in the stock market, you know, what it's gonna do, but uh Will we be at war with Iraq in six months? I want to know what what's going to happen in your life? Are you going to get married? What will he or she be like? What's going to happen in your life in the next year job, career, health, relationships. And this knowledge uh drives us, you see, uh if we don't go to God for what he will reveal, we we there's this compulsion. Talked to somebody after the first service and said, Yes, I got involved in occultic activities through this intense craving to know. I had to know. Um And so we turned to things like astrology or horoscopes, that's gaining knowledge through the stars. The ancients believed that the stars, the sun, the moon, the planets, were gods. And that those gods inhabited houses in the heavens. And so they divided the heavens into twelve houses, and those houses became the astrological signs. Depending on when you were born, under which sign that would indicate certain events in your life that could be cast in horoscopes, or perhaps by palm reading or playing with a Ouija board on these kinds of things. I remember uh hearing of a pastor who um in an attempt to debunk this as a sham had his horoscope cast and was appalled to find out that in the months and the years ahead everything that it said was coming precisely true. He came to the point where he realized it wasn't a matter of whether it was true or false, it was the source of the knowledge that was the problem, and he repented of being involved in that evil source and from that time on the horoscope was no longer true. Uh this is strange stuff. Some people it's the desire to communicate with the dead. We had good friends that their son was Uh son suddenly died, grown son, and um they were not at all prepared for it. The mother had a just an overwhelming desire to communicate with her son. Even though she had been raised in the church, she Consulted a medium to get in touch with your son. Now let me be clear, my personal conviction on that is many of those are fakes. It's simply uh tricks and illusions, but not all of it. I believe that where there are some people who do get in touch with a supernatural being in voice, it's not the person who is the deceased loved one, but rather a demon. Uh in every case, whenever you read of those accounts, uh the effect of it is always that things are okay over here or, you know, they're You you never have to decide or know your fate after death based on your relationship with Christ. That's always sort of irrelevant. You just don't worry about that, you know. And so the effect is to marginalize or make Jesus Christ irrelevant in your life. And that's the essential work of Satan, isn't it? to delight, to deceive. That's what we've been looking at. And so um I believe there are demonic activities in this For example, there was one medium who claimed the power to find missing persons through astral projection. Astral projection is the projecting of your senses uh you would say the energies of your being, you know, to any part of the world. And in one particular case, a woman after World War II, this was in Germany, uh, came to this medium whose son uh was in the war and she had been given a message that he had been killed in action on the Russian front, but his body had never been recovered, and she was as a mother, of course, wanted to put this to rest and she went to a medium in order to find out whether her son was still alive And the medium went into a trance, and then he said, I see your son. Your son is in a stone building southeast of Moscow, and he will return to you alive and well in nineteen fifty four. Which is precisely what happened. Lucky chance? I mean good guess? Not very likely We deal with occultic phenomena, there are strange powers and things that you and I cannot understand This is knowledge, knowledge that is forbidden, knowledge that is seeking knowledge apart from the God of the Bible. Now the other thing, the other stream, is of power. Occultism deals with not only what we know, but what we can do. Magical power. You see also in verses 10 and 11. The person who practices sorcery, that's magical power. The person who engages in witchcraft, verse ten, verse eleven, the person who casts spells This is all occultic magical power. And again, we need to be clear as Christians. And then when we talk about magic, there are two kinds of magic. There's magic, which are tricks and illusions and fun, you know, and all kinds of stuff. And then there's magic which is supernatural power, such as a man verified, uh, who is able to levitate a bed Several feet into the air while three men are trying with all their might to hold the bed down. He can without touching it levitate it uh this kind of thing, uh the casting of spells or curses, which is common through witch doctors in the third world Your goat is stolen and so you're mad and you go to the witch doctor and you say, I want to know who did that and you pay him some money and he identifies the person who did it and then you say, I'm gonna cast a spell on him, pay some more money And you uh have him cursed, and in a few days um he's attacked by a wild animal and he's killed, or he gets sick in some mysterious way, and he dies or becomes very sick. Um, it just uh these kinds of things are common for I know a number of you uh who have traveled or lived in other countries have been in touch with this. Missionaries report these kinds of things many times. Many Christians don't realize that often demons are able to heal, not just curse and make sick. And sometimes the healings can be even in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. That does not guarantee that it's a work of God. Some people through occultic powers can heal in the name of the Father, Son, and the Spirit, but it's always the effect is to deceive, to take the person away from Christ Christ is not needed. The biblical Christ, the Christ of the gospel who gave his life for sinners, that is marginalized or it is dismissed. as irrelevant. It's the focus on the power. It's uh that immediate thing, the power apart from the God of the Bible that's focused. Now it's also important to see that there are various levels of involvement in occultic phenomena. And I list the three that I divide these things into that you see there in your outline. The first I call the level of playing, playing at occultism, the kind of innocent curiosity that some of you kids uh may find yourselves tempted with. Uh friend has a Ouija board, you go over to his house and says, you know, this is fun. Look, watch what this thing can do and find it's doing some pretty strange things. I still remember and have rec uh shared with some of you on a couple different occasions a friend of mine who was a a very new Christian, uh had been involved in drugs, was part of a motorcycle gang to come to Christ and Uh just shortly after his conversion, um he was um playing with a Ouija board with some friends. He came over to our apartment, Kathy and I at that time And uh he was really spooked and he said, You know, this thing's telling me stuff that nobody else in the room could have known. No way they could have known it. You know, what's going on here? We were talking about that and what the Bible says about occultic phenomena and the rest of this and it was getting on toward midnight And all of a sudden I still can recall so vividly that he and I independently had the very clear sense that there was somebody else in the room. And I'm telling you the hero my back of my head stood up. And we stopped our conversation mid-sentence and hit the floor to pray. There was the sense we were up against an evil that was so frightening. I mean this this guy was 250 pounds and was part of a motorcycle gang and he was crying out like a baby, God help me, deliver me And Jesus in his sweetness and his power protected us and delivered us. And I still remember not only the sense of the departing of that evil and the sense of the power and protection of Christ. But for the next two or three days, it was like I was living on a different plane. I was there was no question in my mind of the reality of the spiritual world I think one of the the problems of us Western Christians is we look at this as almost like a theoretical book, you know, and there it is, and it says this, and you believe that, and you hope you go to heaven, and you kind of live as if it's true. I'll tell you you have an account. An encounter with darkness, and all of a sudden those questions vanish. And you realize the reality of this world is beyond material. And Christ and his power becomes so precious, so sweet, such a deliverance. It's almost like worth the experience, the shuddering. Although I I don't on any account ever recommend seeking that. One of my purpose of my message is to warn you against it. Because the powers are real, they're dark. They're real. Maybe maybe for some of you it's playing Dungeons and Dragons or some of the video games, the computer games that have these occultic themes It's a way of playing with it. It's a doorway. Satan wants to lure you kids into this kind of stuff. Even the music that you listen to, the lyrics. Going to a fortune teller just for fun, reading the horoscope just to see, wearing amulets or charms. Oh, who knows, you know, maybe it'll bring good luck You know how many people, how many accounts I have of people who have been given some little charm or amulet. They wear it. It's something inside and they never open it. You know, somebody tells them, here take this, it's good luck charm, but just don't ever open it. And they're oppressed and they find their spiritual life languishes and they don't understand what's going on. And finally somebody prays with them at a Christian forces them to t not forces but it persuades them to give it. They take it and they open it and inside this person is given to Satan. What's it mean? I don't know. I don't understand These are dark, dark powers, playing with these things. And it doesn't end there, you see, because it goes on to the next stage, which I call preoccupation. Preoccupation stage is where a person moves from uh just the the playing to uh a kind of dependence, relying on astrology, visiting mediums, joining an occult group, beginning to make decisions based on occultic information, becoming dependent on it, you're afraid to ignore it. And we're solicited to to get involved in this stuff all the time. I remember uh when our daughter Julie, who's here, um She don't even know this. When she moved out of the house a few years ago, uh a piece of mail came that uh was addressed to Julie S. Harris I'll give you this after the service if you wanted, Julie. Uh name was Harris back then. And and on the envelope it said this envelope contains information of a personal confidential nature which concerns only the person whose name appears opposite. the wrong address. Please return it to your letter carrier. So of course I opened it. That's the idea, right? You know, that's the big big thing. You want to open the numbers everything else. Don't open this, it's only to that person. Well it turns out it's this woman, Colette Magnan. who 's a psychic, and she's involved real heavy in this occultic stuff, and she has chosen Julie S. Harris to be the heir to all her psychic gifts and secrets. I'm bequeathing these to you, Julie, personally. Personally. And so I want uh here's what she's bequeathing. You will have no more financial problems. Boy, that'd be great, huh? Whatever you want, you will get and have even more. You will always be surrounded by faithful and sincere friends. You will experience true and great love with someone who occupies your thoughts. I think that was before she met Jason. Good fortune will always be with you and under all circumstances you will be a winner you will know great happiness. Thanks to your psychic gift you will be familiar with your future and even know the future of others. Offer the nominal fee of nineteen ninety five of your acceptance coupon send in and for an additional fifteen dollars. I will send you a lucky charm to protect you. Well, you know, we kind of laugh at how ridiculous that is. See what 's happening is kid gets that and they say, oh well, you know, who knows? Maybe it'll help. You send that in, what is it? Is that give you a pact with the devil? No. Here's what it does The demons realize there's an openness. You're open to knowledge and power apart from the God of the Bible. You've opened yourself to the darkness. Now what does God say about this? In Deuteronomy chapter 18, he says three times this is detestable. He doesn't say it's fake. He doesn't say it's ridiculous, it's a sham. He says it's detestable. Verse 9: When you enter the land the Lord your God is giving you, do not learn to imitate the detestable ways of the nations. Verse 12. Anyone who does these things is detestable to the Lord. Because of these detestable practices, the Lord your God will drive out those nations before you Now you see I I took it to the second, the preoccupation, but there's a third level, and that's possession In possession, you either make a pact with the devil or you're involved in occultic sacrifices. Uh you know it's interesting. The one group of people that I hear, Neil Anderson in his book, The Bondage Breaker, which is a book that I recommend with a lot of qualifications. I don't I don't unqualifiedly recommend that book, but it's got some good points. If you're interested in discussing it, talk to me. But one point that Anderson makes that I think is dead on, he says, um, in his experience, one group of people that don't question Satanism is the police They see the sacrifices. In fact, he says in his community, the animal control shelters will no longer release black dogs and black cats for fear that they will be used for ritual sacrifice. And the police are saying your kids are not just into drugs and illicit sex, they're into Satanism. And we see it all the time. Addiction, bondage. Now look again what Deuteronomy 18 says. Why is this so detestable? Well, not only the root issue, which I'll get to in a moment, but notice how he begins in verse 10. Let no one be found among Who sacrifices his son and daughter in the fire? You see, these practices open the doorway into this bondage of the demonic forces. And one thing leads to another, and then you're into ritual sacrifices. And so you have loving moms and dads who in that culture got to the point where they were willing and ready to take their son, baby son, baby daughter, and sacrifice it to the vile God. Moloch. Have you ever seen a picture of the statues of Moloch? It's kind of a squat stone statue, and it's got arms that are like this. Down where the crotch would be, there's this big hole, and they would light under that, they would kindle a fire, and get the fire so hot that the arms, the iron arms, he's one stone, this iron, iron arms would glow red. And then the mother or the father would take their infant son or daughter and place that daughter in those red-hot glowing arms. And listen to the piercing screams of their baby and watch it roasted before their eyes with unfeeling determination. Talk about bondage. God says this is detestable. But the most detestable thing It's not the bondage that you see people involved in who get down this trail. But it's what he goes on to say. The most detestable thing, the reason That this is so vile is that God Himself, in all His mercy, has offered to us true knowledge and true power. And we've rejected it. And so we turn to the counterfeit. So he goes on to say, the nations, verse fourteen, you will dispossess. Listen to those who practice sorcery or divination, but if for you it is not permitted for you to do this. Why? Because verse fifteen, the Lord is going to raise up for you a prophet like me from among your own brothers. You must listen to him. This prophet, he goes on to say in verse eighteen, he will raise up for them. A prophet like you, like Moses, from among your brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything I command him. And if anyone does not listen to my words, that the prophet speaks in my name, I myself will listen to him. We'll call them to account. Ocultic activity is rejecting Jesus Christ, who is the prophet. New Testament makes absolutely clear. And Jesus Christ, in his goodness , knows all things and is revealing to you the way of salvation, the way to live your life successfully, skillfully. Jesus Christ by his spirit offers to you his spirit and all the power that you need that God himself will give you And if you reject him, and you pursue the counterfeit and you're open to the counterfeit, you have not only Rejected the gospel, rejected God. You have consciously or unconsciously, but more and more it becomes conscious, you have allied yourself with the enemy, with the demons With those who have made God's truth a mockery and a lie. Now, where do you stand on that? Let me ask you personally. Are you looking to Jesus Christ this morning for your truth and for your power? Or have you dabbled with the counterfeits? Do you find yourself in a bondage that you may don't maybe you don't quite understand? You don't understand why you have either lost your desire to read the Bible or you find it difficult to pray or perhaps you've never come to Christ and there's this blockage. There's something there. You want to know more, you want to pursue this. that something's blocking you. It may be that this morning God is calling you to recognize some of the things that you've been fooling around with and dabbling with that He says are detestable. Legion to bondage. And he wants you this morning to forsake them. He wants you this morning to come once and for all to confess, Lord, I've been I've been seeking other sources for knowledge and for power. And I've given myself out of curiosity and Desire for thrills. For you kids, your teenage years, it's kinda like walking down this long hall and you hear these voices call out of the doors to the left and the right, Come on in here. Good times, lot of thrills. Here's our real knowledge, real power. Come on and experience it. What's the harm of having your palm around? A little bit of horoscopes, playing with the Ouija board in the video game And you find it's a lot easier to walk into that door than it is to walk out. And you're finding that you We 're in bondage. Let me tell you this morning. Paul who said we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against powers and authorities, rulers of this dark age Is the one who also said that Jesus Christ in chapter 1, who has been crucified and resurrected, is far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every name that can be named, both in this age and the age to come, and he has appointed him to be the head of the church. To deliver you as people. And I call you this morning to come to Jesus Christ to confess those things, to forsake them, and to see the deliverance of Jesus Christ, who in his goodness and his mercy wants to deliver you this morning. He wants to deliver. to bring you out of that bondage. And so I'm going to make you an offer. We're going to pray, and after we pray, after this service. I'm going to invite any of you who believe that God is calling you to forsake that. You have questions. You're not even sure. But you're wondering. But I'm going to be down in Quad A Downstairs. Right down the steps, you'll see it right there on the right. With one or two elders to pray with you, to ask God to deliver you To know the power of Jesus Christ in your life to cleanse you, to feel clean for the first time. We had somebody come after the first service , been struggling with this What a thrill to pray and hear someone want to confess and forsake and put all that aside. To know Christ and his power. You ready for that? believe that as Christians, as Reformed Presbyterian Christians, God's calling us to walk that balance It doesn't see the devil behind every sin and get involved in the extremes of some deliverance ministries, but on the other hand, does not think that every problem is simply a psychological problem or an emotional problem. But to discern where the demonic powers are involved, we need to engage in the warfare on that level. Maybe some of you this morning need to experience that. And the healing power of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you. That you are a Savior who has made a spectacle of the demons at the cross. And you have triumphed over in them. And you are the one true deliverer. was able able to rescue us out of the bondage of fear, the bondage of things that we perhaps have pursued that have made uh gotten a grip on us. And Lord, for anyone who's involved in that, for anyone who's tempted in that, I pray. And you will deliver That you will warn, that you will protect your people. But Lord, for anyone who you're speaking to now that is saying, I I believe that God is speaking to me to confess and forsake the things that I've been fooling around with. I want to offer you now just the quiet of this moment. If you feel God speaking to you about that. I'm going to ask you to slip up your hand quickly and put it down, not that I'm going to identify in any way or even remember, but it's just for you to make a definite commitment to say, yes, I want to forsake any of my involvement in occultic practice. Is there anyone who just wants to slip up your hand, put it down, I'll pray for you. Not by name, I'll just be praying for you. Is there anyone that God is calling in this moment? To make a definitive break with any occultic involvement in your life. Anyone? Lord, reveal this. Speak to us that we might not compromise. Lord, I speak to you on behalf of young people, teenagers. Those who have seen these things, I know they have, they've listened to the lyrics, they've seen the games. Lord, that If there is anyone who has begun to pursue that, who's begun to be preoccupied with it. That you would speak to their hearts now. That you would show the delivering power, Lord Jesus, that only you have, that we would come to look to you and to trust you. And to know you alone are our Savior. You alone are good and know all things and reveal to us what we need to know. And so we ask you to protect us as a congregation, to help us, Lord, to discern spirits, to be able to know your power, your goodness. Let me might walk in the way of life. In Jesus' name. Amen.