To continue this morning with the story of our studies. of the language of forgiveness. With some of the Old Testament words, if you can't see included in the first message on images of forgiveness. This is really the fifth word, but we're dealing with incidentally I eventually when we finish this to put it together, I hope to be able to see it apart. that we'll put these together that you can take a look at. But uh with this if there's the one thing That the Old Testament language telling us that I'm seeking to hammer home week after week. It is that if forgiveness means anything, it means that guilt the guilt of our standing before God is gone. But this just means that God has been destroyed. God has destroyed the records of our sins. He took the offense out of his mind. There is no more remembrance of sin. There is nothing less against the offender. No more remembrance, no more record, no more love, no more elimination. It's God We see this in a passage such as Psalm 32, the first five verses, that we can use them to tie our thoughts together in these messages, with the Old Testament words on forgiveness. So let's again take a look at Psalm 32. And the first of our scriptures this morning is Psalm 32, the first five verses. Let's hear God's word together. Blessed is he who says, Blessings are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord does not count against him. And in his spirit is made deceit. When I kept silent, my bones wasted away from my groaning all day long. Day and night your hand was heavy upon me My slave was sapped with an inheated stomach. Then I acknowledged my sins and did not cover up my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you will give the guilt of my sins. The most fundamental thing that you can say about a Christian is that he's a forgiven person. And that makes him a blessed or happier person. Verse 1, Psalm 32 begins by saying, blessed. Happy. The word means to be straight or prosperous. It's a word that deals with a a person who is to be desired or envied. He's in an enviable position. Because of his happiness, the joy that he has. Now why is this person in such a happy position? Because his person are forgiven. Remember the word there was Nasha. His transgressions have been lifted up and carried away and they'll never return. He goes on to say his sins covered. Remember long street we looked at that word covered, cast on. Which means that uh the things have been covered, things been splendid, and the wrath has been removed. And therefore he says in verse 2, Blessed happy is this man in an enviable position. Because the Lord doesn't count his sin against him. There's no record of his sin against him. Now the word disagreeable learn to consider is the word salat Now that word is not here in Psalm 32, but it's in a very close relationship to this idea in verse 2, and it also is in extremely close relationship to the word kap. The two are often linked together in the Old Testament. And the relationship between the two is simply that Qasar produces Salah Which is to say that atonement produces forgiveness. Forgiveness is based upon God's atonement You see this principle from Leviticus four and five. Now you can take a look at those verses when you get home that I've listed there. But in every case It's the same thing that's stated in all of those verses, but whatever is happening, in each case we read that the priests then will make atonement for them or him and they will be forgiven. The priests will make kafar for them and they will be salaq. You see, he'll make an atonement, he'll cover their sins, and as a result of that there will be an absolute pardon issue. They'll be forgiven. Now what does this word salat mean? The word is used about 45 times in the Old Testament, and every time it's used, it refers only to God's forgiveness of man. The word is never used of man's forgiveness. The sentence refers to an absolute pardon. It refers to a pardon that can be issued only in the ultimate sense of the one offended. It's the idea of Psalm 322 there, blessed is the man who sinned the Lord does not count against sin. He's issued an absolute pardon for that sin. The clearest pictures that I know of of this word in the Old Testament is found in Psalm 130. And so now for the second with you, let's take a look at Psalm 130, and that's what we're going to be considering this morning. To find out what we can learn about forgiveness from this word salat is its use in Psalm 130. Psalm 130 then, follow along with our reads. Out of the death I cry to you, O Lord. O Lord, hear my voice. Let the ease be attentive to my cry for mercy. If you O Lord kept a record of sin, O Lord, you could sin. But with you, it is forgiveness. Therefore you are the deceived. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits. And in his word I put my hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen wait for the morning. More than watchmen wait for the morning. O Israel, put your hope in the Lord. For with the Lord is unfailing love. And with him is full of empty. He himself will redeem Israel from all their sins. That's far God's words. Now let's consider it. You notice in verse 1 there that there is a desperate price. Come out of the death So this word depth is a word which means balance or deep waters that are over one's head. We might say in our day, out of the pit, I tried to But Lord, out of the deep places that overwhelm me, I'm in over my head. I'm really in the pit. Until I cry out from the pit of my guilt Realizing how destructive spirits can be as I realize that I stand before a holy and just God, that I have offended and I've experienced Before I'm desperate to get forgiveness. Before he goes on in verse 2, Oh Lord, hear my voice. Lord, let the ears be attentive to my cry of mercy. The psalmist here means listen. The cry for forgiveness was never lit with a yawn. When we cry for forgiveness, we cry to God in our name. And a crying for forgiveness is apathetic, is not really a cry for forgiveness. Because when I apply for forgiveness, I'm realizing that I've offended so much, that I've done something wrong. And I'm sorry for it. Out of the very depth of my being, I want that relationship to be made right. There's an urgency thing And it's out of that kind of an attitude that the promise comes before God. And now I want to take a look at four things. So we see in verses three and four here that he teaches us about forgiveness. Out of this word, particularly fallacy. First of all, following the bulletin, you notice the opposite of forgiveness First of all, the opposite of forgiveness. So often we learn from death by antipathy, by contrast I can often best understand something by contrasting it with its opposite. You kids may often learn best how to be kind to your friends when your parents contrast that with being selfish. Because you know what it's like to be selfish and you confess kindness with that. It helps you understand it. To be kind is not to be selfish We understand grace by contrasting it with the law. The law principle is opposed to the grace principle. And in order for us to understand grace, we take a look at what the law is, and then we neglect it, and we say it's not that. It's not earning something. If you want to understand freedom, often the best way is to contrast it, with slavery, a lack of freedom. And if I want to understand what forgiveness is Often the best way is to understand what not forgiveness is. And that's what we include you. You see, forgiveness is such a difficult concept for us to really go, the way God issues it. Do we need to contrast it with his officers to get a handle on it? And that's what he does there in verse three. He tells us what not forgiveness is. Lord, if you kept a record of sin. Who is that? Now there are three things denoted by this Hebrew word to keep a record. Three ideas, it's a very rich and complex word, but there are three things about that word which at its very root means to to watch or to keep or to preserve something There are three things that bear on this idea of forgiveness. First of all, the word means to watch carefully In 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse 12, you remember when Hannah came to the temple, to the tabernacle, there to pray to God, she was in the very depths of her spirit crying out to God as we read here the promise. And if she cried out to God, she wasn't doing it out loud, but her lips were moving. Now how did Eliot notice that? We read in 1 Samuel 1:12 that he watched carefully her lips I probably wasn't any like next to a rubber shoulders here. And he was peering across the through the floor and looking at her lips. And the word there to watch her lips is uses the same word here to keep a record of sin. The same word in verse 3. In fact, this is the same word that used to spite in the psalm. Now if we had time you could ask I could let you take a look and guess how this word is translated in another verse in the Psalm. But that same word is used twice Lord if he kept a record of sin, that same word translated keep a record is used again in verse six Where he says, My soul waits for the Lord. Now how does he wait for the Lord? That word wait is the same word translated keep a record in verse 3. Well how's he waiting? Well he's waiting more than watchmen wait for the morning. More than watchmen wait for the morning. There are three different words used in that verse He's not repeating himself when he says watching ways for the morning. Two different kinds of words and the words, two different words are used there for weight. The first word is used for weight then And verse 6 is the same word in verse 3, to keep a record. It means to watch and to sleep or something. He's up all night. And uh when the morning comes, he's going to be off duty. Now uh how interested is he seeing the first glimmer of dawn? He's watching for it, he's looking for that little bit of sunrise to come up so that he can end his long night visit And the psalmist here says, I wait for the Lord, I look for him, I watch carefully for him more than watchmen look for the morning glimmer of light. I'm watching, hearing, very, very clearly. So you see, to not beg is to watch carefully the things, is to look for and mark one's fault I think of the poem by James Russell Lowe, a beautiful popular poem with um Many of you may be familiar with called True Love. Remember it's the poem that says, True love is but a humble, low-born thing, and have it true serves up in earth and whales It is a thing to walk with hand in hand through the everydayness of this workday world. Is there one way to describe love in this way? Allah did give them taste, but say a thought, not with blasphemy eyes, like beetle cakes. But loving kindness overlooks them down, and with the o'ercoming faith that still exists So that's what the Pharmaceutic is talking about here. He's saying to master yourself, you can look with eyes like leaders, to find every little small, to find everything that's wrong, to be very critical. And to find out what the person is doing to mark their thoughts. Jesus says, Thomas said, God, if you were like us, I would never say The second thing that's denoted by this word, to keep a record, is simply that idea that most associated with it. To keep a record is to uh keep something in mind. In Ecclesiastes 3. 6 we read that there is a time to seek and a time to throw away. And the word teacher is the same word that's used here in Psalm 130 verse 3. It contrasted you see with substrating something. The word to throw away there means to cast something off, to dispose of it. And so it's uh it's something that is kept. It's kept in mind that uh a record is is transcribed and it's preserved It's the word that's used in Malachi 27, where it is said there that the lips of tree ought to preserve or to keep knowledge. That is, they're to treasure it up in their mind, they're to keep a record of it And it's the same word that's used here. In fact the word can be used to use to keep and itemized account of something I remember seeing a cartoon once. There was a couple and they're uh fighting, arguing in the bedroom, and along the whole wall of the bedroom, wall to wall, floor to ceiling, are file cabinets. I got a hundred of these things all stacked up there. And there's a picture of the husband who's in one of these file cabinets. He's got his folder out, you know, and he's looking through file uh eight uh eighty four or something. And a wife of standing there is asked what he's saying, don't you ever let me win an argument? Keeping an exhaustive record against everything that somebody does So that you have a flawless record of their fault. You keep them all in mind. You store them up, you file them away, the person doesn't have a chance. I think of a a woman, a man who came to a pastor friend of mine for counseling. There was obviously a great deal of bitterness on the part of this woman. So he began to talk about some of the problems in the relationship. She began to talk about all the things that this fellow had done wrong and uh my friend was rather amazed as how articulate she was about that And she says, and I know. Because she says I've kept the record. He pulled out thirty-two pages of records of everything he had done wrong to her in the last ten years of her life. Single space, small printer, every single item, it was all down there on the record. The guy didn't have a chance. There's just nothing that could be said against that indictment of every single thing you have done in your mind. And undermined such a path of everything. And the Power said, God, if you were like me, if you kept such a record against me to indicate me, I would make him I could never stand. I could never stand a place. Who can live with that? Who can live in that kind of a relationship? But he says forgiveness is the opposite of God. The third thing to be seen here is characterized by the force to keep a record is to store up something and to retain it. To trade it, retain it. In the Proverbs 4, verses 20 and 21 We read this. My son, pay attention to what I say. Listen closely to my words. Do not let them out of your sight. Keep them within your heart. The Lord there to keep them within your heart. It's the same word, to keep a record of sin. He's saying store it up, friendly it. Don't let it go. Don't ever forget it. Keep it. It's the word that's used in Genesis 41, verse 35. Do you remember when uh God had raised up a Joseph in Egypt? to be the prime minister there. It was because Joseph had told that Egypt was going to go to some rough times. And so Joseph said, well God has told me we're going to have seven good years. Seven years of study. But we need to store up everything possible during those seven weeks for the seven weeks. We need a salmon that will follow after those seven good years And in Genesis 41, 35, the word there that's used to store up the grain for the seven good years is this word that's translated in Psalm 130, verse 3, to keep a record. It means that they took all the grain and they just stored it up in bags and granaries and bins and everything that they could put it in. But they held on to it They weren't gonna let it go. It was something they were struggling. And that's the idea with the mind. It reminds me of what a lot of couples do This kind of thing was described in Bachman's writing book called The Intent Enemy, How to Fight Fail in Marriage. And they refer to a technique in marriage that's called gunning sapping. Do you know what gunning tracking is? Well first of all you gotta know what a gun sack is. You see uh gunning sacks is not too familiar to us easternly, but in uh more farming kind of communities gunning sacks are canvas bags that are used to store all kinds of odds and ends. So things that you just want in peace, uh guess whatever provision in the pieces. And so you just cross all kinds of things in there to store them up. And so you picture uh what kind of uh gunning facting goes on in a marriage. It might be something like this, but in the morning the the husband takes off uh to work and uh he doesn't piss his wife goodbye. And so he uh notes that. People interrupted there and says, uh, why didn't he quit say goodbye? And what I do, uh why is he just taking off there cold and thoughtless like that. Uh of course what she doesn't realize is the reason he didn't kiss her goodbye was uh because he tried to kiss her when he spoke up And he said, Yeah, he clearly, I don't like this goofy beard and these breast drinks and uh we'll get out of here. Because he said, uh, okay, well uh as we see and he uh smell very nice and thought, uh much, I'm not gonna take you out, you don't want my teeth the other way and uh so he just walked off. And so he's throwing up and he's gonna fat he throws in this little thing of uh rejectivism uh he goes to could get into her gun and shot and once he goes to work he goes in to straighten up a little bit and finds his pajamas laying on the floor and uh one more item goes into the gun and shot Then uh goes into the bathroom and uh there in it again, no chairs in the place. So he uh pins him out and one more thing gets tossed into the gunny stock. And uh you know the study facts have a way of uh becoming more and more amenable to uh collecting things. The more you throw in, the easier things go in there And because he begins to say things anyone safely during the day and uh he comes home that night. By the time he comes home, he's not in the mood to kiss him on any account. And uh But he notices that again, you know, who she is, he seems uh still rather cold. You began to begin to wonder why poor him did God give him such a cold wife, never give him any objection begins to feel sorry for himself and uh throws a few more things in the gunning side. Well this goes on for a little while until someday he winds up with a Saturday and she finds her hair from the thing And all of a sudden the whole gun is back just jumped on. You rotten slobs, you always leave in those hairs and this thing. Can't you ever do anything around here to help me to keep this place straight? Well of course he's gonna pass about three quarters full by this point and uh so he's beginning to like why with a few items about her lack of affection, her coldness or why she's she's never really uh too friendly to him and uh What could he expect? Maybe he'll throw in a few things about how she keeps the house and all the rest of that stuff. And the two of them just wind up emptying their belly past and stuff. But they haven't they haven't observed the biblical injunction, first of all, of not letting the sun go down on their own. They've stored it up They've kept a record of each one's sin. They're keeping a record of their account. The Psalms 130 tells us that's diametrically opposed to what forgiveness is all about. You see, forgiveness is to not keep the weapons. Forgiveness is not to store the things up into done it. So that the person has no possibility of standing. And the Pomer says here, my Lord, if if you had a bunny sauce, if you kept all the things I did against you and I'd be trust by your justice I would never chance. I could never stand on his waiting. Somehow installed a paper for me. And we can suppose this that uh each person who's born has a paper quarter and planted in them and uh every time let's suppose we made a moral judgment. Every time we said that we ought to do something this way The tape recorder just clipped off on and it simply recorded that one moral judgment and then uh everything else is just clipped off. But every time we tell somebody that they ought to do it this way, the recorder goes on, and it keeps the record. If you and I were to simply have that record as we stand before God finally today, we call for it. The people are our own moral judgment, we traffic from the indulgence, much less about absolute sons of justice. We condemn ourselves by the criticisms that we make of us. And if you don't accept the authority of the scriptures, we know there is one who's never trusted in Jesus Christ. He condemned himself. By your own moral indictments of other people. To simply be measured and judged by that own standard, your own sense. How much more can we stand before God to please our hearts and we start? For God was holy and just replied and disappeared. We see in verse 4 one of those present parts in scripture. And that takes this to the second point of hope in forgiveness. The hope in forgiveness. Praise God for the blood of Christmas. You would let him sin and trespass him. Right God who is with Lord, if He kept a record of sin, He could pray on, but with you're forgiveness Please uh forgive me. And absolute powder. That's what God offers. It means that the record deceit has been destroyed. But God destroy the weapons. But God, you don't keep that the weapons against us. It's the same word that we referred to some weeks ago. And the images of forgiveness. Remember when we read from Jeremiah 31, 34? No longer will a man keep his neighbor or a man his brother saying, No the Lord, because they will all men, from the least to them to the greatest, before them. For I will forgive their wickedness. That's the word sun off. Jeremiah 31, 34. And what does that mean? For I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins. No more. That's the meaning of God. The same word used in Jeremiah 50, verse 20. Or he says there in those days and at that time, declares the Lord, First will be made for Israel's guilt, but there will be none. For the things of Buddha, but none will be found. For I will forgive Salah, the remnants that I spend God's forgiveness means that there is no evidence. The files have been destroyed and defeated the indulgence. Now what's the basis of this forgiveness? Point three. Well the basis, of course, is your payment. The basis of salat is tafar. The basis of the pardon is the covenant of God's own blood. Do you remember Leviticus 4 and 5 that I referred to earlier? The priests shall make atonement and they shall be forgiven. The priests shall make atonement and they shall be forgiven. Again and again and again. The basis of the forgiveness is the at Because God must cover the record with his own blood, so that even he can see it no more. Well that's keep an awkward, you see, because the picture of blood There's not one to simply show us what blood would naturally do. If I were to try and hide something, I probably wouldn't use blood for it. I'd use black paint or something else. But blood, you see, naturally speaking, wouldn't hide something for the But blood isn't of course uh the best thing to change something with Of all the ingredients, if you probably hear of and all the false commercials on TV, uh XYZ 43 and everything else That is guaranteed to get out the ring around the collar. I've never heard in one of those commercials the uh statement that this contains blood, which has been proven by uh all the recent tests to be an effective cleaning agent. Well but you see when we deal with things that there's nothing more effective. In fact nothing that's effective at all if that's my things Blood is the only thing that will clean the wet things. It's the one human in you, the earth. And so God says to offer the pardon It must be the blood. It must be the opponent. It must be the cleansant who removes all of its wrath. Because it's all been laid on Jesus and there's nothing left to us. But that woman that I mentioned to you before who had that 32 days list of everything I hope in the game. What was the problem? It wasn't these 32 crazy things. He takes people if you never had. So 10 years he's keeping a record And when they got down to the root of the video, when they got down to what was really the problem in those lines together, when they got to that and the actually was brought by that brain to the point of really forgiving. And what you give it at me? Uh horrible fellow God. No longer is keeping our left of God. Because we're giving us a That's the forgiveness is. It could destroy the evidence. Before we see the fourth thing here, the effects of forgiveness The effective forgiveness is a passionate moment to draw you to God, not to stay removed from them or decide Well that's stated in two ways here. In first four, we use a rather interesting statement, it's not the one you would expect But with you there is forgiveness, therefore you are to be served. Does that sound rather strange to you? picture that the consequence of being forgiven is fear. Uh you see if I were to But here, my daughter, I wouldn't say, now I have forgiven me, so to hear me. But that's what we use here This word you see is not a word which means terror. Rather, it's a word which means astonishment mingled with awe. But therefore, you're to be held in a spongy. Next week I The word here for fear is a word which describes what we feel when we stand on a precipice along the Grand Canyon and fear a mile and a half or two miles down to the Black Canyon. When we stand on the brink of the Niagara Falls and look at all of Niagara rivers pouring over that category, it's the awe that you and I feel. And we see what kind of God is forgiveness. To demonstrate this, to show you what I mean, in Nehemiah chapter one, we're saying what is he And you can see there that it's not a word that sees terror. In Nehemiah chapter 1 verse 5, Nehemiah hears about what has happened in Israel. That the walls have not been built, he longed for getting back and building Jerusalem for God is God And so he prays to God and what he says is, Oh Lord God of heaven, with a great and awesome God. The same word there is translated here in Psalm 130, the great and awesome, fearful God, who keeps his covenant of love. With those who love him and obey his commands. Let your ears be attended and your eyes open to hear the prayer of your servants, who came before you very night to your servants of the people of Israel You see, Nehemiah comes with that reverential awe, and that's really what the word means. Reverential awe It belongs to God. It causes him to crawl up on God's lap and say, Oh my God, you who are the great and holy God, but the God who keeps the covenant of life. I come to you this class. I'm blind here. You see, there's a security in his awesomeness A security and the fact that this God, this God of power and might and blessings, is the God who has joined us in the past. And all that holy and just that God has forgiven us. Give us our realize that man is the only teacher The goddess of him. Yeah, there was another creature, the eons of the past, in fact multitudes of them, who also sinned against God, who transgressed against him. who have been alienated from him and under his wrath and curse. Of course I'm referring to the angels. Multitudes of angels have sinned against God. Did it ever strike you that God has never offered one syllable of hope for an angel in your friend? In fact, we read in 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 4. 2 Peter chapter 2 verse 4. That God will not spare the angel. That is sinned against him. And that word not spare in that verse is the same word used in Romans 8:32, where we read that God did not spare his own son, but heaped up on him the curses. of sin. God has never forgiven an angel. In the councils of all eternity, the first declaration of the possibility of forgiveness is in the Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve have sinned. And so it's something for us to stand in awe up in order to take the land that God is a forgiveness. And God has said to us, to be God of forgiveness. He has said to us that we can praise him in a way that the angels could never praise us. So there is no such thing as a redeeming danger. Either they have for eternity or either they have from the time of their creation or for all the rest of eternity praise them. And we shall never experience it. Until we stand in awe. He goes on to say in verses five and six, the second idea of his awe that uh I wait for the Lord. My soul waits the minute word. I put my hope. My soul waits for the Lord. Look for the Lord. Looks anxiously and curious for him, watches carefully for him, more than a watchman waits for the morning light. You see, he's saying there's a deep heart morning for that when I realize what his forgiveness is. I can't say away from it. I'm drawn to it. A theological discussion in the third person about the God who forgives is not sufficient or adequate. But I must know him. My heart calls out to him. I must come to him. I must speak to him. I must hear my thoughts and my heart does. Because I love him and I must know him. I crawl up onto his lack and adore him. as his cause and forgiveness. And we don't do that with somebody because you're keeping a record again. Many homes are broken because there's a sickliness about each or other of the married partners. It's you know it's no fun to come home anymore because it's just that long account is my law that it's going to be constantly brought up to me To be reminded of how inadequate, how much I stand, how sinful I really am And so whom's not a faith-face to be. I'm only ever drawn to a person that I feel safe with. And I'm never drawn to feel safe with a person who keeps a record against me God might be a means to every end to be fine, so this man. God does not use a weapon against us. He draws us to inside so that we long for him, so that we wait for him. So that we watch for it, so do we seek it? You see the law produces a fear-threat motivation for righteousness. I feel guilty and I guilt very often will cause me to resent the law. And that God, knowing the weakness of the law, sent forth trust. And in Christ there is grace. So rather than a pure threat motivation for righteousness, God has now established a love, trust, willingness. And now when I see how much I've done wrong, when I cry out of the depth, I realize that my body does not keep a record again. But he's a God who has atoned, who has covered my sins in his mind. And the records destroyed. And therefore, out of gratitude rather than out of guilt and feeling. Because I love him and I want to please him. Because I long for him. I desire to change my ways so that they'll become pleasing to my Father. That is a world of different in those two motivations, and we'll be pursuing them and exploring them further in with each other. But let me just state it now. God has us to obey him by gratitude. rather than by gifts, from a low trust willing to do rather than a few. I remember speaking on this idea once in a church and there was some discussion afterwards. And a girl spoke up and said, You know, I've been in a number of places. And he said, I've been a time and again involved in holiness speaking, where they said I must be holy in serving Jesus. Because he said every time I've heard that I've reacted to it because of the demand he placed in. But she said it was what I understood great, that God doesn't keep a record against me, but that he's established that relationship of love and forgiveness with me. But a funny thing happened Then I wanted to be holy. Then my motivation is things to want to serve and to please my Father in a way that I never did before out of life Now you see the seventh and eighth verses here is just something I note packed on to the end, but a third secondist is also evangelism. You see, he calls others. Oh Israel, put your trust and your hope in the Lord. For with the Lord's unfailing love and full redemption, He Himself will redeem Israel from all those things. You see, evangelism should come out of that delight, that gratitude for realizing that this holy awesome just God has forgiven me. And so rather than going around saying I've got a witness, about a witness, I've got a witness, I'd rather say God is forgiven This whole God is forgiveness. And I want to be clear to my friends that he's a God's given us. It's a part of our sense. And now let's draw it together an application to see on the back side of the whole thing. So the application is simply, first of all, are you in the depth or the pit of your guilt? Have God ever heard your voice confessing to him, your sins? Have you ever cried to him for mercy in Christ alone? You can't pardon yourself now. A pardon must be received from the one who's been offended. And unless that pardon is received, it's no good. In 1829, there was a landmark case in the Court of Justice in the United States, followed by the name of George Wilson, was sentenced to be hanged by the U. S. courts for robbing the mail and for murder. President Andrew Jackson issued a pardon for Wilson, and it was deceived. And Wilson maintains that a pardon Unless it's accepted with no pardon. This court case went to the Supreme Court, and Justice John Marshall wrote these words A pardon infinitely used is indeed no pardon. George Wilson must be home. And home be what The King of Heaven offers you a pardon, a pardon purchased at the cost of his own blood. Would anyone here be a fool and daring to receive such a card? Come to Christ, confess your things, and receive it all. But for those who are thinking that settled for us that we really have entered into this necessarily. Do you find that we die away or that we draw near to God when we divide That will help you to understand how much we really live into and receive the forgiveness that he offers. In my ten years in working with Novarcy on college campuses, I was always amazed at how many times on a college campus the professor in the religion department who has set out to destroy the faith of as many young Christians as he possibly could. The ranting liberal who knew more than anyone else that the Bible was full of myths To his bipholic and his denunciation of historic Christianity, it never ceased to amaze me how very many times these men were from fundamentalistic doctrines came from evangelical senses. Evanazing to me. It became almost that I could uh say without even knowing something of what this man's background was about. before I would even meet it. The typical pattern was he was from a terrorist that was quite conservative and he was reacting to its legalism He was reacting to a gospel of half a forgiveness. The kind of message that says, well, God's going to let you into his heaven, but he's still keeping a weapon against you. He's still keeping that record to get you back to what you do wrong. And there was no real peace. Because these men, having never really come to Christ, reacted to their guilt Because they saw no real forgiveness being offered by simply trying to change the standard in the mind that there was any such thing as this You think this kind of succession is what's in common for many people. Because I'm not drawn to God, realizing his forgiveness, I react, I stay away. And very often Christians, in a much less extent, will do the same thing. We still are uncomfortable in God's presence. Now we don't try to change the standard, we just live under the burden of it. And very often as Christians, when we realize that we've sinned, we've repented of it, we want attained it, we're still not comfortable going to die. Because we're not really sure that we've been forgiven. And I want to conclude here on the authority of God's word, you've been forgiven. God doesn't keep direct against you And what we draw back, we still suspect that somehow he's always displeased with us, that he's always got something against us We're going to discuss this more tonight in our underceptors. But think about that question there, please. What is your response to that? When you sing, is it to go to it? Once you realize and you settle that you want to change them, or is it still to stay away from it and why it's silence? The last thing is You and I pardon and cover one another's petty things. We read in 1 John 4, chapter 4, verse 10. This is the word that's uh the word for atonement that we talked about before, that this is love Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice, related to the word last week. An atoning sacrifice for our sins. Dear friends, since God so loves us We also ought to love one another. What does that love mean? 1 Peter 4. 8 tells us that this is to be our love. Above all love each other deeply because love covers over A multitude of sins. What does Paul tell us about love in 1 Corinthians 13? Beginning with the end of verse 5. Love, you see, keep no record of wrong. Love doesn't delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. Love always detects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love keeps no record of wrong, but wants to cover rather than to expose them So I'm not speaking of a offense that caused an alienation in our relationship. It must be dealt with. It must be rebuked. It must be forgiven. What I'm thinking of here is these many daily minor irritations and rubs just because we're sinners. Those things that are constant little sources of irritation in living together Do we love to point them up for the covenant? I love to point up inconsistencies And people who criticize me for something and I discovered that they have violated the land standard.