Into it that no one misses the grace of God, and that no bitter root rose up to cause trouble and defile many. See that no one is sexually immoral. We're Godless like Esau, who for a single meal sold his inheritance rights as the oldest son. Afterwards, as we know, and if he wanted to inherit his blessing, he was rejected. We could bring about no change of mind, but he thought the blessing was fear. We have not come to a mountain that can be touched. And that is burning with fire, darkness, gloom, and storm, to a trumpet last with a such a voice speaking word so that Those who heard it begged that no further word be spoken to them, because they could not bear what was commanded, but even an animal touches the mountain it must be stoned. The sight was so terrifying that Moses said, I am trembling with fear But you have come to Mount Zion, to the heavenly Jerusalem, the city of the living God. You have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assemblies. To the church of the firstborn, whose names are written in heaven, we have come to God, the judge of all men, to the spirits of righteous men made perfect, to Jesus. The new leader of a new covenant, into the sprinkled blood, and speaks the better words than the blood of Abraham. So far, God's word. It's been said that if the 60s were the decade of the Holy Spirit, then the seventies are the decade of the church. That is, with respect to the dominant interests and concerns in the areas of discovery of God's people The 60s were characterized with an intense interest in the Holy Spirit, and the 70s with respect to the church. Now, uh, I'm not a prophet or the son of a prophet, and there's only a few weeks left in the 70s. But if you want a private prediction as to what will be the dominant concern of the 80s, I would predict that the dominant concern will be that of world missions. World missions and a cross-cultural communication of the gospel in a way that's unprecedented in any of the generations that we're familiar with in recent church history So that's another concern. See these simply follow one from the other. If you study the Holy Spirit, that will lead to a study of the church If you consider the church, that will lead you to a consideration of the mission of the church and the communication of the gospel in the world But the question before us this morning is, what do you think? Will you think of the word search? When you think of the search, what images come into your mind? As you think of a little round search in the veil kind of a uh fix to post card sentimental warmth. Perhaps when you think of the church, you think of a building. A colonial and its architecture no doubt is tree, a pulpit, stained glass windows, and all the things that must go along with the church Well perhaps when you think of a church, you think of scrapping committees, uh political power plays, factions, and ugliness Perhaps when you think of the church, you think of legalism. You think of people with petty concerns. Easy to maintain their structure. Perhaps when you think of the church, you think of an ossified institution, rather irrelevant in its concern and seeming to be most interested only in preserving its own existence. Perhaps when you think of the church You think rather of an amorphous group of people, Christians. What is the church? Well it's simply Christians. No particular structure to it, just Christians Perhaps when you think of the church, you feel guilty. Because when you think of the church, you think of an institution and a program which is supposed to love. And yet down deep in your heart, you honestly feel that's not where the action is. Really down deep He believed that the real evangelism and the real recycling that God's sharing out today is done primarily through per-eclesiastical organizations Primarily his work is being accomplished through associations and fellowships within the real life, the vision, the creativity, and the results. Perhaps if you think of this and you contrast the church with that, you see the church is something which is relatively stagnant, something which is always second best More interested in programs and people. People which generally lack vision, rather untreated, and certainly lacks the commitment. What do you think of when you think of the church? What's your image of the church? But if you're like most Christians, would you identify with any of the things that I've just said? If you're like most Christians in general, whatever you think of the church is probably not extremely exciting or glorious. Because that's the elite most people have of the church. And I can't really say that I blame them in a lot of ways. A lot of our experiences with the church have been boring or negative. But how does God do the church? That's the question that we want to deal with in this view. How does God do the church? And by that I mean both the people and the structure. And one of the questions we'll deal with, of course, is does the scripture ever separate those two? The people and the institutions. Because I want to spend the next several weeks learning to see the church as God sees it. And we'll begin to get God's perspective on the church. To see the church, so that we can seek to be the church And the way the New Testament teaches it ought to be. So we'll be dealing with such questions as, what is the church? That is, what's its identity? What should be our relationship to the church? What is the purpose of the church? What's the structure of the church? What's the relationship of the church to paraclesiastical organizations, parachurch organizations, such as navigators, church ministers? Christian Fellowship, youth for friends, Bible study fellowships, and hundreds of others. Every week I found out more organizations would have come into existence The stack of letters that I get in my office, if I were to read them all, I would never prepare messages. Every week in solicitations, solicitations for funds and for support at one kind or another To be just a mushroom and growth of the various organizations that would be raised up to do valid and effective ministries But then in the light of all this is the future of the church, particularly in our culture. Why do we do the things that we do in Columbia Church? We're going to examine our priorities, our practices, our procedures through the first light of scripture. And be honest to ourselves about whether what we're doing has a biblical warrant and if there's things that we should be doing that we're not What is it that the scripture called us to do? We want to ask some hard questions. We want to struggle along with it. And it may involve some uncomfortable change. It may mean that we'll have to change some of our practices and some of our chosen beliefs. If we're going to be true to the scriptures, for some of us this won't be easy. But the question is, are you willing? Are you willing to follow the Lord Jesus in this area? Are we willing to submit our minds and our lives to his teachings? This is what we've got to deal with now. I know it's involved a lot of change and attitudes. and in in my practices in my own life. After ten years, most of you know I was uh staff working with inner voicety Christian Fellowship and I'm still one hundred percent supportive of inner voices And with many paraclesiastical organizations. And yet during that time I know that secretly I felt that the church was not really where it was at. That really the church tended to be more maintenance oriented, self-preservation oriented, and boring to me in terms of where the real action of the kingdom was. I saw the real action of being an intervarity in other organizations like that. And yet I knew that I couldn't square that with the scriptures. And that drove me back to that. And I had to begin to deal and rethink some of my attitudes. I told students to be able to move into the church and make the church what God intended for it to be And through that time I would then begin to pray in past years that the Lord, if he wanted to, would lead me into an opportunity where he could let me put my life where my mouth was. I was critical of the church and many of the things it did. I was also seeking to institute some creative changes and certain things that I was involved in. But I was still operating pretty much from the outside. And so when last year Columbia Church called our family to come down here and to serve, I knew that that was the opportunity in answer to that prayer. This was the opportunity that I was seeking for. You see, for me, the issues with respect to this church are much broader and deeper They just whether my pastor is successful, whatever that means. These are the issues in place in my life here Or simply the question, is it possible to build and excuse a church in our society that fulfilled the New Testament pattern? Is that possible? Or is it something we just talk about and read about and look for? If we couldn't do it. Then how can we integrate the total Christian community in this area in order to reach and make an impact upon and penetrate and transform nothing less than that? Transform an area such as Columbia and Howard County to Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, but that's the vision I have A total integration of God's community working with other churches and organizations under the direction of the Holy Spirit could transform this area. But in order to do that, we've got to first understand what the church is, and what God's purpose for us is Before we're going to be examining over these next weeks the scriptural teachings on the church, we're going to be taking a look at verse this morning the definition of the church And then beginning next week, we'll be taking a look at the identity of the church. And thirdly, we'll be taking a look at the purpose of the church. And then fourthly, we'll look at the structure of the church. I'll warn you, you may react to some of the things I'm going to say, and if you do, I would ask that you would tell me, don't just criticize me, uh, don't just complain about it. These messages are sort of going downhill rather than But I'll make a deal with you, okay? I won't lay anything on you that I can't substantiate from scripture If you promise that you won't react, except you can show me where I violated scriptures. Is that fair, deal? And then together we seek to bring our practice into line with what we're discovering from God's word. So I want to begin this morning with a definition. I'm going to start off with basic definitions. The definition of the word church. This is the word eclacia. The word ecclesia, which is the one word that's translated church in the Bible, is a word which appears 115 times in the New Testament. Some people say the church is not in the Old Testament, but if you look at the word ekklesia, translated church, In the Greek Old Testament, it was done in the New Testament era, the word church, echos here, appears a hundred times, not a hundred times in the Old Testament So it's a word that appears quite frequently. Now what does it mean? Well remember I remind you again that most theological terms in the Bible are not religious theological words. They're simply everyday terms that had vastly different connotations for New Testament believers from what they have for us today. And that's true of this word church. People would have never thought of stained glass windows and many of the kinds of images that we conquer up when they thought of the church. in the way that the word was used in the Bible. The word eclecia simply meant an assembly. I often have grown up, or I grew up kind of hearing that the word church meant called outward. That's a little overly literalistic. It's a noun from the word that used to call out. But that really isn't the way it was understood or what it meant popularly. It meant an assembly. It yet an assembly or a gathering or a meeting of any kind, but it was one in which people were called together. We read examples from that in Acts chapter 19 In Acts 19, we have this word used and it's not translated church there, but it gives you an idea of its popular secular meaning In Acts 19, we have the riotous assembly at Ephesus, where Paul was preaching the gospel. And we read in verse 32 that the assembly was in confusion. That's the word ecclesia, the word church. Obviously you wouldn't translate there the church was in confusion with anything but a church, it was a martyr mob. Of course maybe some of you that doesn't exactly violate the image of the church, but it was this was not a an assembly besides people. It was just uh uh Andrew's gang was in confusion, some were shouting one thing, some another, most of the people didn't even know why we were there. That also reminds us of some things. But uh then in verse 39 you have the city clerk who's trying to quiet things down a little bit And he says if there's any further anything further you want to bring up, then it must be settled in a legal assembly. And the word there, assembly, is again this word ecclesia. And I give this to a a legal gathering. And uh the word church. Then in verse 41, after he had um said that you guys don't know, you're gonna get us in trouble for what's going on here today. After that, he dismissed the assembly. There it is again, the word ethletur, the church. So it's a group of people who are assembled. That's a very active word. It talks about the activity of assembling and being assembled. It's not just a group of people, But it's a group of people who are actively assembled together. That's what the word means. Well from that we derive the biblical definition. There is the assembly of God. That's what the church is. And so Saint Saint in Acts 20, verse 28, just over the next chapter, the words used there again concerning this church at Ephesus. He uh uh talks about uh having hesitated, verse twenty-seven, to proclaim the you the whole will of God, guard yourselves and all the flock of God which the Holy Spirit has made you oversee. the shepherds of the church of God. Now that's the same word that is used in verse n in chapter nineteen, the assemblies, you see. And the overseers, the shepherds of the assembly of God. And the church is a particular assembly, it's God's assembly. Now just as in many biblical terms, this word is defined not so much by its literal meaning as by an event It's defined not so much by the concept as by an event. For instance, if you were to define redemption, you were to ask an Old Testament believer, how do you define redemption? So customer wouldn't tell you anything about the concept of buying bachelor energy science easy, so we defined redemption by the exodus. And that's the redemption, that is the redemption, and that is our industrial redemption, our whole definition of redemption comes out of the exodus But the same way with church, it's defined by an event rather than by the concept. Now, what is the event in the Bible that defines the church? Well, there are two great assemblies that define the church. The Old Testament, the assembly, is the assembly at Mount Sinai. That is the Old Testament assembly. In Exodus chapter 5, when Moses was um doing commissions to bring the people out, We read in chapter 5 that Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said, This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says, let my people go so they may hold a festival to me in the desert. They want assemble to me for a festival gathering. And so when that happened and the people were redeemed and they were brought out, we read in Exodus chapter 19, and God has brought them out with his power, he saved them, he's brought them from bondage He brings them to Mount Sinai and he had them meet with him before his face at the Mount Sinai. So we'll read in verse 3 of chapter 19. Then Moses went up to God. And the Lord called him from the mountain and said, This is what you to say to the house of Jacob and what you to tell the people of Israel. You yourselves have seen what I did in Egypt, and how I carried you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. And now you obey me fully and seek my covenants, and out of all nations you will be my treasure's possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of trees. And a whole ocean. These are the words you can speak to the Israelites. And so these are the words that you hear as they're assembled before God's face Moses then braved them there, and then we read that on in verse 16, but on the morning of the third day there was Thunder and lightning with a thick cloud over the mountain. The cloud always symbolizes glory in the scriptures. A thick cloud over the mountain and a very loud trumpet blast Everyone in the fort trembled. I guess he would if you saw a whole mountain quaking and trembling. And then Moses said to the people of the fort to meet with God as they stood at the foot of the mountain. Mount Sinai was covered with smoke because the Lord descended on it in fire. The field billowed up, the stomach like smoke from a fame. The whole mountain trembled violently. The sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder And Moses spoke and the voice of God answered them. Picture that scene. It's an awful scene. A loud trumpet blast, the smoke covering the mountain, the whole mountain's quaking. The people are wondering if it's going to come tumbling down on their heads. And here's this vast uh awesome experience that these people are having standing before God. They're assembled before the very face of God Now that I suggest you defines the church. You say, well how do you know? I don't do the word church there. You see, it's at this point the people of God are constituted the people of God. By the stating of the covenant that I read here there in Exodus nineteen, three to six. And why is it called the church? Well I call it the church because the Bible does. You see when this again is referred to Long time after that, it is called the church. Listen to Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 10 Referring to that day, God says, Remember the day that you stood before the Lord your God at Horeb Horde split another name for Sinai He said to me, Assemble the people before me to hear my word, so that you may learn to revere me as long as they live in the land of sin, and may teach them to their children See there the word assemble. Assemble the people to. This was the assembly. In fact, it's called the day of the assembly. That's the technical term given to us. Take a look at chapter 9, Deuteronomy 9, verse 10. The Lord gave me two stones tablets inscribed by the finger of God, and on them were all the commandments of the Lord proclaimed to you on the mountain out of the fire on the day of the assembly. The good translation of that is the word Ecclesia, the day of the church. Chapter 10, verse 4. The Lord wrote on these tablets what he had written before, the Ten Commandments He had proclaimed to you on the mountain out of the fire of land. on the day of the assembly, the day of the church, the day of the ecclesia. The Deuteronomy 1816 to give you another example 1816, we read, so this is what you asked of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembling. And you said, Let us not hear the voice of the Lord our God, and see his great fire anymore, or will perish. It's the dough of the assembly, the dough of the church, as if they defined what was meant by church. For the people of God in the Old Testament. Shh It was the assembly of God's people at Sinai, where he constituted them to be his people And he had them stand before his face. And that was commemorated and reiterated three times a year in the festival assemblies that were at Jerusalem or at the tabernacle and then at the temple in Jerusalem. If you read in Leviticus 21, 3 um excuse me, Leviticus 23, 1, we won't take a look at it now But all of Leviticus 23 talks about the sacred assemblies. Those are the three feasts of the year, Passover and then uh the combination Passover and then um the uh feast of beast and the Day of the Atonement and then the um third feast that's uh switching the right now but the other feast of um Um I think it's here. It's the third feast that they had that they went up to Jerusalem, the feast of the first fruits, of the ungathering of the harvest. Because these were the three feasts of the year that were the sacred assembly, the church, the people being assembled, gathered actively together before God Now in the New Testament then, what is the assembly? In the New Testament, the assembly is do assembly spiritually at the New Jerusalem Now in the bulletin you see I have there that it's the uh assembly uh at uh Jerusalem that the new Jerusalem is spiritually. I I think that's maybe a little confusing. So I'd rather state that That in the New Testament, it's the assembly spiritually in the New Jerusalem. That is, we are assembled spiritually at the New Jerusalem. What does the New Testament mean when it talks about the church at Jerusalem or the church at Ephesus, the churches in Galatians? But what is meant by these terms? Well, the New Testament uses the word church in two senses. First of all, there is the physical local assembly, and then secondly, there is that spiritual universal assembly Now uh theologians have argued down for the years since the church was instituted. Excuse me, what is meant? What is the question here? What is the church Which is primarily the church? The universal or the all the whole worldwide church or is it primarily what is denied as a local assembly? Well I suggest you that there is no primary And the both of these things are seen in the New Testament without having any tension. The physical local assembly and the spiritual universal assembly First of all, the local assemblies give the church its experience, especially from 1 Corinthians chapter 14. In 1 Corinthians 14, in verse 19, Paul says there that I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you, but in the church I would rather speak five intelligible words to instruct others. What's he saying in the church? You're saying about gathering. You're not talking about building, you're saying in the church, when we're gathered together to worship, in the gathering, in the assembly Uh verse twenty six he has it in mind more the emphasis of the people. You see there he says, Uh, what can we say, brothers? When you come together, everyone who has a hymn or a word of instruction, a revelation, a tongue, an interpretation, all these must be done to the strengthening of the church. Strengthening of people who are gathered together. But it's when you come together, when you gather together. In verse 28, if there's no interpreter, the speaker should be quiet in the church. He speaks to himself in God. In this assembly, in this local physical gathering. Verse 34. As is in the congregation for the saints, women should remain silent. In the churches, there it is floor, the assembly, the gatherings that he's talking about. Well, so you understand the Church of Jerusalem, the Church of Ephesus, the Church of Columbia are a gathering of Christians coming together in a physical, local place before the face of God. Now there's no longer any earthly place that we come. We don't Assemble at Mount Sinai and we don't come to Jerusalem before the Ark of the Covenant because that's where God's presence is particularly set But there is a location that we need at. Now what is that location? The Bible tells us quite clearly that that location is the New Jerusalem Before the church assembly, the assembly of the church is at the New Jerusalem. Now if, as I said before, the local assembly beef the church is experienced Then this universal assembly gives the church its significance. With a contrast we scientifically read in the beginning, here with the Old Testament assembly and the New Testament assembly. You see Hebrews told us in chapter twelve there that you have not come to a mountain, twelve eighteen, but can be touched with burning with fire and any to train A few bold sleeping strokes. The scene of Exodus 19, you say, now that was the church of the Old Testament. That's not what you come to. You're not met there. The definition of the church in the New Testament does not primarily derive its significance from that. Why? Because we're met at a different location now. But contrast to that, verse 22, you have come to Mount Zion What is Mount Zion? Well, Mount Zion, of course, is not a passing revelation in one awesome moment of God's presence, but Mount Zion is where God dwells. So he's talking about we come into the abiding presence of Mount Zion. And of course if you look at Galatians 4 and 5, you see that the contrast between Sinai and Vion is the contrast between the law and grace Check that out in Galatians 421 in the verses that follow there. So he's talking about what we have come to now in the age of grace. Now notice that if you look at these things, they're so awesome that you may lose it. He does not say you will come Well this is your hope someday. But verse 22 begins, you have come. That's something that we are doing right now. This is true of us at this moment. You have come to Mount Zion. What's Mount Zion? It's the heavenly Jerusalem Again, that's the same point made in Galatians four. The heavenly Jerusalem, which is the city of the living God, which is where God dwells So this is what we're coming to. This is the scene. We'll come to where God is. Who is there? Well, we don't just assemble at this glorious scene, but we're surrounded by a host. And these hosts are, first of all, hosts of angels Uh hearts of angels in festival assembly or a joyful assembly is the NIV translation. Probably that word assembly Assembly should go with the word angel. It's a very uh difficult thing and uh no more at the standard church to keep it separate. But I think in this case the word assembly there modifies, it describes the angels. The angels are in joyful assembly. And also to the church. Here it is again, the eklasia of the firstborn. Now this is not the firstborn referring to Jesus. He's not the firstborn. We were the firstborn. The word chiral. Literally it's to the church of the firstborn one. You realize what that's saying? That God's telling us here that there is no difference in degree of privilege and standing in this assembly Everyone comes before the face of God on the same standing. We're all firstborn sons. We all have that status and that privilege of firstborn with respect to the inheritance. And our position before God. We're an assembly of those who come on a common basis of grace and are assembled before the presence of God. In fact, it says, to God Himself We assemble before God, the Judge of all men. We come to the spirits of righteous men made perfect. Now that's talking about the saints from all the ages past. When we worship God and when we assemble together, we're worshiping with Moses and Abraham. We're worshiping with Lucer. We're worshiping with Calvin. We're worshiping with all those who went before us who owned and loved Jesus. And there before his face, they're the faith made perfect, who are enrolled in heaven. But most of all, because of Jesus. And verse 24, to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant. That's the only time in the whole Bible that word phrase and proof, new covenant, new testament He's just the mediator of a new covenant in that sight of news. And to the spoke of blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. Because we come now. to this new Jerusalem. This is where we are right at this minute. You say, well no we're not. We're right here in the meeting house in Columbia. Well that's where we are physically But spiritually, you and I are meeting before the throne of God in the New Jerusalem. Jesus tells us that we're right now seated in the heavenly with Christ. Now that's where we are. That's where our citizenship is, and that's where you and I are in fact. In fact, every worship service We celebrate. We come spiritually before the new Jerusalem. Now notice I didn't say theoretically. I said spiritually. It's an alternate reality. You and I are really there. We're not just pretending we're there. We're not just saying that's a new thought, sort of inspiring to think of all that. You and I are literally there But literally, spiritually, they both contrast spiritual from literal. That's not a valid contrast in the scriptures. It's just as literal as physical. In fact, in some ways, it's more real because it's more abiding. And there'll come a day when we won't meet physically here in Columbia, but forever we'll continue to meet spiritually at the New Jerusalem. So we are really spiritually there at this moment before the throne of God. I didn't say that. The scripture says that. That's where we are met. That's what defines us as a church. That is the New Testament assembly. That's what gives our meeting here together in Columbia significant, because that's where we are And every time we do that, we're doing it in anticipation of the final assembly at the New Jerusalem, then we shall be physically there also. And that's the final last assembly. First Thessalonians chapter 4 tells us. Reverse 14 The quote that uh we believe that Jesus died and rose again, and so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep with him, the spirits of righteous men made perfectly just read about According to the Lord's own words, he's telling you that ye who are still alive and are still left till the coming of the Lord will certainly not receive those who have fallen asleep. The Lord himself will come down from heaven with a loud command. And work to the archangel with the trumpet of the call of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. And after that, ye who are still alive and are left will be caught up with them. You see, in a gathering, an assembly. To use the Lord in the air, an assembly, a gathering of the believers. And that's why in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 1, Paul says, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus, and are being gathered to him. A special assembly, we asked the brothers, don't become uneasily easily unsettled. That great gatherings The Bible calls the marriage feast. And so Revelation chapter 19, from verse 7, we read, Let us rejoice and be glad and give him the glory, for the wedding of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. So verse 17. And I saw an angel standing in the sun who cried with a loud voice to all the birds flying in mid-air. Come Gather together for the great supper of our God. Assemble together. Come and gather in that great gathering, that assembly of the saints. That assembly when in verse 21 we read, We will be gathered in the new heaven, the new Jerusalem, perfectly. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any tree. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem that we read about in Judah, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice And the throne saying, now the dwelling of God is physically with men. The demon lives with them They will be with people and God himself will be with them and will be their God. And he will wipe every tear from their eyes. And there will be no more deaths or mourning or crying or pain. The old order of things has passed away. Now it's an anticipation of God assembly that you and I meet every Sunday morning. Because we are there right now And we look forward to that time when physically our experience will come into conjunction with what is spiritually our experience right now. And we assemble before him and our God shall wipe every tear away. We will season forever and ever and rejoice. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Now what's that mean in application? Let me just make three points There's two points now. We don't want to stand one more. Three points. The first point is we see clearly from this, the church is not a building. And if the building comes through in this definition, it is that very clearly. The church is a gathered people. The church is the people of God gathered in the name of Jesus. And I still believe I I see again and again people that know better than this, and so I feel like I've got to say to even those of us who take you know better than this. All the time people say, Yes, I know that Yet we go into some building that has what looks like church like architecture and we say, Isn't it nice to be in the house of God? Don't let me hear any of you say that. There is no house of God except our bodies in our age Our bodies are the temple of the Holy Spirit. And God is building together a living temple, as Jesus tells us. And so there is no such thing as a brick and stone and clapboard house of God on earth. That's derived from the idea of a temple in the Old Testament where God set his presence. We don't have a physical temple building today. The church is not a building. The church is a people. And so when we gather together And when we gathered together on Friday night at Covenant, the Square Dance, we didn't gather in God's house, we didn't gather at the church. We gathered at the Columbia Meeting, at the Covenant Meeting House And I even am a little uneasy when I put in the bulletin, frankly, of it, uh, we're gonna have catechism down at Covenant Church or something like this. And I t discussed this with Barry and said, Well, you know, that's kind of an ellipsis, you know, you know it's not the church but you the easiest way to define the place. I just want you to know whenever you see that in the bulletin, if you ever call that covenant church or anything like that, it's not the church, it's the meeting place of the church, it's just quicker to say it that way. But it's not the church. You gotta get that out of our thinking. But a place is the church. The church is not a place, it's not a building. The church is the gathered people. Now when we begin to think you see wrongly and use language sloppy, we begin to get wrong priorities And then we begin to get what is often called the edifice complex. We begin to think in terms of building the third season we've got to build a building, we've got a bigger building, a better building. Let me not go on record and be misinterpreted as saying that I am against ever having a building. What I'm saying is it's irrelevant theologically as to whether we grow as a church or not. The point is that God supplies our needs to meet, me as a church Okay, so we need to be clear on that in terms of our own priorities. And therefore, having done that, then we'll be able to get in perspective the questions about a building and all this as arise Now there's a second thing I want to say, and that's the thing it's not here, I just raised before that you make the thing on there number three. Number two is number three, this is number two, and that is the point that the church is corporate The church is corpus. In other words, I think we need to see from the definition that the church is not an amorphous identity of individuals with Jesus Christ in common. That is not simply the church. That's not all the church is. The church is a gathered association of believers. That's clear from the very essence of the word. It needs a gathering, an assembly of people. The church is a body. We don't simply relate to the church because we want to have fellowship with other Christians. It's part of our identity To be gathered as a body, to be in the church. Not just a collection of individuals, it's an assembly with a corporate identity. Alright? Enough for that. We must move on. Finally, the third thing. Because we need to realize, I think, most consciously the glory of our assembly. You need to realize that we're meeting right now As we assemble and as we sing praise and as Father's let us in single and praying together, that we realize that we are met at the throne of God spiritually, and that that's not theoretical, it's spiritual, and spiritual is real. Spiritual is not made to leave. Therefore, when we understand that, we realize that to be there spiritually is like electricity. You say, oh, I can't see electricity, I can't I can't feel it unless I shock myself with it, but if if I were to join those two wires together in which electricity potentially will run and I join them together complete the circuit, then I know even though I can't see it, there's power there. And it may send me across the room. And because there's something there, it's real. I can't see it, but I can I can feel its effects. And so even though we don't see the fact that we're medically in Jerusalem, we should feel the effects of that in our lives and in our worship. That God Himself is meeting with us as we're assembled before His face in the new Jerusalem now. We need to realize the glory of the fact that we're met with all the saints as we worship God And we don't just meet here as a group of uh few Christians that are gathered together out of this vast array of Columbia. Uh but we're met together with a myriad of saints, of a host of a special assembly. There are thousands and ten thousand of angels gathered with us singing God's praise. And we're singing with them. And we're singing with the faces of the pastor, the righteous No conference. Now I don't understand that all, but somehow God, as He's hearing their place, is seeing us gathered with them. And so we realize that we sing together With that grand host. There's ever been a large convention where you've heard ten or twenty thousand people singing God's page and send shivers up and down your spine. Imagine what it's like every Sunday morning We all gathered together and guides you in this vast dwelling of things. When I think of that, sometimes I think in the way we sing. Oh you know, my mind's half on it and I'm thinking of what I got to do and I just my spirits are I think now I need to realize the host that I'm singing with and who I'm seeing too is gathered with a saints And finally we need to realize that when singing and worshiping in anticipation of that final triumphant reading for assembly, they will be gathered with him physically to receive it and to understand it. Yes, brothers and sisters is what defines the church. Let's pray. Lord our God, help us to lift up our eyes. And that we might see what defines the church. That we might see and get a glimpse of that grand festival assembly as the word gathered here even right now. But even as we pray to you, and even as in a minute or two we'll sing to you, uh we don't sing uh in a uh carnal way, we don't simply sing of the flesh, and we don't simply sin alone And save those who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Save those who are assembled together as you assemble. And Father, even as we think of the awful theme of being gathered before Mount Sinai. where the mountain trembled violently, and it was covered with silk and flame and there was the sound of the trumpet. And what think of the awesomeness of that, how father received, it wouldn't be more awesomeness that assembled before the new Jerusalem. And that assembly with a mirius of angels and thoughtful assemblies. And that assembly was the spirit of righteous man and perfect. Now that assembly which is before you who are the judge of all, and before Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. Lord God, help us to understand what it means to be your church And to see ourselves not simply as a collection of individuals, but as a gathered assembly of these people to proclaim your praise and worship, that's what we understand it Help it body to live the focus to do the things on it.