It was a curious custom of the Romans that every Passover they would release one prisoner to the Jews whom they requested. It was probably a custom that originated in a tribute to the Jewish religion. Because Passover, after all, is when the Jews celebrated the fact that they had been released as prisoners from Egypt. And so, part of entering into the spirit of this kind of thing, the Romans would release one prisoner whom the Jews chose, that they held. And that's why you read in Matthew chapter 27, in verse 15 and 16, as Tom read it. Now it was the governor's custom at the feast to release a prisoner chosen by the crowd. At that time they had a notorious prisoner called Barabbas. Now, interesting name, Barabbas. You know what Barabbas means? You look at the Hebrew, Barabbas means son of the father, or son of his father. Now, either the name Barabbas is an exercise in the obvious, he's the son of his father, or it could mean that nobody knew who his father was, he was an illegitimate child. His mother had had relations with so many men that all they could call him is the son of his father, whoever he is, or possibly it could mean the opposite. The son of his father, or his father's boy, or that's his dad's boy, you know, his father's son We don't really know the origin of this. We don't know what it means. All we know is that he was a notorious criminal. We know from the recording in Mark that Barabbas was an insurrectionist. He was with a group of people who were rebels and had tried to overthrow the Roman government. And part of their doing that, they had committed murder, Mark says. And so Barabbas was not only a rebellious person, he was a murderer. I picture a guy who is not particularly a principled Jew, who is a zealot seeking to carry out rebellion in the name of God like the Maccabees. But I picture him as more of a scruffy character because John tells us that he was a looter, perhaps an opportunist, looking for a way to Overthrow some little portion of authority so that he could get authority for himself. He was in prison with some other looters and insurrectionists, perhaps the two others who were crucified with Jesus. We know nothing about Barabbas except what we read in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Interesting that this incident about Barabbas is so significant. That all four Gospels recorded. And that's not true of a lot of the incidents concerning the trial We know nothing about Barabbas except what we see in the Gospels, because of the fact that his miserable life intersected with the life of the Lord Jesus. Now this fellow Barabbas was held in prison, perhaps A guy who had been a spoiled brat, perhaps a guy who had been neglected. But we read that in the gospel account That it was his life that was spared when our Lord Jesus was crucified. What I'd like to do this morning is to persuade you of two things. Two basic realities that I think are illustrated in this story that are true of human nature and are true of God's nature, two basic realities that are illustrated in this account. The first of them is how utterly irrational is our unbelief. How utterly irrational is the unbelief of sinners. The Bible says that without the supernatural operation of the Holy Spirit, without his word, you and I remain in our unbelief. Unable. To believe the gospel, to accept that it's true, to believe that we need a savior and that Jesus is the only savior possible for our predicament. The Bible tells us that the Spirit of God needs to change us in order for us to believe that, that we don't believe that on our own. And I want for us to see that human nature, I believe, is The same as it is now as it was on that Good Friday. And that that's true of you, as it's true of me And our unbelief, which we tend to look at as rather natural. I mean, let's face it, if somebody that we talk to comes to trust Jesus as Savior and Lord, we're rather surprised, aren't we? I mean the natural thing is to not believe. I'd like to demonstrate from this passage on this Palm Sunday as we look at it this morning that in fact unbelief is utterly irrational. It is utterly utterly without excuse, as it's illustrated in this story. First thing that we see, three things about unbelief that show us how irrational it is. And the first thing is the fickleness of it. Unbelief is utterly fickle. You see, as Tom pointed out, it was this same crowd Who adored Jesus on Palm Sunday. You notice the palm trees that we have up here to remind you that this is Palm Sunday. I don't know how you you know, they're real, I mean they're not fake trees. And it was those kinds of palms That the people strew in Jesus' way as they declare back in Matthew chapter 21 The crowd, uh in Matthew chapter twenty one, verse eight, a very large crowd spread their cloaks on the road, while others cut the branches from the trees and spread them on the road, and the crowds that went ahead of him And those that followed him shouted, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And when Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred and asked, Who is this? And And the crowds answered, This is Jesus the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee. Five days later, it is that exact same crowd. It is those people by and large who in verse 21, when Pilate says, Which of the two here do you want me to release to you? And they say, Barabbas, well, what then shall I do with Jesus, who is called the Messiah? And they all answered, crucify him. Why? What crime has he committed? asked Pilate. But they shouted all the louder, Crucify Him, until finally Pilate gave up trying to save Jesus. Crowds are fickle, aren't they? Ask any sports star. You're the hero of the big game that was won on Saturday night and they carry a owl on their shoulders And your praises are sung all over town until the next game, when you lose And when you get down into defeat, your name becomes the butt of all the jokes in the town and the ridicule. And all of a sudden, from a guy who could do no wrong, now you're a guy who can't even pass the ball Crowds are notoriously fickle. And the thing that we need to see here, I think, in our own situation, is that Particularly religious crowds tend to be fickle. Popular Christianity tends to be very superficial. Following one hero this day, another hero the next day, one person's books and writings are all the rage one day, and then the next day someone else they move on to. We tend to be very fickle as people, just as Tom said. We praise the Lord in one moment and then we deny him and sin against him in the next. And here this morning we're all singing Search My Heart and we're singing Praises to God. And you'd have no problem being known as a Christian here this morning. It's the right and acceptable thing to do. But what about tomorrow when you're at work? You're going to be willing to be known as one who went to church yesterday and worshiped with Jesus? Of the Bible? You're one who believes that Jesus really is the only solution to our sin? You willing to be identified with Him tomorrow? In a crowd that doesn't appreciate fundamentalists, evangelicals. We're so fickle, aren't we? And even though this isn't the direct application of this, I wonder if there's some that come here and maybe have been coming for the last couple of weeks. You're coming from a church where you took vows and you said, I'm going to be part of this church and I'm loyal to this body, and then something turned you off in that body. Somebody disappointed you. Somebody hurt your feelings. And so you said, well, there's this new building over there on 108. Yeah, maybe I'll try that one out. I'm not getting fit around here anymore. I'm not saying that anybody who's visiting here from another local church is sinning in doing that. But I do think we have to examine our motives. Our motives of loyalty to the Lord Jesus and to his people. Fickleness is a sign of instability and unbelief. The crowd illustrates that. Jesus is Messiah. He's the King. Let's crown him and follow him on Sunday. And then on Friday, he's disappointed us. Crucify him. The leaders are putting pressure on us. I'm not going to stand up against them. Why do I want to stand up against these? Members of the Sanhedrin and say, That's not right. I know better. I've heard his teaching. I saw him heal. I've seen his kindness. I've seen the things that he did. I've seen how he gave himself. For people constantly, I can't turn on that Jesus. Unbelief is irrationally fickle Not only that, but unbelief secondly has warped values. Unbelief is irrational in its warped values. Do you see what they're doing here? They're asking for a murderer instead of Jesus. Now this isn't just a matter of a relative comparison. You got this one guy, he's kind of a scruffy character and doesn't contribute much to society. And on the other hand, this fellow's done a lot of good. That's not the contrast. You have an insurrectionist looter murderer, and you have the alternative, one who isn't simply not a criminal who doesn't deserve to die You have here a man who never sinned, a man who never did an unloving act or deed to anyone. And when the crowd is asked, who do you want? They say, give us Barabbas. Crucify the Lord of glory. Now if that's not warped values, I don't know what it is. And don't we see the same kind of thing today? We see a church in San Francisco that is intimidated by a group of gay activists. And they come in to disrupt the service, they come in to intimidate and threaten and destroy property, and the police look the other way. No arrests are made, nothing is done. And then you have a group of people who are seeking to rescue babies at abortion clinics and seek to take risks to do that And the police drag him off. And they indict him with a law, a statute that was designed for racketeering. Do you feel like you're not getting justice in your life? Read about the story of Barabbas and Jesus What kind of justice did your Lord get? Why do you think you're going to get anything better? Why do you think that this world is going to value your contributions and realize that you have so much to offer that they should honor you? When this world's values are such that they would rather take a murderer and crucify the Lord of glory, and human nature hasn't changed. Don't expect to get justice in this life if you're a follower of Jesus. The third thing that we see That's an example, an illustration of the unbelief, the rationality of the unbelief here, is the blindness, the blindness of those that are in this crowd. Particularly notice the religious leaders. These religious leaders have studied the scripture. They have studied all the messianic prophecies. They have discussed for hours and hours and hours what the marks of Messiah will be and how they'll be able to know him when they see him. And these religious leaders lead the crowd in saying, ask for Barabbas. You notice what Pilate says? It's at the feast that he says that uh there's a notorious prisoner called Barabbas, verse 17 So when the crowd had gathered, Pilate asked them, Which of these do you want me to release to you? Barabbas or Jesus, who is called the Messiah? Verse 18: For he knew that it was out of envy that they, the leaders, had handed Jesus over to him. Pilate knows that it's the lears that are inciting this. And why is it? It says here because of envy. The Bible tells us in other places that the envy's root was the fact that Jesus had revealed their hypocrisy. Jesus had forced them to see their hearts. We don't like it when someone forces us to see what we're really like, do we? How much do you appreciate it when your husband, your wife, your friend, somebody comes to you and says, You know what you really like? I mean, you know, they're really the words you love to hear. Do you know what you're really like? I mean you're grabbing your s your palms are getting sweaty, you know, and you're grabbing for something right away, you know Because you know that nothing good is going to be. You know what you're really like? You're really a wonderful person. You know what you're really like means? I'm going to open your eyes to something about yourself that you don't want to see. And that's what Jesus had done, only in love to these leaders. And because he had forced them to see their sin, so that they would, in seeing that, see their need for him and acknowledge that he was Messiah. Like the Samaritan woman to be able to see when he knows all things about them, Lord, you must be the prophet. Instead, they used their power To get rid of him. Utterly blind, willfully blind. Human nature hasn't changed, has it? You sit here this morning and you've been exposed to the Bible. You've been exposed to the gospel account. Why are you not following Jesus? Is it because he has shown you, as you've looked at that, what your heart is really like, and you don't like that? And so you say, well, you know, on Palm Sunday and Easter and various days like it's good to be able to acknowledge that there is truth and that the Bible's true and when I die maybe I'll go to heaven and you know you you know it's it's nice to know that there's right and wrong and that there's some religious comfort. But Jesus wants to show you what you really like. So that by seeing that, you see that you need a Savior. One who could take your sin, because by yourself, you shudder at the thought of standing before God in that sin. The Pharisees were willfully blind. So blind that they'd say, give us a murderer and crucify the Lord of glory who is our Messiah. And what about you? Who do you choose to serve in your life? And what have you done with Jesus? Now the bad news is that we are stuck in that. The Bible says that's what our hearts are like. We are willfully blind. We have warped values. We are fickle. The good news is that this story illustrates to us not only the irrationality of unbelief, but the amazing grace of God towards sinners. How amazing is his grace towards sinners. Now look at, again, three things To illustrate how that's true. First of all, notice how guilty Barabbas was. Barabbas was absolutely guilty. As I said before, the Bible says that he was an insurrectionist in Mark. He was a looter. He was a murderer. He was a person who had certainly no plea to say that he wasn't guilty. He had sought to overthrow a government and set himself up as the authority. And in doing that, Barabbas had murdered people. There were people who are now dead because Barabbas wanted to have his way. And so Barabbas was absolutely guilty, no question about that. And you say that guy was a scumbag. He deserved to die. But what about you and me? The Bible says that God is the authority over our lives. Aren't we basically insurrectionists when we say that I read the Bible and I see the way that I ought to live? I read the Ten Commandments. Do you follow the Ten Commandments? Can you even name the Ten Commandments? How much do you know about what God's will is for your life How much do you seek to follow him? How much is he your waking thought? How much is he the one that you seek to please and to honor with everything about your life and your gifts and abilities? You and I seek to displace God, don't we? We want to set ourselves up as the authority. And in doing that, we're willing to move people out of the way. We hate those. Who stand in the way of the exercise of our will. And Jesus said that hatred is murder in our hearts. And so you and I, spiritually before God, our insurrectionists, murderers, looters, were guilty. And if we're honest with ourselves and don't just say, I don't like to hear these things. They're not very helpful. I didn't come here to be berated. If we're honest with ourselves, we'll have to acknowledge that that's the kind of heart that we have. That's what the Bible says. The Bible says that like Barabbas, you and I are guilty. Barabbas was imprisoned because he was guilty. You and I are in the prisons of our making because of our own guilt. And the second thing is that Barabbas was not only guilty, But there were no appeals possible. He was hopeless. That's the second thing. Barabbas was hopeless. He was in an utterly hopeless situation. There was nothing he could do to get out of the situation that he was in. First of all, there's no appeals that he could make. There's no po excuse me, there's no possible escape that he could make. He's in a Roman prison. The guards who are guarding him have their own lives forfeit if he escapes. You talk about motivation, huh? Barabbas is out, they're dead. And so they have a very vested interest in making sure that Barabbas does not escape, chained in a prison. Secondly, there's no appeals that he can make. He can't appeal to the governor, Pilate, and say, Well, you know, I mean I didn't really know it was an insurrection. I mean I you know, I just you know, w was kinda going along for the fun of it and you know, I just kinda got caught up in it and hey, it was a it was a bad judgment, you know. Um and that you know, the guy that I killed well um Yeah, what was I gonna do? It was kind of self defense. I mean there he was standing there with his shield, you know, and I w you know, I mean what kind of appeal could this guy make? What kind of excuses You know, I hung around with a bad crowd. That's what got me into it. And so isn't this like us? We blame shift, we make excuses, everything else Can you imagine on the Day of Judgment what's it going to be like as people realize they are now face to face with the Lord of glory who was crucified? And the God who has given his word from Sinai thundering, and now they're accountable to him, and you and I stand in that vast crowd And you hear people there thinking of what possible excuse can I make for the fact that I've rejected Jesus Christ in my life What possible excuse can I come up with for how I lived and how I displaced him from my life and didn't really care to follow him and went to church church occasionally but wasn't really concerned to make Jesus the center of my living. What excuse? Who can I blame? I've got to come up with something. And as you stand before him, the piercing gaze of his countenance will make every possible excuse seem so hollow. That it will stick in your throat. No appeal possible to be made. And not only is there no appeal that he can make, no one to blame. But there's no restitution that he can make either. What's Barabbas going to give in place of the people that he killed? What's he going to do to make up for what he had done? Barabbas is stuck. And so Barabbas Realizing that he has no hope, looks at this as the last day of his life. But the amazing thing is that the Bible tells us that the third place, see, his hope is not what he could ever do. But his hope is the fact that he is freed by substitution. He is freed by a substitute Someone in his place. Barabbas, as I say, probably woke that morning thinking this is my last day on earth. I'm going to go out possibly with those two others that Jesus was crucified with. They might have been friends of Barabbas. I'm going to go out with these, my buddies. We're going to be hung on a cross today. And we're going to die And then he hears a commotion outside. Palace interacting with a crowd. And you know how it is. You can hear all this murmuring in the back, and it's it's distant, but if you hear your name All of a sudden that stands out, doesn't it? So I hear all the parabbas. And wait a minute. He starts listening in. And maybe he catches or somebody comes and conveys to him. They're out there deciding who the crowd wants. Do they want you or do they want this Jesus who's the Messiah, the King of the Jews? Now Jesus was pretty well known, and can you imagine Barabbas, if he knows anything about Jesus, thinking, oh, that's the one that healed the crowds and raised the dead, and he's the one that taught about the kingdom of God and told people how they could have peace and joy. And it's between me or Jesus. You think I got a chance? Braves just hangs his head lower in the cell and he says, man, what a choice. I wouldn't even pick me And then he hears someone come to his cell. And he hears the bolt unlocked, and somebody walks in and they say, Barabbas, you're a free man. And he says, How can that be? What happened? And the answer is, they chose you over Jesus Listen, I come to you in the name of Jesus this morning to tell you that your hope is the fact that the Bible tells you. That if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, God chose you over Jesus. He chose you over his own son. And he was willing to condemn his son, who had done no wrong, so that he would be a substitute in your place. And as Barabbas walks out of that cell, he sees Jesus carrying his cross down the street. And realize it was him in my place. And that's true for every single one of us here this morning. Either you stand before God on your own merits, or you realize that God chose you over Jesus, and you trust Him and His substitution. So that you could be freed and forgiven. And when God frees you and forgives you, there is no court in heaven or earth that can condemn you. You are utterly and completely free. God Himself holds nothing against you In the Old Testament, if a person was a leper and had been cleansed, The way he would be declared cleansed would be that he would bring to the priest two birds. He would bring these two birds to the priest, and the priest would take of these two birds one of them. And he would cut that bird's throat. And then he would drain out of the jugular vein of that bird its blood into a bowl of water. And when the cup of that bowl was filled with this water and the blood of the dead bird, he would take that blood. He would dip the dead bird in that blood, and then he would sprinkle that blood on the person who had been the leper and was now declared clean. The live bird would be released to fly away. It too had been sprinkled with the blood of the dead bird. What a picture of substitution and forgiveness. Our God has told us that He has given for you the blood of Jesus. Do you this morning want to continue to blame shift, to go from hope to hope and book to book and philosophy to philosophy And in your blindness to shut out the Lord of glory from your life? Or are you willing to acknowledge this morning? That you're guilty of all the things the Bible says, of robbing God of His glory, of the way you've treated other people, the things that you've done in your life that you have no way of making restitution for. That the God has taken his own son, and he was condemned on a cross, that his blood might figuratively be sprinkled upon you. And in his place you go free because he died for you. Let's come to Him now to worship and to seek His work in our lives. Lord our God, when we think of this story of Baradas This scruffy character who deserves none of our respect, we are appalled To realize how much in common we have with him, how we too are insurrectionists against you. We too have looted your creation for our own benefits. We too have murdered in our hearts those who get in our way. And we are guilty. We want this morning before you, Lord, to get away from the bondage of the blame shifting Oh, what energy it takes for us to make excuses and always find someone else to blame for our problems. But this morning, Lord, we want to come before you and face up to them. We want to face the fact this morning, our God, that we are guilty and deserving of your condemnation. We deserve to be banished from your presence forever. And we realize that like Barabbas, we too are hopeless to do anything about that. We are stuck. No possible escape. No possible appeal. No possible restitution. And we see Jesus. And we see that you took him, who was your son from eternity. Who had done nothing wrong, who even condescended to simply become man and to show us how to live. But Lord Jesus, you've done infinitely more than that. You have taken the sin of everyone who looks to you without blame shifting and making excuses. You've taken the sin of every one of those people, and you have died in their place. And Lord, there may be some here this morning who have resisted that And you're helping us to see our blindness now, our warped values, our fickleness, our guilt, our lack of excuses. Lord, we pray that you'd show us Jesus. Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes to see what a loving Savior He is. Lord Jesus, how you have laid down your life for us Lord, for those of us who have trusted you, who have given our lives to you, we pray deepen in our consciousness the awareness. Of how fantastic is that substitution that you have made on our behalf, that this morning we might worship and deepen in our love for you. Our devotion to you, our desire to live for you and to give ourselves with abandon this week because you are so wonderfully merciful to us. Meet each person, Lord, we pray, in their need here this morning. Whether to trust you for that first time for forgiveness of sin and to be cleansed and Forgiven and renewed and transformed. We're to be deepened in our awareness of how great your grace and your mercy and your love are for us. That we would be a joyful and a happy and a free people. Hallelujah. We declare your praise In Jesus' name