Good morning. This morning we have the privilege of having Jeff Ricket, who is a friend of the pastors on staff here, as well as a PCA pastor in Colombia, who's going to come and preach Jeff has served with Chaplegate and with Broadneck EP and uh has been a friend of ours in this area for a time. He's been planting a church for the last three years. in Columbia, uh City of Hope. And uh when we thought about who we wanted to have come preach this morning and and uh bring you God's word, the staff said, let's have Jeff And so Jeff, we welcome you and we look forward to how God will use you as He speaks through you to us today. Thanks, Steve. Thanks Tom for leading us in worship. I want to thank Steve and Al for um inviting me to come. It's been a great uh ride with them as we just this past year particularized that we are now a full-fledged PCA church in the Columbia area, so we're thrilled about that Uh, but I wanna first tell you that if my preaching is a little edgy it's because my Colts lost last night. Now some of you will be happy about that because you want the Ravens to go all the way and with the Colts out of the picture m Ravens um has a little better chance of going. Uh also I want to tell you that I don't usually preach with a tie. I'm a little formal today, so that might be little my I might be a little edgy because of that as well. I'd like to be more relaxed. But that's cool. We're brothers and sisters in Christ and hopefully you love me even in my flaws and Um weirdness. As I think of this new year and I th as I think of all the messages that we're hearing uh that we will hear. You know, as you know, as I think of all the messages that we get from uh text messages, you know, I'm not a very good texter. In fact I kind of eliminated it from my phone because I don't know I can't do it fast enough I I need some training in that. Uh you know, we get messages from emails, we get messages from on our voicemails. You know, we receive messages from billboards We see them on church signs, we see them in music or hear them in music on TV and in movies. We even get messages from our Starbucks coffee cup. We receive all types of messages. And these messages can encourage us, but these messages can also be difficult to hear. Messages have a potential to change us and motivate us, but also messages have the potential to paralyze us and make us depressed. There is one such message that I am encouraged by and that is one at Centennial Park. I run that lake on occasions and on one on one of the outer uh pathways there is a steep hill that I like to run and on halfway up that steep hill there's a message that I need to hear because if I don't remember that message I think I will stop before I get to the top. And the message is, yes or yes you can. And it's written in big red letters and it's for the Iron Girl Treathlon. But when I run it, I need to think of that sign so I can make it up that hill and then I can finish my other uh rest of my run. And often when I'm running other hills in the area, I also think of that sign that motivates me and encourages me Well this message this morning does more than just encourage or motivate you. This message has a potential to change you because this message is a message of transformation, is a message of grace, it's a message of hope. It is a message of freedom. So as you turn with me to Isaiah 61, beginning at verse 1, I believe it you can put on on the overhead as well. This is God's word. I'm going to ask you to stand as I read from Isaiah sixty three, beginning at verse one. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. To proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance of our God. To comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint Spirit, that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that they may be that He may be glorified. Father, these are your words And so as we gather this morning around your word, we ask that your spirit would actively work in encouraging us, reminding us Pressing onto our hearts this great message of hope, this great message of transformation, this great message of freedom. So Lord, we ask you to do your work today. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. In her book, Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl, Harriet Jacobs wrote these words about her years of slavery. Listen to these pointed words. Only by experience can one realize how deep and dark and foul is that pit of abominations. Let me read it again. Only by experience can anyone realize how deep and dark and foul is that pit of abominations. You see, Harriet was born in eighteen thirteen in North Carolina, and for the first six years of her life she lived in a comfortable home with her parents and brother. She did not realize that she was a slave. But things soon changed when her mother died. She learned that she really wasn't free. At age fifteen, her new master, Dr. James Norcombe, pursued and harassed Harriet. His wife also oppressed her. Seeking to protect herself, Harriet turned to a white, unmarried lawyer, and she bore him two children. Now Norcom was mad and he retaliated by sending Harriet to her plantation to work as a field hand. Now not wanting her children to become a plantation slave, she ran away before they could join her there. So with the help of sympathetic neighbors, both white and black, she made her way home to her grandmother's. But listen to this. For the next seven years, Harriet lived in a tiny cubbyhole under the front porch roof. The confined space was nine feet by seven feet, with a sloping ceiling only three feet high at one end. She shared her hiding place with rats and mice. Often in this time she said she would often read her Bible, and that encouraged her and motivated her to continue on. During this time, Harriet wrote to Norcom, her slave owner, asking him to sell her the children. He refused. However, the children's father did buy the boy and the girl, allowing them to stay with Harriet's grandmother. Again, Harriet is hiding, and even from her children, Harriet would squint through a peakhole, hoping to catch a glimpse of them playing outside. It wasn't until 1842 that Harriet escaped to the north, and two years later she had her children join her. Still, she was in danger of being returned because of the slave laws at that time. Complete liberation did not come until Harriet was forty years old, when her employer brought brought her freedom for three hundred dollars. That was a lot of money back then, but three hundred dollars her freedom was bought. Now throughout that time Harriet and her children w heard a lot of messages Did they not? Messages like it is okay to be treated as she was treated. Messages like it is okay to be enslaved, to be a slave. Messages like, it's okay to be controlled by others. It's okay to be beaten. It is okay to be ridiculed. It is okay to live in that kind of situation. See, she experienced a painful being pulled apart from her family. She experienced the d indignity of being sold as property. She has experienced the uncertainty of living within someone else's whim. This is her life for many, many years. But what's amazing as she concluded her book, she says this very powerful word, a powerful message for us all to hear. She says this, reader, my story. ends with freedom. No matter how much suffering she's experienced, no matter how much pain she experienced, what she writes at the end is that my story ends with freedom. Friends, if you are a Christian today, your story ends with freedom. It ends with freedom. That is true for you and for me if you belong to Christ. That is the good news of the gospel, and as we're gonna look at that. But why can she why can she say that her story ends in freedom? Why can we say that our story ends in freedom? Or we can see that in that verse one where this when the Scripture says the Spirit of God is upon me and has anointed me. And then Jesus in Luke 4 says that I have fulfilled that. I am the one who has come. I am the Messiah who has come to save his people from their sins. He is the anointed one to do the works. of God to bring salvation and restoration and renewal and freedom. It is Jesus who is the messenger as well as the message. So I want us to focus on that message. What is that message? And what's important about that message? What is that message of what is that message of transformation? For us to truly experience The anointed message of Jesus, we need to understand this. Two questions we're going to explore this morning. Who benefits from the servant's message. Who benefits and who are what are the benefits of the servant's message? Who benefits from the servant's message? Who benefits from this message that Jes Task for us and what are the benefits Well this passage in Isaiah gives us an answer to that first question. Who benefits from Jesus' message? And he uses some graphic words. He uses some images that show us who benefits. So what are those images and who are those who who who who who need to hear this message? First of all, he says they are the poor. I'm gonna start with bad news and since I'm a visitor I can give you bad news. I want to give you bad news and so you so if you get mad at me, get mad at me. That way you don't have to get mad at s Pastor Steve or Pastor Al, you can get mad at me. But you need to understand this. If you really want to understand the message, you need to understand first of all that we were all poor. If you're in if you're Before you're a Christian, we are we are this is uh the reality for us. If you're not yet a Christian, this is reality for you now. The qu the the issue is that we are poor, we were poor. And what he is saying here is that They are those who are downtrodden, they are those who are disadvantaged, they are those who are held back from progress and improvement by people or circumstances. What well I want to expand that and we can see that throughout Scripture we can s we can make this a reality check for us is that he's talking about all those who are spiritually poor. Those all all of those who are spiritually impoverished. Those who are spiritually bankrupt. There's no resources within ourselves that get us out of our situation. There's no way we can save ourselves. There's nothing that we can add or do that can bring us close to God. We are spiritually bankrupt. Much like many who are homeless, if we look at the physical aspect of homelessness, they there's no resources within themselves often that can get them out of their homelessness. But on to the other extreme we think of the the many cases like the Lehman brothers, right? Uh Freddie Mack and Fannie Mae and and AIG And GM and Chrysler, they have no resources, so they say, in themselves to get them out of their situation. They are spiritually bankrupt. They are bankrupt. We need to first understand, if we want to really understand the great grace of of Jesus, is that we need to understand that we are spiritually poor. We are spiritually bankrupt. Every one of us are in the same place. But not only that, he says in verse 1, that we are brokenhearted. Now this covers any and every human breakdown, from emotional loaves to conviction of sin, from depression to the hate of sin, to a sense of separation from God and from others, a sense of lostness, a sense of emptiness He is saying here that we are people who are empty, lost, and separated from God. Every one of us are. We are poor, spiritually poor, and we are broken-hearted We are lonely, empty, separated from God people, apart from Christ. Then he goes on to say that we are captives and prisoners. Very strong words. And these words indicated that we are being We're we're we're in our bondage is imposed by a person or by a place. These words communicate the condition of being enslaved, of being tied up, of being restrained. The conditions of being controlled by someone that limits our freedom. Now you can think of prisoners of war. I'm not sure if anyone here is a prisoner of war, but they their freedoms were limited, right? Or those who are in slavery. They were not able to do anything apart from their master's approval. Or many women or people in abusive relationships. They were restrained, they're tied up. They they they're enslaved by another. And so what Jesus is saying to us as we think of this and in the in in in the sense of a relationship with him, he's saying, We are people who are held captive to our sins. We are people who are imprisoned by them, and sometimes we are imprisoned by others' sins. Towards us. We are poor. We are spiritually poor. Friends, you need to understand that you are spiritually poor. I'm spiritually poor without Christ. You are brokenhearted. And you are held captive to your sin. You are tied up into your sins. You are slaves to your sins. But also we see that we are mourners in verse 2. Then that covers all of sadness of life. You know, life is not what it was meant to be. And there is sadness, there is suffering, there is pain, there is sin that we deal with. And we're sad over that sin, and we're sad over often what that sin leads us to and in the sense that it brings about broken relationships It brings about our addictions to to stuff of life. Either it be substance addictions or even good things like our work or money or other stuff. There's so many things that we like to replace God with in our lives. And we find ourselves hungering more for that than we are for a relationship with God. We can see the sense of sadness of life when we see that we're we still struggle with resentment or bitterness or unforgiveness or or we just have a hard time relating to people. See, we need to understand, friends, that that Jesus, the anointed Messiah, has come for people who are spiritually poor. who are broken, who are held captives to their sins, and who are mourning because of their sin, and as a result of what that sin causes in our lives. What it says to me and what it says to us, what the anointed Savior wants us to know is that he is describing people who need transformation. He's describing people who need redemption. We need to understand the bad news before we can understand the benefits of what our Savior does for us. Now to me, the a person and a good story that shows me that more than anything is in the Christmas Carol. You know the story of Mr. Scrooge or Scrooge Now here is Scrooge. He is spiritually bankrupt, is he not? His nephew, one of the first things you see, his nephew comes into his into his office and his nephew invites him to a holiday party the next day or Christmas party the next day and Scrooge what did he say? Bah humbug why do you rejoice over these things? These are silly. Life is Awful. Why would we want to celebrate something like that? And then the charity workers come in and he ridicules them and makes fun of them and says, is there not prisons? Are there not uh poorhouses? So we have one who is spiritually bankrupt, spiritually impoverished, one who is greedy and selfish. He could care less about his employer or the health of his family And as the spirits from past, present and future show him his life. We see that he's also sad over his life, sad over a broken relationship with his father. And as and that has influenced him in the story to be who he is in the story. We see that he's held captive to his anger and to an unforgiving heart, to resentment. He's held captive to controlling and manipulating others. He is a beautiful picture of who we can be and are apart from Christ The question for us is do we understand that that that we're that bad off? That before Christ we are spiritually poor, that we are bankrupt, that we are broken, that we are held captive to our sins. Can you say that is true for yourself? You need to start there, friends, if you're going to appreciate the cost of the Savior that has died for you. This anointed Messiah who has come to fulfill God's requirement of what it means to be in a relationship with God. You need to understand that you're that far away That there's nothing that you can bring to the table for you to enjoy this great message that he has for us now. And that is the benefits. What are the benefits of our Jesus message of our anointed Jesus? And this is here it is. In verse one we see that one of the benefits is that he preacheth good news to you and to me To the Messiah has come with a message, and it's a message of good news. He has come to transform you from your spiritual bankruptcy and to give you his all of his eternal resources. Isn't that amazing that You know, we are once spiritually bankrupt, but now we are rich in Christ. We have the we have we've been given all that if you're in Christ, you're you've been given all that you need, you've been given all the resources that you need to live out this Christian life. You are rich in righteousness. You are rich in holiness. You are rich and you are able to know God and to love God and to love others See the good news is for us to know that we're no longer spiritually bankrupt if you're in Christ. If you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you're no longer spirit spiritually bankrupt, but you're spiritually rich. Spiritually rich. That song that you sing, I come to to your wealth. I died of my own stuff, and I come to receive the wealth of God, of Christ. But not only does he give us all the resources we need, it says also in verse one that he binds up Our brokenness. He binds up our brokenness. This expresses God 's personal attention and soothing and healing and restoring to wholeness. See, the Messiah, the anointed servant, Jesus, has come to restore us spiritually. And at times, yes, physically. And one day we'll be restored physically. But see, the reality is this, we are no longer separated from God if you're in Christ today. You're no longer lost. You're no longer empty. See, He restores our joy. And he helps us not to be depressed over our sins. Think of the psalmist David after he committed adultery and murder. He goes to God, knowing that God is rich in mercy, rich in grace, and as he confiden Confesses his sin as he repents of his sin, he is rejoicing knowing that he has a God who loves him so much, no matter what he has done, that God embraces it and loves him, enables him to move forward So that's what God does. He heals us. He brings us back to wholeness. He restores us. And that even when we're when we're struggling with sin of life We can rejoice to know that God's at work in us. But not only does he preach good news to us, not only does he bind up our brokenness, he sets us free. He sets us free from our sins. What does he say? He says, I proclaim liberty. And he also says to procla I proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Both of those point to the Book of Leviticus and the great liberation of the Jubilee year, where slaves were set free from their masters and people's debt, financial debt was cancelled. See, Jesus is saying that I have come once and for all to settle the debt. I have come to cancel the debt that you and I owe to God. That we can never pay back. And Jesus said, I have come to set you free from that debt. I have come to set you free to be uh from your enslavement from your master of sin I've come to do that. I've come to do that for you and for me because I love you. I delight to do that. He's come to set you free. Oswald Chambers says this, the spirit of God is always the spirit of liberty. The spirit that is not of God is a spirit of bondage, the spirit of oppression and depression. The Spirit of God convicts vividly and intensely, but he's always the Spirit of Liberty. I love what he says here. God who made the birds never made birdcages. It is men who made birdcages, and after a while we become cramped and can do nothing but chirp and stand on one leg. When we get into God's great free life, we discover that the way of God meant us to live is the glorious liberty of the children of God. I'm on the board of Domestic Violence Center, and as I uh sometimes hear the stories of women who struggle with domestic violence There's no better uh no encouraging story to hear is when after m multiple times of leaving and going back and leaving and going back and leaving and going back, once she's able to to to find the resources and to have the support system to really to break away the freedom she has to take control of her her life again and to live the way that she was meant to live But see, that's the reality for us. If you're in Christ today, we are set free from our sins. We're free to forgive those who sinned against us. We're free parents to love our kids in ways that point them to Jesus. Children, you are free to love your parents in submission and in obedience. Amazing thing, is it not for us? We have that kind of freedom that we have the freedom to break Jesus God has given us the freedom through the work of Jesus to not be bitter, not be resentful. Jesus has given us the spirit of freedom to move into the lives of others that may be difficult relationships See, that is the good news. He has set us free from our sin. He has set us free so that we can live and he has called us to live, to love God and to love others. No matter how hard that it is, he has set you free. But not only has he preached good news to you, not only has he mended your brokenness, not only has he set you free to live. And new and exciting ways, he gives us comfort. Isn't it exciting that we have a mess Messiah that's Jesus who understands our suffering We have a Savior who was born in the flesh, right? As a baby. We just celebrated the incarnation of Christ. reminds us that God is with us, Emmanuel. But he came at great costs. He came to live in this world, this sinful, broken world where he's willing to be beaten Would it be rejected, real willing to be ridiculed, and ultimately to be rejected by his Father in heaven when he cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Where he bore the sins of of his people on that cross He endured God's moving, turning Himself away from His Son, His beloved Son. He understands our suffering, and so as we suffer, and as Christians we uh God he often causes us to suffer. We understand that he comforts us, he understands us, he he helps us in the sadness of life. He helps us to to move forward. It doesn't have to paralyze us because we have a savior who is with us and for us. He gives us comfort, friends, he gives us comfort. And I love verse three. I I I just love how he ends it here. I'm going to read that verse again because it is so exciting, it's so powerful, it's so So m so important for us to to really come home to come home with. But he says this to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes The oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit, that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planning of the Lord that they that He may What is m Jesus telling us here? Well he's telling us that we are now bestowed, another translation, with a crown instead of ashes. See, uh ashes uh the word replaces the hurt with the remedy. Since ashes of mourning were smeared on our head, he now applies a crown precisely to the point. Isn't that amazing? He he he understands our suffering, understands our pain, he understands our predicament, and he takes away our ashes and he crowns us with his beauty. He crowns us with his beauty. The sense of that oil is is a time for gladness, not sorrow. So the so Jesus the anointed one replaces our mourning with fresh, renewed life. And then it's the scripture verse talks about a garment, right? See, this can this compl this communicates being wrapped with praise instead of despair Right? The anointed one Jesus gives us an effusion of new life filled with praise. They all are rapping Signifies total personal renewal. We've been closed with righteousness of Christ. That's what the New Testament talks about. We've been closed with Christ. We've been wrapped with Christ. We have personal renewal now, God is doing in our lives, if we're in Christ. And then he says this, that they may be called oaks of righteousness That communicates that we have a new status and a new name. We have a new nature and we have new potentials We have been given the righteousness of Christ. We now have a right and acceptable standing with God if you have trusted Jesus as Messiah, as the Savior, as the King. You are the oaks of righteousness. I like what one gentleman shared afterwards. He said, we're not weeping willows, right? We're not weeping willows anymore. We're oaks of righteousness. We're displaying his glory and his power To one another and to the world who needs to hear the message. Friends, do we really understand that I wanna s really want us to really c uh to start the new year with this message that we who were once spiritually bankrupt, we were poor, we were broken, we were captive to our sins, that we are mourning sad over our sins. Now we are displaying the beauty of his glory. We're made righteous in his sight. We're deeply loved, and now we're able to glorify him and display his glory and majesty to a world in which we live. He's done a great transformation Oh, may we believe that. May I believe that. One of the most beautiful wildflowers in Alaska is the fireweed. This delicate purple-pink blossom have a number of uses as tea Firewood is good for upset stomachs, coughs, and asthma. It also treats bites and cuts. Fireweed is also named because it is a first plant to bloom after a fire. When the smoke clears and the earth cools, these flowers emerge from the blackened earth. Flower fire fireweed covers a landscape like a stunning quilt Trading ashes, trading beauty for ashes. See that's the reality for us We are that fireweed. After much as we live in this life of of sin and of suffering and of pain, as we live in this world, God is doing a work of training Giving us beauty for ashes. We're no longer ugly, but we're made beautiful in his sight. You 're the display, the church is a display of his glory. Where the display of his grace. Jesus has come to remind you today. That he wants to personally renew you and restore you. He wants to release you from your bondage of sin. He wants to comfort you over the sadness of life and he wants to make you beautiful in his sight. That's what he did for you at the cross many years ago. The question for us this new year is what are we going to do with that Hopefully we'll be much like Scrooge, right? After the visits of the three ghosts and Marley before that, he wakes up. I love the scene in the old movie. He wakes up and he realizes he has a second chance and what does he do? He's like so excited, he's jumping up and down. He's hilariously, he's hilariously like, oh my gosh! I'm not dead, I'm alive. I have an opportunity to share love. I can be I don't have to be greedy anymore. I don't have to be broken anymore. I'm I'm a new person And that's what Jesus has done for us. Are we hilariously thankful and praising God for the work that He's doing in us and for us? Do you understand the great love that he has for you, that he's willing to do that for you, that he did do that for you many years ago when he died on the cross, when he rose again, now he he's Sitting at the right hand of God the Father and He's interceding for us. What an amazing, amazing, true story This is a message for you. This is a message for me. That we will delight in the love that the Father has for us in Christ, because He greatly delights. in you. Hear this. Saving grace makes a man and a woman as willing to leave his lusts as a slave is willing to leave his galley Or a prisoner his dungeon, or a thief his bolts, or a beggar his rags I love what Harriet Jacob, that slave girl, states. She says, God gave me a soul that burned for freedom, and a heart nerved with determination to suffer even unto death in pursuit of If you're a Christian today, I pray that that would be your goal. That God would give you a soul that burns for freedom because you do have freedom because you have Christ who lives within you. And that you you have a heart that is nerved with determination to suffer even into the death and pursuit of liberty. Not only for your liberty, but for the liberty of those in your community Who need Jesus. May that be true for you. May that be true for me. May you understand that our story truly ends in freedom. Oh Father, we are thankful for your word. And we're thankful that you're at work in our lives. And we're thankful, Jesus, that you have come to be that messenger in that message. That Lord, that you are the anointed Messiah, the Savior that has come to save his people from their sins, but you also come to free us from our sins, to restore us and to make into a right relationship with you. We come And we to our sin to bring, to lay them at your feet, and that we daily need to do that. Even as Christians, we walk in that posture of faith and repentance, knowing that we daily need you. And we are so thankful that you forgive us And you are you're committed to renewing us and restoring us and empowering us to break through and live on a way that radically shows the great grace of Christ to this world and to this community and to one another. Oh, may that be so. I pray in Christ's name, Amen.