Amen. Well thank you for that wonderful special music. Get my Bible upside up here. They remind me a lot of me when I was younger, except they can sing. What a wonderful gift God has given us. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 6. It is exciting to return back to the Gospel of Luke and I try to take breaks into and out of long series like the Gospel of Luke that makes sense. And this is the beginning of what we might call the third major part of the Gospel of Luke. It's the part of his public ministry where he Recognizes that a particular time has arrived. We'll talk about that in a moment. And so he calls twelve, whom he names apostles. And then he equips them by teaching them and all of his other many disciples. The substance of what is here in the Gospel of Luke called the Sermon on the Plain, very similar material, much of it word for word in the Sermon on the Mount as we find it in Matthew chapter 5. But I'm going to read for us this morning from Luke chapter 6, beginning with verse 12. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you as always, Lord, again and again for its truth and its beauty. And Father, we pray that we would be affected by it, Lord, in our thinking, in our feeling, in our living, in our actions. Lord, we pray that you would use the reading of your word to draw us to yourself. and to send us. Lord, we pray that the preaching that follows the reading of your word would be helpful, useful, convicting, comforting, according to our need. and its faithfulness to the scriptures. Lord, we ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 6, beginning with verse 12, the Word of God. In these days he went out to the mountain to pray, and all night he continued in prayer to God. And when day came, he called his disciples, and chose from them twelve, whom he named apostles Simon, whom he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip and Bartholomew, and Matthew and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon, who was called the Zealot. And Judas, the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor. This ends the reading of God's word. Wayne asked earlier a wonderful question when he said, look around you and and say, would you pick the people around you? And hopefully, hopefully you would have said yes. Especially if you were sitting near me. But when you look at this twelve, you might not have picked them. I suspect I would not have. And perhaps by the end of this sermon you will agree with me and say, yeah, I don't know. I certainly wouldn't have picked at least these three. But I also hope that by the end of the sermon you'll realize that God picks people specifically because they are like this, and he does incredible things. And he picks us and calls us similarly to do incredible things. But as we look at this text, I want to notice at the very beginning, at the start of this major Major transition in the ministry of Jesus Christ, the first thing we read is that he prays. He prays. He's reached a point in his ministry, much like Moses in the wilderness, where Jethro his father comes and says, Look, you've got a lot of people now. You got to do something. And Jesus calls these twelve, and we see in Matthew chapter 10 and in Mark chapter 3, he immediately sends them out to do what he's been doing. Immediately. And he is calling these men to become like him so that they can do what he is doing in pursuing the kingdom and seeing it come. He gives them authority to cast out demons. He gives them authority to teach and to preach. He gives them authority that's his so that they can multiply his work. in spreading the kingdom gospel prior to his sacrifice of himself. Now, he has a very specific deliberate mission for these men in coming alongside him. He's reached a a critical point in his ministry. And rather than think to himself, well, you know what? I'm the son of the living God from all eternity. I am God in flesh. I can just go ahead and pick people. He demonstrates something for our benefit here when he prays. And he prays, not just one of Nehemiah's arrow prayers that we're all good at. I don't know if you're familiar with the phrase arrow prayer from Nehemiah, but in the book of Nehemiah, Nehemiah has heard a report that he's in he's in Babylon. He's part of the people that got carried away. He is uh uh working in the uh the the temple court the the the the palace of a conquering kingdom and he hears a rumor that Jerusalem is broken down And he's got a long face. He's sad about it. And he's asked, why are you so sad? And he prays and answers. An arrow prayer. At the same time he's saying, Lord, give me wisdom, he's speaking and answering his sovereign. And we pray like that a lot. We often have something big to do, a big decision to make, and we want to be good and faithful Christians, and so we are sure to pray, but our prayers are like that arrow prayer. They're short, they're brief, and sometimes, if I can say by way of confession, they're almost boilerplate, pro forma. I'm checking a box. And if the Son of God, who is the one by whom the universe was created and is sustained, has a big decision to make at a critical point in his ministry, and he goes away to be alone and spends all night praying. That's telling me something of the importance of prayer. I was talking earlier this week and I can't remember the conversation or which one of you I was talking to, but we were talking and the subject of heaven somehow came up and I I mentioned that I suspect when I get to heaven, I'm gonna look back and wonder why I didn't pray more. Because I think when we get to heaven, we're going to see just how effective are the prayers of the people of God. And I suspect that my prayers are more effective than anything else I do. And I I I bet the same is true of you. Because when I pray, I'm asking God to work And God does things better than I do. God sometimes does things through me, sometimes he does things in spite of me. But God's works are what I really want to see establishing his kingdom. In powerful, deep, and permanent ways. Prayer is absolutely essential. And it's particularly essential in difficult times. Notice this text begins that in those days. In these days, we read, he went out to the mountain to pray, and all night he continued in prayer to God. What were those days? One of the things we noticed if you go back to pre-Advent back in the fall of last year when we were looking at uh chapters 4 through the early part of 6, We saw that there was a clarification in the message of who Jesus was. Remember, it started off as kind of a rumor, then it became uh a report and then it became news that was kind of verified. And we see by the use of the words Luke, the gospel writer is employing here under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, the truth about who Jesus is. is getting out. But in the same way as truth is becoming clearer, opposition is getting deeper And so the very last words that we read before the choosing of the twelve are these. But they were filled with fury and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus. These are days that are exciting but full of peril. These are days where much could be accomplished because the truth is spreading, but the opposition is heightened to a fever pitch. These are days when the stakes are high. These are days like we face. Has the opportunity ever been so great? And many of us face opposition. spiritual warfare and struggle. And prayer is perhaps the wisest, most effective thing we could possibly be doing. My first inclination as a good Reformed Presbyterian guy is to confront a problem and think, which book should I read? When it might be better for me to spend that time in prayer Pray. Pray about the big issues in your life. Pray about the small troubles in your life Pray and pray believing that your Heavenly Father hears and answers prayer. That's the first thing he does in making a decision that is going to affect the next chapter of his ministry. He prays. Sacrificially. How many of you enjoy giving up a night of sleep? Now, I'm not noted for my visual acuity. Is anybody raising their hand? He sacrificially prays extended, long prayer, focused prayer. Solitary prayer. And when the day comes, he calls his disciples. Remember, a disciple, I think the best definition for disciple is somebody who follows another in order to learn from them. to become like them. So to be a disciple in the ancient sense, whether you're being a disciple to a rabbi or whether you are an apprentice learning a trade like carpentry There's these three essential components. You're following them. You're sharing life with them. You are learning from them. You recognize that they are your teacher, one of the most common words of a disciple for his master. And thirdly, the goal is to become like them. It's not just so that you can consider what they're doing and then go your own way. And Jesus had many disciples. Crowds followed Jesus. And Jesus gathers all of his disciples together, and from those disciples, he names twelve, and he calls them apostles. So Jesus has many disciples, many, many people that are following him, going with him from city to city, town to town, and are learning from him and becoming like him. But he's specifically draws out twelve and calls them apostles. Well, if a disciple is someone who follows another to learn from them to become like them, what is an apostle? The word apostle literally means sent, to be sent, a sent one. And it focuses on a mission that is beyond oneself. You see, to be an apostle, you must be a disciple. You must be someone who's becoming like Jesus, because Jesus, if you're an apostle, Jesus is sending you out to do the things he's doing. To participate in his work of heralding the kingdom of heaven. The fact that God has come. The fact that nothing will ever be the same again. Now, the fact that Jesus publicly endorses these men without a probationary period stuns me. If I were Jesus, were starting a new company, and realized that I had to pick 12 people to try to pursue my vision and establish my methodology and be faithful to the goal. I don't know that I would right out of the gate say, okay, these 12 are the guys. I might want to hedge a little bit. But one of the things that really strikes me about Jesus of Nazareth is how decisive and bold he is. He, knowing everything about these guys, names these twelve guys. And according to Matthew 10 and Mark 4, he immediately sends them out. Now, Luke, Luke who is a wonderful historian but follows an ancient convention of kind of piling things next to each other that should have been on top of each other. This is the content of everything he taught his disciples which is to follow. So his disciples heard this, and now with all of All of everything we read from the Beatitudes through the house that falls down because it is built on sand, all of this is part of the equipping of the twelve. But he calls these men, he names them apostles, and he sends them on mission. Now, throughout the New Testament, apostles has a broad and a narrow definition. And it's a very important word for Luke. Matthew uses the word apostle once in his entire gospel of 28 chapters. And that is here in this context in Matthew chapter 10. Mark uses the word apostle technically once in the 16 chapters of Mark. Again, here, with regard to the naming of twelve, John uses the word apostle how many times? Once. I tried to set you up for that. But only the old math teacher got it, I think. The word isn't as significant to Matthew, Mark, and John, but for Luke. In the gospel alone, he uses it six times, and in the book of Acts, which is the sequel, he uses it 28 times. For Luke and his theology of the coming of the kingdom and its increase and spread throughout the entire known world, this concept of being an apostle is central to the life of the church. this sense of being sent and while it starts out as a very narrow definition, it begins to broaden. Such that there is a sense in which all of us with a lowercase A are sent, like when the persecution begins in Jerusalem. And all of the everyday normal believers like you and me. Maybe they weren't eyewitnesses to Jesus from his baptism through his crucifixion. Maybe they came to know Christ through the work of Peter after Pentecost. They're carrying the gospel message with them wherever they go, and they are functioning like the apostles. To be an apostle means that you have learned about Christ and you are on mission to share what you have learned that others might become disciples. Jesus prays about his decision. He publicly endorses people whom he knows well. Proving, and this is what's so important for us, proving that he can and will use anyone And I absolutely love this part of this text. And he named his apostles. He took these people, these twelve people, and he called them apostles. Simon, whom he named Peter, and Andrew, his brother. These were the professional fishermen in the boat that we encountered not too long ago, who were done fishing, and Jesus said, Go out to the sea, go back out into the Sea of Galilee. And try again. And they go out and they catch so many fish that they have to call their partners in another boat who happen to be the next two. James and John, the sons of Zebedee. So the first four guys mentioned are small businessmen. Family tradesmen, fishermen, who are called away from their vocation and they leave their nets and their boats and everything and follow Jesus to learn from him. And they become fishers of men. Well, the next group of four is beginning with Philip Bartholomew. Matthew, who also went by the name Levi, a lot of these disciples had two names, a more Hellenistic name and a Hebrew name. Matthew is the same as Levi, the tax collector. And Thomas, who is a twin, and back then, if you were a twin, uh, for example, uh if if I had a twin, we would be called twins. Right? For example, we have some wonderful twins in this congregation. I'll call them out the Shoger Boys, Alec and Josiah. We call them both twins, right? Now are the shogers here or are they on vacation? They're on vacation. Here's a question for you. How well do you know your brother and sisters of Christ? Which one of those guys is older? Alec? Is Alec older? So in the ancient context, Alec, and you guys will have to tell the boys this when they come back, Alec would be Alec Shogur. And his brother Josiah would be the twin. Like copy paste. Josiah would be the paste. Not so flattering to be called Didymus the twin. You were the second one to come along. That's who Thomas is. And Thomas clearly had issues with trusting people. We also know him as the great doubter. Well, what about uh James the son of Alphaeus? Uh Simon, who's called the Zealot? That means he would have been like a terrorist. He would have been in favor of burning down Rome. If he could have, he would have, as a true zealot. The Zealot movement started in 6 A. D. It came to a fiery conclusion in 66 A. D. uh when Masada collapsed and the Romans basically eliminated uh all Jewish resistance Finally ending in 70 A. D. when Jerusalem itself was destroyed. Judas, the son of James, often called Thaddeus. And then Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor. No, a comment about Judas Iscariot. That meant Ish Karioth, Iscariot, man of Karioth. Karioth is a town in southern Judah. All of these other men are from Galilee, from the northern tribes of Israel. Isn't it remarkable that the only one of these men who is actually kindred with Jesus was the one that betrayed him. All of the people that were of suspect spiritual dissension Mixed in with Galileans who'd lost their records proving that they were Judean, that they were half the tribe of Levi that had been preserved in the records. or of the tribe of Benjamin, the only one who could demonstrate his credentials as a good Jew would have been Judas Iscariot. From the same tribe as Jesus, the companion with whom he shared food, who betrayed him. Now what does this tell us? I want you to think about the kinds of people God uses from this list. Peter and Thomas. If you were to be a counselor psychologist and write up a profile of these two guys, they're about as opposite as can be. Peter is all bluster, all fanfare, all gung-ho. Peter will wade in where angels fear to tread. Peter is the apostle who would presume to tell Jesus what Jesus could and could not do. Peter is the one to whom Jesus said, get behind me, Satan, because Peter suggested that Jesus should never die. Peter never hesitated to run his mouth and speak anytime a question came up. He was precocious, bold. Jesus called him the rock because there was a sense of strength and confidence there Cephas Petros. That was his name. Now Thomas. The only thing we know about Thomas was that he was an echo who doubted. He was the second who didn't believe, the slowest to put his faith in the resurrection, the most cautious, the most careful. Isn't it interesting that Jesus, knowing what's in the heart of men, chose both of those guys, one of each. You might be the most bold and confident extrovert in this room. Amen. And praise God. He wants you to serve him. You might be the most. You could even be, let's push it all the way, agoraphobic, introverted. God is delighted to have you as his disciple, and he has a mission for you too. Well, what about Matthew and Simon? Levi was an absolute compromiser with Roman authority. Levi, whose name should have been associated with the priesthood of Israel, goes generally by the name Matthew. his more Hellenized name, and was complicit in the burdensome taxation that Rome exacted from the people of God. Matthew was someone who, in a sense, betrayed his own ethnicity, betrayed his culture, would have been hated by anyone who was of anywhere moderate to conservative in their perspective on the Jewish nation. He would have been despised. He would have been unwelcomed at their feasts and festivals and dinner parties. We saw that in chapter 4 and 5. Now, what about Simon the Zealot? He is completely on the opposite end of that spectrum. He is the one that said, no compromise with Rome. It would be better to kill everyone wearing a red robe that we found. And isn't it humbling to think that Jesus deliberately in his day, when he chose his twelve, named one from each end of the political spectrum of his day? Have you ever thought about that? And now here, let me really blow your mind. There are differences never come up in the ministry of Jesus. Jesus doesn't make an issue of it, and neither do they. Because they are intent upon their real spiritual struggle. They've been sent out to cast demons away. They've been sent to herald not Rome or Jerusalem, but the kingdom of God There's a humbling truth there for Christians in the West who are so addicted to the here and now. We tend in our writing, in our theologies, in our devotions, to not be as mindful of the eternal realities of heaven and hell. based upon what we care about, what we talk about. There's a lesson there for us. So wherever you are on the political spectrum, God bless you. I love you dearly. Let's work together. And those issues that might divide Simon and Levi, who cares? Let me shock you. I really don't. Call people to know Christ as Savior and Lord. Live your life as salt and light. Personally be committed to walking with Jesus, to learn from him, to become like him. And be on mission, that others would join you in keeping their eyes fixed on Christ, speeding the day of his return. And Jesus calls even people like Judas Iscariot. And Jesus indirectly accomplished great things through Judas Iscariot. You know, Jesus receives all the glory and the honor for all of the accomplishments of the twelve when they went out on their preaching missions. And cast out demons and preach the gospel and baptized, as we read in John chapters 1 and 2. And everything that Judas Iscariot did With something much like the preachers did in Philippians chapter 1, who are preaching from false motives. And Paul says, I rejoice that they are preaching the gospel, even if. And that invites me to not be as concerned with what I suspect might be happening in the head or the heart of someone that I don't entirely approve of, or I wouldn't have chosen myself. A lesson I have learned from the inclusion of Judas Iscariot, who would betray Jesus, in the list of the apostles. was driven home for me by someone who is a personal hero of mine as a pastor and a theologian. He's now with the Lord, Dr. James Montgomery Boyce Dr. J. Montgomery Boyce, towards the end of his life, he wrote a little book called Life with the Sun, S-O-N. And he says that he had come to learn. He says this at the time he wrote it. I'm not sure how old he was when he wrote this, but it was towards the end of his ministry. I have come to rejoice every time I catch a whiff of Christ in the life of another. And I'm paraphrasing him there. A whiff! of Christ in the life of another. This is what Paul says when he says, I rejoice every time I think of you and all my prayers for you because of this, your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. Because he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion. Because there's a width of the presence of Christ in your life. A whiff. Just a whiff. We can rejoice. We can labor alongside. We can love Jesus can and will use all manner of people. Jesus can and will use every one of us in this tremendous work of spreading the gospel. Not just in our homes and through our family trees, but in our workplaces, in our neighborhoods, in Columbia and Howard County. Catonsville, Baltimore, Anna Rundel, we have people from Carroll. The gospel is going to go forward. We are a part of it, and you are a part of it. And not just here. Over these next weeks, we're going to be hearing a lot about missions. We have a remarkable opportunity coming up on March 9th that weekend. We're going to have a man and his wife from Zimbabwe here, Joram, and uh I'm gonna mispronounce her name, Sandy. I know you're here. And Eva. Get to know them, be excited for their mission. We can participate in that. There are places all over the world, our partners in Brazil and Japan. There are opportunities to minister to people from around the world that come here, and there will be opportunities for us to go there. Isn't it an amazing thought that a church like ours can be a place from which the gospel resounds through apostolic-sentedness? as we go forth and carry the gospel everywhere. Starting here and never ending. Do you believe that God can work through you? Do you believe that God would pick you and name you? Someone I would send. Do you believe that God can use you in a leadership role? Because God has ordained that all of us who bear his image rule and reign over creation in his name and for his glory. Going straight back to Genesis. When we're given dominion. And you are a spiritual authority, every one of you, over something somewhere, whether it's your families, whether it's your neighborhoods. Do you recognize that Jesus named you to be, if you will, his vice regent in bringing his kingdom to that part of this world? Can God work through a Christian with whom you have great disagreement? Do you graciously and with joy celebrate the fact that there are Christians who have different ideas about what should be done regarding Rome? Can you labor alongside them? And if Jesus were to send you out two by two as he sent his apostles, would you be okay with him pairing you up In a manner that might not please the flesh. Boy, that's a deep thought, isn't it? And are you, dear brother and sister, committed to prayer? Is it the foundation of your decisions, especially your big ones? Prayer. Prayer is of such power, of such need. And it is so rarely relied upon. I want to personally challenge each and every one of you. Over these next weeks, when we look at the Sermon on the Plain, make it your point to pray about the substance of Jesus' teaching. Diligently seek out how you can apply it. And ask yourself, with whom can I share this? Recognizing that you are one of many, many workers, Jesus sends into the harvest fields Whether your harvest field is measured in square feet or miles or nations, we are a part of something unbelievable. Unbelievable. We are a part of that by the grace of God and power of His Spirit. Let's rise up and get on mission. Amen. I invite any of you who have any questions or thoughts. Any of you who are uh concerned about whether or not Jesus has called you into following him, learning from him, participating in his mission. We'll have members of a prayer team up here at uh on the this uh I've been given a little bit of trouble for calling this the southeast corner. So south south, but in any event, so we'll call it the front left corner. So head on up there and people will pray with you following the service. Let's pray now. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for the gift of life that we have in Christ. Lord, the high privilege of being called to be a disciple. The high privilege of hearing the voice of Jesus say to us, follow me, whether we heard that through a song, whether we heard that through a sermon or a conversation. In a quiet moment in our conscience, Lord, thank you for that invitation. Thank you for the grace by which we said, Yes, Lord, here I am. And Lord, thank you for the great call to mission, to be active, to be sent. Lord, send us where you will. Send us here, send us there. Send us to Columbia, send us to Lord Zimbabwe. Father, in all of these things we give you the glory and the praise and thanksgiving. You are a great God, worthy of our praise, and we would live for you. All God's people said