At least be there. And so we're coming down to just eight last weeks in this facility. And as we began to think about that last spring and began to pray, what is God's word to us during this last period of time? In our facility here. And uh the more I prayed about that, the more I considered that, the more I became convinced that what God's word to us at this point in our life as a congregation should be is from the book of Nehemiah. I really believe that Nehemiah speaks to our situation in a prophetic way that we need to hear Why is that? Well, first of all, Nehemiah is about construction. It's about the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem after the Babylonian exile. And so there's an obvious tie-in there with a construction project that we're entering, you know, that we're just finishing up now But more importantly, Nehemiah connects the physical construction of walls with the rebuilding of people's lives. And you see the example of that on the back side of your bulletin, where you see the two columns, the connection between broken walls and broken people. And so we're reminded that the reason that we are building the walls is not simply so that we can serve ourselves and have another nice facility, but it's an it's a ministry center. That's what it's called, Columbia Presbyterian Ministry Center. So that we are going to have a base of operation for ministering in the broken lives of people in our community. Nehemiah interweaves those two ideas, chapters 1 to 6, particularly focusing on the walls, chapters 7-13, focusing on the people. So we'll be looking at that and seeing the connection between the bricks and the mortar and the people's lives in Nehemiah. Thirdly, Nehemiah is a classic illustration of the principles of Ephesians chapter 4 that we looked at in the spring and the summer. Saints being equipped for ministry. Because in Nehemiah you see everybody on the wall. Everybody is involved in this project of the construction as well as the ministry. Nehemiah himself is not a preacher. He's not a priest. He's not a prophet. You know what Nehemiah was? He was a government worker. Anyone identify with that? Not only that, but he worked for a secular government, a godless secular government. Anybody identify that? Well, you know, you get the point. Nehemiah was a lay government worker who God used in ministry. And so we see here a pattern. For us in our own situation. In fact, Nehemiah is a case study, as you see I titled the series, a case study for rebuilding a broken culture. And so the last thing as to why is that Nehemiah articulates for us seven principles that our church needs to understand and to act upon at this point in the life of our church, in order for God to not set us aside. You know, so many congregations through the years Have had a zeal for the Lord. And they're radical in their thinking and their ideas for ministry. And then they get a facility and all of a sudden things become comfortable. Say, hey, we've arrived. Now we're a real church. And it becomes so easy for that church to become A fortress that is an imposition against the community rather than a base of operation to reach the community. And Nehemiah gives us seven principles to keep that from happening. And so as we look at these seven principles over eight weeks, my prayer is that we will hear and believe, and God will change us and will make us Prepared for the work that He is leading us into. God, I believe, is going to stretch us, stretch our faith, and give us unprecedented opportunities as we move into this new phase of our existence And so as we do this, I'm really excited, not only about the series, but I believe that God has prepared you as a people. And that you are receptive to this, that you will be open to these principles. In fact, I'll tell you to be honest, as I've been going through this book of Nehemiah, it has convicted me more than I anticipated. It has humbled me. More than I thought it would. I'm not sure if I would have looked at it if I had thought it was going to challenge me as much as it's been doing. It's really causing me some grief. But I believe that there are many of you who are more open to what God is saying. through this than I have been in my own life. So what I'd like for us to do as we just begin now to look at this God's word to us. Not my series. It's just me as the messenger. You're passing on what I believe God wants to speak to you. Let's bring our hearts before Him for just a moment now and ask Him to teach us through this series. Let's each of us now bow before Him. Lord, we see in this part of your word a people who were weak sinners just like us. But they became available to you, and it was astounding what you did through them. You did what seemed to be impossible, And we're reminded through this that we serve a risen Savior who has conquered death and who has given your spirit. And that you want to do things that would even to us right now seem impossible if we were to think of what you will do through this congregation in the next five years. And Lord, we want to be prepared for that. We want to be open to your spirit. We want to be teachable. We want for this word to come and to speak to us, to challenge us and to point us to Jesus. Jesus. Because Lord, we know that it is not by hearing this word and simply disciplining our flesh to determine to do better that we will be able to do better. But only as we recognize our helplessness and see that you are the one who needs to give us New hearts. You are the one who needs to work into us the character of a Nehemiah. And you are the one who goes before us in all the things that you're leading us to do. So, Lord, make each of us now teachable and open to you. Not thinking how this applies to other people or other churches or anything except what it says. To me. Speak, Lord, and let your servants hear for Jesus' sake. Amen. Having said all that now, let us come to hear God's word from Nehemiah chapter one. If you haven't found it, you know it's They're between Ezra and Esther. Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Job, and then the big one, Psalms. Okay, so you could find Psalms and then you back up a couple. Nehemiah chapter one, verses one to four. The words of Nehemiah, the son of Hakaliah, in the month of Kisleph in the 20th year, while I was in the citadel of Susa , And Anai, one of my brothers, came from Judah with some other men, and I questioned them about the Jewish remnant that survived the exile, and also about Jerusalem. They said to me , those who survived the exile and are back in the province are in great trouble and disgrace. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates have been burned with fire. When I heard these things, I sat down and I wept. For some days I mourned and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven. And I would suggest to you that chapter 1 verse 4 is the key verse to the book of Nehemiah. It's the key verse, and if you mark your Bibles, mark that, write key verse, or a little star, or circle, or do something. something, because I believe it's the key to understanding what happens through the book of Nehemiah. Because you see in my Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 4, a passion that expresses itself through prayer and purpose. That's the first series of blanks in your outline. Nehemiah 1. 4 records a passion that expresses itself in prayer and purpose. And we'll be unfolding and unpacking that in the weeks ahead, but at least get that basic principle down Now in order to understand that we need to look a little bit more closely at the situation, in case you aren't right up on your Jewish history during the time of Nehemiah, let's review a little bit about what was going on at this time. Nehemiah opens in December of 446 BC. About 141 years before that, the Babylonians had come into Jerusalem and they had sacked the city. They had utterly destroyed it. They had destroyed the temple, burned it to the ground. And they had taken the remnant of the exiles that had not been removed before that, and they carried them off in chains to Babylonia. The people thought that this was the end of the kingdom of God. God had utterly abandoned them. We've prayed, and God has not hurt us. Where is God in all of this trouble? And the people were devastated. By what seemed to be the end of God's work in their midst. But Jeremiah prophesied at that time: don't worry, seventy years from now, God is going to restore a remnant of you back to Jerusalem. And true to what God said, in fact, in 67 years after the first exiles had been removed, in 538 B. C. Cyrus told the Jews, the home. Go home and rebuild your city. And so, under his a rubbable, about 50,000 Jews left Babylonia and they took off back to Judea in order to rebuild the city. Ezra came and there was a great deal of enthusiasm. As Chuck recounted, they rebuilt the temple. Some said, well, it's not so hot compared to Solomon's, and others said, hey, it's God's word And they finished that in 516 BC, about 70 years before the book of Nehemiah begins. Now, after they finished the temple and there was all the celebration of what God was doing and this renewal and revival at that time, then they got to work on the city. And so the people began to rebuild the walls and they entered into the project because the city at that time wasn't a city without walls. We didn't have the suburbs and everything sort of, you know, just crawling out. You know, there was a city and that was demolished Marked by the walls. And as they began that work, they were proceeding fairly well, except that there were some people who were enemies in that area. Who were threatened by a walled city of Jerusalem and a bunch of Jews coming in, just as the Palestinians today, and all the peace talks that we're hearing have the same kinds of feelings. So they reported to Artaxerxes. These people are disloyal. They're rebels. Watch out. They get that city built. You're in trouble. Artaxerxes believed them. Artaxerxes was the king during the beginning of the Book of Nehemiah. And about 12 years before this book begins, in 558 BC, Artaxerxes sent a contingent of soldiers and they said, that's it, guys, stop the building project. Now we think we have problems with Howard County. You know, I mean they do everything it seems to try to stop the building project. Everything from having to dig roads and stuff up pipes and cover I mean you couldn't believe what we got to do just to contain the water. I'm not going to get started on this. But you know, sometime you can take a look at I think half of what we're paying is for the building. The other half is for Howard County regulations Well, that's nothing compared to what they had to do back here. Arta Xerxes didn't give them regulation. He gave them one regulation that said, stop, that's it, no more. So you know, compared to that, we don't have it so bad. Well, not only apparently did he stop the building project, he also destroyed what they had done. You see what verse 3 says That they not only now is the wall not built, it's broken down and its gates have been burned with fire. Now again, that was probably about 12 years before Nehemiah. And so Nehemiah is 800 miles away in Susa, in what is now Iran, east of the Tigris River. He is serving as a cupbearer to King Artaxerxes, the Persian emperor, in his winter residence. Nehemiah, you must remember, is a real person. He lived in real history. Nehemiah is not a fairy tale. This is not a story to illustrate religious principles. Nehemiah lived in a real place, and French archaeologists in the 19th century uncovered this palace, the winter residence of Arta Xerxes, that Nehemiah served in. You could go there right now and you could see the remnants of that palace. And so Nehemiah, one day, he hears that there has been a contingent of people that have gone to Jerusalem and they've come back. And he's concerned. Every Jew's heart is in Jerusalem, and we've been reminded of that recently in the news. And so as Nehemiah hears of these people, one of them apparently was his flesh and blood brother Hamana. And they've come back, and he says, What's the news from Jerusalem? Twelve years ago things came to a grinding halt. What's the progress? What's happening there? And they say, well the only good news is we came back. Everything else is pretty bad. The walls are in disrepair and the people are in dis Utter disgrace. Verse 3 again. Those that survived the exile and are back in the province are in great trouble and disgrace. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down and its gates have been burned with fire. One of the things we'll see about Nehemiah in the weeks to come is he's a passionate person. And his passion is expressed in his response here in verse 4, and we see it through four words that are used to describe his response. First of all, he wept. That's the first one. Verse 4. When I heard these things, I sat down and I wept. Now you notice that he didn't just weep a few tears. He sat down and he wept. He broke down when he heard this news. He said, Things are worse than I ever imagined that they would be. And Nehemiah is utterly crushed by it. It affects him. Now, this is hard for us because, you know, all of us have emotional circuit breakers. An emotional circuit breaker is what trips off when you get overloaded with too much emotion. And we can turn on our televisions or listen to the car radio, and we can hear enough news and despair of murders and rapes and violence and all this kind of stuff. On the evening news to send us into depression for a week, can't we? On any one night. In fact, that came home to me when I realized that in the series of all these things, when an utter tragedy of a horrendous magnitude hits us like an the summer, the flood of the Midwest, it's hard for us to really enter into that, isn't it? I mean it's just kind of like, boy, I'm glad it wasn't here. You know, because our worlds we see so much hurt and pain that at a certain point, and we all have different capacities, we kind of trip off. We say, I just I can't deal with that. I can't deal with one more homeless person saying that they'll work for food. I can't deal with one more broken family in my neighborhood I can't deal with one more tragedy, one more tale of violence, senseless violence, or whatever it is. And we shut down. I believe that one of the things that happens as we become Christians is that the Holy Spirit intends to increase our capacity to hurt with the pain of other people. When's the last time that you heard about a real life situation of either God's people or someone that you knew or cared about? And you wept for that. I think of a situation in my own life not long ago when I told about something that had really hurt me, and I described it to somebody who was working with And their tears filled with eyes, and they began to weep. And that really moved me because I thought, I wasn't weeping for myself. And here's this person weeping for me. When's the last time you or I heard about someone else's situation? And we were moved to break down and to Weep for the pain in their lives. I see I told you about the situation last January when my mom died. In our home, and I saw as she died and felt her body grow cold, and I wept, I sobbed, I broke down. But that's so unusual And Nehemiah, when he heard about what was happening in Jerusalem, he sat down and he wept. Because Nehemiah knew that that broke God's heart. And because it broke God's heart, it broke his heart. And Nehemiah not only wept, but the second thing that we see here is that he mourned. He mourned. When I heard these things I sat down and I wept, and for some days I mourned. You see, this goes beyond the weeping. It wasn't that he just had a good cry and got it over with and said, Well boy, you know, that is really rotten. That's a bummer. But hey, they're 800 miles away. And I got work to do here. Let's remember Nehemiah was in a very comfortable position. Nehemiah was essentially on the cabinet of the most powerful secular government on earth at that time. Alright, so he'd be kind of a comparable to being in President Clinton's cabinet. Because the Bible tells us in verse eleven of chapter one that he was a cupbearer to the king, and that doesn't mean much to us. Well, he would carry cups around, you know. No. Well, it's not really what it means, you know. What it means is, just like all of our bureaucratic titles, you know, I mean you take the the cabinet and they'd say, Well this guy does this, what's he doing? Who knows? You can't tell by the title, you know. What it means is that Nehemiah had as his job to taste the king's food, just to make sure that if somebody was going to poison him, then the king would see Nehemiah turn green. and double over and he don't. I think I'll avoid that course and move on to the next one. But he had also just a lot of other things. He tasted the wine and he did the other But you see, the fact that he was in constant association with the king made him a kind of an informal advisor to the king. And so he was a person seen to have tremendous power. Now his job description said: wear a McDonald's happy face before the meals and make sure you eat everything before the king does. But his influence went far beyond that. Nehemiah is in a very comfortable situation. Technically, you could say he's a slave, but that would not describe his position at all. wasn't a slave anymore and a lot of people on our cabinets in our executive positions to their companies today are slaves. In fact some of them are more slaves than Nehemiah was. Nehemiah had a lot of power. He was in a very comfortable position But he looks at Jerusalem and he says, Jerusalem is God's city. Jerusalem is at the center of the plan of God's redemption. Jerusalem is the place where Messiah is to come and to rule. And if there's no Jerusalem, then God's promises are void. If there's no Jerusalem, Jerusalem is the place where God's people are to worship. It's where they're to sacrifice, it's where they're to have the festivals. Jerusalem is the very heart of God's plan of redemption. Jerusalem is the place where God mobilizes his people to reach the world. And Nehemiah looks at Jerusalem and he says, Jerusalem is in shambles. And my life can't go on in comfort when I see that. See, Nehemiah didn't have the option because of the way he was built to say, well, that's 800 miles away. I hope it works out. For them, and I'll pray every once in a while that God will work there. Nehemiah mourned for several days. Not only did he mourn, but the Bible tells us he fasted. That's the third thing Hey, now we're talking about real problems. The guy skipped food. I mean, you know, when you go without food and you start missing meals, then we're talking about serious disturbance, right? Now you've got to remember, when we're talking about Nehemiah missing meals, that's not like you or me missing meals. What's his job? He's a professional eater. Right? So this guy has got Clyde's banquet and King's Contrivance laid out every day before him. And he's supposed to sample it. So what does it mean when Nehemiah says, I mourned and I fasted? Well, I don't think it means you spit the food out at the king and say, Oh, I'm not going to touch it. What it means is he's saying, I did my duty there, but I went home and I couldn't. eat. I couldn't eat anyway. And the king said, come on, have some more. He said, well no thanks. That's okay. I want to diet. He wasn't allowed to look sad, you see. So he couldn't say, I really feel pretty depressed, you know Because that could be worth his life. So he fasted in private. But Nehemiah says, I'm so disturbed by this. For some days, we don't know how many days he fasted. Three days, four days, seven days. We don't know. He prayed for four months. We don't know how long he fasted. But when is the last time that you or I fasted not only for something in our own life, something that we said, I am so disturbed by this that I have got to do serious business with God. I am going to miss some meals. I am going to fast until I see God's hand working But when's the last time we fasted because we saw something that was on God's heart about his people? There was a rubble. There was something that was not the way it should be in the Church of Jesus. Jesus Christ, and we said, I cannot continue in my life as is until I see God work in that situation. I'll tell you, when you begin to see the church in America Mourning and weeping and fasting, you will know that revival is not far off. Amen. That is supernatural. We have a lot of meetings going on. We have a lot of projects going on. We are excited about what we are seeing being built over on 108. Because when God's People begin to weep and to mourn and to fast. Because every revival is preceded by weeping and mourning. And fasting is preceded by people who can no longer live in the status quo. God's people have a holy unrest that says things cannot continue in the rubble. Of the way that they are. And our society is producing rubble at an unprecedented scale. Not rubble of walls, but human rubble that we are seeing all about us. And as you and I begin to see that, and we begin to understand it, and we begin like Nehemiah to begin to to have a heart that beats with God's heart so that when we look and we say, this situation is breaking God's heart. And you know what's breaking God's heart? today. It is that Jerusalem was the people of God in that time. And the people of God today, the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, is in rubble. And I believe that that is breaking God's heart. We are not the glory of the earth. We are not a people. Who have a risen Savior and are able to take Jesus Christ and His transforming power and make the connections to the brokenness of our society. What's happening? We are losing ground. We are losing the influence upon our society. society. In 1960, since 1960, the American population has increased 41%. Violence has increased over 500% in that same time period. Right now, if you're a child born in 1993, the odds are you will not grow up with your father and your mother. Mother who bore you. You have a better chance of being taken from at least one of them during the time of your childhood than you do of living with them. Over sixty percent of black children in this country are born to single parents and do not have a father that they associate with. Twenty percent of the children in this country live under the poverty line because they're living with a single parent who's not able to make any money. The fragmentation of our homes, the increasing violence, teen suicides, sexual abuse, and other kinds of abuse are making a rubble of our society. And do we see in powerful ways the Church of Jesus Christ being an agent of healing? Do we see that people look and they say, well, you know, we have all these problems, but we can see that the Christian churches within our society are the place to go because they are beginning to bring about the healing that our society needs. No, we don't see that, do they? They look at us as irrelevant. That breaks God's heart. And when you and I spend time in God's Word, it needs to break our hearts too. And I'll tell you, I've been convicted by that. I've been really convicted as I've looked at this and seen the kind of a man that And I began to see what what it was that produced in his heart a heart that beats with God's heart, so that when he saw the rebel in Jerusalem, his Life could not go on as it was before. He wept, he mourned, he fasted, and he prayed. And the fourth item he prayed is what we're going to look at next week, so we're not going to spend time on that now. But you see the cause that we've looked at? Broken walls and broken people. The disrepair of the walls and the despair of the people. And so you see those things listed. I don't have uh I don't need to take the time to go through them. We'll be looking at them more In the weeks to come. But just notice that Nehemiah chapters 1 to 6 and 7 to 13 deal with these two ideas. The rebuilding of the walls and the rebuilding of the community. The physical reconstruction associated with spiritual reformation of the people. The construction of the walls associated with the instruction. of the people. Renewed walls and a renewed people. And Nehemiah puts it together because he's both the builder of the walls and the governor of the people And this is a model for you and for me, as God brings us into a new phase of our identity as a church. You see, the principle that was on the front part of the bulletin that God wants for you and for me, I believe, to gain from this beginning of Nehemiah the number one One principle is that you and I need to cultivate a passion for what is on God's heart. When you and I look at our society and we read the news, we need to pray to be able to see it the way the Lord Jesus sees it himself. And as we see that, we need to be able to have the emotional response of a Nehemiah. And that's a supernatural thing. You can't conjure that. You can't generate that. That comes from being in his word. That comes from being able to understand what God is doing in history. And being sensitized to sin, not desensitized by simply hearing about it so much that you begin to think, well, if there's any shred of decency, I guess I'll settle For that. And so is Nehemiah, our heart needs to break the things that break God's heart in the human rubble of Alice. We need to see ultimately that Nehemiah Is a portrayal of the Lord Jesus. And so as we begin this study, I want to just help you to see that as we look through this book, it points us to Jesus, who is the fulfillment of everything that Nehemiah Nehemiah typified. For Nehemiah was comfortable, as I said, and far removed from the rubble. And yet he left the palace in order to go to serve the people. The Lord Jesus lived not in an earthly palace, but in a palace of infinite glory in heaven. In an Exodus chapter 3, we read that God's heart is such that when he saw the bondage of his people in Egypt, he said, I have heard my people's cry. And I have come down to deliver them. And so the Lord Jesus Christ came down out of infinite glory and majesty, with no needs unministered to in any possible way. He took on the form of a human being, servant. Jesus came to see his people as sheep without a shepherd. He says he had compassion on us. Jesus came to his Jerusalem, his people, and he said, Ah, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often would I have gathered you to me, as a hen gathers her chicks. But you would not. Jesus went into Jerusalem. And Jesus came and bore the sin of Jerusalem, his people, you and me. And he bore our bondage, and he bore our guilt, and he bore our shame, and he bore your sin. All those, not only the sins of the commission. But all the sins in your life and mine of the omission, the lack of caring for other people. Jesus bore the guilt of that, and you are freed from that this morning. Because of the death and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. He's in the process of rebuilding the walls of your life. And he has said that he's going to prepare a place for it. And he's rebuilding that place that is going to be the new Jerusalem The place of the abode of God's people with him. Do you know what that Jerusalem is like? Read Revelation 21 21 when you get home. today. John says when you see that new Jerusalem sun up there on a hill, it's like pure crystal and shining. The walls of that Jerusalem are two hundred feet thick, made of pure jasper. The stones of the Jerusalem and the streets are pure gold. It's got twelve foundations around that wall, and each has a gate to it. There are twelve gates around that wall. And you know what the gates are made of? Each gate is made of one single pearl And the gates are never shut because there are no enemies. There's no one to shut out of that heaven. Jesus says, that's where I'm going to have you come to be with me as my people. And yet yet perhaps You wonder here this morning, what about in my own current pain? Does he really care? How can I feel that my God cares Turn to Isaiah chapter 46, 49 That same question was asked by Zion, who said, The Lord has forsaken me. The Lord has forgotten me in verse 14. And God's answer in verse 15 is, can a mother forget the baby at her breast? And have no compassion on the child that she is born. Though she may forget, I will not forget you. See, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands your walls. Are ever before me. The Lord Jesus assures you this morning he has not forgotten your pain. Your walls are ever before you. He comes not only to deliver you in that pain or from that pain, but to create in you and me as heart to begin to experience the compassion of Jesus, the ability to also then feel the pain of other people. And begin to enter into the things that break down God's heart so that He's able to use us in the lives of others. Cultivate in your walk with Him a heart that feels That's the first step of preparation for the new ministry God has for us. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that this morning you would enable us to feel the compassion of that Lord Jesus who so infinitely more than a Nehemiah. Came from his comfort to rebuild our lives. And to know that we are ever before you, as a child before a mother. And even more so. Lord, we pray that you would give to us as a people hearts that beat with your heart and break with the things Break your life. Lord, I need you to do that in my life. Increase my capacity for compassion. That's a supernatural thing. I cannot do that. None of us can do that. that we ask you to work in us the work of your spirit and the power of the Lord Jesus as we love him to make us a tender people like Nehemiah. We ask you to do that because it pleases you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Right.