Thank you so much, Nicole and Lydia and Jeff, for painting the picture that uh Jesus gives of the father who had two sons And the reception that the prodigal received. Thank you, Jeff, for um for leading our uh our songs and for praying for us. You know, Jeff is uh a man under care of our Presbytery. Uh is a Master of Divinity student at the Reformed Theological Seminary and it's been exciting for us to be working um with him, uh, and uh giving him opportunities to uh to test gifts and to uh discern God's call in his life. So we um you might see more of that occurring And uh we look forward to uh to that. We look forward to Randy Lovelace coming and joining our staff here in the next week or two. And uh we heard a report That Alan and Kathy Harris actually made it to Cape Cod. Praise be to God. Those of you who uh were with them up until the last moments of packing and uh moving vans that look too small for too much stuff and all the other things. Uh it is uh it was good news to hear indeed, uh Alan. Um Report that they were there and now they're going to get settled in. So praise God. If you have a copy of the scriptures, I want to invite you to turn to Hebrews chapter twelve We're going to look at uh some of the verses uh from verse one to eleven. I want to read those aloud. See what the Lord has in store for us today. Hear God's word then Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and he chastises every son whom he receives It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share in his holiness. For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness. To those who have been trained by it. God's word for us You may have heard me tell this story before. I asked permission from Kala and Kyle to tell this again. My nine-year-old daughter Cala, my eight-year-old son Kyle, but this story happened about six years ago. 2005. In fact, it was June from my notes. So six years ago almost to the day. Cala was three, Kyle was two, and I had been working in the other room at the dining room table, and I heard the voice of my wife correcting three-year-old Kala about something. None of us can recall what it was But Kala didn't seem to be in the mood to repent. And so Dana continued with the correction. And I was overhearing this from the other room and being the um Good father that I am, decided eventually to get up and go see what the ruckus was all about. And I came around the corner and I remember coming around the corner and raising my voice, my fatherly voice. so that they would know that there was a serious and somber tone and they should respect their mother in all things. And as I raised my voice I remember gesturing with my hand so that they would indeed get the point. But the moment became lost because wide eyed three year old Kala Took her hands and covered her hindquarters and began to back away slowly from her earthly father. And if I hadn't noticed that, I would have soon noticed that her two-year-old shadow, Kyle also covered his that place on the body where God has made it appropriate to give spanking with both his hands and with fear-filled eyes backed away from their loving, compassionate, tender, caring, earthly father. And you say, what's up with that? Why create the distance Between the Father who loves them so much and would lay down his very life for them Why create that distance between me and thee? I know who I am. I know the motive By which and from which I was deciding to do what I was doing? Why this motion? A lack of knowledge, a lack of understanding, and certainly in this example, maybe a track record of the sinner that God placed Over them. But it's the Father's hand that administers corporal punishment. When it's deemed necessary to produce repentance. But it's that same hand that flips Saturday morning pancakes and sprinkles extra powdered sugar. It's the father's hand that causes pain when it grabs the forearm of a toddler who's running in the parking lot with cars driving all around And that pressure of the father's hand is exerted for safety's sake. But that same father's hand applies the antibiotic and the band-aid over a skinned knee and gently wipes away the tears from the bike rider in the cul -de-sac The scriptures are filled with examples of the anthropomorphism of God's hand at work. And on Father's Day, it is good and a fitting and appropriate thing, I believe, for us to look at the Father, the Heavenly Father. The beautiful Son and the Spirit of Light and Truth to worship Him in newness and a fuller knowledge of His sovereign love for His people You see several examples there in your bulletin outline in Deuteronomy 4 and 5 and 7. God was Glorifying himself as he said, I will take a nation from among nations, and by force I will take this nation to myself by wonders and signs with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. I the Lord will do this. In Joshua 4, God tells Joshua, Joshua, I've dried up the Red Sea, the Jordan River as well, so that the whole earth would know that the hand of the Lord is mighty. You see, 1 Samuel 5 and 6, the same thought. 1 Chronicles 4. 10. Remember Jabez? Don't hear much about him. But the prayer he prayed was that the Lord's hand would be with him and that he would be kept free from pain. The amazing ending of verse ten in 1 Chronicles 4 is that the Lord granted what he had asked. The hand of the Lord. God encourages us in Isaiah 41 to fear not. He's with us. He will strengthen and help us. Uphold his people with what? His righteous right hand. Psalm 10, the comfort of God's hand, is described. In Job 19, we see that the hand of God is described in sometimes not so pleasant terms. In Job 19, Job in desperate straits cries out for mercy, claiming that the source of his distress is that the hand of God has touched me. In Isaiah 45 and verse 7, the prophet speaks for the Lord, I am the Lord and there is no other. I form light. I create darkness, I make well-being and create calamity, I am the Lord who does all these things Lamentations three. Who has spoken and it has come to pass, unless the Lord has commanded it? Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come? In Amos 3, a trumpet is blown in the city, and people are afraid. Disaster comes on the city unless the Lord has done it. In Ecclesiastes 7 In the day of prosperity, the writer says, be joyful. And in the day of adversity, consider this. God made the one as well as the other, so that man may not find out anything that will be after him. In other words, so that God is in all and through all, and God is to be glorified and worshiped in that In the time of God's tender mercies, we respond. In worship and praise and thanksgiving. But in the time of God's severe mercies, sometimes we back away and shrink in fear Because we don't understand what we need to. The text in Hebrews 12 is a source of encouragement for all of us. As we encounter life in this present age, we need to understand more of who God really is, the full expression of our Heavenly Father. Each of us has the pain of living in this present age Doesn't matter what age you are in this room, doesn't matter what gender, where you grew up, where you reside currently. To live in a fallen world is to live in the midst of brokenness. And to claim the name of Christ Actually adds to that. Jesus said, the world hated me, it will hate you also We need to be honest with ourselves that sometimes adversity comes our way as a result of our sin. Consequences are real and sometimes lasting in this life from the Iniquity that springs forth from our heart. Sometimes adversity comes our way in the form of sickness and pain, and we realize that it's not a result of anything we've done. But the sobering truth that we live in a fallen world. Sometimes adversity comes our way Specifically because we are his disciples. The time to prepare for suffering is today If we were preaching this yesterday, I would have said the exact same sentence. Because the time to prepare for suffering in this life is now. Whenever it is now In this life, Jesus promised, you will have hardship. But remember, be of good cheer, for I have overcome the world. The writer of Hebrews is with loving and powerful pastoral concern, writing to his beloved. The people that he has seen embrace the gospel, and he wants to encourage them with the truth that when they encounter adversity, they are not to shrink away from the loving hand of the Heavenly Father. but to in fact run to it. Run to God. Cling to God in this time. So I want to make four points from this passage. Four points of encouragement for you Encouragement that we gain from these truths. The first is we gain encouragement from the truths of the gospel itself. We're going to look at that. We gain encouragement also from the doctrine of God's sovereignty. Don't go to the restroom for that point. You're going to miss what you need. The third thing we look at today is that we gain encouragement from the love of God so rich and true. And the fourth point, we gain encouragement from the fact That only in the wisdom of God, only in the wisdom of God, does the pain of this life make any sense at all. So we consider God's loving sovereignty when human sorrow and divine providence intersect. First our encouragement from the truth of the gospel. You see the writer here says he's just finished chapter eleven talking about all of the uh the heroes of the faith, men and women who, uh despite incredible odds and adversity, placed their faith in a sovereign God who saw them through by his great faithfulness. And then he says in chapter 12, therefore, since we have this great cloud of witnesses, these who have completed the race, These who have uh ended their life with their faith intact because this great cloud of witnesses looks on Then let me testify to the preserving power of the living God in our lives as well. The gospel truth contains the fact that we're not the only segment of the church that exists. From the time that God revealed Himself to man and began to make promises and keep those promises and find those promises all fulfilled in Christ, we join with that. Multitude, the millions who will gather at the throne at the marriage supper of the feet of the Lamb. To gather at that worship service that no mind has conceived, no ear has heard, no eye has seen, the joy and wonder of that time. Those who have gone before, those who will follow from that great cloud of witnesses. This is the gospel truth. And each of us then who have claimed the name of Christ are called to this endurance race. It's tough. Life is tough. Can I get it? Amen. Right? You all got the email from our brother and sister and Belavos, and we've seen emails like that, too many We've received the diagnosis. Cancer. And it's intense and aggressive. This is an endurance race. And it's a race of faith And the focus of our faith is not each other. How's Rick and Ellen going to handle this? No, they point us to Jesus Christ and we point them to To the same author and perfecter, the founder of our faith, the one who was a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. He encountered shame. Look what the writer of Hebrews says. We look to Jesus, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. And he is now seated at the hand, the right hand, the seat of power at the throne of God. Throne of God, that we've been invited to come boldly into that throne of grace in our time of need. So we look to Jesus together as God's people. That's the gospel. He shed his own blood. He is victorious over all that would seek to enslave us and keep us ineffective, keep us living in fear. Jesus Christ has conquered death and hell. The greatest enemies that you and I could ever experience have been put. To death in Christ. And in this present age, we walk by faith, not by sight, not by senses, not by how it feels. Not by what we can hold on to, but by faith in the author and finisher of our faith Jesus took joy in the privilege of doing the Father's will. He also took joy in the knowledge that he would one day be reunited with his heavenly Father. That that Relationship that Dan preached about last week, that relationship that was broken because of our sin, severed because of our sin between the Father and the Son, and restored so wonderfully. In the victorious resurrection of our Lord, where he turns our face to his and he blesses us, and face-to-face intimate union take place. It's too wonderful. Too wonderful for the likes of us. And yet, it's ours in Christ. Praise God. Richard Phillips puts it this way. He rejoiced at the knowledge of what his suffering and death would accomplish, namely the redemption of a people for himself. Jesus rejoiced because he saw the crown before the beyond the cross. He saw the purchase of his blood, even the church that would be his bride forever, in the regenerated glory of the endless age to come. Amen. We take encouragement from the truth of the gospel and what it is in total. We also take encouragement from the doctrine of God's sovereignty. We're looking to see if you're heading. To the restroom. God is absolutely sovereign. He ordains all that comes to pass And yet there's something in our sinful flesh, the pride of our heart, that won't receive that truth easily. When we encounter hardship, how often do we acknowledge that everything occurs is ordained by God? And how easy is it for our hearts to sing, Whate my God ordains is right. It's hard to sing that. But there is encouragement to be found in God's eternal decree. Simply put Simply put, he is in charge of all things. Let me expand on that with two paragraphs from the Westminster Confession of Faith. Chapter three on God's Eternal Decree, Paragraph one. God from all eternity did, by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will Freely and unchangeably ordain whatever comes to pass. He's ordered all things in such a way that he is not the author of sin, nor does he force his creatures to act against their wills. Neither is the liberty or the contingency of second causes taken away, but rather Established. In other words, the primary cause, the sovereign God, does not Take away our responsibility. And this is the mystery that we wrestle with: God's absolute sovereignty, man's responsibility. Chapter five on God's providence. The confession says God, the great creator of all things, upholds, directs disposes and governs all creatures, actions, and things from the greatest even to the least. He exercises this most wise and holy providence according to his infallible foreknowledge and the free and unchangeable counsel of his own will to the praise of Of the glory of his wisdom, power, justice, goodness, and mercy. In other words, God does all that he does for his own glory. And nothing can rob him of his glory. In our finite brains and feeble, frail frames, we have a very difficult time, I believe. Understanding what absolute sovereignty is. Sounds like a silly statement to make, right? The finite. Understanding the infinite. R. C. Sprohl is very helpful on this point for me. I want to read another long quote. Bear with me. The sustaining providence of God is driven by His will, and His will is absolutely free. It is bound and determined by no creaturely thing. It is not subject to our whims or actions. His will is not only free Not only free, but immutably so. Nothing can change his freedom or suddenly arise to block it. His counsel remains forever. He does not change his mind because he receives new information or needs to correct an error. He has an eternal plan that contains no defects. There is no plan B for God His counsel is immutable because he is immutable in all that he is. His omniscience does not change. His omnipotence never weakens. His wisdom never falters. His memory never fails. There are no mutations in the divine being or character. In other words, God is in charge. And this is a great comfort in the time of hardship. If you're anything like me, in the time of hardship, you're easily distracted by the pain. Oh, the pain. We're distracted from the glorious truth that God is sovereign. We'll do anything to get away from that truth. Humor, self-medication, whatever, fill in the blank for your own self Because something in us wants to back away from the loving hand of the Heavenly Father. Our text today says, don't back away, run to it. C. S. Lewis, that famous quote, very instructional here. God whispers to us in our pleasures. He speaks in our conscience. But he shouts in our pains. It is his megaphone to arouse a deaf world. And that's what the writer is getting at here. When we encounter adversity We recognize if God is sovereign, then this adversity is from Him. This adversity is part of the plan for my life. This is a part of him conforming me to the image of Jesus Christ. This is God's will for me. And to embrace God's sovereignty in times of adversity is a great encouragement. Hebrews twelve says as much. Have you not forgotten the exhortation Addressing you as sons, quoting Proverbs 3, the writer says, My son, don't regard lightly the Lord's discipline. Don't be weary when reproved by the Lord, for the Lord disciplines those he loves. And he chastises every son whom he receives. The word discipline there carries with it the idea of educating a child. When we educate our children, there is correction involved. So don't lose heart under that discipline. Don't make light. Don't grow weary. And the word here chastises, carries with it this idea of a scourging or a whipping. How about that for a Father's Day sermon? You've heard the notion of a heavenly spanking? This is where it comes from God didn't save us from our sin to leave us exactly where we were when we came to faith. The goal we'll see in just a bit is the holiness of God revealed in and through us. In verse 10 The writer says there's three responsible. I believe there's three responses in view here. It says, don't regard lightly the Lord's discipline. nor be weary when reproved by him. I think you see it This is what I see is that sometimes we forget that God is sovereign, and we have these ones, and maybe there's a mix of combination thereof, these responses. The first is that we forget that God is sovereign. For those who can't see the purpose behind the pain. And they regard lightly the discipline of the Lord. It's from something else. Satan did this. This is my upbringing. This is that person at work This is, you know, my my poor lifestyle or whatever brings it whatever brought this into my life And we make light of the Lord's discipline. We forget that God is sovereign. We don't see the purpose behind the pain. And we just want to get back to the way things are quote unquote supposed to be. Would spare us from ever placing our hope in the way things are supposed to be here in this time frame Because they're not supposed to be this way. We weren't created to be at odds with our Heavenly Father. We weren't created to be tainted by sin. In every fiber of our being. We were created for face-to-face fellowship, and one day that will be restored And it was purchased for us in Christ and is being worked out progressively in our sanctification. The second response is those who forget that God is love. The first is those who forget God is sovereign. The second is those who forget God is love. They can only see the pain. Purpose never even enters their mind. They're crushed by the pain. The writer says, don't grow weary when the Lord disciplines you. Don't be crushed by it. This pain is a part of the process. He promised through the prophet Isaiah, when you walk through those waters , they will not overcome you. For I, the Lord, will be with you. We cling to promises like that. Lo, I am with you even until the very end of the age. We heard already this morning. So a third response is in view. Those who by God's grace don't forget God is sovereign and don't forget God is love and they see the purpose of the correction in spite of the pain. This is a this is a faith walk. This is a gift of God's grace. It doesn't come to natural man. That's why we can read passages like James chapter one and Things that don't on the surface seem to make logical sense. Count it all joy, brothers, when you encounter or meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the test of your faith produces steadfastness. And remember the goal that James points out. All those things are producing righteousness. So we take encouragement from the gospel, we take encouragement from the doctrine of God's sovereignty, and we take encouragement from the love of God, so rich and so true. The writer says, listen, God is treating you as a son, a dearly beloved son or daughter. Calling every daughter, calling every son, those who've been adopted, through a sacrifice of love. This is where it kinda gets a little tricky if you're listening to the message Because this is only for those who believe in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. John chapter one, Jesus uh came bringing grace and and truth, and John records that To them who received him, he gave them the right to be called children of God. We make a mistake when we confuse the world by saying all God's children, that everybody that breathes air is God's child. That's not true according to the scriptures. It's to those who have received him, it's to those who have humbled themselves, it's to those who have confessed that they are sinful and unable to come to God, unable to please God on their own, and they are received by Christ. And they receive him. This truth is for believers. That's what makes pain have purpose. Remember Romans eight? Where Paul is recording for those in Rome So, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh, for if you live according to the flesh, unbelievers, unbelief, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. But you have received the spirit of adoption as sons And by that same Spirit we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children than heirs and heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided listen, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. I don't want to suffer. But that's where it's worked out That's where it's perfected in you and in me. That's where holiness, the goal of God, is achieved. And the writer employs this analogy of our earthly fathers. We had earthly fathers who corrected us and we respected them for us, for it And then I've I've told the illustration I'd probably I wish I had five dollar bill for every time I've used this little silly illustration Because I'd have, you know, a brand new car or something. Small child. Wall receptacle. Metal fork. Small child, metal fork, wall receptacle. Toddling over. Two holes. Two tongs. Looks good. What would an earthly father be if he said, Well, let's just see what happens here. It's a little science experiment going on Go ahead, son. Stick it in there. Uh uh y you know, we say, Man, what is wrong with you? So you correct them. You sternly speak, because you're on your lazy boy with the remote in your hand, and you can't get up to get the fork from the hand. No son, don't do that. Son stops. If you're really effective with a voice, drops fork We all know that correction is necessary. This is not this is not new information And the writer makes sure we know that. We had earthly fathers, and then he says, if we respected them for that, then how much more than the father of our spirits? our Heavenly Father, how much more should we submit to Him? Listen. For they disciplined the verse ten, for they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them But he disciplines us for our good, that we may share in his holiness. And verse 14, strive for peace with everyone, for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. So the goal of his love is holiness in us. And then we're encouraged that from the wisdom of God Is the only thing that makes sense out of the pain of this life. The path from pain to peace For those, verse 11 says, for those who are being trained by it, for those who are enduring the training, for those who are submitting themselves to the training. To those who are not backing away, but saying, God, teach me more of yourself in this trial. When correction comes my way. I need to listen with both ears. What is being said? Where's the truth? Where's the grace? Where can I find more of Christ in this? When adversity comes our way, we do the same thing. Remember, for those who are in Christ, there is no pain without purpose. I want to say that again. For those who are in Christ, there is no pain without purpose. And how do we know? We look to the cross. But please hear my words. For those outside of Christ For those outside of Christ, the pain of this life is merely a precursor To eternal torture and suffering with no end. There are two Only two types of hearts on the planet, those who humble themselves before the Lord, and those who do not And this training, this endurance, it's worked out in the body of Christ. We don't do it well. One another. We we're awkward and we're blunt, sometimes too blunt, sometimes we're not blunt enough Sometimes we shrink back from the truths that we know need to be said, and sometimes we don't shrink back the way we should have. But it is still in this fellowship where we're being trained. In the body of Christ. And just as Kyle observed his big sister backing away, so Kyle also observed in that same encounter that when The hand of the father reached out for a hug. Kala responded, and so did Kyle. That's the way we help one another when we go through trial. If you look through the Trinity Hymnal, you'll see the name William Cooper. He's an Englishman And he had uh pretty bad childhood. Lost his mom when he was a young a young uh lad He went to a boarding school where he was abused by the older um boys in the school, um, ritually abused, constantly the um target of their terror. William Cooper suffered from those dark nights of the soul with depression and mental breakdowns throughout his life. He uh lost his best friend to drowning and he lost his uh stepmother But was greeted by a pastor when he was in a mental asylum, an insane asylum, I guess they called it back there. I don't know what we call it these days. With the truth of Romans three and twenty-five, that the righteousness, the suffering That you are encountering, William, is the righteousness of God has been revealed now through Christ. And the righteous live by faith in the finished work of Christ. And Cooper uh testifies in one of his journals that um that drew him to give him enough strength to believe. And you'll see hymns and different poems and lyrics that Cooper laid down, but one that I think we're very familiar with, God moves in mysterious ways. He continued to suffer with depression and mental illness off and on through his adult life, but he wrote these words, God moves in a mysterious way. His wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the sea and he rides upon the storm Deep in unfathomable minds of never-failing skill, he treasures up his bright designs and works his sovereign will. You fearful saints, fresh courage take the clouds you so much dread Are big with mercy and shall break with blessings on your head. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err and scan his work in vain. God is his own interpreter, and he will make it plain. Let's pray together. Gracious God, help us. Lord, in the name of Jesus, we plead with you to meet us in a particular way, each of us. Only you know where our hearts are with regard to faith in Christ, and so we ask for you to draw us Meet us at the point of our greatest need. Lord, only you know the particulars of our situations. And we ask for you to be so kind. As to reveal again to our mind the truth, the truth of your word That we would rest in the finished work of the gospel, the good news of Christ, that we would uh find great comfort in the sovereignty of God. That Lord, we would know the height and the depth and the breadth and the width of the love of God in Christ Jesus. And that, Lord, your wisdom would be our wisdom That we would see the purpose behind the pain of this world. And that, Lord, we would participate with you then in the process whereby you Help us to mortify the flood, to kill the flesh, and to grow in holiness. We pray all this now in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.