And I thought that coming back into the fall, as we're back together, I'd also revisit that series that we began over five years ago on the names of God. Now for those of you who are fairly new to us, we began this series back in May of 1989. And we have been through so far 48 messages on twelve names of God. Now just so you wouldn't miss everything and have your tongues all hanging out on all this great teaching on God's names, you know. You got the summary sheet there in your bulletin outline that gives you the the first twelve plus the thirteenths we're going to go through. And the basic translation, that's the way it appears in your Bible. Then the meaning, if that meaning is uh expanded on that name, and then the primary scripture that would give you uh an insight to the nature of the meaning of that So you can take a look at that at your leisure afterwards. But let me ask the question which you might be asking as you hear me get back to this series again. Why in the world are you spending so much time on the names of God? Well, that's a fair question. And I would say that one way to look at the answer to that question is to consider what David Wells says in his book, No Place for Truth, whatever happened to Evangelical Theology. And in that book, Wells uh seeks to make the case that without realizing it, uh within a span of just a generation or so We Christians have moved from coming to our understanding of God by going to the Bible to understand what God is like. And letting him set the agenda for our lives based on his character and his nature. Understanding that we don't know him and we need to go to his word to know him. To a switch within the last generation, where now we basically approach the Bible for therapeutic answers. We now come to the Bible with the agenda set by the rampant self-movement within our day that says that what the Bible gives me are answers to help me to overcome my inadequacies and to make me feel good and to be able to live a more fulfilling life. Now Wells says this is kind of like the air we breathe, you know, it's kind of like being in Los Angeles with a smog, you know, you just kinda gradually get used to it if it's not too overwhelming and after a while you just sort of adjust it. And he says it's it's amazing. And he documents this through a number of periodicals and just looking at things over the last few decades To see the shift in emphasis from God-centered Christianity to an utterly man-centered and self-centered kind of Christianity. And so as I've looked at this and I've looked at what God's doing in our midst and I've seen what He has done since giving to us this ministry center and unleashing ministries, equipping the saints for ministry, and all the things we're going to be talking about in the middle of an hour. I hope you come back. In order to understand as that middle hour, we're going to go through the vision of where's God taking us now? Where's the, you know, is there life after the ministry center? You know, what are we going to do? Where's the next challenge? What are we aiming for now in this next year? That we keep in mind that the real need, as I see it, and the elders together as we've discussed this, is for us as a congregation to get back to the basics of discipleship. To recapture again who is our God, what does it mean to walk with Him, to know Him, to be able to come to a more balanced understanding of his great character because we believe that as we know him, our lives will in fact take on their most fulfilling meaning and sense of purpose and the delight that we talked about in the series The Spring and the Summer And one of the best ways to know the character of God is to study his names. Now, the Bible tells us in the Old Testament that God has basically one root name. The name that's traditionally been given Yah Jehovah, but is probably more properly pronounced Yahweh. And there are a lot of compound names that are joined to that in order for us to understand his character. And that name is fulfilled in the New Testament in the fuller revelation of the three persons of God in the names Father, Jesus, and Holy Spirit. But the Bible also is clear that there are at least a couple of dozen names and titles in the Old Testament whereby God is known, whereby he reveals himself in particular ways to show us what he's like. And it's these names that you see summed up, of which we've looked at twelve so far, and we're going to be looking at a thirteenth this month. The one we'll be looking at this month is the name Yahweh Shalom. The Lord is peace. Now, that name appears in Judges chapter 6, verse 24. So if you haven't turned to Judges chapter 6, please do so. Judges was a time not much unlike America in many ways It was a time where the people of God had had a solid foundation of Scripture in their culture. It had shaped their culture. But they were now in a time when they had been rapidly losing the memory of this. They were still a very religious people, but they were no longer following the God of the Bible as he revealed himself in the scriptures. Rather now they were following, as uh Judges says, every man doing what was right in his own eyes. And so the book of Judges carries us through seven cycles. Where the people of God, you would read again and again, they did evil what in the sight of the Lord, there was apostasy, they went away from the Lord, so God brought uh judgment, punishment, brought them into bondage to other nations As a result of that, after a period of time, they would repent. God would then send a deliverer, a judge, someone who would come with specific anointing of the Holy Spirit to rescue them sometimes in supernatural ways and then they were given a period of rest. And then the whole thing would start right over again. They would sin and then they would get into punishment and bondage and they'd repent and they'd be a judge to deliver and they'd re Turn to peace and prosperity. Seven times this happens through the book of Judges, with some other minor times also thrown in. And we're in the fourth here in chapter six of Judges So for the fourth time you read that sentence, again the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord. And for seven years he gave them into the hands of the Midianites. Now the Midianites were the descendants of Midian, who, in case you don't know, is one of the sons of Abraham by his wife Keturah. Do you know Abraham had another wife by the name of Keturah? Genesis chapter 25, verse 1 Through Keturah he had Midian. And Midian was not a son of promise or a son of blessing. Midian was a son of cursing. He was always uh and the people from uh Midian, the Midianites, were always a curse and a thorn in the side of Israel. They were used by God to scourge and to punish Israel. Now, again, as we think about our own situation today, the Bible is always very relevant to our present needs, and we think of how rough we have it. How difficult things in terms of crime and uh the economy and family breakdowns and all the rest of this, we think of how difficult things there are in our own situation in America Look at what the people in that day were facing because they had turned away from God. Look what he says, beginning in verse 2. Because the power of Midian was so oppressive The Israelites prepared shelters for themselves in mountain clefts, caves, and strongholds. Whenever the Israelites planted their crops, the Midianites, the Amalekites, and other eastern peoples invaded the country. They camped on the land and ruined the crops all the way to Gaza and did not spare a living thing for Israel, neither sheep, nor cattle, nor donkeys. They came up with their livestock and their tents like swarms of locusts It was impossible to count the men and their camels. They invaded the land to ravage it. Midian so impoverished the Israelites that they cried out to the Lord for help. Kind of interesting end there. Now this is one of the very first records that you have in all of history of the use of camels in warfare. But you notice there are no battles that are being fought here. Israel was not at war. You see, to get the picture, what you have to understand is that Year after year, Israel would plant their crops, they would t tend them, and they would hope that they were going to be able to have enough for their livestock and for their families and all the rest of this, and then every fall, right about at harvest time There would come over from the east, you see the dust coming off of the plains, as thousands and tens of thousands of Midianites and Amalekites on their camels and their horses would come sweeping from over across the Jordan, and they would come through those harvest fields and they would cut down everything and they would kill Israelites. It was kind of like roving gangs uh within urban um violence that we see in our own cities, people being cut down. No battles, but just the constant terrorizing, the harassment. In fact, the Bible says here that not only Did they just go through and say, Hey, we don't have to grow any crops? You see the Midianites were nomads, they didn't bother growing crops and so they would just come in take off what they could get from Israel, but then they would burn and they would destroy, they would devastate the stuff they didn't take. They just wantonly killed their livestock and they would kill whatever Israelites happened to be in their way And this went on one year, and then the next year, and the next year, and the next year. And the Bible says this has been going on now when Gideon 's on the scene here, and this story picks up for seven years. People are kind of slow learners, aren't they? Every year they keep planting the crops, you know, and hoping they're gonna get a harvest. Every year the Midianites come through and they devastate everything. They're about five, six years they forget the crops, you know. I mean, they just move out. Go to the Acme or you know the Amper, do something. It's not working to try and grow our stuff just to have it all cut down. They were living in caves and clefts of rocks. A terrible situation Constant tension and fear. Now, the Bible then says that after seven years of this, things got so desperate that they even called on the Lord. And these are religious people. But you see what the Bible's telling us is that after seven years, they finally said , Something's wrong about our religion. Something's not working about the way we're doing stuff. Probably very superstitious kinds of religion. And they say, finally, maybe we ought to call out to the God of the Bible as he's revealed himself the way he is. And it's at that point God says, You want to know what I'm like? Alright, I'll tell you what I'm like. And he sends a prophet. Look at the next verses. Now, as you read these verses, notice there's something very strange about this message. as prophets generally give messages. See if you can pick it up. Notice. Verse 7. When the Israelites cried to the Lord because of Midian, he sent them a prophet who said, This is what the Lord. Now, whenever, as we see in the series, you see capital L, small capital O R D, the Lord, that's that name, Jehovah or Yahweh, the God of Israel. This is what he says. I brought you up out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. I snatched you from the power of Egypt and from the hand of your oppressors. We were singing about that earlier I drove them from before you and gave you their land. I said to you, I am Yahweh, your God. Do not worship the gods of the Amorites in whose land you live, but you have not listened to me. Now, what's strange about that? What is the prophet saying to them? He's telling them two things. Number one, he's saying, Let me show you the mercy of God. He's the one that brought you out of your bondage. He's the one who forgave your sin and gave you new life and brought you into this land that you now live, a land flowing with milk and honey and goodness. And you have not, this is the second thing, you have not listened to him. You've turned away from him. You've enjoyed all his good gifts, but you've turned to the creature rather than the creator. The reason that you're in this trouble, the prophet's saying, is because you've turned your back on God. I submit to you that we as a nation desperately need prophets today. That will sound with credibility the way a Chuck Colson and some others are able to do. When we look at the problems in this nation, what kinds of problems are we seeing? Israel had problems Let me give you just an example of a couple of the things from a couple of different quotes. Currently, the United States surpasses all industrialized nations in the number of family breakups. Our abortion laws are the most permissive in the developed world. Our divorce laws are the most lenient in the entire world. Our teenagers have the highest suicide rate in the entire world. Teenage boys in America, more of them die from gunshot wounds than from all other natural causes combined. We lead the world in the consumption of drugs, legal and illegal, in addictions of various kinds, in divorce. in the incidence of depressive illness, and in the marketing of a vast range of therapies to counteract these problems, all of which point to a vast underlying chronic depression in America. I was kind of happy when I came in here, you know. But face it, we're gonna go into this a little bit more in the middle hour. How much we're reading in secular press Of a crisis in our culture. And what we need is a prophet to say, you want to know the real reason for this? The real reason is not simply misguided policies. It's not all the sociological analysis that you can give to it The reason is that America is making up its own religions. America is worshiping itself. We as people are worshiping ourselves, determined for instant gratification and self-fulfillment. Greedy, racist, self-centered. And making God into a God of convenience in our back pockets so that we can say that we're worshiping him and that he's making us feel good While in fact we're simply determining the kind of God that we will tolerate to call it worship. Now, what is strange about what this prophet's message is? Do you notice he doesn't tell them anything to do, and he doesn't give them any hope I notice that. That's strange. He doesn't say, therefore, repent. Turn from your sin and turn back to God and he'll deliver you. He'll raise up a judge, as he is about to do. Why do you think he did that? I think you wives probably have a good insight on that. How many of you wives Have been alienated from your husbands because they did the same dumb thing for the fifteenth time. And you're saying, I'm not getting through to this guy. And he says, but why are you mad at me? Just tell me what to do. And what do you say? It's not a matter of telling you what to do. If I just tell you what to do, you'll just do it to get me off your back, to get peace, right? It's your attitude. It's the heart. That's what you gotta see. I'm not gonna tell you what to do. He rumbles and groans, and you know, this woman's impossible, you know What did you say? And it's a problem of heart. And I believe that after seven years of terror, the Israel's just saying, great, we got a problem. What do we do? And he says, you repent, you turn back. Oh, great. Terrific. We'll do it. Anything, whatever you say. Good. Clean up the altar. Let's get back to the tabernacle. Whatever. But not a change of heart. What he's saying is you need to see how abominable and wretched your twisted religion is. And you need to understand the nature of the true God. Now that's the first point that we've seen on the outline there, which I didn't mention, but the need of his name. Look now at the second point, the importance of his name. We need to see that what the prophet is doing is he's pointing them now to a God, not of their imagination. That's what we Americans need to be delivered from today. The God of our own imaginations, the God that we conjure up, the God that I believe in is like. That's what you see again and again, isn't it? I was watching, it was a talk show. I don't know how, you know, every once in a while you see these things. You come across them. There's one I was watching this uh summer. It was on You know, they they w you imagine the salaries people get to think up the topics of these talk shows. These were survivors of earthquakes and tornadoes being interviewed. Right? Group of women Survivors of tornadoes and earthquakes. One of them was a pastor, a woman pastor on this talk show. And as they were talking about what it was like to live through an earthquake and a tornado and to survive it when a lot of people were being killed around you Uh the I think it was Yolanda was asking this question, do you think God had a message through this earthquake that you survived? And the pastor said, oh no, no, no, I'm quite sure he had no message. That was caused by nature. God had nothing to do with it. God's part was simply to sustain us by his care and his love through it. Now I don't know Where she's getting to her theology, but I read my Bible in Isaiah chapter 45, and God says, so from the rising of the sun to the place of its setting Men may know that there is none besides me. I am the Lord. There is no other. I form the light and create darkness. I bring prosperity and create disaster. I the Lord Yahweh do all these things. Now we have to struggle with that. The whole problem of evil and disaster and the rest of that. This message isn't about that. Tune in later some other time. My only point is that when we want to find out what God is like, we go to his word. We don't say, it seems to me it makes me feel good to believe this. In Psalm 9 We read in verse 10, those who know your name will trust in you. For you, Lord, have never forsaken those who seek you. Why the emphasis on the name? Because the name is what is distinctive about God. It is the name through which God says, This is who I am distinctly to be worshipped and known and trusted. You have to know me, not some version of me that you conjure up through your own imagination. And so the prophet is saying, I want to direct you back to the true and living God, Yahweh. And you notice in these verses 7 to 10, there are two references to God that use two different names. Notice in verse 8, he says I uh this is what the Lord, Yahweh Jehovah, the God of Israel, so those are two names, Lord and God, the God of Israel. Then in verse ten, I said to you, I am the Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah, your God. Do not worship the other gods, those who reveal themselves in other ways that are more convenient to your lifestyle. Don't worship them. Now, we took several weeks to look at the first of these two names, God It's based on the root L, Elohim. I want to review that very quickly with you for a few minutes this morning. Then next week, we're going to take a look at the second name, Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah. and to see again what we looked at for those of you who missed out on the last five years or just need a review, to see again what the essence of that name is to us to hope and to trust in our own needs. But very quickly again let me remind you of the meaning of this name God. Whenever you see in your Bibles, capital G, small O D, God That is the name Elohim. Now what does Elohim mean? It's not just God like everybody else uses the word God, God bless you and God this and oh God and everything. It is a particular name of a particular person. The root of that name is L, and L means strong, mighty. It's used of mountains and peaks and various other things. And you take that name, that root L And you add to it the verb Allah, which means to swear and implying faithfulness, and then add to that the plural Hebrew ending im, kind of like an I-M. which is a plural of majesty or fullness, and you have El -Alaim or Elohim, which means the strong, faithful creator. That name, Elohim, God, is the name that's used in almost every verse of Genesis chapter 1. In the beginning, Elohim created the heavens and the earth. And you have that name again and again and again throughout the Bible, hundreds and hundreds of time. It's associated with his strength and his faithfulness, that he is a rock and a refuge. For instance, in Psalm 46. You read these words. Elohim is our refuge and our strength and ever-present help in trouble. Then in verse 10, be still and know that I am Elohim God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth that I have made, you see. He's the strong, faithful creator. We saw that he's not only that, but also we saw in that study that he is El El Leon. You have again another compound to that root el. You had that in Genesis chapter 14 where he is called God Most High. That name appears four times in Genesis chapter 14. Four times in verses 18 to 22, for instance in verses 19 and 20, you have Melchizedek, the priest of El-Elian, blessing Abraham and saying, Blessed be Abraham. by God most high, El Elian, creator, or the word means also possessor, the possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be El Elion, God Most High, who delivered you from your enemies. into uh your enemies into your hand. Now this one who because he's made heavens and earth is the possessor of heaven and earth is very significant at this point. Because the king of Sodom wants to compromise Abraham by saying that he has helped make Abraham rich through the spoils of the enemies. And Abraham, because he has learned that God, Elohim, is the possessor of heaven and earth, and that all of his needs are fulfilled by Elohim. And as you see in the blank in your bulletin outline, You are free as Abraham to trust him alone for all your needs. He is the possessor of heaven and earth. Abraham responds to this king of Sodom, verse 22. I have raised my hand to Yahweh, the Lord El Elion, God Most High, Possessor, Creator of heaven and earth. And I've taken an oath that I will accept nothing belonging to you, not even a thread or the thong of a sandal, so that you will never be able to say, I made Abraham rich. And in your job, you're being tempted to compromise, to just follow a little bit of the world's ways. In order that you might be able to make it. But you cannot succumb to that temptation because you are a servant of Illiam. Possessor of heaven and earth and whatever it takes to say, no, I draw the line here. This is where as a Christian I cannot change the expense account or lie to the customer or do whatever it takes. Because I trust El Elion, possessor of heaven and earth, to supply my needs. That's the nature of that name. But he's not only El Elion, we saw that he was El Roy We saw that name in Genesis chapter 16. Remember we were just singing El Shaddai and talked about the outcast on her knees. He's the God who really sees? That's Referring to Genesis chapter sixteen and Hagar, that servant girl that was cast out of Abraham's household. And as she was desperate for her life with Ishmael, her baby's son God revealed himself to her as Elroy, the God who sees your hurts and your heart. And God showed that he who is El Elion, the transcendent God in the heavens above, Anything that we can see or imagine is also Elroy, the imminent God, close to you, who sees every one of your hurts, who sees every need of your heart in your life. He's the God who sees you and knows you, who saw an unknown servant girl out in the desert, and he sees you. Psalm 139 says, He's the one who sees me, my inward parts, knows my downsetting and my uprising. He's El Roy. And he sees your need today, the need that you have in your heart this morning. For he is not only far off He is closer to you than your own mind. He's El Roy. And he's not only El Roy, that he's going to reveal himself to Gideon , the one who is close to his knee, that we'll see in a couple of weeks, but he's also El Shut-I. That we sang about earlier. God Almighty. I find that one of the most fascinating names because it has a such a full meaning that I've never read anywhere. It's just something that I would uh seek to defend from my own study of scripture. That the full meaning of God Almighty, El Shaddai, is really that He is the God of new life in impossible situations. He revealed himself to Abraham and to Sarah at the point where God had before said, when Abraham was 75, I'm going to bring to you, give to you a son of promise. Through whom all the nations are going to be blessed. Abraham goes on for another 24 years after he's 75, waiting for the fulfillment of that promise, till when he's 99, he says, Forget it. There's no hope of this promise. God was playing with me. Why in the world would he give me this kind of promise? Do you ever feel like that in scripture? Why has God promised to take care of all my needs and all these promises that don't seem like they really hold true in experience? And it's after all of those doubts and all the attempts to have a child through Hagar and everything else that God comes in Genesis 17:1 and He says, I'm El Shaddai. I'm giving you that son Abraham. Stand back. Get ready. You're going to become a daddy. He's the God of new life in impossible situations. And God fulfills that promise and shows himself true to his word. He's the God of mysteries. He's Ilam. The God of eternity, the everlasting God, the God of secret ways and times. In Psalm 90 we read that, from Olam to Olam, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. The word Olam means something which is secret and hidden. And the derivation of that means from eternity to eternity, that which you can't see or understand. But it's not simply that he's an eternal God, he's a God of mystery, he's a God beyond what we can understand in all of his ways. Yet the amazing thing in the Bible is that he's revealed himself. Revealed himself to a person, a baby. God sent his own son, Jesus. And Jesus is Elohim Jesus is the true revelation of Elohim, the strong, faithful Creator. Jesus is the revelation of El Elion. For we read in Colossians chapter one that he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. That is, that he's the possessor, you see, of all creation. That's what it means. Firstborn there means not that he was created, but rather that he is the one who inherits. He's the possessor of it. For, very clearly, by him all things were created. Things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities, all things were created by Jesus and are for him, and he rules them all. It's not only Elohim. In El Elian, he's El Roy, for he said, Go into all the world and make disciples, and I am with you always. I will never leave you nor forsake you. And he is the El Shaddai. Paul makes quite a point of that in Romans chapter 4, where he says that El Shaddai was revealed as the one So as he says in verse 18, or in uh Romans chapter 4, in verse 17, he describes him as it is written, I have made you a father of many nations, talking back to Abraham in that time when he was doubting the promise. He is our father, that is Abraham's, our father of faith, in the sight of God, in whom he believed, the God who gives life to the dead and calls things that are not as though they are God of new life and impossible situations. And when the son comes to Abraham, Isaac, God says, go out and sacrifice your son. And Abraham takes Isaac up onto the Mount Moriah to sacrifice him. He's ready to lift the knife, and Hebrews says, believing that even if necessary, God would raise him from the dead. And God substitutes a ram. And Romans chapter 4 shows clearly that Jesus is that substitute He was the one who took the place, and so out of deadness, Abraham received new life, a son, and then received him back again. And you and I had looked to Jesus who said, I am life and I will bring my kingdom to rule in this world. And then Jesus is crucified. And we have a dead Messiah. And what good's a dead Messiah? All the good in you and I could need for he's dead because he was cursed for your sin and for my sin But as a dead Messiah, in order, Paul says in Romans 4, to demonstrate that God had accepted his sacrifice, his life in place of yours. God raised him from the dead. So you read in the verse, last verse of that chapter, he was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. If you read the context of that, you'll see it's clearly talking. About that promise to Abraham of life out of death in an impossible situation. And that you and I have the same kind of faith that Abraham had, that God is El Shaddai. Was able to bring life out of death. He did it in Isaac. He did it in Jesus, the sacrifice for our sins, and he did it in your life. You were dead in your sins, and El Shaddai brought you back from the dead. Because of the union of your life with Jesus. Because of that, all of the promises He has given are fulfilled and complete to you. Even the promise that he started off in verse 13 saying, it was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise. That he would be an heir of the world, but through the righteousness that comes by faith. Do you know this, God This one who's revealed himself by ill. And as you've heard, review those names this morning. What is some aspect of his being that you're saying, I don't know him in that way? But I want to. Take the meditation, sheep. Meditate on each of these names through this week. Pray that God would make them real in your life for the particular need that you have. Let's join together in prayer. Lord our God, you who are ill, it's a strong mighty one. Elohim are strong Faithful Creator who made us, who is El Elion, the possessor of heaven and earth and able to provide all things, who is El Roy, who sees us in our need, who is El Shaddai. The one who brings new life through Jesus. And the one who, Il ulam, has revealed yourself to us through Jesus. Cause us to know you as you are. Not as a figment of our imagination, but to get into your word that we might know you and trust you and worship you and love you. And find you, Lord Jesus, not our therapies and self-help, but you to be sufficient for all of our need. Help us to know that. In whatever way we need to, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.