We're beginning a three-week series with three different preachers talking about stewardship, and I want to just give you a little bit of the history of how we came to choose these passages and these topics. 2003 was the 25th year of Columbia Presbyterian Church, and as we look at that that celebration of 25 years, we worked very diligently on crafting a vision for the congregation. Which is being passionate about God in Jesus Christ, demonstrated in our worship, our love for one another, and our compassion for his world. And as we looked at vision, we also looked at calling. So months back as we looked at what we would do in the January time period leading up to the month of missions, we decided that we would take three weeks and teach on stewardship. And we decided since we have several of us who can preach, I would take the first week. Tim will be preaching next week on Malachi and Alan will preach the week following on the treasure principle So looking at this, I chose Matthew 24 because I wanted to deal with setting a foundation for stewardship. So if you would turn in your Bibles to Matthew chapter twenty-four, verses twenty forty-five to the end of the chapter, you want to read that for us But as I begin, I want you to understand the setting of this parable Jesus is taking the last days before he is arrested, tried, crucified. And buried and and then to rise again three days later from the dead to teach his disciples about his coming and his So as you hear this message, I want you to understand there are the foundational truths that you need to see. We need to understand this passage in light of this truth, and that truth is look to the return of Christ. Chapter 24 and chapter 25 are multiple, multiple lessons Jesus is giving on the fact that he's going to leave, but he will come back. And this parable is specifically about stewardship in the context of his return. So let me read the passage for us. Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom the master has put in charge of the servants in his household, to give them their food at the proper time? It would be good for that servant whose master finds him doing so when he returns. I tell you the truth. He will put him in charge of all his possessions But suppose the servant is wicked and says to himself, My master is staying away a long time. And he then begins to beat his fellow servants and to eat and drink with drunkards. The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him, and at an hour he is not aware of. He will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Jesus is preparing his disciples for his departure. He's giving to them a stewardship, a task , a responsibility. We frequently look at stewardship in a very narrow sense of money. But I want us today to get that foundation of the overall teaching Jesus has of what it means for us to be stewards. God is very gracious in my preparations for this message and in my study of this passage, he gave me a life experience that is very much in line with this , a departure and a return. And he taught me some really important lessons about my heart as a steward. For you see And was able to travel to Oregon from Christmas Day 6 p. m. until January 6th And does a remarkably good job of taking care of the responsibilities at home, for which I am abundantly grateful, and allows me to focus in other areas. And so naturally, as there is a a need for the transfer of responsibility, we had a conference before she lost so that we could talk about what needs to be done and who needs to do it, how it needs to be done, when it needs to be done. And so I knew what I had to do to help Timmy with his homework, I knew what I had to do to help Daniel with his homework, I knew what had to be done in terms of the kitchen, the laundry, the cooking, etc. And in a sense I had a stewardship There would be an accounting when she came home. If you watched the weather this week, it was not so much a matter of when but if She fortunately happened to be on the last plane out of Portland before they closed the airport for days. So there was actually a return. If you look, she's sitting in the back row back there, hopefully smiling at me But there was a stewardship I was given. And through that time, the twelve days that she was gone, God taught me several important lessons about my responsibility, my stewardship to Him. One of which is he's very specific about what I'm entrusted to do. But perhaps the most important lesson that he taught me had to do with my stewardship and my zeal for my stewardship being unavoidably tied. to my love for him. I'm very grateful for telecommunications and for the ability to call across the country Our particular plan means we pay a set fee and we don't have to pay for long-distance phone calls. So I could call Ann in Oregon and talk to her an hour if I wanted to, daily. So we con we we called and talked to each other regularly, and there was a there was a really important thing that I began to discern about the fourth or the fifth day, and that is My relationship with Anne determined my zeal for my responsibilities at home. When we would have a conversation that was connected, that was close, that was on a good topic When I got off the phone, I found myself creatively thinking, what more can I do? I know I'm supposed to cook, I know I'm supposed to do dishes, I know I'm supposed to clean the floor, but Isn't there something more I can do? And I began to think about her return, and I would look for ideas of what I could do to surprise her pleasantly You guys understand. But not every phone call was a positive call. There would be times we'd have to talk about something that was a bit tense, a little bit irritating. Or I would have had a long day, for you see, Oregon is three hours earlier than we are So she'd be out doing things and meeting with with her sister and having having conversations, um, staying up late and and sleeping late in the morning. And sometimes I would call and She'd be upbeat and happy, and I'd be weary. And there could be a bit of tension in that relationship. And I began to think I have to cook again. The floor looks clear enough to me And and Jesus made it very clear to me that that's exactly the same way I deal with him. I lose sight of how incredible he is I lose sight of how glorious He is. I begin to waver in my zeal for His return Things of the earth begin to concern me and I think, Lord, things are going really good right now. Or conversely, sometimes things go badly, and I'm thinking, Lord, come now, rescue me. How glorious those times when Jesus so touches my heart that I'm thinking, Jesus, it's great now, but I want you now. Take me to that feast. Show me yourself face to face I don't know if you're the same as I am. I don't know if you if you find yourself wavering in your affections for Jesus. I don't know if you find those times of glorious wonder as you see him more clearly But I want you to think that the foundation for all of this teaching on stewardship in this passage is look to Jesus for his return. Because he is worth every bit of your stewardship. And that's this passage. Jesus is saying, I'm leaving, I will return. Jesus says in this parable, the master set the servant over the household. Gave him responsibilities, gave him tasks, with the idea of the servant serving the master so that when he returned he would find him faithful and the household running well So let me go into the issue of stewardship. What is a steward? Number one, a steward is not an owner. What he has, what she has, is a trust with a task. Brothers and sisters, you may think you own your bodies. You may think you own your possessions. You may think you own your talents, your skills, your abilities. You don't They are not yours by right, they are yours by delegation. Real quickly, I'll just point out why I think that's so true. When a steward is given a responsibility, when they're entrusted with a stewardship, there is a promise of an accounting, of a judgment. There is an owner who will ask for a reckoning for the faithful accomplishment of the stewardship. Hebrews 9. 27 says of each of us. Inasmuch as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment. If you owned yourself, if you owned your possessions, if you owned your talents and your skills, you would owe no one an accounting No one could claim the requirement for you to give a record of what you've done. But we're told for every man comes death, and after death judgment We tend to move easily into the notion that we are the owner though. And I want to take an illustration from the movie Lord of the Rings. I was told in the first service that most of the kids at this point woke up. Lord of the Rings is an incredible story. It is told in three different volumes, three different movies. Um if you if you're actually faithful to the books, there's six books, but there's two in each volume. And it it's an incredible story. But in the first of the stories The Fellowship of the Ring. About halfway through the movie, there is a meeting at Elrond's house. Elrond is the ruler of of one of the groups of the Elves. There's elves, there's men, there's dwarves There's all sorts of different kinds of creatures. And at Elrond's house, really a palace, there is what's called the Council of Elrond. where he brings the leaders of men, the leaders of elves, the leaders of dwarves together to talk about how to deal with the threat of Sauron. Sarin is the the major opponent. He's really a demonic devil sort of a figure in the stories. And he had incredible power. And so a council is gathered to talk about what to do to deal with the threat of Saran. And in that council it's revealed that Saran's ring of power The one ring which rules all the other rings that it has touched and is the location for Saran's great power has been found. And in that council, one of the people present is a man named Boromir. Boromir is representing the land of Gondor. Gondor is one of the most powerful of the kingdoms that continues. It's the kingdom of men. It's in the south and and it has been battling Sauron, who's geographically close, for centuries. In fact, it was the king of Gondor who first got the ring from Sauron millennia past. And so Boromir is here representing Gondor. He speaks for Gondor to the Council of Elves and the Council of Men and the Council of Dwarves. But there's another character in the council. We're introduced to him as strider. He's rather scruffy. His hair is dirty He fights with a group of people called the Rangers, which are the remnants of the the same people of Gondor, but from the north. The elves treat him with respect, but men treat him with disdain. Even hobbits, weak little, small little hobbits, don't respect Strider But in the council, as the ring is presented, Strider is revealed. And the elves who know who he is speak to Boromir, who's talking about the power of Gondor. And they reveal him as the heir of the king. Let me step back for a moment and introduce Boringer a little bit more. Because Boromir is not just a representative of Gondor, he's the son of the steward. That's really cool because he actually, Tolkien actually uses the concept of steward, one who's put in charge of the house to serve the king. And Boringer 's father is Denethor. He's the steward of Gondor. And he's come to think of himself as a ruler And he's taught that to his son Boromir, because at one point as Aragorn is revealed, not to be simply Strider, the scruffy old ranger from the north, but as Aragorn, son of Erithorn, heir to the house of Gondor. and rightful king that Boromir is called to serve. There's a very tense moment in the council And Boromir looks over at Strider, sees him as Strider, and says, Gondor needs no king Gondor has no king, and he rejects the right of his king to call him to account. Brothers and sisters, inasmuch as it is appointed for all men to die once, then after this comes judgment, you might deny your stewardship. You might deny that you owe your allegiance to another, but that does not change the fact that the accounting is coming and that you are a steward, not an owner. So a steward is called to serve his or her master. We have to ask the question. Are we stewards? All well and good to speak of the fact that there is a responsibility given and that there is a task for us to fulfill, should we be stewards? But are we as we sit here this morning free, independent Americans, masters of our own fate, stewards Does this story apply? Has Jesus put you in charge of anything for his good while you await his return? Yes. Yes. Let's look at the scripture. Matthew twenty eight Four chapters from what we're looking at right now. Jesus speaks to the church. This is a command we all recognize belongs to us. And what he says is this: therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. Surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. We are stewards as his church. Our stewardship is to serve him in all ways we can to build the kingdom and to glorify him. That's our task. That's the trust He's given to us. 1 Peter 4, verses 10 and 11. We recognize that we've been given gifts. One of the things that we look at as Christians is: what are my spiritual gifts? How do I use them? 1 Peter 4 tells us something remarkable about gifts and their goal. Peter says each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others. Faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Your spiritual gifts have been given with the purpose of praising Jesus, of bringing him the glory and honor that he is worthy to receive. You don't have gifts to receive glory yourself. You don't have gifts to make life easier. You have gifts to glorify Jesus. Romans 12, verse 1, teaches me that I am to present my body a living sacrifice to God. He owns my very body. 1 Corinthians 6, 19 and 20 talks about the fact that do you not know that your body is a temple of God, as the Spirit of God dwells in you? God owns my very body. Romans fourteen. Let me just read this. Verses seven through nine The context of this is an issue of of not judging one another, but in this he says he says why. And it has a greater purpose than the issue of judging one another. He says For none of us lives to himself alone. And none of us dies to himself alone. If we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord. For this very reason, Christ died and returned to life so that he might be the Lord of both the dead and the living. Your very breath belongs to Jesus. John fourteen, three times. He says, If you love me, you will obey my commandments. John fifteen verse eight, By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit. You are stewards. And you have a calling. You have a calling corporately and individually to build the kingdom and to glorify your master. Your owner, your Lord, your Redeemer, your Savior. I want to step back for a minute and go back again to that overflowing foundational idea. Look with eagerness to Jesus' return. The solution the solution to serving Jesus with pleasure And with effectiveness is your heart for him. What has he entrusted to us These entrusted talents. We just talked about in 1 Peter chapter 4 the idea that each one has been given gifts. Romans 12 talks about the spiritual gifts we have received. 1 Corinthians 12 talks about spiritual gifts. We have abilities that come from God, whether they're spiritual gifts or whether they're native talents. You can do things. It may be singing, it may be drama, it may be construction, it may be finance, it may be encouragement, it may be exhortation, it may be art. It might be teaching. It might be counseling. You have abilities that are entrusted to you. Use them to build the kingdom. Treasures Matthew six. Let me turn you to that, and I want to read verses twenty-four through thirty-four. Jesus is quoted by Matthew when he says, No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money Therefore, I tell you, do not worry. Do not worry about your life what you will eat or drink, or about your body what you will wear. Is not life more important than food? The body more important than clothes? Look at the birds of the air. They do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they? Who of you by worrying can add a single hour to his life? And why do you worry about clothes? See how the lilies of the field grow. They do not labor or spin. Yet I tell you that not even Solomon, in all his splendor, was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothed the grass of the field which is here today and tomorrow was thrown into the fire We're not much more clothed you, or you little faith. So do not worry saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the pagans run after these things. Your heavenly father knows you need them. But seek first his kingdom. His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own What you possess isn't yours I want you to think about your bank accounts. Okay, I'm sure many of you adults, all of you adults, and probably many of you children have bank accounts. You have taken your money, and you have entrusted it to a steward, and you have said to them, My one goal for you is to give me a profit. Now think of that bank. Think of the banker Think of the investment banker who's making decisions about how to use your money so they get the money and you get what you've asked for, what they've agreed to give you. Do you want him to say, well, I have to give ten percent back, but the other ninety percent is mine? You've given him trust. Jesus has given you a trust. We frequently read about the tithe. We frequently read about the fact that God says 10% comes back. And we come to the conclusion that the other 90% is mine. To do with what I will. I don't believe that's what this passage is teaching. I don't believe that's what Scripture teaches. Scripture teaches that everything you have is to be used for the kingdom of God. Everything you have is to be used for the well-being and the honor, the glory, and the pleasure. of your master. So that whether you're deciding what kind of food to eat or some other mundane choice about using some of that 90%, it's to be done with the purpose of glorifying your master. You are a steward of absolutely everything he has entrusted to you, not an owner. Now the implications of that have some pretty amazing, pretty amazing truths to bear. Because if you think you own the ninety percent, what you do with it is your business and yours alone. And again, we go back to that accounting If it's yours, you don't owe an account to anybody. Nobody should see your tax bracket. Nobody should see your your income tax forms. Nobody should look at your checkbook. It's all yours to deal with, and there's no accounting But if you're a steward, if you're a steward of your money and of your time Spending from that 90% on substances that will dull your minds for the sake of escaping reality become much more clearly wrong. Spending of that 90% for pornography becomes much more clearly wrong. Spending that 90% for selfish goals is clearly wrong And you got the right perspective. Because God owns it all. There will be an accounting And as you come to that accounting, when the Lord returns or when you go to Him, you're going to have to face the reality of the fact that you blew it But one of the wonderful things about that accounting, that judgment, that reckoning, is it's not a two-way proposition. It is not God the judge and you the sinner It is also Jesus the Redeemer. And so when you stand before God and you have to say, Lord, I have hideously and wretchedly sinned against you I deserve your wrath and condemnation, Jesus says to you, Yes, you have. That's your heart. I know it all, and I have paid your debt. Welcome home. That's the Savior I want you to hunger for. That's your groom who awaits your presence at his wedding feast. And if you want to be effective in your stewardship, it goes back to what I said about my relationship with Anna, my relationship with Jesus, it's yours as well. If you see Jesus as he is and love him as he deserves, and as the Spirit moves you, and your desire is for his glory and for his pleasure, you will be creative in your stewardship. You'll be zealous to please him. You won't be asking, do I really have to give ten percent? You won't be thinking, should I really use this gift in ministry? You'll be thinking, Jesus, what more can I do? How can you free me to give you more? Your very life is not enough You want to give him everything And that goes to the last point I want to make, of motivation. In this passage in chapter 24, we read of a faithful servant and of an unfaithful servant. The faithful servant receives a reward. The master says, well done. The master says, I will put you in charge of my entire household. We might look at that and think, that's a much better option than being cast into the darkness where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth with the hypocrites. So I want this. And brothers and sisters, where where are your eyes? Where's your heart? It's certainly here. It's certainly in the passage, and God does talk about the fact that there's a reward and there's a punishment. But he talks about that in the context of longing for Jesus' return. He talks about it in the context of Jesus going to the cross to pay the debt of your sin. And it is A choice that we will make. Will I operate out of fear? Or will I operate out of love? Will I devote myself to achieving the reward and do everything in my power to measure up to receive that reward? Or on the other hand, am I going to focus on the groom who's to come? Am I going to see Jesus for how he has revealed himself in truth as my creator? My sustainer, my judge, my God, but also my redeemer. my Savior, my groom, the one who was calling me home, calling me to be at the wedding feast where our wedding is celebrated The ones who can't wait for that day. You have a choice to see that you are indeed the beloved bride. That you have as that beloved bride, a stewardship To demonstrate your love for your groom and to use the many gifts, the many talents, the many possessions, and the very breath of life that He's given to you To glorify him. I believe he's calling us to use what he has entrusted to us for kingdom benefit I believe he's calling us to relax and to let go of a sense of control and of possession, of ownership. I believe he's calling us to love him well and to recognize that that is the gift of stewardship And in that gift to act as I am led. Let's pray. Jesus, you are the one who has given us life and breath and being. You have entrusted to us talents. possessions, treasures, life, time. Jesus, focus us upon you As Satan wants to change our understanding of you, and as our own sinful nature wants to reject your mastery, convict us of sin, and protect us Reveal yourself to us in truth and in grace. And Lord Jesus, give us the freedom to creatively love you and serve you. Father, empower us as your congregation. We long to see you glorified, not only in the ultimate judgment as you return, but in the very way we live. Through our hearts and our actions. Jesus, we do love you. We want to obey. Holy Spirit, give us the strength. We pray in your name, Jesus. Amen.