Well good morning again. I pray your spirit is well, saints in Christ. Today's sermon is going to be out of Luke chapter 9. We're carrying on in our sermon series that Bob has been guiding us through. So if you have your Bible, feel free to follow along in your text. It'll also be displayed on the screen. We'll be reading the first nine verses. I'm going to read the text for us and pray and we'll move on into our sermon today. So saints in Christ, hear the word of God. And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority. over all demons and to cure diseases. And he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal. And he said to them, Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money, and do not have two tunics. And whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart. And wherever they do not receive you, when you leave that town, shake the dust off of your feet as a testimony against them. And they departed, and went through the villages, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere. Now Herod, the tetrarch, heard about all that was happening, and he was perplexed. Because it was said by some that John had been raised from the dead, by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others one of the prophets of old had risen. Herod said, John I beheaded, but who is this about whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him. Let's pray. Gracious Father, thank you for your living and active and true word that has authority over our lives, and we confess that right now. And so we come under it to be taught by it. To be fed by it, to be corrected by it, to be spurred on toward love and good deeds by it. So would you do these very things we ask by your Spirit for our good and for your glory? In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So I want to start off our time by asking you this question about your faith. How did you become a Christian? How did you become a Christian? If I was to have a coffee with you, everybody's story would have these overlapping themes. That is, somebody shared the gospel with you along the way. They shared with you about heaven and hell. They shared with you that one day you're going to die. They shared with you that you're a sinner and that you need a savior. They shared with you about Jesus Christ, who died on a cross for your sins, in your place. That he died and was risen on the third day for your justification. And after sharing all these things over the course of time, at some point you believed this. At some point you put your faith in Christ. At some point you realize the true vileness of your own sinfulness and the desperation that you were in. You needed a Savior. And God's grace was available to you. He died so you can live. You believe this. And this is how you became a Christian. Luke 9 picks up, I think, at a very important juncture, about how does God make Christians? You can trace your spiritual lineage to this moment, the beginning of the great commission and commissioning moments of how God makes Christians. How does God advance his kingdom? The fact that you're a Christian is proof that the kingdom of God is still advancing on earth as it is in heaven. And so the first point that we have today in your outline there is a kingdom commission. We're going to look at these six verses here, the first six verses, to talk about this advancing kingdom. How does God make Christians exactly? The Kingdom Commission involves Jesus giving power and authority, Jesus giving a message to proclaim, and Jesus instructing in the manner of this mission. And so with verse 1, Jesus gives power and authority. And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases. There's two main things that I want to draw our attention to about that. This moment here where Jesus is giving power and authority to his apostles. That moment is an inevitable and natural progression of Jesus' earthly ministry. What do I mean by that? Well look Luke 4, you might recall. Is when Jesus is in a temple, he's reading the book of Isaiah, Isaiah's prophecy about him, he is the fulfillment of that prophecy. Christ's earthly ministry is commissioned right then and there. In Luke 5. Jesus is carrying on his ministry, healing, and pre-proclaiming, but he begins to call disciples to himself. Still carrying on in his ministry of preaching and healing. Luke 7, he takes these twelve disciples and he makes them apostles. Still healing and still preaching. Now in Luke 9, he takes these these band of apostles and he gives them one more one more development. There's one more developmental stage that's happening. And this whole redemptive plan that God has, He gives them power and authority to do the very things that He Himself was doing. So what does Luke tell us? you might say, serve as the main thrust behind any successful ministry. It's Jesus' power and Jesus' authority. And the whole nine verses that we read, there are two people that are depicted here with power and authority. There's Jesus and there's Herod. I want us to kind of just imagine for a second, any of these apostles up to this point before this particular commissioning here That they had been with Jesus. They've seen him how he preaches. They've seen him do miracles. They've been delegated as apostles. Imagine how it might have gone if they went to somebody else who had power and authority, like Herod. And they said to Herod what Jesus did in the temple that one day, and they said, Herod, the Spirit of the Lord is on me, because he's anointed me to preach good news to the poor. How do you suppose that might have gone for that apostle who did that? My guess is that they would have had their head cut off. Because there had already been somebody doing this proclaiming already, talking about the kingdom of God, wasn't there? And we'll talk about that man in just a second. So this power and authority, these disciples, these apostles, they need both in order to do the ministry. They need power and authority from the one who can give it to them, a true king. And any power and authority from a king who represents a kingdom that actually matters, that actually lasts, an eternal kingdom. So what kind of power is this exactly? Well, very simply from the text, it's power to over demons, and it's power to heal. You can really say simply, it's power over spiritual matters, over evil. and his power over the flesh to reverse some of the curse of the fall, even if it's temporary and momentary. The girl that Jesus raised from the dead in Luke 8, she still passed away eventually. But that's the first thing that I want us to notice the progression of this natural progression of God's min of Christ's ministry, sharing in the ministry. But here's the other thing. Jesus, when he does this, he's not playing favorites with any of the apostles. Okay, he called them all together. He all appointed them together as apostles, and now he's equating and giving them something that gives him, gives them to do the very same thing that he is doing. And he's not playing favorites with any of these apostles. Now, consider for a second the Jewish concept of discipleship. When rabbis would gather apostles or excuse me disciples. That wasn't out of the ordinary per se. The rabbis would be expected to teach the Torah. And so you would follow along with your rabbi wanting to become more and more like him. But Jesus does something that no rabbi has ever done and could ever do. He gives them power and authority over the spiritual realm and over the flesh. And so this isn't any mere power and authority. It's not power and authority that they're giving to them, that he's given to them, so they can disband from Christ and go do their own ministry. It's not so they can buttress their own vocational endeavors or make a brand for themselves. You've heard of the phrase With great power comes great responsibility. That's a very catchy phrase. But Jesus, with Jesus' power and authority, comes more than responsibility, it comes with a message to proclaim. And this is the second subpoint here. Jesus gives a message to proclaim, verse 2, and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal. He gives them power and authority, and he sends them with this power and authority to proclaim a kingdom of God and to heal. So I'm going to do two things with that word proclaim and then talk about the kingdom of God and and healing. What does that have to do together? That word proclaim is a word that could also be described as a herald. And a herald insinuates royalty. It's a very serious thing. It's an official thing. And so these apostles are heralding and representing Jesus Christ, a king, the king of kings. But who else in the New Testament, as we've already talked about a moment ago, that was already heralding about a kingdom of God? This is John the Baptist. Luke 3 3, and he went to all the region and around the Jordan proclaiming a baptism of repentance and the forgiveness of sins. That proclaiming there that John the Baptist was doing. It's the same proclaiming that the apostles are now about to do. So in my estimation, it is not lost on these apostles that they are being sent to do the same thing that John the Baptist was doing. And they hadn't forgotten that John the Baptist got imprisoned for this, and he also got killed for this. But this kingdom, this kingdom of God and healing, when you put these two together, that is what creates perplexity, as we see in Herod's reaction to all of this. Because people can make a big name for themselves and people can do all kinds of sorcery-related things, but when you have a true kingdom that is eternal kingdom, and you're doing true healing, you have true power and authority over evil and true power and authority over the flesh. The response is perplexing. Herod's response is apt. It makes sense in some ways. But why do these two go together? What difference does it make that these two are going together? I just want to note that very simply, the reason why healing was part of this ministry is that it seals the effect of the message that they're proclaiming. It confirms the message that they are proclaiming. Jesus is able to forgive sins. He's also able to heal blindness and raise the dead. So when the heart is softened, Healing softens the heart, and when the heart is softened, the message of the kingdom of God is able to make softened hearts believe. To believe in Christ, to believe in this king, to believe we need a savior, to believe that we can be with Christ like these apostles are with Christ. Now, John Calvin helpfully points out a specific aspect of this apostleship, this office of apostleship. It is a temporary office. It is not perpetual. You and I will not be apostles. The only way to be an apostle is if Jesus himself makes you one and designates you one. There's many things that we can go into and talk about why we don't need apostles today. But it might be obvious enough for all of us today that we all still need healing in various ways, whether it's mental, whether it's emotional, or physical, or relational You don't need to raise your hand, but who needs healing? We all do. And so the fact that Jesus connotes this power and authority, they're going to go and engage with people who are sick. and weak and broken and diseased, these apostles are going to proclaim and herald a message among sufferers, among the suffering. And it's one thing for us to see people suffering on the news, when we see that on the news or watch it on the side of the road, 99% of the time, maybe 100% of the time, you and I can do nothing about that suffering. In God's grace, though, in our 21st century modern world, some sicknesses and diseases can be healed through what you would call ordinary means. It's an aspect of God's common grace to us, but the best healing is still only temporary. We're still going to die. Unless the Lord comes, we will die. And so the message of the kingdom of God that they are proclaiming along this work of healing. This is a message that addresses eternal matters. Questions like, are you right with God? Do you have your sins forgiven? That is the message they are going to be talking about and proclaiming and heralding in these villages. So how do these apostles actually prepare for this ministry? This is a mighty task. They have power and authority. They have a message and a healing ability. But there is a manner in which these apostles are to carry out this ministry. And this is the third subpoint. Jesus instructs the manner of this mission. They're not to take anything on their journey. So what can they take? Nothing. Jesus calls them to utter dependence on the God they are proclaiming by exercising power and authority over them, over these this over these apostles. What I mean. There's a little bit of parallelism here in verse 1 and 2. What Jesus gave these apostles power and authority over the spiritual realm and the physical realm. And Jesus right now is demonstrating his own power and authority over these apostles by How are they gonna direct their, you might say, their physical needs? Don't take anything with you. That's an order. And how are they to how is he directing their spiritual well-being? Well he gave them a message to proclaim, and he gave them instructions on how to deal with those who reject your message, which is to shake the dust off of your feet. So Jesus is exercising his power and authority over these apostles in the same way he's given them power and authority over into the world. There's a physical world and a spiritual world. I hope you see that parallelism there. But why all this? What difference does it make were they to take a few extra bucks in their pocket? Well there's two main things I want to draw our attention to as we're Making sense of why no bag, why no money, why no bread, why no extra clothes? The two main reasons that I think are helpful for us, which is this listen, here's the first one. There's great expediency when we can engage in our ministry unhindered. Just yesterday We went to a family's house who was hosting the young group, young adults, young married group, and I didn't have to bring anything. Now it's a little bit funny, but because I didn't have to bring anything, I was immediately able to engage in the fellowship and the joy of that moment. But maybe a more apt example, some of you I know have to raise support in your various ministries. And then and that's and that's a wonderful thing. God uses to teach us all kinds of things when we have to raise support. But isn't it sweet? When you finally have your donation goals met? And why is that sweet? Because now you can do your mission Now you can engage in the work that God is calling you to. So there's an expediency that I think Jesus is having for these disciples apostles. They can immediately engage in the work. But the other main reason that I think They're not to bring anything. It's to teach them total dependence on God for all their ordinary needs and of daily living. The closest that I've ever come to something like this as an adult is when I joined the Army in 2003. I I really don't remember bringing any kind of knapsack, extra clothes or anything, or even toothbrush, but They had to provide my housing, they had to provide my food, they had to provide my health care, everything. All my regular stuff was at home. Jesus is moving these disciples to complete and utter dependence on God for all of their daily provisions. But there's a little bit of another ministerial thing that's happening here. If they want to be like Christ, then they need to do what Christ did. What did Christ say about himself later on in Luke? I'm going to give a little bit of a spoiler here. In this same chapter, Jesus says, Foxes have dens and birds have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. If they are going to be more and more like their rabbi, like their savior, like Jesus, they need to depend on him. the way that Jesus depended on his Father for all of his ordinary physical needs. Jesus wants these apostles to receive the hospitality of wherever they went as if it's directly from the hand of God himself, because it is. When we don't have extra cash, we don't have our credit card, we don't have a suitcase full of clothes, we don't have our comfort food readily available Pandering and looking for an upgrade can be very tempting. Consider for a second the idea that they don't have to they're not supposed to go from one house to the next. explicitly to stay in one place. And if you're in a particular need or when the temptation uh comes our way, isn't it better to go to a house where you know you're getting a great meal? Than a place where you you don't even know if you're gonna get fed well or not, you might go to bed hungry? Or isn't it better to go to a place where the guy who's hosting you is super popular and you might actually learn something from this person? Just another aspect of this hospitality ministry that Jesus wants them to depend on God within And then a commentator was talking about these conversations that I just began to imagine must have taken place in these homes. This commentator called them firesight preaching. These apostles are completely dependent on the hostess for all their regular ordinary means, and whether it's unbenounced to the hostess or not, but they are dependent on these apostles for their spiritual needs. Have you ever told a complete stranger who just opened up their house, giving you food, giving you water, giving you a place to sleep, that they are a sinner in need of a savior? Maybe you have. That's a precarious thing to do. This is exactly what they were doing. They were proclaiming a message to people who they didn't know in their homes. They weren't always going to get a warm and fuzzy, and maybe that might be a temptation and why they would want to go from house to house. They got into some conflict, perhaps. But even if they got rejected, thankfully, Jesus gives them counsel on what to do when you aren't rejected. What does he say at the end of verse 5? When you leave that town, shake the dust off of your feet as a testimony against them. So this is another aspect of the manner of the mission. Really simply, just walk away. Don't force it. The message of the gospel is not to be forced on our neighbor. We can't force it. But, and this is a very important but, but we must be faithfully proclaiming it to our neighbor. There's no shortcuts. There's no way to water down the message. Especially when we feel tempted, the times can be desperate where we would want to water down and make things easy for ourselves in this proclamation work. But souls are on the line. You could go hungry if it meant that they could go to heaven. And so when they shook the dust off of their feet as a testimony against them, it wasn't a light thing. It was the last thing. It was the final thing that they did. They entrusted their labor to God just as they entrusted their bodies to these hospitality hosts. God is at work. His kingdom is advancing. And as the apostles continue to proclaim the message of the God, that is. That is tangible evidence that as they faithfully obey, his kingdom is advancing. And here's the second point for our time today, a faithful obedience. And they departed and went through the villages, preaching the gospel and healing. So with Christ's power and authority, with a message to proclaim, and with instructions for this mission, there's really one left last thing to do. To go. Trust and obey your king. These apostles right now have in their grasp something that Herod could never even dream of giving them. They have something that can actually persuade a man to worship. The apostles aren't persuading them. The message is persuading them R. C. Sproul once said that the power is in the Word of God, not in the methods. But these apostles, they have the secrets of the kingdom of God. They have the greatest of all privileges. to proclaim and herald the kingdom of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And heralds don't sing dirges. The message that they are proclaiming is music to our ears. And these heralds of Christ, these apostles, they did believe their own message. How do we know that they believed it? Well, very simply, they departed and went to go do it. Luke's account here gives us two things that I think we can draw from that give uh simple feedback. How do we know when a ministry endeavor has been successful? The gospel was preached and people were heared, uh healed. A successful ministry endeavor does not depend on the outcome. But it depends entirely on whether the one who is going is faithfully obeying what Christ has called them to do. Did they go? Yes. Did they obey? Yes. From what we see in this text. That is what makes a successful ministry endeavor. And as they entrusted themselves to the king, these apostles, they risked their lives. They went to villages, risking rejection, possibly death. But another way that we know a little bit, maybe not so much the successfulness, but certainly the effectiveness of their ministry, is by what we see play out here in verses 7 through 9. The kingdom of God is encroaching on the kingdom of man. Herod was perplexed. And while he is perplexed, rumors are being stirred. While he's perplexed. He's questioning himself. And there's a sense in which Herod doesn't quite know what to believe exactly. He's got to do some self-talk to bring him back to reality. John, I beheaded. Who is this? Who is this Jesus? And there's certainly much more that we could meditate and consider. And the Luke does not give us what's all that's going on inside of Herod's head and heart. But this we know. We know this much. He sought to see him. God is at work right now advancing his kingdom. And the Great Commission That we eventually learn about later on will be for all of us. We all get to participate in this kingdom uh advancing and proclaiming work You will have the Holy Spirit in you, the power of the Spirit in you, and the authority of the Word of God. If you are in Christ, you get to participate in this ever-unfolding redemptive plan of God for the nations. He makes us by calling us to himself, men and women, he gives us his spirit, equips us with his word, and he sends us out. The real question left for us. Is will we depart? Remember what I said at the beginning that you can trace your spiritual lineage here in Luke 9? I want us to imagine for a second, 500 years from now, the saints that will be in Christ 500 years from now They're going to trace their spiritual lineage back to Luke 9. And when they're going back to Luke 9, whose name will they run across? Of those faithful gospel proclaimers. They'll run across your name. Now don't do this so that way your name can pop up in somebody's spiritual family tree. That's not the point of this. But because you are a Christian. And he is calling you right now to join his mission in making other Christians, bringing about his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. So the application question is this. Will you join Christ's mission? Or are you perplexed? If you're perplexed, let's talk. I want to talk to you sincerely. Reach out to me. But reach out to somebody. Talk to a friend. Talk to a spiritual leader. Talk to an elder. Talk to a family member It is possible that the perplexity that is going on in your head and heart might be a fruit might be an inevitable outcome of Christ's kingdom encroaching on your kingdom. If that's the case, let me just give you a solemn warning. Christ's kingdom will win. You do not want Jesus shaking the dust off of his sandals as a testimony against you. So trust Christ. Obey Christ today. This is the proclamation of the gospel. This is the gospel. You can have your sins forgiven. Jesus died for you. The grace is available for free. Trust to him. Trust in him. Look to him. Hope in him And as you trust and obey, learning to love him as he's loved you, you will get to participate as all the saints in Christ have participated since Luke 9 in building his coming kingdom. So let us pray. Gracious Father, thank you so much that you have called us to yourself. You have brought us from death to life and made us sons and daughters. And more than that, you have given your spirit to empower us and your word that has authority and instruction on how to go about proclaiming your message of the kingdom of God. Help us, O God, to do this work faithfully, to not trust in our outcomes or to trust in other measurements other than we are walking faithfully by your grace. And oh God, for those who are still perplexed, we ask that you would soften their hearts. You would move them unto belief for your glory and for their good. We love you, Father. We thank you for your great love for us in Christ. And it's his name that we pray. Amen.