One of the great ironies of our time is how many things we possess, and yet how rare is the jewel of Christian contentment. Rich are our experiences, culture, travel, even work experiences for many of us. And yet how few are contenders. how many choices we have. More choices than almost any other people in history. Where to work and where to live, who to marry. So many things that we can choose. to bring us happiness. And yet so few are really contented. Stop and think for a moment. How many people do you know that you would say are really contented people? You yourself profess Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord. Would you describe yourself as a truly contented person? Many of us go after contentment with almost a best request. The commercials tell us that we must have it all to be content. Think of a fellow by the name of Peter Bogdan. I don't know how many of you have ever heard of Peter Bogdanovich. He's a director in Hollywood of somewhat sleazy films. Peter Bogdanovich, Wants the Good Life. Peter's been a little better. on his luck lately. His mother, who was a playmate of the year, gorgeous creature, was recently killed by her estranged husband, brutally murdered. Last month Peter Babdanovich Filed for bankruptcy. Turns out that uh his income is a mere $75,000 per month. That's not enough to live on with his birthday. necessities which run two hundred thousand dollars per month. Rada Balanda says that Bogdanovich lists unpaid debts to hotels, limousine services, dog training school, lawrist, American experience Express. His Bel Air House carries several of the needs, totally more than $3. 3 million. The director also owes money to his neighborhood pharmacists, his doctors, and a newsboy. each month on past due bills and judgments, sixteen thousand dollars on his lawyers, fifteen thousand dollars on agents, and one thousand dollars on his dirty laundry a month. As a man that is determined to have it. You think Peter Bagdanovich is a contented person? Even in the one of Europe, our day-to-day relatively humble. drum lives compared to a man like him in the fast lane. We have the same sort of frustration, don't we? I told this example with permission given. My daughter Julie wanted Beyond all else for Christmas, a white outfit. White top, white sweater, white slacks, white shoes, the whole bit. She got it. But it was beautiful. driving in the car together. And Julie was explaining on the beauty of this totally matching white outfit. She said, Well, the only trouble that is white spot so easily. But now she says I'm just sure that I'm going to get a spot on this thing at today's dinner. Pause. And already starting to get mad just thinking about it. We fret so. We sue about what could happen. We worry. We complain. We make negative comparisons. We live in the world of what if, if only, and self- I work and to call our attention to Paul's words in Philippians chapter four. In Philippians chapter four, Paul says in verse twelve, I have learned the secret of being content. Let's put a statement. Here's a man that says, I have learned the secret of being content. That should make yourself pick it up and listen. Unless we think that this is simply another self-help recipe, I remind you that this is the infallible word of God. And when you realize that, that should make you want to examine this with breathless anticipation. What does God say through Paul is the secret of contentment. Want us to understand it? Let's pick it up, the Panitus 4, from verse 4. Philippians chapter 4, beginning with verse 4. Paul says, rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again. Rejoice. Let your gentleness be evident to all. The Lord is near. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and petition. With Thanksgiving, present your request to God. And the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Final brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever. Whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable. If anything is excellent or praiseworthy, think about such things. Whatever you have learned or received or heard from me or seen in me. Put it into practice, and the God of peace will be with you. I rejoice greatly in the Lord, but at last you have renewed your concern to me. Indeed, you've been concerned that you had no opportunity to show it. And I'm not saying this. Because I'm in need, for I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want, I can do everything through him who gives me strength. For us to focus on that 13th verse, you see, this morning. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. If you follow along in your golden outline, I'd like you to notice two things about this verse. First of all, I want us to notice what it is not teaching, what the text does not mean, and then positively I want to look at what it does mean. First of all then I want to clear away the common misconceptions about what this verse is teaching us. First of all, I have seen this verse on plaques and signs. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. How many times have you seen that around? You know, it makes a good bumper sticker or something. Very short, pithy, not something you can hang on your wall. I can do everything because it gives me strength. I remember as a new Christian back in nineteen sixty-two, now that's before some of you were first born, and I was twice born by that time. Because this is a new Christian at that time, hearing a message that greatly impacted my life on this verse. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. And so I adopted that as my year's verse in 1962. And I looked at that and I thought, there it is, you know. Possibility thinking unlimited. Everything is possible to me through Jesus Christ who gives me the strength. Name it and claim it, you know. There it is. All things. open to me. The trouble was as I began to study the verse, I looked at the context, and I realized that rather than Paul saying, whatever I want to do, it is possible to me through Jesus Christ, he was rather Whatever the circumstances I am in, I can be content in death, in Jesus Christ. It's very clear. The everything has to do with the circumstances in which Paul can be content. This book is about contentment. It's not about challenging unconquered lands. It's talking about being content. Paul says in verse 11, starts in verse 10 saying, you know, I had a need. And I'm very thankful that that you folks were kind enough to give me a gift to meet that need. But now lest you think that I was discontent without that, and now you've made me content. I want to remind you that my contentment is totally independent of that gift. I was content for it, I'm content with it. My contentment is independent of my circumstances. The worst then does not deal with simply Unconquered lands that are possible to us through Christ, he's talking about contentment. And at this point, I think we need to clear away another dangerous misconception. We think of Paul as a saint, and I think there's a tendency for many of us as Christians. So now think of Paul as human. So you ever think of that, you know, I mean you think of Paul, you put him in a separate category, don't you? I mean, here's the rest of us sort of slugging it out, trying to look at him. There's Paul up there and all he does is he looks down on us, you know, able to conquer through everything and you know He somehow you don't relate to him, you know. If you crypt him, he wouldn't believe, you know, he sort of some spiritual error come out somehow, you know. There's something about him that you don't relate to. Now, if that's in fact the case. Then we'll lose a great deal of comfort that we can get from Scripture by realizing that Paul was, in fact, a flesh and blood human being just like us. He was a sinner. In need of the grace of Jesus Christ. He struggled, he wrecked. He was frustrated, he sinned, he was angry, he did the same things that you and I did. And God wants to teach you and me through this passage that He has something for us to learn through Paul's experience, it is just as true for you. It's not that it worked for Paul because he was in a separate category, but those principles wouldn't work for you and me until heaven. No. God wants this experience for you and for me. Now Paul says I can do everything through him who gives me strength. He says that he didn't understand my circumstance. You don't know how trapped I feel in the situation in which I live. Let me remind you of what Paul included in that everything. He speaks of it in a number of places, but in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, there's probably the best summary of some of the things that Paul undoubtedly had in mind when he wrote, I I can do everything. That is, I can be content in every situation through him who gives me strength. Second Corinthians chapter eleven. Beginning with verse 24, notice some of the pressures. that were upon Paul. He said, Five times I received from the Jews the thirty lashes minus one. I'll tell you, you received those thirty lashes minus one once in your life, you'll remember it the rest of your life. Bone in grips, ripping your back open till it was a bloody mass of sores. Paul says, I got that five times in my life as punishment for preaching Christ. Five times. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned, and he was left for dead. Three times I was shipwrecked. I spent a night and a day in the open sea. And he's like, Well, you know, there's sometimes I just And I think how can I be content in this situation? I don't think God even cares. Unless Paul itself, floating around like a cork three days for a day and a night in an open sea. Not knowing what's going to happen to him, not knowing he'll ever come upon land to write this. What must have been his feelings at that point? Talk about discouragement. Verse 26 he says, I've been constantly on the moon. What do you mean you can identify with that? Constantly moving, never feeling like I can settle down in one place. I've been in danger from rivers, danger from bandits, danger from my own countrymen, danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the country, danger at sea, danger from false brothers. I've labored and toiled, I've often gone without sleep. I've gone hunger and thirst, and I've often gone without food. I've been cold, naked, And besides everything else, he says, I face daily the pressure of my concern for all the churches. Who's weak and I don't feel weak? Who's letting us in and I don't inwardly burn to the concern? Concerned for what's going on. You feel pressure? You feel like you're always on the move? You feel like sometimes God's abandoned you? And he said, can Paul relate to that? Right after he goes to this chapter, man, it's almost humans. He goes on to chapter 4. He says, and I got this thorn in the flesh, it really bothers me. So I have a mind ring, you know, and he says, I got this green of thorn in my shoes, you know. He says, What must that thorn in the flesh be is after all this, that's what really bothers him. And so Paul was a man who certainly understood discouragement. He certainly understood the temptation of feeling like God might have abandoned him. He knew what it was to have pressure, pressure upon him. You and I find so often gets us down. Just coming down from the office of I was leaving here. Two people told me, Well, I should leave this message this morning, the paper copy was jamming, we couldn't get the paper through for the Sunday school, people were lined up waiting to use it, you know, everything's going on back and forth, you know. So many pressures that we have, don't we? Discouragement. Things don't work out the way we hope. That's what this verse is about. The next thing, second thing I want you to see that it's not about, is that it's not so Contentment is from either Stoicism and the power of positive thinking or from changing our circumstances. That's not the kind of contentment he's talking about. It's not from Stoicism. That is, it's not stealing myself against disappointment by forsaking all my expectations. It's not an indifferent resignation to my circumstances. The pagan pessimism. Christianity is not that. It does Christianity is not indifferent and unfeeling to circumstances. circumstances. That is a distortion of Christianity. On the other hand, it's not the power of positive thinking either. It's not possibility thinking. That's the opposite distortion. See, Stoicism is pessimistic. It says that is hopeless Now let's just learn how to numb ourselves against the pain. Possibility thinking or the power of positive thinking says, What pain? I love my arm jammed up against my back, helps me to scratch my neck better, you know. There's always the bluegill in the happiness that I can see above the horizon there perched on that branch. You see, possibility thinking ignores reality. It's a mindset that says I will simply think positively regardless of what the facts are. And then I'll feel better. Just by telling myself positive thoughts. That's not what this is talking about. Absolutely not. It's as much a distortion as stoicism. Thirdly, it's not saying I gain contentment by changing my circumstances. And there's too many Christians today who have that kind of a view. As soon as the pressure's on, as soon as things are uncomfortable, as soon as I begin to feel a certain discontentment, that's God's signal that He's moving me out of my situation. God leading me away from this. You often can tell the clue is when people say, I need to start thinking about myself, you know. I need to get out of this marriage. I need to quit this job. Things are just left going the way I believe that God would have it. I can't take it anymore. Funny thing is, if I track the lives of people with that kind of a view, and I've been around long enough to track a few lives. I find that somehow they never find the right circumstances. Somehow they're never in those circumstances in which there's the right atmosphere for contentment. from one circumstance to another and here here's a glory story about how God has led me out of that and He's brought me into a place of peace and then predictably over a period of weeks or months things go downhill again. And there's the blame of other people You have always this person, and that person is doing this, and this and that, and every other thing, and it's always looking to the other person for their fault. And then there's the moving on again. Paul says, I found contentment right now. where I was. Now I'm not saying that contentment is the same as a passive complacency. There are times when God wants us to move on. There are times when he moves us out of situation. There are times when we is simple situations and we need to move out. But that's the difference is to move out in order to get contentment or to move out because in my contentment I sense the leading of the spirit. Let me warn you, if you cannot find contentment in the situation that you are in, I'm not saying that you'll shout hallelujah every time you go to your job, or that you find that this is what you choose. in the particular situation you're in. But until you can find the contemporary that Paul's speaking about here, don't move. Don't make a rash decision. It may be premature, and you'll find yourself in worse trouble. Paul's talking about a contentment that is independent of the circumstances. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. What then does that mean? The positive side of it. It means that I can always be content, whatever my circumstances, because of my vital union with Jesus Christ, through him who gives me strength. Literally, only the one who infuses strength into me. Only the one, in him, who infuses strength into me. Notice three things about that. First of all, it's referring to an objective reality. It's referring to an objective reality. It's based on what has happened to me in Christ. That is, what's happened to me because my life is united. to his life because I am in him. Chapter 3. Paul had said there in verse 9, he says, Now I have forsaken everything else as being the object of my desire, because he says in verse 9, I have Been found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, from what I do to try to please God. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness. That comes from God and is by faith. Paul says, Jesus Christ came, he fulfilled the law of God. He was made absolutely acceptable. He was declared accepted by God the Father. Every time I try to make myself accessible, I fail. And I'm discontent. I'm not able to fulfill God's standards. And I will be absolutely frustrated and I will kill myself trying. Maybe you have. Paul says the beginning of my contentment is to find that my righteousness is in Jesus Christ. Chapter 3, verse 9. A righteousness in him by faith. If you have not come to know Jesus Christ in that way, that's the beginning place for you this morning. To put aside the striving of your own life and efforts and to come in to that contentment of a clear conscience. of gift put away because of a righteousness that Jesus has accomplished on your behalf and that you receive as a gift by faith. Because of that he says in verse fourteen, chapter three, I have heaven before me. Look at that. I press on toward the goal to bring the prize to which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. Through him, in him, in Christ. My goal is heaven, and that's assured to me. God has promised that for me. Because he's given it to me in Jesus Christ. In fact, he says in chapter 1, verse 21, My very life is Christ. To me, to live is Christ, and to die is to gain more of Christ. And nothing, brother and sister. Nothing on earth can take that away from you. Isn't that wonderful? No matter what your situation, you have that hope and nothing can remove it. Therefore, secondly, it's a matter of your mind Not of your feelings to gain content. So many Christians pray for contentment. Lord, help me to be content in this situation. And I'm not really sure what a person is praying for when they pray that. Anyway, they want God to just sort of make them feel. Paul says here, I can think with my mind about certain things. Notice verse nine? Verse eight speaking? Chapter four? Whether whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is true. Right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable, if there's anything excellent or praiseworthy, what? Think of these things. Control your mind to think about the gospel. Paul says there are things that I think about that makes my contentment such a contentment that it is independent of my circumstance. Because ultimately he says my contentment does not depend upon my circumstances. It depends upon three basic truths. Of which I am convinced, and those truths cannot be affected by my circumstances. You see them listed right there in your bullets, right on the back. Three basic truths. Number one, that I am forgiven and I call God my Father through Christ. I think about that with my mind. Secondly, he says, I am convinced the disarmament purpose is for my good. Whatever the circumstances, that God has determined good for those who He has called to be confused. Paul says, I'm convinced that his purpose For me is good. And I tell myself that. I talk to myself. Martin Lane Gillard says, one of the big problems with Christians is we let ourselves talk to us. We need to talk to ourselves. Yeah, I think well that's more less different. Your self talks to uh to you and says, Hey you're in a rotten situation. God doesn't really love you. You don't really care. You know, you're really stuck here. You know, you're really in it over your head. You know, you're really in a situation where you're not going to be able to cope with. You know, you're really in a situation in which God's grace is not going to be sufficient. You really don't have to put up with all this. And I tell myself all these things. You know, myself is talking to me. And my girl says from Psalm forty two, same kind of thing here. We need to take ourselves in hand. We need to talk to ourselves. as my father. He cares. God's purpose for me is good. And then thirdly, my current situation is so, so temporary. When we looked at that last week, my few days are almost over. We talked last week a little about the fact that if you live 70 years, that's about 25,000 conscious days. If you take 25,000 days, and let's say that in those 25,000 days, you are going to suffer the absolute limit of the experience. Excruciating torment of hell, every single one of those. Let's make it the absolute worst situation that you can possibly conceive of. Nothing that you have ever read about. No concentration camps. No absolute utterance. torture can compare to what you can conceive of for twenty-five thousand days. The Bible says the weight of glory of what is ahead of you as a Christian would so far outweigh those near twenty-five thousand days that there would be a speck on the balance of an eternal weight of glory. I can't endure it. That's because I can't Contentment's dependent on our circumstances. Paul says, I can do everything through him who has made God my Father, whose purpose for me is absolutely good, and who has set up before me an eternal weight of glory that so far outweighs anything that I could be disturbed about here. And then finally, this is a matter of the will. I choose to rest in him. I choose to believe it. Learn verse 9. He says, now whatever you've learned or received or heard from me, that's the mind. You've learned it, you received it, you've heard of it, you've seen it in me. Then he says the verse Will. Put it into practice. That's the will. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. I'm not passive. Do it through me as a passive channel. I decide to abide in Christ. I decide to cleave to Him. I decide in this circumstance that I will choose. To believe his promise. I remember a number of years ago when I was at Winter Varsity Christian Fellowship, I had a very deep respect for the head of that organization, my boss, Dr. John Alexander. Dr. Alexander has a daughter who does very, very much. His daughter married a man who, shortly after their marriage, contracted a fatal disease. It was a kind of disease that took them a couple couple of years to die. There were a couple of excruciating years. And when death finally came, I remember him writing in the family newsletter these words, roughly paraphrased, that I'll never forget. He said he certainly new it was going. But we choose to believe God's word in this circumstance. That his character is loving and that his promises are faithful. choose to believe God. He can, in the agony of grief, in the pain of the sorrow of the say, I've got a choice to make. I can choose to indulge indulge in self-pity on and off in anger and bitterness against God, for in my grief and pain I can choose to believe that he's true to his word. That's a choice, brothers and sisters. Yet I choose to cleave to Christ. But notice one thing first. It's one last thing. We choose to get our strength from Him. Notice verse 13 says, I can do everything. Through Him. It doesn't simply say through the gospel. It's not ultimately talking about principles, but a person. Every bit of wisdom that You can have. Every principle, every self-help book must fall short of the person of Jesus Christ, no matter how much of truth it has to it. Your contentment and my contentment ultimately rests in a person who personally infuses the strength of contentment in us. It's not ultimately, you see, the fact that I believe certain things about God and what he's going to do and where I'm headed. It's the fact that I cleave to a person in vital union with that person. And as I cultivate that union and that relationship, he infuses me with strength. He gives me a contentment that is absolutely independent of whatever circumstances I'm in. I mean that. Whatever circumstances you and I are in. Mary Lloyd Jones in a really a classic book, Spiritual Depression as Causes and Cure. Great happens to be on this very verse, in the last chapter, which he calls the final cure. These words about this verse. The big principle that emerges clearly is that Paul had learned to find his pleasure and his satisfaction in Christ and always in Christ. This is the positive aspect of this matter. We must learn to depend on the upon him in order to do what we must learn. And in order to do that, we must learn to know him. We must learn to have communion with him. We must learn to find our pleasure in him. Let me put it plainly. The danger with some of us is to spend far too much of our time in fellowship with other people or even in reading about Him. They may come Indeed will come, then we shall not be able to read. Then comes the test. Will you still be happy? Do you know him so well that though you become deaf or blind, This mount will still be open to you? Do you know him so well that you can talk to him and listen to him and enjoy him always? Though you were lying in darkness upon a man? Will all be well because I'm not sure? Because you have always been so dependent upon your relationship to Him that nothing else really matters. That was the Apostle's condition. His intimacy with Christ was so And so great that he had become independent of everything else. Would you describe yourself as a content person? If you say no, Take heart. There is a way. It's a person. Jesus. If you're discontented this morning, and I'm going to ask you why are you discontented? Don't tell me. Because of my Circumstances. It's not the circumstances that ultimately rob you of the contentment. It's your believing lies about your situation and those circumstances. You're believing Satan's Wise about the gospel. And you're letting Satan drive a ridge between you and the Lord Jesus. Some time ago, a wife who I was counseling said to me, I've been hurt and humiliated so many times through the years that I can't belong. Another wife said to me, I must protect myself. from being hurt again by my husband. And I can't go on. She called me up to tell me that she was having that she was going to have an affair. And I said, I'm glad you called me to tell me that. Because it tells me that you really don't want to. And so as she expected me to do, I charged her in the name of Christ that she not continue with that. She'd break off that had even started this relationship. She find her contentment in Jesus Christ. In a way that can transcend understanding unless you were in that kind of a difficult situation. And to continue to love her husband and not find her satisfaction in her husband's response, but in satisfying Christ. And she drove it off and she went back. And I think of a third wife who said to me, I'm a glorified housemate to my husband. He takes me so for granted that I don't feel like I'm even a partner. with it. And it would be better for me to leave than to continue in this situation. And I said, yeah, that's not an option to you as a disciple of Jesus. We talked about contentment in him. All three of these wives have continued with their husbands. All three have found their contentment in Jesus Christ. And at least two of the three have to this point seen their marriages significantly even. radically improved. God doesn't promise what he'll do in your circumstances, but he does promise you this morning that you can be content. Because he promises that to his own son who will lead you content. I can do everything to him who infuses me with his own strength. Let's pray. Where we have so much. It's ridiculous. When you think of how people in so many parts of the world could look at us and they'd say, Why are you miserable? Look at all And yet in our hearts Lord, many of us have to cry out. We're miserable. We're discontented. We're grumblers. We're complainers. We're we're people who can find so much wrong. Oh Lord God. Make us a contented people. Make us a contented people, Lord, not first and foremost Because that's simply what we would enjoy. But because, Lord Jesus, that would glorify you. You have declared yourself to be a savior to us who can make us a contender. people independently of our circumstances. That's something the world can't even begin to understand. And you are glorified in your people when they're content. And so, Lord, we pray that beginning this week, of this new year, we might be able to find our contending in a whole new way in Jesus Christ. That can be so simple, and yet, as far as I know, one of us here shared with me just this week, is finding that truth. To be so simple and yet so profound in his own life. Father, we pray that many of us. Might be able to testify that in the weeks to come. I have found a new contentment in Jesus, independent of my circumstances, because I have found it through him. Who infuses his strength in me. Lord, whether it means coming to you for that forgiveness for the first time, whether it means returning to you, away from those things that we read or the shows that we watch or the radio programs we listen to or the books that we read or anything else the meetings that we go to in order to try and get pumped up to feel better. Lord we pray that we might return to Jesus. We might find our content with Lord Jesus. Ultimately in you alone. Do that, we pray. We need it. We really need it, Lord. And so we come to you, who will promise you.