Our world is an intensely secular world. It appears to have relatively little interest in spiritual things. It's an intensely materialistic world. It seems that uh most people have little concern about anything other than experiences or things that are in this world And yet there's also a deep hunger for spiritual things. I think that's evidenced by The clamoring after certain false religions and cults is evidenced by the fact that charismatic churches that emphasize the experience and the power of the Holy Spirit Are among the fastest growing churches in the world. And I believe that we Orthodox Presbyterians need to know more about the Holy Spirit. We need to know more about his work and his power. We need to know more about what it means to experience him in our lives. He is the key to grace and to power as opposed to legalism and defeat in our Christian lives. And so this season, with Pentecost coming up next Sunday, we're spending three weeks to examine three misconceptions that we have about the Holy Spirit that are addressed in Acts chapter 2, verse 33. So if you haven't turned to that and you have a Bible, please turn. To Acts chapter 2. We'll be looking again at verse 33. Last week, you remember, we saw the first misconception, and that is that we do something extraordinary after our conversion in order to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Whereas Acts chapter 2, verse 33 tells us that no, Jesus received the Spirit based on what he did. He fulfilled all the conditions for receiving the baptism of the Spirit, and He gives His Spirit to all who come to Him by faith alone. That's the only requisite in coming to Jesus, as you see later on in that chapter. Peter says, repent, believe, and receive the Spirit in that Pentecostal fullness of power. We receive him by faith alone, initially for salvation, and by faith alone, daily. For sanctification or the living of the Christian life in our homes, at work, and in our play. Verse 33 says, Exalted to the right hand of God. He, Jesus, has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. You cannot live the Christian life by your own self-effort. It simply can't be done. This past week I felt particularly a failure in an area of my life as a father and as a husband. I felt out of control. Do you ever feel like that? Know what that means to just feel totally empty and out of control and that you've utterly failed no matter how hard you've tried. Well, as a result of that, my wife and I went to prayer. And as we went to prayer, I found myself feeling discouraged. Empty. Why? Because I didn't have anything to offer. I was utterly helpless. Everything I had tried had failed. Why pray? And all of a sudden it hit me. That's the position that the Lord's been wanting to get me in in order to bring me to more urgent, expectant prayer. It's when I feel utterly helpless that my own pride and self-confidence finally get out of the way. And I don't seek to then blend my efforts with a certain veneer of God's power, but rather realize that I'm utterly helpless without that power of his spirit. And so rather than that time being a time where I felt so discouraged and empty that I couldn't pray, I saw that in fact that is where Jesus delights to meet his people. It's when you and I come to that place of utter helplessness, an utter sense that I can't by my own self-discipline and effort and a little more try And obeying what this says and determining to do it and setting goals and writing them down, that I can therefore attain to what God is calling me to do. I simply cannot do it And it's when I realize that helplessness that I'm in a position to finally have Jesus meet me and to show his power. And so at that time, this week, two things out of verse 33 have become especially precious to me. And those two things are that the Spirit is promised for my need. He is the promised Spirit. And secondly, that his promise is the promise of the Father. He's promised by my Father for my need, exalted to the right hand of God. He Jesus received from the Father, his Father, and my Father, the promised Holy Spirit, and has poured out what you now see and hear. He is the promise of a father, not the reward of a judge. I want to break that down into those two points. First of all, point one, he is a promised gift. Not an earned reward. And then secondly, the fact that he's from the Father. But first of all, notice that he is a promised gift to us, not an earned reward. Many churches today teach that the power of the Spirit is for those who are more deeply committed or more deeply yielded or who fulfill certain conditions. subsequent to their conversion in order to be baptized with the Holy Spirit. But follow along in your bulletin outline. This is so important that I wrote it out so that you'd have it and you could look it up on your own Because if you have interest in your life for the power and presence of the Holy Spirit, then it's important for you to know what the scripture teaches on this. And that's what I want to open up. And I want you to be able to look at the verses yourself. So I've written these verses down for you to be able to look at this. Four words in Acts guard the fact that the Holy Spirit is given and received by grace. That he is not earned by any post-conversion conditions that you or I could ever fulfill. The four words are that he is a gift. You notice right down in verse 38 of Acts chapter 2, Paul says, repent and be baptized for the forgiveness, and you will receive the gift. Of the Holy Spirit. In chapter 8, you remember Simon Magnus tried to buy the Spirit. Paul said, Your money perish with you because you think you can buy the gift of God. It's a free gift. It's given. You can't earn it or buy it. It's said that he is given. That's the second word that's used a couple of times in order to show that it's by grace the Spirit, not by something we do to get that power. Thirdly, that he is received. The word is a passive reception. And you see that again also in verse 38 there. Repent, be baptized, you'll receive the gift. Remember in chapter 1 he said, wait, and you will receive power from on high. It's something you and I don't accomplish. We simply receive. from the Spirit, that ability, that power to live the Christian life. And then the fourth thing is the promise. The Spirit is described in four different occasions by Luke as a promise. He is the promised Spirit. Back in Luke 24, Jesus said, Don't leave Jerusalem when I go, but wait for the promise of my Father. Remember in Acts chapter 1, he said, This is the promise of my Father that you're going to receive. And then here in verse 33, he's received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit. And then down in verse 38 or verse 39, after his inviting them to receive the Spirit, he says, this promise is for you and for your children. So the Spirit is a promise. Now why is that significant? Why does that make me excited rather than just, you know, like last week I said I was so excited that Jesus received the Spirit Why am I excited that he's the promised spirit? Why do I hope you'll be excited by the end of this message that he's the promised spirit rather than just say it's interesting that he's excited about that, but that doesn't really move me very much Well the reason is that in New Testament language, the fact that the Spirit is a promise sets him totally against anything that we can attain to by our effort. You see what it says underneath that promise is in utter contrast to our ability to keep God's law. Now, why is that exciting? Well, you remember what we said back last fall when we looked at Romans chapter 4? Turn over to Romans chapter 4 for just a moment. In Romans chapter 4, verses 13 to 15, remember when we were studying about Abraham in the names of God there. We looked at Romans chapter 4 And we see there in verse 13, Paul says, it was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise. That he would be heir of the world. So law and promise are being set in contrast. It's either by law or it's by promise. Now he says it was not through the keeping of the law that Abraham received the promise. The promise to be heir of the world. Remember, we went, we talked about what that means, for you and I are all that will inherit in Christ. But through the righteousness that comes by faith The promise is received by faith. Why? Verse 14. For if those who live by law are heirs, if that's the way you get what God promises, faith has no value. And the promise is worthless because law brings wrath. Paul says it's either promise or it's law. You can't mix them. If it's promise, it's not law. If it's law, it's not promise. Because if it's promise by law, the promise is worthless. Do you remember the example that I gave you back then to illustrate that? I said Suppose I had promised Dean that for Christmas I was going to get him a 10 or 16-speed ATB all-terrain bike. And I said, Dean, I gotta promise you and get and by the way, that was a hypothetical example he did not get an ATB for Christmas, right? And so uh this is just illustrative purposes. His heart always skips a beat when I use this illustration, but You know, we could say birthday or whatever else. Hang on, Dean. Someday maybe you'll get a bike. But just for illustration, I say, Dean, I promise you this bike for Christmas. And then I say, well, of course there's a couple of conditions. You remember uh I mentioned then that I said, Dean, uh you gotta between now and Christmas keep your room absolutely straight And that means when I say straight, I mean straight. I mean one day you go to school and anything is left on the floor, that is, that nullifies it. No bite And and also, I want to make sure that you do your homework. That's another condition. You've got to do your homework every night If I get one indication from any teacher that you haven't turned in your homework once between now and Christmas, no bike. And also I want you to do good in school, so that means that you've got to get straight A's. I mean you can't flunk anything between now and Christmas. No, it's not a single test or quiz. You can't get D's, you can't get C's, not a single B Gotta be straight A 's. And then I promise you the bite. And one last thing, Dean. You can't bug your sisters. I I I mean you know if the other ones didn't do it, that would, you know. Not once can I hear a complaint from either sister that you've been bugging them between now and Christmas. No bite Then I say, Now aren't you excited about that promise that I gave you? The kid would be jumping up and down ready to bust me in the chops. He said, What promise? Verse 14, the promise is worthless. In fact, it's worse than worthless. Because before you gave me the promise, I didn't have any hope of a bite Now it mocks me. Why? Verse 15. Because the law brings a curse. See, that's what I did I gave him a promise, then I added law to it, so I nullified the promise. I mocked him by the law because he is totally unable to keep that law. Now I'm not down on my son. But I tell you, he is totally unable to keep those. I promise you. Yeah, don't you laugh. What about your kids? Sit so high and mighty out there laughing at my son, huh? The promise is worthless for any of us, right? And that's the way God's law is. His standard is perfect. And so if his promises depend on our keeping the law, the promise is worthless. And that's the way you and I often look at the Holy Spirit. We say, if I just was a better Christian, I would have more power of the Spirit in my witness If I was more sincere in my praying and didn't have my mind wandering, but concentrated harder, I would see prayers answered in my Christian life. If I just meant more business and was more disciplined in overcoming this sin that holds me in bondage in my life. Then the power of the Spirit would release me and give me victory. What's that doing? You are placing yourself under the law. You're saying that the power of the Spirit is only available for those who keep the law. And Paul says that's worthless. Acts 2. 33 says he received the promised spirit. And you have that spirit by one act alone, faith in Jesus Christ and his finished work. I don't care if you're an unbeliever this morning and you've come here to witness a baptism and you need Jesus Christ in your life. And Jesus Christ presents himself to you now to say, I come to you and offer you forgiveness of sin and the power that can transform your life by trusting in me. And you've never walked with him a single day in your life until today when you realize your need for him and trust him. Or whether you've walked with him for 10, 15, or 20 years, and you're still living in defeat in certain areas of your life. It's the same principle. The power of the Spirit is received by faith alone. Not by what you and I seek to attain in fulfilling God's requirements for being a good Christian. Do you understand that? That can radically transform your walk with Jesus Christ if you really lay a hold of that. Now It's when we recognize, therefore, that we are utterly helpless under the law that we cry out to the Spirit for His power. And the more we realize our helplessness, the more we are able to experience his power because our own efforts aren't in the way. We're not trusting in ourselves and thinking, well, you know, it's nice God did that, but prayer becomes kind of a superstition. You know, I gotta do my part and I'll just sort of pray in order to just kind of bring in God's part somehow in a way that I'm not really sure how it works. But the fact is that from the beginning to the end, it's only the power of the Spirit that enables you and me to follow Jesus Christ and to live for it. Do you remember at that same time we looked at Galatians chapter 3, and we looked at that again last week? Take a look at it again. Galatians chapter 3 makes the same point. This contrast between promise and law. It is so important that I want to keep hammering at this so that you can grasp it because I find that very often people hear this and you think, Well, is he really saying what I think he's saying? Well, I'm not really sure and So you keep you know, you gotta keep hitting it from this end and that end and down and up and over and you know and finally yeah that's what he's really saying, you know, it's to get it then try it. You know, is that what God's saying Galatians 3, remember last week, we talked about how he received the Spirit based on what he, Jesus, had done, and that we received the Spirit only because he has by faith in him. Galatians 3. 14. He redeemed us, he set us free from the law, you see. In order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles, you and me, through Jesus Christ So that how by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit. There it is again, the promise of the Spirit. Now in the rest of the chapter, Paul goes on to set these two in antithesis, promise and law. And so, for instance, verse 18, look what he says. If the inheritance, Abraham's inheritance now again, depends on the law, you and I keeping the law, then it no longer depends on a promise, either or, either promise or law. But God in his grace gave it to Abraham through a promise. Not law. The inheritance is through a promise. So then he says, verse 21. Is the law therefore then opposed to the promise of God? That's a natural question, right? You say, well , what's the purpose of the law? I mean, you know, you you got all those commands there, we're always told to to follow these, you know, uh all the things God tells us to do, not gossip Don't return evil for evil, turn the other cheek. Somebody slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other cheek for insult. Don't gossip, uh, don't covet. Give cheerfully. Don't lust. You know, he said, what do you do with these commands? She says, well, you know, just sit back and let the Spirit take control. No, what place is the law? Well he says the law therefore isn't opposed to the promise. God gave the promise. 430 years later he says he gave a law. What's the point of that law? Paul says, absolutely not. There it is, Galatians 3:21. Absolutely not. But he says now, if the law had been given that could impart life, then righteousness would certainly have come by the law. You know, if the law could give life. See, nothing's wrong with the law. The law reflects God's character. So when God says to you, don't gossip, don't lust Don't return evil for evil. Nothing wrong with that. The problem is that the law is powerless to enable you to do that. That's verse 21. The law can't impart life, it can't enable you. But verse 22, the scripture declares that the whole world is a prisoner of sin. So that what was promised being given, how? Through faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now you see what he's saying? When you and I look at those commands, you look at the ten commands, you look at any part of Scripture in Jesus' will for your life, and you say, I feel powerless to do that. I can't do it, Lord. I've tried to do it. I've tried again and again and again and I cannot do it. And he says, that's right. The law is powerless. In fact, you're a prisoner to it. You're in bondage to it. Look what he says, verse 23. Before this faith came We were held prisoners by the law, locked up. There you are. You ever feel that? When you read God's commands? Some Christians, I know Stop having quiet times 'cause they say all I do is find more laws that I'm not keeping. Who wants to read the Bible when it just shows me how more inadequate How deficient, how rotten I am as a person, I am locked up, I am in bondage, I am a prisoner. Who wants to meet with a God like that? And so you give up because you haven't heard the gospel. Because Paul goes on to say, before this faith came, talking about Jesus We were held prisoners by the law, locked up until faith should be revealed. So the law was put in charge to lead us to Christ. that we might be justified by faith. Now that faith has come, we are no longer under the supervision of the law. You see what he's saying? He's saying the law, not just before you were a Christian, but as a Christian, leads you to Christ. So that you realize that you walk by faith and the power of the Spirit, not under the supervision of the law. Therefore, what is it that produces non-gossip, non-lust? Not returning evil for evil and all the rest of those things. The fruit of the Spirit. That's why chapter 5, right after this, he goes on to talk about that. Remember the whole context of Galatians 3, 4, and 5 is all about the the Holy Spirit. He begins in chapter 3 saying, How did you receive the Spirit? Do you think by receiving the Spirit by faith you're going to walk on into Further of his power by works, by your own efforts? So the whole context is the Spirit. And he's saying here, you are not under the supervision of the law, but it's the fruit of the Spirit. That produces the works of Jesus Christ, his righteousness, his character in your life. And how do you lay hold of that? By faith alone. It's faith in Jesus that releases the power of the Spirit in your life and in my life. That we're able to live the way Jesus has taught us. It's as simple as that. But you see, it attacks the very root of our own self-confidence, doesn't it? And that's why it's so hard for you and me to lay hold of. The faith that I'm describing is the faith that simply looks at Jesus Christ in his work and sees his sufficiency. And rests in that. To see that Jesus is sufficient in my being accepted as I am because I have his righteousness. I'm accepted. I'm forgiven. He's sufficient. I don't have to dodge God or or escape him or not look him in the eye because I realize I'm under condemnation. But Jesus' righteousness is sufficient. And so I can come boldly to his throne of grace by faith in Christ, not based on how I feel about how I lived last week. But it comes resting in Jesus. Last week is gone. You blew it. You blew it in ways that you're ashamed to even think about But you can look at Jesus Christ and you can say, His righteousness is sufficient, I'm accepted. And not only is it in your acceptance, but in your empowering. He is sufficient to empower you by his spirit to be able this week to follow him a bit more closely. Not as you look to your own efforts, but as you look to Jesus Christ and the power of his spirit. He empowers you as you are. Not in what you could become, not in what you hope to be, not if you could only be a little more perfect in this area. I know that that's a non-sequitur, more perfect, but that's the way we'd like to be. A little more perfect in this area or that area. A little more consistent, whatever. You cannot attain by that route. You and I will be frustrated and we will turn against Jesus. We will want not to fellowship with him because he simply condemns us until we see the gospel. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Spirit, the promise which cannot be attained by law or your own efforts. You see that? I you know, is it getting through it all? I uh see. You know, uh it really it's something that we've got to lay hold of by our experience And often I think that's only when we fail and fail and fail again, and all of a sudden the light goes on and says, You know, I guess I really don't have a chance except by the power of the Spirit. That's the only way And then the Lord comes and you're feeling so rotten and discouraged and saying, you know, I guess I just gotta give up. I'm a failure. I'll never live this Christian life. Lord, I guess the only way is for you to do it. He says I've been waiting for you to see that for ten years. You know, that's the place I've been wanting you to get at And that's where he wants for us to be. Because it's only by faith, that's the little uh blank there, come only by faith in Jesus Christ, the so what Success and progress in your Christian life can only come by faith in Jesus Christ, which releases the Spirit's power in your life. And I'd ask you to be very concrete about this. Think of a particular area of defeat in your life. And write that down. Ah, you're not probably going to want to write it down. Now you're afraid a person next to you is going to look over and see what it is. You know, you're looking at her, what that person put out. Now that's I know a better one for you. Don't worry about somebody else. Put down your own area. Either put it in microchip, you know, down there, or when you get home, put it down as a way that you can see and bring it to the Lord. But put down specifically what is an area of defeat in your own life. What have been your efforts in order to try and overcome? What have you done that has not worked? List them Face them squarely. Lord, I've tried this, I've tried that, I've fasted, and I've given, and I've done this, and I've gotten up early, and I've read your word longer, and I've Can I try to concentrate and I set goals and I put myself under accountability structures and everything else and hasn't worked Then look at Christ's effort. What has he done concerning that area? Galatians 3, 13 and 14 says he redeemed you, he set you free. Acts 2. 33, he is the one who's fulfilled all the conditions, so he received the Spirit and made that Spirit available freely to you. What's Jesus done in order to set you free from the guilt and the power of that sin? Is his work sufficient? And then on the basis of that, say, okay, he's sufficient. Now, what am I asking the Spirit to do this week What am I going to say, Lord? I'm not going to be able to do this on my own. I'm going to ask you to do this in my life this week. Write it down. What specifically are you going to ask Him to do in that area of your life? And then because it is an active faith, it's not just a passive faith, you're not just saying, well, I'm just gonna sit around and see what he does. But because you believe him to do that, then you ask yourself, how will I exercise that faith in action? What am I going to do? To believe that he's going to do that. Or another way of putting it is you say, well, you know, I've been so discouraged in this area, I don't even know what I would do. Well then say, okay, if you believed that he would work in your life this week, what would you do? If you believed that he would give you the boldness to share Christ with that neighbor or that person you work with, what would you do if he did that? And then just act as if he were going to do that. That's biblical faith, you see It's acting as if the promises are true. And so you simply do it and you say it's sort of like walking off the high dive in a 15-foot fall, not knowing how to do it You know, I'm just gonna I'm going to do it. I'm going to trust that he will be there. But I I really feel helpless in myself and watch what the Lord does. But commit yourself by putting that down And as you do that you will see, and that's the second point, that he is a father, and he will never leave you or forsake you. So look real quickly on the back card. I just want to say a couple things about this. I want to go real quickly through this. Spend a bulk of the time on that first thing. But he is the promise of my father. That's the next blank on the backside. Not a reward from my judge. He's not a judge who keeps score to see if you've done enough this week in order to earn the power of the Spirit for this next week. He is your father. Who delights to see you come in your helplessness, looking to him to do what you know that you could never do yourself. Jesus is the eternal son. And so when Acts 2. 33 says, Exalted to the right hand of God, he received from the Father, it's speaking of Jesus Father. Received from the Father, Jesus Father. And because he was his father, he by his spirit has made him to be our father. So it doesn't say his father, and it doesn't say our father. Acts 2. 33 says the father, because the father is both his father and our father. By what Jesus has done in his work on the cross, substituting for your sin sufficiently, that all debt has been paid if you trust him and not yourself. And by his resurrection, he has been exalted in life to receive the Spirit from the Father. And that Father has become now your Father, no longer your judge. And because of that, you have been made sons of God. That's the next blank. He has made us adopted sons of God by his grace. Again, Galatians chapter 3. Because in Galatians 3, just after Paul has talked about the promise and the law About how you can't do it by the law, but when faith came, and the law leads us to faith in Christ, to look to Him. The very next verse, verse 26, says, You are all sons of God. Through faith in Christ Jesus. Do you see the connection? See why Paul brings that in right away. He's just elaborating on the thought of Acts 2. 33. He received the promised Spirit which made you a son. Now it's by that adoption as a son that you have the right to come to the Father and to see him work in your life. Because you are now his son. You are all sons through faith in Jesus Christ. You're not slaves to beg from him. You are sons with rights of the family. For all of you who are baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. Therefore, if he's a son, you are a son. And because he is the son, you now have become a son by grace. And so he goes on in chapter four to describe how you have the full rights of sons. Galatians 4, verses 4 to 7. You are his son. The Spirit cries in you. Abba, Daddy. Because the Spirit is in you, you are a Son. And yet we continue to act like orphans. We remembered uh when we talked about this the last Pentecost last year, I gave in one of the messages Ten characteristics of orphans. We're not going to go over that now, but let me just review to you a couple that we talked about, to remind you of just four of those. From back then. A person who's an orphan who doesn't believe that the power of the Spirit is available to them by faith because they have a new position in Jesus Christ Is a person who believes that they are alone to fend for themselves. That's A. You are alone to fend for yourself. You believe that you've got to work it out. If you're going to do it, if anybody's going to do it, if anybody's going to take care of you, this week, you've got to take care of you. And yet God says to you, You're my son. I'm never going to leave you nor forsake you. Could I ever forsake Dean when he comes to me and says, Dad, I need help They say, well no, take care of yourself. Go find your own place to live. Go take care of your own meals. Uh none of us as fathers could turn away the cries of our children. Now, you with little babies think, sometimes I can turn away the cries of my children. But as a parent's heart, you know that the real need can never be turned away. Can God do less for us? Secondly, we're crippled by slavish guilt. An orphan is a person who says, I have no rights. I have no right to ask. I'm not worthy. You're right. You don't have any right to ask. You're right. You're not worthy. But that's not the basis. The basis is promise, not law. And therefore you have the right of a son to come. You're not a slave who earns favor to get something that you ask for, but you live here. And your children walk in and out, raid the refrigerator, take whatever they want because they live there. It's the privilege of belonging. And you and I, as the sons of God, have that privilege of asking not based on whether we succeeded or failed, but because we're sons. Thirdly, an orphan is crippled by fear of failure. A fear of failure, a need to protect my image, always having to take care of who I am because I'm afraid that my true self is going to be exposed. But you know it's so freeing when you realize you're a son to realize I'm simply on my way from my rotten self to becoming like Jesus. The fact is I know that he's going to accomplish that work. I may be only ten percent on the scale or five percent or wherever, but the fact is I know what he's going to do in me. And I don't have to protect my image if I could only believe that, you see How it frees us up to realize that we're accepted because we're sons, not because of something we accomplish. And our image therefore is not at stake. It's not to be protected. Jesus reputation and image is all we have to be concerned about. The fourth thing finally is the orphan believes that they're powerless to change. I'm powerless to change. I'm powerless because I never have the right to come and ask God to work. And in your own effort, you're right. But there the final blank, the Spirit has made me a son of God. Write it again so it is embedded in your heart. And because of that, the Father will never reject you. He will never be unconcerned about you. He will never leave you on your own. Do you believe that? It's not what you do so much as whether you believe that this week that will make the difference. Because if you believe it, it will make a difference. I guarantee you. Let's pray Lord our God, help us to believe your word. To believe what you've told us. To believe. Is that the promise of the Spirit is available to us not by what we do, but available to us by grace through faith. This week, Lord, help us to take that one major area of defeat, to believe you, and to see what you will do. In Jesus' name. Amen.