Because we are about to begin Luke's version of the Sermon on the Mount, and I didn't want to break that little mini-series from the Gospel of Luke into a before Advent and After Advent. So we're going to do a couple of occasional sermons. We had an ordination sermon last week. And on that note, I do want to encourage you to uh know that Anthony Swann is finished with his sabbatical. That's why we made him be the liturgist this week. Not entirely true. He volunteered But uh welcome him back to uh being active on on your session. And uh this week we're looking at Psalm fifty-six, next week we'll look at Psalm seventy-seven and consider how we as Christians deal with depression. And then we're going to have a Thanksgiving sermon preached by our intern, Edward Ruiz, which I know I'm really looking forward to. So that's a little advanced notice on what we'll be doing here. Psalm 56. Please join me as we pray. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. We ask that you bless it to us. Father, we pray that we would value your word above all else, and Lord, that in a day and age of Uh all kinds of spin and propaganda and false narratives and misinformation and everything else we can think of. Lord, we know that your word is true, it is reliable. It is something that we can bank on, bet on. It is precious to us. It is valuable. It is sweet. Lord, help us to privilege your word above all other sources of information. Help us to know that you are true, though all men might be liars. And Father, help us to listen carefully. Spirit, open our ears. Open our eyes, that we might see wonderful things in your word. And Father, even as we ask that you bless the reading of the Bible, we pray that you would bless the preaching of it. Lord, in as much as it is faithful, make it helpful. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm 56, the Word of God. Be gracious to me, O God, for man tramples on me. All day long an attacker oppresses me. My enemies trample on me all day long, for many attack me proudly. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you, in God, whose word I praise. In God I trust. I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me? All day long they injure my cause. All their thoughts are against me for evil. They stir up strife, they lurk, they watch my steps as they have waited for my life For their crime will they escape? In wrath, cast down the peoples, O God. You have kept count of my tossings. Put my tears in your bottle Are they not in your book? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call. This I know that God is for me. In God, whose word I praise, in the Lord whose word I praise, in God I trust. I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? I must perform my vows to you, O God. I will render thank offerings to you. For you have delivered my soul from death, yes, my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life. This ends the reading of God's Word. This is one of my favorite Psalms for a couple of reasons. The first reason is very silly. The second one is very deep Many years ago, when I was a single guy, I liked this girl named Carrie. At the time her last name was Williams And there was a large group of single people that would meet in a row house on Reeder Lane off Kilimanjero. And it was a row house that me and a couple of friends, single guys from church, rented. And we had a large, large group of young people. There must have been 30 or 40 people packed into the dining and living areas of that house. And it was right after New Year's in 1996. And everybody back then was talking about their verse for the year. My father-in-law is looking at me like, what is he about to say? And we were going around the room sharing our verse for the year. And it got to aforementioned Carrie Williams. She said, I I don't have a verse for the year. I don't I don't know who it is. And I, seminary educated I said, it really ought to be Psalm 56. 1. She said, what does that say? See, in the NIV It says, Be merciful to me, O God, for men hotly pursue me. We were married months after that. But the NIV translated it, Men Hodley Pursue Me, the ESV says, Man tramples on me. Very different, very different. But one thing both translations agree on is verse three. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. And for those of you guys, my exegesis of verse 1 in 1996 was deplorable. My efforts to flirt were commendable. But the exegesis of this verse is critical. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. And that verse is going to be the very heart of our reflection on Psalm 56 right now, because this entire psalm is about trusting God. Now it's easy for us to think that trust is something that sort of comes and goes, waxes and wanes in our spiritual life in a way that's kind of mysterious to us. That kind of seems out of our control. That's kind of a function of how the world is and how the spirit is moving. And we don't really As Christians today often step back, take a look in the mirror, and take responsibility for our trust in God. And it is my hope and goal that in the writing of this sermon I will have convinced myself somewhat more so, and in the preaching of it I might convince you from the Word of God. That is not a biblical position to take. Because you have something, dear brothers and sisters, called agency, responsibility. You have by the Spirit of God a will. Trusting God is, in the first instance, in light of this scripture, a decision that we make. A decision that we make. In the eighteen twenties, a man was born, Philip Powers And towards the end of his life, he died in 1899. He was a minister of the gospel. And he wrote a book that was a bestseller in his day, went through any number of printings. I I don't know the exact number. And that book was called The I Wills of the Psalms. And you might see that book, and you could be easily forgiven to think that, well, he must be writing about all the things God will do. That God said he will do, because the book of Psalms is full of things that God says he will do. That's not what the book's about at all. That book that was a bestseller in its day and is still in print to this very day is a book that notes all the places where the child of God says, I will. Now if you go back and look at nearly any other translation of Psalm 56, you will find when I am afraid, I will put my trust in you. Because the I Putting one's trust in that verb in the way the Hebrew language works is an active, indicative. I am going to do this. I will trust in you when I am afraid. He's not saying, I do trust in you. He's not saying because I'm a child of God I naturally or reactively trust in you, as if that's sort of the the background radiation or the default setting of my heart. The whole point of this verse in the Hebrew text is that I will do this when I am afraid. It's a decision. That book by P. B. Powers is a book that I highly recommend Christians to read today. Because it might be true that we have not, in the last 120 years since Reverend Powers passed away and went to glory, been in greater need. Of a word inviting us to take responsible agency over our spiritual well-being I want you to think about the world today. There was a book written, I think it was last year, and it was called Bad Therapy And you can Google it on Amazon, and I don't give blanket recommendations for any book, but that book really got my attention because I read it. It it talks about how we are doing great damage in the generation that is coming up. by making everything therapeutic. And one of the problems that this secular psychologist notes Is that we have an entire generation of kids who have somehow come to the conclusion that what psychologists call the locus of control is outside of them. And by locus of control, what that author and what evidently many psychologists mean, and I am not a psychologist, I can only tell you I've read a couple dozen books and understood maybe a couple dozen pages. But I understood this idea very clearly, because I've seen it. I've seen it in my own life as a man. I've seen it in my kids' lives. I've seen it in kids I've coached. I've se Knit and Frishners I've Shepherded We think that we're like a cork bobbing about in the ocean, completely subjected to nature and nurture. Completely determined by what has happened to us in the past and what God gave us in the great genetic handing out of DNA when we were knit together in our mother's womb. And this is how I've heard that. I've heard I can't help it that I'm angry, I'm Irish. I can't help it that I'm stingy, I'm Norwegian. Sorry, Corey. Not all Norwegians are stingy, but we're dealing with Maybe cheapskate is a better word, and I'm sorry for that too. I am Norwegian, if any of you are tuned in and listening, Norwegian American, proud of it, but like all cultures, has strengths and weaknesses, right? Or we say that I can't help being this way because my dad was an alcoholic. Or I'm this way because I was beaten or abused. And we have all these reasons for how we are, as if these reasons for how we are, based on how we were brought up or what we were bequeathed by nature or God are sort of the two inputs that determine utterly who and how we are in the world today It's it's un it's utterly ridiculous. I have had to talk to aspiring young high school athletes and tell them that, believe it or not There are exercises and training that we can do right now, and you will be a faster runner a month from now if you're willing to commit. As if they believed when they were born somehow there was this handing out of lottery tickets, and well, this is how fast you can run to 40, and this is nothing can change that. That is a lie from the pit of hell. There are things we can do by the grace of God to step forward In our life. And trusting God is one of them We can say in the midst of fear, I will trust God. Dear Christian, you can do it. Trust is not this passive capacity in you that gets kind of opened up by something outside of you, and all of a sudden you find that you're more comfortable in a difficult situation. Trust is not something that is dribbled out to you. It's something that is a function of the faith God gave you by grace that you are called upon to exercise. In Sunday school today I was talking to the folks in the parenting class and we did a sort of a backwards introduction to that because so many of the uh would-be participants are at the women's retreat. Talked about the difference between faith and trust. I can believe that I can have faith that a chair can hold me up all day long, to refer back to the old DJ Kennedy illustration. But until I take the faith that God gave me that that chair can hold me up and actually sit in it, I haven't trusted it. Trust is that fiduciary demonstration of faith that God gave me. And the Christian life is in very great measure you determining that you're going to take the faith God gave you and demonstrate it by trust. By trusting in God. And it is so important for you, dear Christian, to know That because God has called you to trust Him, because God has invited you to step out of the boat in the middle of the storm, because He's invited you to follow Him. You can do that which God has called you to do by His grace. You don't have to be paralyzed thinking, well, I could obey God in this if He sort of Treated me like a puppet and took utter and complete control of my soul, my mind, my heart, my will, my body. And put me through the motions as if I were simply a spectator to my own spiritual life and growth Dear friend, you are called to work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for God is at work in you. But that doesn't mean you don't work it out. That kind of broken thinking has been called many things throughout the course of church history. Hyper-Calvinism comes to mind very quickly. You are called by the grace of God under the great auspices of his sovereign providential care to exercise the faith he has given you by trusting in God. It is a decision that we make. Even when times are bad. For you kids that like to fill in the blanks, a decision that we make, even when times are bad. I want you to think about this psalm. Because this psalm describes a terrible situation. Contrary to my foolish flirting in 1996, this isn't about guys pursuing girls they think are pretty This is about people who are chasing others in order to utterly destroy them. It's about an unrelenting, complete, exhaustive opposition. Look at verse 2. It's my enemies. In verse 1, all day long an attacker oppresses me. All day long. This picture is one of I get no rest. They attack me proudly. They're not even worried about whether or not they can beat me. They despise the strengths you've given me, and they are They are joyfully, in a sense, with utter confidence, coming after me, minute after minute, day after day, month after month. And it reminds you of the days of Noah when all the imaginations of the hearts of men were only evil all the time. It is a thorough disgust and hatred All day long they injure my cause. All their thoughts are against me for evil. They find nothing redeemable about me. Nothing that could offer grounds for a common conversation to resolve difficulty. Here is a picture of a man, a psalmist, who is Poor David, he is in a situation where he is continually attacked by people who completely and utterly abhor him. are in a position of such strength and authority that they would laugh at any effort he could put together to defend himself. Not only are they hating him directly and personally, They're stirring up trouble for him. They stir up strife. They lurk. They watch my steps. They're inciting other people to hatred against David The difficulties would seem insurmountable. The odds of his success or life, let alone flourishing. or happiness or remote. And it is in a situation like this that our Father in the Faith says, when I am afraid, I put my trust. In you. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you, God Here is someone who is afraid. He is someone who is being relentlessly attacked by people who utterly despise him. And he is deeply grieved. He can't sleep He is weeping. His tears are recorded on God's scroll and kept in his bottle. And even then he says, I will trust in you. I put my trust in you. Trusting God is something that we do not just by reflex, as if it's a knee-jerk reaction that Christians do. It's not an involuntary action of the Christian like breathing that you don't have to think about, or swallowing that just naturally seems to occur when you eat. It's something that we will to do when everything around us says don't. You can't. It's a bad idea. We trust God even when things are terrible. Even when we're afraid. In fact, I could And will attempt to make a little bit of a case that trusting God is something that derives part of its meaning from the fear that you experience. I want to take you back to uh uh our founding fathers and since we had an an election year and since uh Our 250th anniversary is coming up in a couple years. It might be good to go back to nineteen uh pardon me, seventeen eighty-one and think about the Battle of Yorktown. That's where Cornwallis surrendered. And we won the Revolutionary War. And there was one founding father, made famous by Broadway, Alexander Hamilton, who had yet to participate in a major engagement. He was a colonel in the Continental Army. And so he uh asked, could I could I, as the war is coming to close, take part in one one conflict, and he was given command of the the union the uh uh uh the continental forces um for that last battle. And as he was participating in that siege He was seen by a younger volunteer to be visibly shaking. And he was teased and mocked for being afraid. And his response didn't make it into the musical, but it should have. He said, and I I believe he cursed, so I apologize for that. I'm not going to quote him exactly. He said, I am scared. But if you were half as scared as I am, you'd have run away by now. Think about this. Unless you're afraid, courage means nothing. Unless you have grounds not to demonstrate faith, trust means little. You're talking about trust in the context of marriage. If I were the perfect husband and never did anything wrong ever. What would it mean that Carrie trusted me? But if she has known me to be fallible and weak, The fact that she continues to trust me means something. Now we dare not take that logic and in a one-to-one way apply it to God, because God is neither fallible nor weak But in our experience of life as we live moment by moment and can see our past We're not certain of our future until heaven itself, and we don't understand what God is doing from beginning to end Ecclesiastes chapter 3, we can nonetheless put our trust in God that He is indeed working all things for my good. And we can put our trust in God despite the fact that to our appearances, things are going haywire. In my marriage, in my family, in my community, in my church, in the house I just bought, in the town I live in. I can say despite all of the appearance that might be understandable and reasonable grounds for me not to get out of the boat and walk in obedience right now. Despite all that, I am going to trust. Now I want to invite you to consider this psalm. Why am I going to trust, and what does my trust look like? Why am I going to trust God even when everything's gone to seed and I'm surrounded by people that hate me and they hate me with a thorough, complete antipathy and utter abhorrence. Why am I gonna in this situation, despite my great fear for my well being in every way that can be meant measured or counted, why am I gonna put my trust in God even now? Well, we see the reason for that. Verse 13. For you have delivered my soul from death. That's in the past tense. Yes, my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life. So David understands and knows that he has been invited into a relationship with the living God, that he has been prevented from having a fall that was Without redemption, that he has in fact been redeemed from his sin, that God has accepted him and embraced him. Therefore, what can man do to me? What can flesh do to me? He asks in verse 4. And verse 11, in God I trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? Yes, they might kill me, but I have been forgiven by God. I have been embraced by Him that I might walk before Him in the light of life Early reference to that notion David held firmly in his heart that he would go and see his son who died, that there was a life beyond the veil. And that he was destined for eternity. An early illusion, a forecasting of what Jesus said when we were told to fear him who could destroy the soul, not the one that could destroy the body alone. You see, David is modeling for us a trust in God that is premised on the fact that we have been forgiven and we have been loved by God and we are assured of eternity in a life with Him in heaven. Therefore, we can trust him, even if the current dilemma we're facing is that one kick that is going to push us across the bridge into eternity. We can trust that God is sovereign. that he has a plan for everything, and that it is indeed well with our soul and will continue to be simply because God loves us And in this world, there is nothing that can be done to us that can in any way, shape, or form impact our eternity with Him, our walk with Him in the light of life. That's why. That's why we can put our trust in God. I want you to imagine how silly you would think I were if I Knew that my father, Alan Bjerkes, had put ten million dollars in my bank account, which he does not have and he has not done Um unless he has it, in which case I might go talk to him, but I'm quite sure he doesn't. And you saw me, and it was eleven o'clock And I was at least an hour away from the credit union where I could withdraw money for lunch. And I was caterwalling about how my father hated me because he was a millionaire and I had to be hungry for an hour. What would you think of me? You would find me to be almost derisibly silly. What a ridiculous thought. You got ten million dollars in the bank. Your dad's crazy about you, talks about you all the time. You're the apple of his eye. And I honestly believe that when I look back on my life from the perspective of heaven's golden shore , I will look back on the times when I let my fear overwhelm me and didn't trust God and think, what were you thinking? I can tell you what you weren't thinking. You weren't thinking that you were an heir of heaven by the grace of God. You weren't thinking that God had engraved your name on the palm of his hand. You weren't thinking that the Lord of glory died and paid completely the penalty for your sin. You weren't thinking that your soul was safe for eternity. You weren't thinking that flesh nor man could do anything to hurt you. That's what you weren't thinking about. All you were thinking about were the wind and the waves. The hatred, the derision, the suffering, the opposition, the challenge Think about your God who saved you and the heaven to which He has saved you daily. Do not live your life with one foot in the grave. Live it with one foot in heaven. And trust God. And what does that look like? Trusting God is a decision you make Trusting God is a decision you make even when the times are bad, especially when they're bad. And trusting God is a decision that we make even when times are bad to worship God. And look at this psalm. This psalm ends with the posture of worship. I must perform my vows to you, O God. Now at this point in the Psalm, in this little snapshot of David's biography, there is no inkling of God having somehow intervened and rescued him and actually judged all of his enemies between verses 11 and 12. There's just this twofold, three, thrice-repeated repetition that I will trust God. Look at verse three. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you, in God whose word I praise, in God I trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? And then look at verse. 9. Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call. This I know that God is for me. Here's the thrice repeated again. In God whose word I praise, worship, and the Lord whose word I praise, in God I trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? The posture of David is a continued commitment to worshiping God, despite the present circumstances of his life, which are thoroughly and utterly horrible. He will worship God because he knows that God who sees the beginning with the end, God who has a reason for making everything beautiful in its time, God whose works cannot be understood on this side of that final Eschatological Jordan River, that God is for him Therefore, he can trust sufficiently to worship God and perform all of his vows. He is anticipating that this God who loves him will keep him safe for eternity, even though he dies. Even though he is killed, even though he's martyred, even though he's diseased, even though he's bankrupt, even though he's lonely, even though he's hungry. He knows that he is safe for eternity. And therefore he will never be pushed off. Of the platform of them that worship the living God. He will stand in such a day and worship. Remembering that God alone is the judge and that his enemies can't judge him, anticipating that God will ultimately bring a perfect justice to all. And with gratitude for the fact that he is eternally safe. All of us have opportunities to demonstrate our faith by trusting in God. And all of us have grounds to not trust God. As I look out on the congregation and See, all of you, minus many of your wives, I know that you have great hardships. I know that you have very significant fears. I know that you have dilemmas that seem insolvable. I know that you have crises that keep you up at night. And I know that you cry tears that God is storing up in his bottle. But, brothers and sisters, in all of this, never forget these things. You have a God who is for you, whose plan for your life is bigger than the bad days and the enemies. They are small parts of his grand plan. And those might be purging and refining fires you're going through right now, but those are a part. of his expression of an eternal love for you, which will only be fully realized by you on the day you stand before him. And because you have exercised the faith he gave you and put your trust in him. What a beautiful thought when he says to you, Well done. God is worthy of your trust. Because he died for you, because he loves you. God is worthy of your trust because he alone has power. And he is just. God is worthy of your trust because whatever or whoever else you might choose to put your trust in is not like Him. And will ultimately fail you either by decision or by removal through death. But God can keep you and protect you forever Will you trust him? Thought I've had many times. You know, I'm fifty-six years old now, and uh I c every time I go to the doctor now I I I no longer expect good news. It it's I'm gonna give you the sad truth folks. Once you hit the age of forty, stuff starts going offline. Slowly at first, but there's sort of an increasing crescendo to it. Can I get an Amen? And as you get older, and I think to myself, how did this happen? It was just, it seems like yesterday I was throwing the crossballs in here, knocking holes in that wall over there, and Chuck Greenslit was looking at me with disapproval. That was yesterday. And now I'm knocking on 60. What happened? I wish I could throw the crossball that hard now. I think I'd put holes in the wall just to show that I could. But I can't. And there's so many things you can't do, and those things are going to multiply. And all the things that you might put trust in, your mind. You're going to start having trouble remembering names. Your strength. The day will come. The day will come. He man. That you pass the pickle jar to your grandchildren to be opened. The day will come When the people who were great supports to you are incapacitated or absent or through your sin or theirs no longer a help. But in each of those days, you who have looked to Christ as the satisfaction for your sins, the payment for your guilt. You have a God you can put your trust in and you can worship Him in every season of life. In every moment of despair, on every cause for rejoicing, during the rain and the sun of life, the hilltops and the valleys, you can worship You can be right here on a Sunday morning. And whatever's happening outside the doors of here, you can know that God is for you because Christ came and died. You can go to your small group, your community group, your ministry team, your committee, and have fellowship with the children of the living God, and you can know that God is for you. Because your soul has been delivered from that spiritual death that that's worth fearing. And you can in the hardest days Choose to put your trust in God even in the presence of great fear. The fear doesn't go away, but the fear is what makes the trust so beautiful. So strong, so remarkable, such a testimony to the God who invites us to think as if we're children of eternity. on a pilgrimage to heaven, citizens of a whole different place, the beloved of the maker of the universe. And I would invite you, if you've never put your trust in God, I would plead with you to consider what are you waiting for? There is nothing God does not do for his children. And that includes allowing us to experience very difficult times for our strength and that we might live for his glory in different ways. Put your trust in him. He alone came for you. He alone invites you to heaven. He alone pays for your sins. He alone Is unchanging and utterly good. For those of you who know him, whether these are great times in your life or tough times Let's worship our God together. Amen. Amen. Almighty God, we give you thanks. Lord, please forgive us for the times we have been so passive in our spiritual life and we have wanted to worship only when we feel like it. Or we've wanted to demonstrate obedience through trust when it was easy. And Lord, we have begrudgingly withheld our worship and our obedience when it's been hard. And uh Lord, we have been Like passive aggressive children, so very foolish. Forgive us. And Lord, give us the constancy and the maturity and the faith, the tenacity. To no matter what comes on any given day, Lord, by your grace, we will take the faith you've given us and we will say, I will trust you, even in the face of great fear. Because you have saved my soul and you are for me, and I will walk with you. Oh Lord, bless us in this way, we ask. We pray in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen.