Perhaps you heard about the 12-year-old boy who couldn't talk. For twelve years he had never uttered a word. And then, after receiving oatmeal for several breakfasts, he finally blurted out, Yuck, I hate oatmeal. His mother, of course, was overwhelmed and she rushed over. And threw her arms around him and said, Oh, Billy, Billy, you've talked. We didn't think for all these years that you could talk. Why is it that you haven't said anything before? And he immediately responded. Up to now everything's been okay. Now, we laugh at that and and yet it has a kind of a bite to it, doesn't it? Because as we think about it, we're all aware that it is a lot easier to criticize than to give thanks. It's traditional at Thanksgiving time that we talk about giving thanks to God. But this Thanksgiving I would like to call your attention to a scripture in which God commands us to give thanks for people, to give thanks for one another. It's in 1 Timothy chapter 2. So I'd like you to turn to that and follow along what Paul says in 1 Timothy 2, 7 verses. Notice especially verse 1. Let's hear God's word and give our full attention to what He says. I urge then, first of all, that requests, prayers, intercession, and thanksgiving be made for everyone. For kings, always in authority, that we may live peaceable and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness. This is good and pleases God our Savior, who wants all men to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth. But there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all men. The testimony given in its proper time. And for this purpose I was appointed a herald of an apostle. I am telling the truth, I am not lying, and a teacher of the true faith to the Gentiles. So far, consider God's word. I remind you again of verse 1. Paul says, I urge them first of all That requests, prayers, intercession, and thanksgiving be made for everyone Now in August and in September, you heard a couple of excellent messages by two different people, neither of them myself, one encouraging one another. And yet I believe that one of the most effective ways that we can encourage one another is by expressing genuine appreciation for one another. And yet it's so rare, isn't it? And that's all the more surprising because who of us is not aware of how much it means to us when someone expresses genuine appreciation for something that we have done? And yet I think that as Christians sometimes we live by a double standard in this. We live by the standard that says, well, I'm not really sure that God commands us to give thanks for one another He gives says to give thanks to him for one another, but I'm not sure that I'm under obligation to go around thanking people for what they have done abusively And after all, you know, when we do something, we do it for the Lord. So why should they really depend on my thanks? It should be enough that God sees what they do. And yet, who of us is able to say, but I don't really care if anybody ever notices anything I do? I can live the rest of my days without anyone ever expressing appreciation for anything that I do and know simply that the Lord sees. But we all say, I need to have that encouragement of someone expressing appreciation. And yet I think that my brothers and sisters should simply rest on the Lord's encouragement. And that's a double standard. And I think that Paul never intended for us to think that we only should rely on the Lord's encouragement. And I hope to show you that by the way Paul himself acted toward those that he ministered to. But you see the principle stated here in verse one. I urge first of all that requests, prayers, intercession, And thanksgiving be made for everyone. And in that phrase, I want to point out three things. I want us to see, first of all, for whom Thanksgiving is made. It's for everyone. Secondly, I want us to see why Thanksgiving is made, because it's the language of the kingdom. Thirdly, I want us to see how Thanksgiving is made. It's made in prayer and also in person. First of all, then, for whom is Thanksgiving made? It's made for everyone. This teaches us that we need to give thanks, I believe, more broadly than we often do. Verse 1 says, I urge that requests, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving be made for everyone. It For kings and all those in authority. Who is it that then God intends for us to give thanks? Simply those in our family? Simply our friends? Simply those of our sprawl group? No, it's quite clear here. We are to give thanks for everyone, all kinds of people Particularly his stress is on those in authority and those outside of our immediate circle. Unless you happen to be a friend of the king, he's somebody that you don't often have much to do with. And Paul says you're likely not to give thanks for him. When's the last time that you gave thanks for Ronald Reagan? You know, we all can see things that we may disagree with what he's doing, but how many times do we give thanks that God has placed him in that office? Or how many times do you give thanks for Senator McMathias? Or for Senator Sargais? Or for Barbara McCulski, representative in this area, or whatever representative you may have in your area where you're from. We can all see things that they vote on that we disagree with, certain policies that we think that we could improve on. But how often do we give thanks? God, I thank you that I believe that they are trying to do a good job. I believe, Lord, that they are far better than many other people that we can have. I thank you that in your sovereignty you place. those people in those offices. I think of the example from Juan Carlos Ortiz, a pastor in Buenos Aires, Argentina In his congregation one time, they were seeking to practice this verse of giving thanks for everyone. And Ortiz mentions about how they began by giving thanks for the telephone company. Uh, you know, down there it's not quite as reliable as here and say, you know, everybody criticizes it when it doesn't work, but how many times do we give thanks for all the people who work so that we can make phone calls Then they gave thanks for the water company, all the people who worked for that. Then a good morning says they gave thanks also then for Uh the school teachers, bus drivers, doctors, nurses, police, even the mayor of the city, since we never did that before. In fact I believe that God was shocked when he heard us give thanks for the mayor of the city and probably thought finally somebody recognized that I thought something good for once. So easy to criticize And yet not to give thanks to people that we so often take for granted. But the Bible commands us to do it. Just not some pious suggestion out of reader's digest that I'm giving you. God says, give thanks for everyone, for kings and those in authority. I think he mentions, particularly in terms of thanksgiving, those in authority, because those in authority are often those most criticized Birds that we're least likely to give thanks for. But notice secondly why we're to do this. Why do we give thanks? Because thanksgiving and prayer is the language of the kingdom. I think we need to learn to give thanks more consistently. Again, from Ortiz's book, he mentions it, I think, here very well. He said eventually in my life I realized that phrase is more than just an outburst of words on Sunday morning. Praise is an entire language. Praise is the language of the kingdom of God. As Spanish is the language of Argentina and English is the language of the United States and Britain and Portuguese is the language of Brazil, so phrase is the language of the kingdom of God. Citizens of that kingdom speak its language, and we recognize each other by our accent. As David built, his praise shall continually be in my mouth, Psalm 34. 1. He praised the Lord with his bed as well as during the day. As far as God is concerned, there are only two languages in the world: the language of His kingdom and the language of the kingdom of darkness. The first is the language of praise, the second is the language of complaint. Praise recognizes virtue. Complaint criticizes virtue. And every human being speaks one language or the other. Listen to the citizens of the Kingdom of Darkness. The lawn goes off in the morning and oh who invented work? They get to the breakfast table, oh coffee's too hot. They complain about the weather, the president, the traffic, everything. It's a whole language. It was quite a shock for me to realize that the citizens of the kingdom of God speak the wrong language most of the time. They go to church and they sing, Hallelujah, hallelujah. And they step outside after the meeting and they say, Ah, it's raining, what an ugly day. Well who made the day? The Lord. Maybe they should revise their chorus and sing this is the day the Lord has made. We will criticize and complain in it. How can we sing Praise the Lord and then criticize the same person a few minutes later? Our face is not intelligent. We don't know what we're doing. Americans sometimes come up to me and they say, Oh mysteristic. Now you've got to pardon my uh reading, isn't it? Something like that. And then I say, I won't just class it, would they nested? And they laugh and they say, Well, I don't know that much Spanish. Spanish is not really their language. They just learnt a few words at school. They quickly run out of things to say. So it is with some Christians. Their language is not really the language of praise. They can only repeat a few words that they learned at the Pentecostal school. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord Most of the rest of the day, they speak the language of complaint. Why is it that praise and thanksgiving are the language of the kingdom? Because if we understand what Jesus Christ has done, we know that a redeemed heart is a thankful heart, not a critical heart. In the Old Testament, God said that if God had performed some mercy or act of deliverance, that his people should respond by giving a thank offering. A bank offering in order to declare his mercy and to honor him in what he had done. The New Testament picks up that theme, and we are told about the bank offering We're told in Romans 12, 1, that you and I are to be living bank offerings. Paul there says that I beseech you by the mercies of God that you offer yourselves your bodies. As a living bank offering. It's not a burnt offering. It's not talking about a sin offering. Jesus Christ has already made that. The only offering he can be talking about is an offering which is in response to God's mercy, as is a thank offering. Now what are the mercies that he's talking about? Well you remember in chapter one it said we're all under God's wrath. Why? Because even though we knew God, we didn't honor him, nor were we grateful. One of the chief sins for which God condemns those who are outside of Christ is ungratefulness, a lack of a thankful heart And then he goes on and he says, whether you have the Bible or you don't have the Bible, you're all responsible to God. And in chapter 3, he then goes on and says, But God in his mercy Gave his own son, Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ came and lived that perfect life. A life of gratitude, praise, and thankfulness. Then took our sins on his own body and suffered on the cross so that Paul says we would be justified freely by his grace, by his mercy. So God has given to us faith in Jesus Christ. And He's made us new creatures. He's sealed us by the Spirit. And Romans 8 talks about waiting for that new creation when all things will be made new. To those who are filled with the Spirit of God. And so it says in chapter 12 that I beseech you by these mercies of God that you become a living thank offering. Hebrews 13, 15 tells us that that's translated, we offer unto him the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. Paul said in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18, that we're to be filled with the Spirit, and the result of that is that we will speak to one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual psalms. Singing and making music in our heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And yet we're so often, like the woman in the story that I've heard of a sailor, who in England in Plymouth Harbor plunged into the cold icy waters to save a little boy who was drowning. He pulled a little boy out of the bay and the boy went on his way and a few days later he bumped into the mother of that little boy and the boy walking down the street. But the boy and the mother thought they recognized him. The boy tugged at his mother and his mother went up to the sailor and she said, Excuse me, are you the one who plunged into the harbor to put my little boy out a few days ago? The sailor grinned and said, saluted and said, Yes, ma'am, I am wondering how he would respond to her abusive gratitude. But she saved him the trouble because she immediately asked him the question And where's his cat? And whether that story is true or not, I think it does illustrate the way we are as Christians You think of all of what the Lord has given to us, and we bicker about some little blessing that we seem to be missing out on right now. You think of the island of Grenada in the last couple of weeks. Representative Bill Alexander was there a couple of weeks ago visiting In one of the local churches in Grenada, and he said after the service, one of the women came up to him and clasped his hand in both of hers and looked deeply into his eyes and said, Thank you for saving my life. When you saw the students get off of the plane, did you hear any of the students as they were interviewed by the press after they had come back from Grenada and say, Oh, you mean I'm on the air now? But listen, I want to take this opportunity and tell you about a few things that I disagree with in Congress. You know, I think those guys down there blamed in this area and that area. But I'd like to set a few things straight right now while I have this opportunity. But no. All you heard was thanksgiving. All you heard was gratitude. Why? They had been delivered. They had looked at death and they had thought, we are going to die. There's a possibility of real danger in our lives. And they'd been delivered from that. And so all they could speak was the language of gratitude and praise. How much more should it be for us as Christians who have been delivered from hell that we should, for the rest of our lives, be saying all the Lord I'm full of gratitude and praise for all that you've done for me. So it's not simply because people around us are so wonderful that God says that are My should be full of prayer and thanksgiving for everyone, but simply because the Spirit of God in us has made us a thankful people. That brings us to the third point. How do we do it? How do we do it? We do it in prayer and in person. I think we need to learn to give thanks more expressively. Because you see that where Paul is telling us here to give thanks connected with our prayer. In Paul's own application of this and the way he worked it out, he didn't simply give thanks for people in prayer, but he also communicated to them. That he had thanked God for them and that he was grateful for them and for God's work in them. In practically every one of his letters, you see this in the beginning of the letter, a very profitable study to do is to look at the beginning of Paul's letters. And find certain themes, certain things in common that you'll see in the beginning of those letters. One of the most noteworthy is the fact that in every case he begins by almost every case by giving thanks to those people Romans chapter 1, verse 8. First I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you. Because of your faith is being reported all over the world. He's specific. He doesn't just pray to God with thanksgiving in private. He tells the Romans that he's thankful for them. I'm thankful for you. And he gives a reason. He goes on in verse 9 and 10 to give other reasons. In Ephesians chapter 1. In verse 15 and 16. For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I've not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering me in my prayers. Philippians chapter 1, verse 3 to 6. I thank my God every time I remember you. In all my prayers for all of you, I always pray with joy because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day till now. Being confident of this, that even the getting the work of you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ. You see the encouragement that there is in that. The encouragement mixed with appreciation, because he's giving thanks for them and what God's doing to them. Colossians chapter 1 Verse 3, we always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, because we further your faith in Jesus Christ and the love that you have for all the saints. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 2. We always thank God for you, mentioning you always in our prayers. We continually remember before God and Father, our God and Father. Your work produced by faith and your love. Your labor prompted by love. Second Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 3. We ought always to thank God for your brothers, and rightly so, because your faith is growing more and more. In nearly every letter, he gives thanks and says for those people to encourage them. I give thanks for you. Has it work in me? And I'm thrilled to see what he's doing. In fact, there's only one exception to that rule in every church that you go to. It's the letter to Galatians. And I believe that that admission is significant because it tells us that Paul didn't simply do this as a superficial formality. He did it because he genuinely felt it. And with a Galatians, he wasn't feeling at that point very grateful for them. And so he doesn't simply glibly say it without meaning. We are to give thanks for each other in prayer and then to communicate to one another. How can we apply this? Well my question is simply for myself and for you. When is the last time that you and I have given thanks to those outside of our immediate circle for whom we may be obviously grateful and then communicated that appreciation to them? Last Christmas, there was a a wealthy Christian businessman in West Purce Who is concerned that a number of missionaries from a particular missions agency would be able to see an expensive concert and enjoy the art and the beauty of it, even though they couldn't afford it? And so he personally bought 120 tickets and he sent them to these various missionaries and their families so that they could go to the concert. After the concert, one of the families wrote with a thank meal, expressing their appreciation for his generous gift. And this is the letter they received in response. Quote, Thank you so much for your kind note of thanks. I really appreciated hearing from you and knowing that you enjoyed the concert. Interestingly, of the 120 tickets we provided, you good folks were the only ones to say thank you. I couldn't help but wonder, they're the 116. The cynical friend observed, if you want to find gratitude, look for it in the dictionary. Now I must say that in our congregation I'm very encouraged. Many of you have encouraged me. Many of you have expressed appreciation. This is not some plea that I feel neglected, and somehow I feel unappreciated. I don't in any way. But I do think as a congregation that we're not immune from that problem of finding it easier to criticize than to express thanks and appreciation for one another. As just an example, this year as we know we started a newsletter, and that newsletter was one that was put together with a lot of thought and effort, particularly by Barbara Cooper and Teresa Whitson. And after the first a couple of issues of the newsletter, we sought some feedback to find out how it was going. And we heard that it was okay, but that the bit was too small and some of the format could be changed. And so they immediately got to work on that, experiment with some type. Got the type a little larger, the format a little different. I asked Marvin just this week, because we're working on the December newsletter to get it out. I said, Well what have you heard about the newsletter since you know those last few months? And she says, I haven't heard anything. I said, well what feedback have you got? Has anybody said anything about it? She said, Well no, nothing. I said, Does anybody read it? Maybe they do. But you see, that that's not to make you feel guilty. Oh, well, I have to go right over to Barb and tell her how much I love the newsletter, you know, and so really something good. It's just that I think it is easier for all of us, myself included, to see if something's okay, well it's okay. I need to say it. But if there's a problem, then I'll voice it. Listen, I am more convicted of this than most of you, because I should be an example to you of this, and yet in my whole life. It has been much easier for me to criticize, to see problems, than it is to express encouragement and appreciation. And I have not been a good example to you for this And I'm really sorry for that. I want to try more. I want to try harder. To be an example, as Paul was, of giving thanks and expressing appreciation. It's so important. In just the last few weeks, where I have written just a few notes of appreciation seeking to express encouragement and my gratitude for some in the congregation, various people that God just brought to mind for one reason or another. I've been overwhelmed with a response. One person came up with tears in their eyes and they said, you wouldn't believe what that meant to me. Another person said, You won't believe the timing and how God used that at a point when we were really discouraged and God really lifted us up by simply seeing that note of appreciation. The other person simply had tears in their eyes and say, Thank you for remembering me. And so I would like to suggest That we, number one, think of ten people this week for whom we're praying. Ten people for whom we are thankful, and that we give thanks to God as we pray for them. They give thanks to God for their work, whether they're Christians, whether they're non-Christians, Paul does not restrict this to the church. He's talking about giving thanks for the king. At that point, the king was certainly not a believer. And so it's giving thanks to those that you tend to take for granted as simply a mindset. of the city. And then that you express that to at least five people this week. That you make it a point. So just simply say two or five people that I would like to express appreciation to. Now I'll tell you what I have learned personally that there are certain benefits to doing this in writing. Because by doing it in writing, first of all, I personally find I express myself better that way. I can express my emotions and express what I'm feeling without sort of getting, you know, uh feeling embarrassed or awkward in how the person may be receiving or not receiving my appreciation. Many of us have received so little of it that we're very awkward if somebody expresses appreciation to it And it becomes a real awkward kind of thing. And so you think, well, gee, you know, I try to do it, but it's such an awkward thing that I just don't want to do it. And so, you know, that may be a problem. It's awkward to express appreciation, but if you do it in writing, you can just pour out your heart and your gratitude for that person, and you can think about them and not be caught up in any immediate awkwardness. Another thing, the bandage to writing, I said it's a definite action. I find that for many of us, when we receive appreciation, we may think, oh, you're just saying that to make me feel good. Oh, you know, well, you know, I I maybe I said something nice to you, and so you feel like you've got to return a compliment something. But when you receive something in writing, you know the person sat down, they were not under obligation to do that. They simply thought of you and they wrote. Particularly if it's something not prompted by anything, except simply gratitude to God for your love. And another thing is that some people may even want to keep it, to look at it, to encourage them when they're feeling down. Or you find yourself feeling critical the next time. Feeling critical about some brother or sister in the congregation, about something that you see going on that you don't like, let me encourage you to stop. And to give thanks. To remember that you are a living thank offering. To remember that the Lord has commanded that you would request prayers and intercession. Give thanksgiving for everyone. And then if you do that, to find out what happens to your mindset when you do that, what happens in your thinking? And you'll find A simple principle. Criticism and thanksgiving cannot coexist. A critical spirit and a thankful spirit cannot coexist. One will drive the other out. And you and I choose which one you hold on. Sort of reminds me of the Kmart, you know, they always got the different things, popcorn popper or you know, a coffee maker and it goes $25 and it says, your choice. You choose it. And when you are feeling critical about someone, you can choose to continue to feel critical when you say it's my choice. I will give thanks, as God says, and I will pray for that person. I will pray for the situation. Dick Ellis was just telling me this week that up in Frederick there were some people who were criticizing, some others in the congregation. criticizing their lack of commitment and this and that. And Dick was talking to them he said, but tell me, how much have you prayed for the people that you're critic getting critical about now? And he said in both cases he was talking to, they simply hung their heads and said, I haven't prayed for them at all. We need to learn the language of the kingdom. The language of the kingdom to give thanks for everyone. In conclusion, let me share with you a story that made a deep impression upon me when I first heard it, and it's one that's remained with me. Back in the days of the Depression in the early 30s, things were pretty grim. And there was a fellow by the name of Dr. William Steiger, who was sitting with some of his friends. In one evening back in the early 1930s, when the banks were closed, the depression was at its worst Uh thousands of people were out of work, scores of people were taking their lives because of fortunes that had been lost. And one of the people in the group said, there really isn't very much to be thankful for tonight, is there? And Dr. Lynn Sidley said, well, I for one am thankful for Mrs. Wynn. But I said, who's Mrs. Wynn? Well Mrs. Wt was an old school teacher of mine, and 30 years ago she went out of her way to encourage me as a kid in school. So somebody else will ask, did you ever thank her for that? He said, well you know I have. I've never expressed my appreciation to her for that. And so that night he sat down and he wrote her a letter expressing appreciation for her. A few weeks later, he received a letter in a shaky hand from an aged person. And here's the letter My dear Willie, I want you to know what your note meant to me. I'm an old lady in my 80s, living alone in a small room, cooking my own meals, lonely and seemingly like the last leaf on the tree. You will be interested to know, Willie, that I taught school for 50 years. And in all that time, yours is the first letter of appreciation I have ever received. It came on a blue cold morning. And it cheered my lonely old heart as nothing has cheered me in many years. I urge you then to request Prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving. Made for everyone. I made my point. That's right. Lord, we confess to you that we are a people, a people of the kingdom, who so often speak the wrong language. We speak the language of the kingdom of darkness, the language of complaint and criticism. And we find it so much easier. To point out what's wrong, then to give thanks for what's right, to give thanks for our brothers and sisters, to give thanks for those who serve us in one way or another. All about us. And Lord, we come this morning to stand under the teaching of your word and acknowledging that to acknowledge that this is wrong. We ask you to give to us, Lord, the language of the kingdom in our hearts. That we might be the means of encouragement to people like old Mrs. Quentin. We so need to recognize that you have used them. We need to be encouraged Lord, help us as a congregation to be more quick to encourage than to criticize. Lord, we know this will please you. We know that it will give us victory, that we will become, through that, people who are more open to your spirit and his work in our lives. And so we ask you to do that in this right now. And we ask you in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's conclude our worship then this morning by saying M number eighty-six