Seven Psalm a hundred and ten, verses five to seven The Lord is at your right hand. He will crush kings on the day of his wrath. He will judge the nations, heaping up the dead. And crushing the rulers of the whole earth. He will drink from a brook beside the way. Therefore, he will lift up his head The past two weeks we've looked at this portrait in the Psalm of the priest King Messiah. We saw in the first week, verses 1 to 3, a picture of the king enthroned. The one who has accomplished his victory and sits until his enemies are made the footstool for his feet, and reigns and rules those who are his enemies with an iron rule. ruling also those who are free will offering of delight to him and those who are his friends. We saw last week that this king is also a priest A priest forever, not according to the order of Aaron or Levi, but according to the order of Melchizedek, unique in his ways, faithful in all his doings, a priest forever, who will never fail us. And this morning, we're going to finish this psalm by looking at the king in judgment. The king in judgment. When's the last time you heard a message on judgment? Messages on judgment are not very popular today. I dare say I don't generally look around to find messages on judgment And yet if you preach through a passage like this, sooner or later you're going to come to judgment. Because even though you don't hear much of it today, the Bible is full of it In fact, the Bible seems embarrassingly full of judgment. You almost wonder if if God knew much about PR. Uh I mean, didn't God uh know that um Skinner and behaviorism have told us that people are motivated much more by positive reinforcement than by negative reinforcement. I mean, doesn't God watch Christian TV? Uh surely he must know that judgment uh does not draw people today to the gospel. Why does God fill his word so much with judgment? Sort of embarrassing, isn't it, to us as Christians. Maybe there's something that's distorted in our notion of the gospel If we find so many parts of the Bible to be embarrassing to us, maybe we need to correct our understanding of who God is. Let's pray that the Lord will do that for us this morning. Morning. Let's take a moment right now for each of us to ask the Lord to give us an understanding of who He is, what that means for us. Just a moment of silent prayer. Each one now, just for a moment. Father, we pray that you would adjust our understanding of you. We all have such an imbalanced picture of you. We need for you to teach us. We don't want to dare tell you what you ought to be like. We want to understand from you now what you are like. And through that to praise you. Through that to know you better. We pray that in the name of Jesus for each one of us. Amen. Well, let's take a look then at what God's trying to teach us in these last three verses, speaking of the king in judgment. There are, I think, three points about judgment that are being made here, and those are the three points that you have in your bulletin outline. So follow along in the outline. The three points about judgment. First of all, these verses teach us the certainty of judgment. Secondly, I believe they teach us the severity of judgment And then thirdly, they teach us the thoroughness of Jesus' judgment. First of all, then the certainty of his judgment. judgment. You notice verse six says, he will judge the nations. He will judge the nations Now, when 's he going to do this? Well you notice there in verse five, he will crush kings on the day of his wrath. So these verses are not speaking about something that is taking place today, primarily, but about something that's going to happen in that great day. What the Bible calls the day of the Lord, the day of judgment, or in this verse, the day of his wrath. Something still to come. But he says it will come. You notice how many times you see that there. Verse five, he will crush kings. Verse six, he will judge the nation. He's crushing the ruins. Verse 7, he will drink from a brook and therefore he will lift up his head. Now in the Hebrew, that certainty is even much more powerful. Because you know the Hebrew language does not have tenses. In Hebrew, a verb's just got one of two characteristics. Either it is complete or it is incomplete. You don't have past, present, past tense, present tense, and future tense. Either something has been done or it is still in the process of being done or will be done. It's either completed or it is incomplete. And the amazing thing is that when you look at these verses, although it is clearly something in the future that will happen on the day of his wrath The Hebrew has it in the completed tense. So that normally we would translate that he has crushed kings. On the day of his wrath. He has judged nations, crushing the rulers. He has drunk from the brook, and he has lifted up his head. Now, Bible scholars have a term for this. It is called the prophetic perfect. What God is doing here is that He is saying that what He is prophesying, what He is predicting is so certain, it is so absolutely sure to come to pass that he puts it in the completed tense as if it's already done And he's simply doing that to assure you and me, to communicate to us in language that we can't miss, that this is bound to happen as sure as something that happened yesterday. Not only that, but you see something else that shows us the certainty of the judgment that he's speaking about here to come. You notice that this picture of the king in judgment is the third picture we have in this psalm. It comes in verses 5 to 7, but it's preceded by verse 4. And in verse 4, you have this same person who is going to be a priest forever. And so you ask yourself the question: has he fulfilled verse 4? Did Jesus come as a priest? Did Jesus come and offer himself the one perfect sacrifice that we need? In order to approach God and to be accepted and approved by Him. Did Jesus come and fulfill His work as priest? You look back at verses 1 to 3. And there's the picture of Jesus as King. And you ask yourself, did Jesus fulfill verses 1 to 3? Did he in fact rise from the dead and ascend to heaven to sit at the right hand of his Father? Did he, in fact, after completing his work as priest, conquer death and then go to the Father in victory? You see what David's saying here is just as surely as Jesus has come, has lived, and has died, and has fulfilled the work that was prophesied for him in his earthly ministry. And just as sure as Jesus has risen from the dead, so sure will he return again in judgment. So surely will he come again on the day of his wrath to crush kings, to judge the nations, to lift up his head That's the degree of the certainty of the judgment. And so you've got to ask yourself, is that certain or isn't it? How much stock can you place in the promises of verse 5 seven. It depends on whether you see verses one to four as having been fulfilled. Secondly, you notice here the severity of the judgment. The severity of the judgment. Notice the language of verses five and six. He will judge the Lord is at your right hand and he will crush kings on the day of his wrath. He will judge the nations, keeping up the dead. crushing the rulers of the whole earth. And you say to yourself, is that Jesus loving, meek, and mild? Well, you know, all the pictures that I see of him, you know, he's sort of sitting there with his hands folded, has some filtered light coming down on his beautiful hairdo, and sort of looks like he sits around humming religious tunes, you know. So it sits around looking holy. Not very active certainly, uh even a bit anemic sometimes, uh as Becky Pippert has said in her book The kind of guy that you sort of picture walking around humming religious tunes that everybody loves, but especially your mother. You know, he's he's the kind of guy who's perfectly innocuous And you know, and you have a picture here, and he's more like the incredible Hulk. You know, he's coming through crushing kings, heaping up the dead, laying waste the kings of the earth, and you say, No, wait a minute, uh somehow that doesn't fit my picture Of Jesus. You know, we've got to get away from this Hollywood picture of Jesus. This picture of Jesus that we see hanging on walls, in which he's rather innocuous. Because the Bible says that's a distorted picture of Jesus. The Bible goes to great pains to talk about the activities of Jesus, to talk about the fact that Jesus hates sin. And he hates sin with a holy hatred. He hates sin with an active hatred. Jesus is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and whose mouth is a flaming sword to destroy the wicked. And when you and I have this picture of Jesus who looks at all the sin going on on earth and says, You guys ought to not do that, we just have a very unbiblical picture of what Jesus Christ is like. Well, when are we going to submit our minds and let God teach us what Jesus is like? So that we can see how Jesus is so much more. Powerful, so much more praiseworthy, so much more wonderful than the picture that we often conjure up of him. Jesus is going to crush James And he's going to shatter them. He's going to heap up the corpses. You know that word to crush? It's an interesting word. It's used a number of times in the Old Testament. One of the times it's used is uh, I think, instructive in this regard. It's used in the book of Judges. It 's used with regard to jail. Remember jail? Jail was one of those women who was a hero of the faith. Do you remember the scene was Israel, and they were under the heel of the uh people, one of the kings of Canaan, whose general was Sisera. And they were holding God's people in bondage because of the people's sin. And God heard the people's cry and called out to them. They prayed. They repented. They turned to the Lord. They confessed their sin. And so God raised up a deliverer. In fact, two deliverers in this case. A woman, Deborah, and a man, Barak. And they established a plan, and because Baerak would not follow through with his entirely with his part of the plan without Deborah's help, she said, Baerak, you are not going to get the full honor from this In fact, God is going to use a woman to smite the king of the commander, the general of the army. And so the armies were totally routed They're chasing Sicera's army all over, and we read that not even a single person was left except Sicero. He himself escaped He's a wily fellow and he escapes over the hills. And he heads right straight for the people of the Kenites, because his king had some friendly relations with the Kenites And so he heads into this tent of this woman, jail, who meets him at the uh door of her tent and he says, uh huffing and puffing, can I find a little refuge here? All these people are hot on my tail, I just need to get a little bit of sleep and rest. So I I can take off and she said, Oh, come right in. You know, sure. Do you have any water around you? Oh, let me give you milk. So, oh yeah, I can take some of the milk and she says, Why don't you just lay down here and I'll take care of it? You stand there at the door and watch out and see if anybody comes. If they come, let me know so I can make it out the back door of the tent, okay? And he says, Oh yes, don't worry about that. I will watch over everything's fun As soon as Sisera falls off to sleep, jail took a tent peg. She took it and put it right at the temple of his head. And took a large hammer, and with one blow she drove the tent pig right through his skull. And Deborah sings about that in Judges chapter 5. She sings a word of blessing. Most blessed of women be jailed. The wife of Heber the Kemite, most blessed of tent-dwelling women. He asked for water. She gave him milk. In a bowl fit for nobles she brought him curdled milk. Her hand reached for the tent peg, her right hand for the workman's hammer. She struck Sisera, she crushed his head, she shattered and pierced his temple. At her feet he sank, he fell No. There he lay. At her feet he sank, he fell. And where he sank, there he fell. Dead. The word there in Judges 5, verse 26, she crushed his head. It's the same word in Psalm 110, verse 5. It means to pierce with a crushing blow so that you don't have to use a second one. It's the word that David himself uses in Psalm 68 when he talks about God's victory, where he says in Psalm 68, verse 21: Surely God will crush the heads of his enemies. That hairy crowns of those who go down to their sins. Habakkuk uses this same word when he's talking about God's victory And he says in Habakkuk 3:13, You came out to deliver your people, to save your anointed one, and you crushed the leader in the land of wickedness. You stripped him from head to foot. With his own spear you pierced his head. And we have the picture reminding us again of Genesis 3. 15, where God had prophesied even at the very outset of the spiritual battle, I'm going to raise one up who's going to crush the head of the serpent who's going to bruise your heel in the process. Jesus is still waiting. He's still seated. The Bible says one day he's going to rise up from that throne. And all the enemies are going to be crushed. They're all going to be pierced. The word used twice, it's the same word in verse 5 and in verse 6: Crush kings on a day of his wrath, crushing the rulers. of the earth. Who are these rulers? Who are these rulers? Why does God always say he's going around pressing kings and rulers? What's he got against kings after all And you sort of get the impression reading in the Bible it's a rather dangerous thing to be a king because God's always got it in for them. He crushes kings on the day of his wrath. He crushes the rulers of the whole earth. Yeah, you know, in a sense that's true. Because God does hold us accountable not only for the lives that we leave, but how we lead others, and how we use the power that we have to affect others The kings, I believe, are the powers and the authorities of this world. You see, this whole thing is a question of authority. The question here is who's the one sitting on the throne of the earth? Who is the one that's on the throne? And some people come today and they say chance is on the throne Now chance is what rules the universe, and you never know what's going to happen next, because there's no one in control. Chance is on the throne And others come along, and they say that evil is on the throne. They say that the whole thing is just a manipulation. Perhaps it's Satan, it's occultic powers. Perhaps it's human evil. But evil is on the throne. The question is raised here is, is Jesus on the sun? And so Jesus, to demonstrate that he's on the throne, puts down all the rival power. And he demonstrates to us in this statement that there's one that's on the throne, Jesus. He's the one who is King of kings and Lord of Lords. And all of the powers of this world are one day going to be crushed. I think there is a number of kinds of powers requested. Certainly there are the political powers of the kings such as Edi Amin and others who have persecuted God's people and who have oppressed the people that have been under them. Uh there are certainly other kinds of powers here. I believe that there are powers of economic powers that are being referred to here. Uh the kind of thing that television delights to portray in shows like Dynasty and uh Dallas, you know, the JRs and all the rest of it. Those kinds of powers that oppress and use and manipulate are going to be crushed on the day of Israel. I believe there's also media powers referred to here, those who influence vast numbers of people through the media, television, and other kinds. simply for economic gain, for what sells sex and violence, no matter what it does to the people who watch it. And so through these kinds of powers, they assert themselves against righteousness and the kingdom of God. Now there is, I think, spoken of here perhaps educational powers. The John Deweys and the other humanists who have declared that there is no God and we will infiltrate the society from the ground up to demonstrate and to undermine the teachings of God's Word Jesus is going to crush the agents of the evil one. He's going to crush the beast. He's going to crush Babylon as it's pictured in Revelation. And all the systems of this world will certainly be crushed. And so the black woman, who sees her husband lynched, and watches her baby suffering, and says, Is there any justice on this earth And God says Jesus is going to crush those powers. And person, the Christian in Uganda, who's watched his family be wiped out. And he looks about him in despair and shakes his fist at heaven and he says, Is there any justice on earth? God says Jesus is going to crush the kings of unrighteousness. There's a day of wrath coming in which all those things are going to be set straight. And you look at the severity of this, you look at the crushing, and you look at the heaping up of corpses. I mean that word, that the phrase heaping up of corpses, it's quite a graphic term, you know. That thing is spelled out a little bit more in Revelation fourteen. It's also spelled out in Isaiah sixty-four. I won't refer to that one now. Isaiah sixty-four, you have all these corpses That are uh on the entrance sort of to the kingdom, you know, and you're looking at all these people laid waste as the indication of God's victory. But in Revelation chapter 14, you have another picture. Another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he had a sharp sickle. Still another angel who had charge of the fire came from the altar and called in a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle. Take your sharp sickle. And gather the clusters of grapes from the earth's vine, because its grapes are ripe. The angel swung a sickle on the earth and gathered its grapes and threw them into the great wine press of God's lab. And they were trampled in the wine press outside the city. The blood flowed out of the press, rising as high as the horses' bridles for a distance of 200 miles. Don't that say? The corpses were heaps oh high that the blood was five feet deep from here to nearly Philadelphia West All the way out to Hancock, east of the Atlantic Ocean, and south as far and further than Fredericksburg, Virginia. God has laid waste those who lie against him. Why is it that there's such severity in his judgment? Is God a bloodthirsty tyrant? No. The Bible's absolutely clear. That God in his absolute justice is doing absolutely nothing more than giving exactly what these people deserve. Exactly what you and I deserve. Do you believe that? Do you believe that you deserve judgment? You believe that you deserve not simply a slap on the wrist, not simply a naughty naughty from the throne of heaven, but to be crushed for your rebellion against the Holy God who made you for himself. That's what the Bible is telling us. God in his justice is crushing the kings and heaping up the corpses. Because God in His justice is meeting out exactly what the kings and all the rest of us behind them deserve. But you know, we've come to minimize sin in our day. We look at television and sin is such a common thing. And infidelity and all the rest of it, that we think surely God can't get that upset about it. I mean, I'm used to it. Why isn't he? And you look at a show like Dynasty and I take that show. I've never seen that thing until this week. You know, I just happened to be there and I I I didn't watch the whole thing But I watched enough of it to get a get an idea of what that show's about. I I don't know if you've watched it, but I don't want to recommend it to you. I mean just a few minutes I watched it. Here's here's the hero of this thing. I don't know, you know, he's sort of a sub-hero or something something but you know the the big uh executive there. He's wandering around, pacing around his bedroom saying, I got a ho I got a son that loves a man, uh a daughter that's in love with sex and a wife that's probably unfaithful to me and you know subsequent events show that he's uh absolutely Absolutely correct on all the suspicions. In fact, everybody's unfaithful, everybody on that show. There's nobody who cares for keeping promises. There's nobody who treats anybody with any kind of a dignity, it seems, except a little bit of it mixed in here and there to somehow amplify all the corruption that's going on. And you know, and you look at that and you see it so often and you know and you see this homosexual saying, Oh, who's really more corrupt here? Hey, this guy here who goes around using people and corrupting people through all his power and his influence, or me who's just, you know, happens to love men. I mean, you know, which is And you sit in your living room and you sort of acknowledge he's got a point. You know, I mean, you know, who isn't the one that's the bigger sinner? And somehow television through that sort of time to subtly say, do you see it's really all relative You know, you've got to go by contemporary standards. This guy isn't really such a bad guy after all. And so slowly and surely we begin to change our values. We begin to change our understanding of sin. We begin to adopt contemporary standards. And when we see a God, Jesus, who's running through history at the end crushing kings in unrighteousness, And taking and heaping up the corpses, we say, How come he's so upset? And simply because you and I have lost our sensitivity to how terrible Oh look at these verses and don't look at them and say, How could God write that? But look at these verses and say, How could I be shocked at that Why is it that these verses seem to me to present a problem? And in fact, I should rejoice that the Lord Jesus is going to set things free. That there is justice coming. You know, we've lost our sense of standing for right in our day. We don't even have enemies today. You know uh because people so few people stand for what's right, they stand they don't stand against an enemy. What's wrong? You contrast the kind of language you read today with the kind of things that Luther and Calvin You know, when they called the those that they opposed in false doctrine to be antichrists, monsters, heretics, and you say, boy, those guys really got carried away, you know Even Time magazine had another good essay this week, you know, two in a row. Uh they had an essay this week on uh where have all the insults gone. You know, and their point is that nobody insults anybody anymore because we're all so concerned to be nice to everybody. that nobody really says uh anything negative about anybody. You talk about your esteemed colleague rather than that dirty uh crook in New Jersey, you know, and you and You know, he talks about Winston Churchill and Lady Astor. You know, he says, uh now those two are enemies, you know, but but there wasn't any beating around the bush about it. Lady Astor says, uh Sir Winston, if you were my husband, I should flavor your coffee with poison And uh Winston Churchill comes right back with, My lady, if you were if I were your husband I should drink it. You know. But but there were clear-cut lines Uh today we're just so concerned to be nice. And so we read these verses and God says he's gonna crush kings. He said, Well the now Lord, uh don't get so upset. You're gonna alienate people But maybe it's because we've lost our sense of what's right and the need to stand for it. We've lost our hatred of sin. We've lost our hatred of Satan and his agents. The Lord wants to call us back to a holy hatred of sin and the enemies of Jesus. We need to come back to that. We need to see finally the thoroughness of the judgment that he's going to accomplish. Thoroughness of judgment. You see that in verse 7. That's an interesting verse. He will drink from a brook beside the way, and therefore he will lift up his head. Now, if you've given any thought to this psalm, you might have wondered to yourself, how does that fit in there? He goes around crushing kings and piling up corpses in righteous wrath, and now he's taking a drink and lifting up his head. And that's the way it ends, just like that Well, there are some people who think that this difficult, admittedly difficult verse, is referring to the cup of wrath that Jesus drank. And so that he himself drank the cup of God's wrath, and therefore he shall be a victor. I don't think that that's what it's referring to, because it is in the context of his judgment. It is in the context of what Jesus is doing in judging Excuse me, the nations. I think what it is, it is a comparison and a contrast. It is a contrast with how Saul judged In a comparison with Gideon and David. Do you remember Saul when he was picked as God's agent, the king, to judge the enemies of God and his people? Saul was very ineffective at that to say the least. At one point you have Saul sitting back on his haunches in his in his uh uh tent uh there at the um back lines of the battle, not doing anything against the Philistines. And do you remember at that time Jonathan, his son, and his armor bearer said, we're getting tired of this God wants to do something against these enemies. Let's go up just the two of us. Because God isn't restrained to save by many or by few, and let's see what the Lord will do. And you remember at that time God greatly blessed the efforts of Jonathan and his armor bearer. And they went up the hillside and they attacked the Philistines and routed them, killed 36 of them. Went on to pursue them and then Saul got the message. He saw the Philistines running the other way. He said, Hey, somebody's missing around here and found out Jonathan was missing. He said, I think maybe Jonathan's missing and those Philistines all running into the distance may have some to do with each other. Okay, everybody, to orange, let's go get them. But Saul, in his selfish concern, was so concerned to show off that he said, now, nobody is to eat a single bite. Until I am avenged of my enemies. And the effect of that, of course, was everybody was so pooped because they couldn't eat chasing the enemies that they were all too weak to thoroughly judge them. You remember how Jonathan, who hadn't heard that foolish oath, picked up some honey and ate it, and they reminded him the people of the oath that all Saul had imposed, and Jonathan himself said that was a pretty foolish thing to do I'm gonna have this honey, see how it helps me to judge the enemies? And he took off after them. Saul was very unthorough You remember just the next chapter? God said, Now go judge the Amalekites and wipe them out. Every single man, woman, child, beast, everything. The ban is upon them. And Saul wipes it all out except the best. Saves the king, a few choice bits for himself. God says, Saul, you're not a picture. My son, my king is to come, because you're not thorough in your judgment. And are thorough in your obedience to me. Jesus isn't like that. Jesus is like Gideon. Do you remember Gideon when he took his three hundred and went out against the Midianites after they had broken their pictures and they had God had used that roost uh to scare all the Midianites so that they killed each other and then all took off in flight. Gideon pursued after them. And you read of Gideon and his lappers, you see, they're the people who just uh were the ones who just lapped up water quickly by the brook. as he took them on the way. We read in Judges in chapter eight how they did this And it's very instructive. In Judges chapter 8, in verse 4, Gideon and his 300 men, exhausted yet keeping up the pursuit, came to the Jordan and crossed it. We have this picture of them coming to the Jordan, quickly stooping by the brook, lifting up their heads to go on and to pursue the Midianites to the last man. God saying, I believe in that picture. That's the picture of my son. He'll drink from the brook beside the way in the accomplishment of his justice. the accomplishment of his judgment. And he won't give up until he's lifted up his head finally in final absolute victory. Jesus is going to simply pause in the refreshment of Himself because the thoroughness will be so final that Jesus himself figuratively will need refreshment. To accomplish it in its thoroughness. They have the same idea in David's life. And David at the end of his life. And looking back on all of the battles that he had fought in Accomplishing judgment for God's people. In 1 Samuel chapter 22, he says, I pursued my enemies and crushed them. And I did not turn back until they were destroyed. I crushed them, same word as Psalm 110, completely, and they could not rise. Fell beneath my feet. You armed me with strength for battle and made my adversaries bow at my feet. You made my enemies turn their backs in flight, and I destroyed my foes. They cried for help, but there was none to save for the Lord, but he did not answer. I beat them as fine as the dust of the earth, and I pounded and trampled them like mud in the streets. Again, it's David there simply boasting in a Kismo , kind of a macho, uh look at me, uh bloodthirsty tyrant of the East Ah, is there a picture of the Lord Jesus who's going to accomplish in his judgment the final putting down of all enemies? So nothing ever again will threaten righteousness. And you and I will be absolutely secure. We'll dwell in that kingdom of righteousness and peace talked about in verse 3. After the order of Melchizedek, the king of righteousness and peace, and will never again, to all eternity, ever have to worry about a rebellion Never again are you going to have to worry about, well, maybe somebody's going to destroy all this. Maybe there's going to be a second fall. Maybe all of this is going to be upset. Jesus says no. He's going to with absolute thoroughness judge all unrighteousness until he lifts up his head in victory. And there's nothing but God's way left. Let me ask you. Did you read this? Are you his enemy or his friend? What a terrible thing. To read those verses and say, I'm not sure I know Jesus Christ. I'm not sure, but I might be one of those people that on the day of his wrath will look to him as judge. I talked to somebody this week about the gospel. As we talked about it, it was clear that there was something standing in the way of this person receiving Jesus Christ. And I said, Would you rather give that up Or go to hell. And he said, at this point I'd rather go to hell than give that up. I said, you don't know what you're talking about. How glibly we talk about going to hell. I mentioned to somebody this week: if you and I were to die today and were to stand before God in heaven and he were to say to us Why should I let you into my heaven? What would happen? This person said, you'd probably go up and I'd go down. With a little bit of a laugh. I said, you really mean that? Do you know what you're saying We speak of hell and judgment so lightly until we begin to get a glimpse of what it means to be under the wrath of a holy omnipotent God of hate sin. If this morning you are outside of Jesus Christ, you are under that judgment. You can't be neutral, you know. You can't say, well, you know, I'm not his friend really, but um I 'm not really his enemy either. I mean, I'm not against him. I think a good a little bit of religion's a good thing. I mean, you know, look at me, I'm here this morning, aren't I? But the question is, do you belong to Jesus? Are you one of his? If you aren't , I keep with you Warning you of the wrath of Jesus Christ to come. If you come to Him. Because Jesus bore that wrath for you. If you trust him. But if you refuse him, the wrath is for you alone. The second thing that I want for us to see is those that follow Jesus Christ. He said, I think we don't take judgment nearly seriously enough as Christians. I don't mean that we're too happy. I don't mean that we don't uh go around um uh morose enough. I mean that in our concern for people without Jesus Christ. I think we don't really take judgment seriously If you don't believe that, how many times have you not talked to somebody about Jesus Christ because you were afraid you might offend them? And gave very little thought to the fact that this person is under the wrath of God And even the fact that we are not motivated to speak to people because we're afraid that it might not improve the relationship or we might turn them off. Uh usually if we have that kind of concern, then we're going to be sensitive enough to not turn them off. But if we have that kind of concern and we don't speak to them about Jesus Christ, what we're really saying is I don't really believe that they may be crushed one day, that they may be heaped up in a pile of corpses under the righteous judgment of a holy God. There's a group in Boston that does evangelism. They do it each year in the summer. They've tried all kinds of gimmicks to bring people to want to hear the gospel. They wrote recently in a magazine that I had read that they have found that now they are getting more people to respond to hear the gospel if they give them a simple, straightforward approach. of telling them the gospel of man's problem and Jesus Christ's provision and solution than if they use all the surveys and other things as gimmicks to try and get people interested. And they're saying we're finding more and more people are simply interested in hearing if there's any answers because they're scared. And yet we as Christians back off. From giving them the warning, giving them the answer of life in Christ. Because we're afraid that we might turn them off. If you have the fear that you just don't know how to do it, then I would encourage you. Come to the class on evangelism. We'll be talking there about how you can present Jesus Christ clearly. You see, the people that turn us off talking about judgment are not those that speak as boldly or clearly about judgment as the Bible does. It's those who somehow imply that we're getting the judgment and they're not, right? That we deserve it and somehow they don't But if you and I are absolutely clear, there is a judgment coming. And even I've received mercy from Jesus Christ. How much more should you? Then we don't have to worry about the fact that we're turning people off with judgment. We can just pray that God will use that. You know, sometimes I think that we Think of our friends talking to them about the judgment of God. We sort of think, well, you know, the friends I hang around with, it'd be sort of like the the um sending Reagan's economic policy to a gathering of young socialists. It just wouldn't make sense. It would just simply drive them away But we've got to see that you don't have to be embarrassed about that. Judgment isn't your idea. It's God's idea. Trust him. And he talked to people And as you talk to people, as you include in part of your message of the gospel the fact that there is a judgment to come at an appropriate place At some time that there is a warning given. I think there are so many people walking around thinking that Jesus Christ is simply a nice thing. He'd be sort of nice to accept because of some good things you get from this world Without any sense of the fact that there is a God that I'm going to face one day. And I'll either face him as judge or as Father. The Bible calls us to come to him so that we can have him as Father. But judgment is a part of that message. The third thing I want to call to your attention is in this Psalm Do you find yourself rejoicing as you read this in anticipation of Jesus' victorious vindication? I think so many times as we read scripture, as we hear messages, the only question we ask is how does it affect me? You know, if if you can tell me how it'll make my life easier or better. give me more joy or peace, then I'm interested. But if all it affects is Jesus, well, you know, I mean that's nice, but it doesn't especially turn me on The reason for that is I think we need as Christians more to identify with the cause of Jesus and his honor. If Jesus is humiliated, does that cause you to win? And the anticipation of Jesus' vindication where every knee shall bow before him. Does that cause you to rejoice? Does that cause you to identify with him and say, oh Lord Jesus, how it pains me to see you dragged in the mud day after day in this world? How I'm looking forward to that time when every knee shall bow before you. This is the world's best news here in Psalm 110. Jesus is King, and He's going to exercise that. He's going to put down all rebellion. And he's going to lift up his hand. You and I should rejoice in that. Then finally, the last thing is, even as we rejoice because of what it does to him, there is also what it does to us. Because his victory is our victory. It's our victory because you and I are in Christ, seated in the heavenlies, in him Joined to him, united to him. When Jesus inherits a promise, you inherit it if you are in Christ. And when Jesus is victorious over the great enemy Satan, you are victorious. So greater is he that's in you than he that's in the world. And whatever it is that discourages you this week, this morning, Jesus has accomplished a victory over that. And that victory is your victory. Remember, we read in the beginning Psalm 27:6. Psalm 110 we read, He'll drink from the brook, and therefore he will lift up his head. Psalm 27:6, David says, Therefore I will lift up. Will lift up my head over my enemies. Because Jesus has conquered Satan, there is nothing in your life that is getting you down that Jesus has not accomplished the victory of. He has defeated the agents of the evil one. What are those agents in your life? Is it some authority over you, a boss? Somebody who's ruling you unjustly, even in your family? Is it some circumstance? Is it some temptation? Is it something in your own life? Jesus will one day crush the enemies. And Jesus right now is victorious over them. See it and apply it and rejoice. Let's pray Oh Lord our God. We want to bring before you now, each one of us Those things that you've been speaking to us about. We want to bring before you the fears, the discouragements And we want to see the victory of Jesus Christ. Any of us here this morning, Father, who look at these verses And we begin to break out and sweat if we're honest because we see, I don't know this Jesus. He's no friend of mine. He's not my Lord. And if that judgment is real, I've had it. We pray, Father, that you would bring that person right now to come before you to confess that sin and that rebellion. And to receive Jesus Christ, and that that judgment would have passed from them to Him, that Jesus would have taken it all, and there would be nothing left for that person , for any of us who trust You but your love, your mercy, and your kindness. Father, forgive us. We understand so little of the depth of your love Because we understand so little of the depth of your hatred for sin and what it cost you to take that upon yourself for us. Hear us now as we speak BGM. Well, Lord God, you've heard our prayers. You hurt our hearts, our longings, our desires. We give them to you in the name of Jesus. Now let's praise God by singing.