Lastly, we considered Satan's attacks against the saints and our defenses against saints. We considered our attitudes of defense. We considered also our application of various areas of defense. And we considered our armor for defense. We were reminded that we're in a battle. A very serious battle. But that God is always sufficient to the victory. But now this raises the question, could we ever have a genuine feel of a room industry, particularly here in Columbia? I think we put a human comedy because we're evidently wrong. Given good, enthusiasm is high, expectations expect to Could we have any vegan field of a game industry here in Columbia? So following a bullet can outline And I want to consider this topic because it's the one that Paul speaks to. He addresses this question in First Thessalonians. Now, turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 in your Bible and also follow along in your position outline. The first topic then is this fear, topic one, the fear of a vain ministry. Notice first, in this paper, to the Thessalonian church, what you see there under edge, Paul's absolute confidence Through God's sovereign worship. Notice in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 2. We give thanks to God always to all of you, making mention of you in our faith. Now he's given back to that for the Thessalonians, therefore he's attributed to God, his work in death, what God attributed to us. Verse 4, knowing present beloved with God, he praises you. Oh, he is clearly changed God who is praising you. God according to you, he turned out reluctant personally Has brought you to be good people. It's God who has demoned with discord. Like verse 5. For our gospel doesn't come from the word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit The work was affected because the gospel came in the power of the Holy Spirit. Paul's beginning words here In this epistle and in all directions related to residents, with an absolute confidence that it was God's work that produced the results in people's life and After all, it's Paul who has witnessed in First Corinthians chapter fifteen, verse fifty-eight He wrote these words, therefore, my beloved brethren, be set fast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your toil is not in vain in the Lord. God is the one who fosters our work, and no point in Him is in vain. It's the same word he used with the word he begin with the second passing with. Notice he says that for you yourselves, brother, know that our coming to you was not in vain The same word used in 1 Corinthians 1658 where he says, Our neighbor is not in vain in the Lord. My telling to you, false, is not in vain. God was in control. God was working in you That's clear, that's the confidence. The confidence is always that God will lead us in triumph in Jesus Christ. Even when the world is a savior, death under death will come and life under life will come God always leaves it as far. His words literally comes to a voice, Isaiah's confusion chapter 6 and 5 And those who are convinced that God is a sovereign God who works according to his electrical purpose, remember no frustration will fail you. You have ideas Here's another side to this question, and it's a side that I'm afraid we too often overlook in the scriptures. This up in chapter two, verse seventeen. You see chapter two, verse seventeen. After he's talked about his hundred In the fact that which God here has worked in them. And then in the beginning of chapter two, we describe the character of his ministry through them But we brethren, having been the rest of you for a short while, in person, not in spirit, you were absent from this We're all the more eager with great desire to see your face. We wanted to come to you, our call, more than once, and yet faith is service. So here is our hope for joy, for proud of what we Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus that is telling us? For you are our glory and glory. My lady, but Father. Therefore, he says When we could endure it no longer, we thought it best to be left at heart behind at our hands alone, and we thank Philippi, our brother, and God's fellow workers in the back So that no man may be disturbed by these reflections. So you yourself know that we have been just in place When you when we were with you, we kept telling you in advance that we were going to suffer affliction. And so it came to pass as you left. For this reason, when I could endure no longer I often hope to find out about your things or feel that the people know the things and our neighbors can be in vain. Paul here, you see it says in chapter three verse one, there came a time and I couldn't stand it any longer. I had to find out how things were going. And then actually he he says that in Arabs chapter two verse one. There's always when we could endure so long. And do it five again. For this reason, things that I could endure it no longer. What couldn't he endure? He couldn't endure knowing if possibly the culture had been successful And he says, and our labor was in vain. That's the same word that he through 1 Corinthians 1558. It's the same word in the usual beginning at chapter two verse 10. He said, I loved it in the is not in vain. And we told here there is a possibility that all of my labor is invaded Well that doesn't sound like the call to each this word that had at least confidence in the fact that these labels have nothing in base. Because God is the God who is going to build the church in Columbia. God is the God who is going to be who never lets his word be turned to embora. And what Paul said is I had a very gain and fear that all that I did in you might have been in vain. What does this word gain in vain mean? You see here we're under the second point. Call very feel to be played. To be in vain Well, the word in vain means literally without results, without profits, without intended effects. or without reason a desired goal. Something that hasn't reached its goal, has an account to success. Paul here, you see, is simply putting together two sides of a biblical truth. Paul never left his confidence in God's absolute. I've given you the gospel, I've heard the word of the Lord, hopefully it I've been faithful, and now I can go on my way and trust the results to God How often in our danger that we have that kind of attitude? When I work in people's minds, do we say that for one of the other But we see a very marked concept in the past of Paul. Paul, while having absolute confidence in the fact that God is Nevertheless, had a very linear feel, had a green limit in people's lives So interested to this idea of vanity by the idea of a farmer. Let's take a farmer who goes out in the spring, he turns the cross, things to see What's the cylinder? Has the stone is all free? Has everything packed in well? You have to water it, preservate it, eat take care of all that, watch as the bloom begin to come up. You watch it from the bloom for any buds to begin to flower for the fruit. And if you see as that comes, and what does it ready to come into full fruit for the harvest? I helped go. Now the conflict father has absolute confidence. In fact, it is God who must be. God is the one who's going to point out to Genesis as well. The hell stands. And it comes just before the heart. And everything is wiped out. So what is the bottom here? It is all in vain. He wasn't after us through the summer day, poems and racing because you liked the stuff, because you wanted to get a good test, because you enjoyed it. He was after because he wanted fruit. He wanted a harvest. He wanted a cross. And although he was confident in the fact that although they were job, he's later weapon. And the skin can as hell came and wiped out the top, as far as you can say, that harvest is empty, which never reached it survived with that. Everything is like that. And Paul uses the same kind of idea to talk about his work and people's lives. He says this is the same possibility that you and I in Columbia in our ministry. The first time I heard this, it was as I was driving along listening to a print from Al Martin a past year And he was thinking on this possibility of a gain ministry. And when I heard this and I began to realize that although we have confidence in God, nevertheless are every single I had to stop the car, I had to get out, and I had to begin to play about it. I'm in the colour coming back from a temporal trip, what state and what state we miss. So I was driving along Lake Ontario. I stop, I drive, I was right along the beach of Lake Ontario and I stop Forgiveness. But how many times I have resumed on your sadness, resumed on the fact that you are the one whose words about equality avoid your concern as well. And because of that, I protected myself from a deep emotional involvement in the lives of the people that I was believed. I feel it like that from thinking that I had to become confirmed in a very intense way about what was happening in the lives of the people who God was working with. So I want to call our attention together as we um begin to build the work in the church Columbia. But he and I never left the confidence that we have in God's purposes for probably two points to produce in it as perpetrated I can thankfulness. Eyewitness kind of attitude. We would be very clear and have an examined fear of the possibilities of a gain witness Now I want to be very clear about something before I go on too, and that is that you minister the word as well as Isaac. This is not just a message to pastors and elders and those who are deep leaders. Every one of us, as believers and pleasures, minister the words to one another. We we talk about God's group of buildings very often We talk about last priests for those who don't know Jesus, to bring them to companies. So we all are in the process and the business of ministering the word to one another. But so this applied where we are. This confidence in people and the fear of the own ministry. You and I fear a thing ministry the way Do you have the concern of a mother to be described in chapter 2 verse 7? How do I find a text when we were uh he says um we were truth to be done on you as a mortal mother? She tenderly cared for her own children. For as a father, you see in chapter 2 verse 11. Just as you know we were exhorting, encouraging, and poor, we wanted to as a father with his own children. That's the odyssey that the Bible conclaims that you and I must minister the word. Are we emotionally involved in the lives of the people that we talk to To realize that our ministry knows not their feet. structures and scriptures. And I began to look at what Paul's emotional involvement was in the life of the people. And I discovered some things in the scriptures Take a look at these verses right here to see what his involvement is. You notice in chapter 2, verse 8. After talking about the chapter He was as a mother to them, how he describes his attitude. He says, We had a fine affection for you, and we were well pleased to apply not the gospel of God only, but our own lives Because we become very dear to this. Very tender mind. We have affected voice. We became deal to us. Very 11 and 12. Doesn't he know that we were how we were joined and encouraging and slowly? Glory, encouraging the last, implory to the Father who says, like that, Son, that you can clean in that hand. The fatherly says it it counted him to born these things And he says the employee of the part of it is going to be the part of the walk and a matter of worship, where we could go. Yes, bringing into balance to the equilibrium are experienced with our traditional facts that we talked about some weeks ago. So that you would walk in a matter bringing into equilibrium through experience to the call of God to then into the floor. Now you see those these Paul says, on the one hand, I implore you and I exhort you to walk according to the way God called you. Now you and I can't put that together How can God call you to do something when I implore you to do it? The pastor didn't have any trouble with it. He said, on the one hand, I'm deeply emotionally involved in imploring you to do what God has already called me Because you can hold on the one hand with confidence in the fact that God has called you, you must be the worst, and on the other hand, that I implore you and endorse you and increase you to be respectful. Notice in chapter 17. More of his emotions being expressed because they're good. When we were at the Sunday, we missed it. We were eager with great desire to see your things. We know how things were done. He says uh we wanted to come to you. Your idea, our fault, our hope. Then he says in chapter 2 verse 1, we couldn't even endure it any longer to be a part of you. We didn't know what it was going on. Couldn't pick up and dial to us and find out how things are going in and festival and I think that he said, uh I I couldn't I couldn't just find out. He says I couldn't endure it any longer in one place five. For this reason, and I couldn't endure it any longer, I sent out the side of that state for fear. It's attacking my detective when I didn't do it. I get the picture of Paul's replacement back and forth. He's like a mother whose daughter is out for the first time on a date. He's like a father whose son is taking his family for the first time. He's walking back and forth like, what's going on? What's going on in South Latin? Now, I don't know about you, but to me that's a little different history than I think we have to notice that People still know that we can float around it and say, Well, open control isn't it great to know that I never have to worry about what's going to happen. and always a peace, nothing ever wrote it. That's not the kind of picture you get. I was like this is not a unique picture here. It's always a call. So I couldn't endure it any longer. I Hard to find out. Satan might have been successful. He might have taken away everything that I had done. And we talked about the trouble last week. Yes, Satan is a deceit of God. But he may be successful at particular. In deploying the work of God in a type of ways. In taking our labor in Columbus and making it both without results, without If I say this one in these pictures, you could post this flower very possibly in five letters. But let me just put one other letter because it's so full of the second place Take a look at Second Pinthians chapter two. You see there, Paul says in Second Pinthians chapter two, verse one. Try to determine just for myself that I would not come to you in power again. I came to you in power before and I was determined I can't go through that again. I can't go through the emotional people of that again Well if I call it you far, then he's going to make me draw. But the one I make five. All the time here, hey, who do I want you to make it last? Now if I make you sorrowful, when am I going to get any good? This is the very thing I wrote to that's when I came, I should have sorrow from those who want to make me rejoice. Having confidence in me all that my glory would be the glory of you. For out of much afflicted and angry of heart I wrote to you with many fears But that's not the picture we often have of what it is to be a victorious Christian. Just type off his letter and says, Praise Lord, fellas, God's gonna answer, and I know they're gonna come through and God's never going to fail, it's going to happen. Everything's gonna work out and I know that the word's gonna have its success in your life. Also, because I have elegance and out of feeling for elegance. Because I knew this every year. I was confident in God. But I knew that the work might fail in real life. Somehow I knew that the work could be in vain, and so out of anger, conceal, I wrote not that you could be made possible, but you should go by the law. If I have special things. I want you to know that that everything, all of that doing that. So how I start But I could not be happy as long as I as long as I'm in the in the boundary, but the work of Jesus Christ is going to have effect in your life Okay, so the second has right now. Okay, there's two on the page of this letter that I'm writing. There's one of the words a little bit. But I want you to know if that's the time My rest. I did it stand off and have it taken in me that I've been faithful with the words kind of out of me. Because in verse thirteen, I had no rest for my spirit First in 2 Corinthians 2 13. Not finding Titus my brother, I I took my leave with him and I went over. I had to go over. I had to find out. You see this in other parts in Second Pym. Take a look at the uh verses that we listed there. Um Very, very happy to see Paul into Circuit Castle 12 and said, I'm afraid I'm gonna make a free with myself when I come to you, and I'm glad it's Because I'm going to see that you have in fact the gift of the Lord and I'm not going to be able to take it. I'm going to talk about two because I'm just going to break down and cry. Paul has. So a confidence is confidence in the fact that God works in the genuine feeling is supposed to be a very interesting. couldn't take that. It was something that's so deeply different that he said it um it went his entire day So then you see in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3. That's the says, for this reason I couldn't do it, I sent to find out about the faith, the fear of the temple might attempt to do that on Maybe possibly to be amazing. Remember the result, verse six. Now Timothy's come. Ah Timothy just came back. He just came running through the door and the news has come of your faith and your love that you're always thinking private. Longing to see us just as we long to see us who made you admire us. And for this reason, brethren, in all our distress and afflictions, we were comforted about keeping your things And it's a very simple thing. So now we really need to be standing somewhere else. But the word associates, linked with the word association Paul says, if you're full and firm and do this, then I will. that I joined do we get three things that look like us out of ten people that we've had a ministry with in their life family family Jesus Is that what changed the sand? Is that what picked up our days? Picked us through the week? Well now I really know it. Because the person I talked to about the name So many things. Because I see these other people in our fellowship who are going on with Jesus. And I see somebody who's had a real terrific problem and heard about it. together. And God wants to. And I feel him come through. Oh I know I really will. Well is that that kind of well if it doesn't work out well you know life travel and we can You just have to read it yourself. Paul never allowed that consciousness to produce that kind of an emotional isolation from his involvement. We take upon our culture and a television, a an uncommitted detection to always threaten us, to producing us that embarrassment to say that I really care for you. We have in our passions that sort of coolness. That cool detector that says, I'm not Brahman. You can't get things. And so as Christians, we hide the high confidence in the sovereign of God. What is in fact appearing as far as our own current The fact that I really do care in a way that really disturbs me, in a way that really gets me, in a way that robs me of peace and joy. If I There's something wrong in your life. This spirit, this world that you're under, is overwhelming. And we have to find this. This fear of being vulnerable to each other, this fear of being able to tell that we're deeply concerned, loving each other's passionately, that we will in fact follow but it would be and we communicate that kind of concern to each other. But then we go to the second question What is it? But Paul saw it constitutes a game ministry and confiding a ministry that would not be What was it in fact that he was looking for? He would demonstrate that his ministry was not involved in city. The police in many of the subject in terms of amount of activity, in terms of the amount of growth in the conservation, the size of the budget, all those different things that we're involved in. It was easy to measure exponents. But it's interesting that these are not the kind of things Paul looked at and measured in whether a ministry is vain or in fact we did three more. There are three times that he used this phrase in vain. with respect to a church, the new ministers too, to talk about what's terrified whether that ministry is done or let's take a look at these things The three marks of a ministry that is not in vain. First of all, he says the first indication was that we receive our message as the word of God Look at chapter 2, verse 13. See what we here said in chapter 2, verse 1. For you yourselves know, brethren, that our coming to you is not in vain. He then characterizes his own ministry. And he picked up this scene again about the fear of a vain ministry, uh, and how we knew that in fact the ministry was under vain in verse 13 So for this reason we also constantly thank God that when you received from us the Word of God's message, you accepted it not as the word of message, but for what it really is. Word of God. It also performs of working to believe. Paul said there are two ways we can receive the word, as the word of man or as the word of God And my temptation, as I'm going to say the word to you, is to try to place up my messages with clever outline Clever illustrations, to be more persuasive people, that by my cleverness I will move you to the parts. White circles. Because no man can at one and the same time give the impression that he is covered and the price is mighty success. More. But at one and the same time, gives you the question that he is clever and right is made of the same. That's my concern. But rather I need to rest in the power of the word to have this effect those things, which performs good work for you. But on the other hand, you have a tempstration. And your temptation, you see, is to come to worship and to ask the question, well, I wonder what he's going to say interesting today What you're going to think to go into is going to move into some response. It's going to pick up my interest. It's going to capture my attention It's like seen in a show, you know. You want to see if there's anything good in it. You say, well, I decided to come here, I'm gonna commit my hours to this I'm going, oh, I want to think very interesting going to be on. I hope they're going to get something that was really helpful to see because it's interesting. Rather than simply say, God, going to teach me his word. Well I may distort it, I may uh represent it somewhat faithfully, but the fact is with God's word that you can measure, you can see the truth there. That God is going to teach you so I come I come to receive what the Lord has for me. I come to receive what in Him and I accept them to speak to me. The God is with us in the Lord about whether the word will go forth in Balance. Depending on the attitude that we do and I access. I do have the responsibility to think to communicate clearly, forcefully, effectively. You do have the responsibility And expect that it's the word of God depends on us, not the word of men. Not the word that depends on my power to be Martin Laper once said, we need to stop worrying about the plates that the bread is served on and simply eat the bread. We need to be married by God's word rather than by the covenant of God. communication of survival and these students. That's the word of God. It's very well. When we heard God speaks. And it only applies to these people to refer to God. I'm ready to receive. I want it. I want you to see me. And he's put with the feet of King Jesus, accept it. But if he sees God's heart. And that's the awesome So you can realize that this God speaks to it and two words. Paul says the first part of that university is not a good but if you receive the word in the real version that it's God's word and not mine. And if you search at the seed of some reason to say, I'm going now and prostrating myself on it. Because I receive it as possible. What is the thing of my life? Because God is speaking for us The second one is looking Galatians chapter four. In Galatians chapter four He again uses this word in vain with fear of a vain ministry in Galatians 4. 11. Now that it's the concept in Galatians 4. 1. He says, now I say, but as long as the air is a cabin. does not differ at all from a slave of Bolisani or easily. But he's under guardians and management into the date set by the Father. Now he's a person who's really a son But in fact, he's still in the stature of a slave. So also while we were children, we were held in bodies under the elemental things of the world. But when the foreman of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, in order that he might redeem those who were under the law, so that we would receive the adoption of sons. And he called through the son, God has sent forth the spirit of his son into our hearts crying, Father, Father, Daddy, the infinite cry of a son. On the Father's name. And therefore you're no longer a slave, but a son. And it's a son and an air of God. However, at that time when you did not know God, you were slaves to those things which are by nature no God. But now you come to know God rather than be known by God. How is it then They turned out again to the weak and worthless and elemental forms to which he divides the employee all of us Few days, days and months, season, and years. And I feel these that perhaps I play it over you and then That's how I thought. You say that the goal of my ministry in your life is believing in Christ. My morning purpose is that you all into that state where you realize that you are all acceptance before God. Rest and his art just before Could you stand completely womb and put things for the less? And he says, once he left the mess, it's been else. And anybody thought of that, anybody is purchased for you to go in your acceptance before God based on what you can do with disciples You have a slave. You are the slave trying to earn your acceptance before God. Paul says if that's your view, whether it's a person who is you who does not know Jesus Christ, you have not Whatever else it is to the freedom, that it's only possible to forgive us Jesus and with God. Where he says in Galatians chapter 3, just before this, Jesus Christ, he redeemed us from the curse of the law, because he became a curse for us. For it's written perfectly everyone who hangs on a tree, so that in Christ, in him, the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we would receive the promise of the Spirit from the Satan. Also, that's the completed world. And if you've never come to rest in life, you don't realize in place. If you've never come to rest in what you come to That God will find you acceptable. Also the late work isn't bad. But even beyond us, we take the settled you, we have professed you, we come to know it, you feel literalistic by me. All of a sudden, the world's principle is so deeply embedded in us for all we Also throughout all terrorists, if you're in view success, you will never be one inch more acceptable to or die, then you are waiting to find if you're in faith. Because if you're in deep if you're giving your life to him by faith, then in fact you have two things But also things could be added to that. You don't have to accept it in the game. Also, if you go back to those we So the things that we do to please God. With our ministry of days. To think of God. We do become a legalistic thing Following our position, as it goes for the word of God, also the whole ministry is in God. And you and I need to remind us that. We can come before God. Then third things, third use of this word, even Philippines chapter six The Philippians chapter 2 verse 15, and again uses this word concerning his fear of a gay ministry in the Philippians. So the Philippians church is a pretty high place. We didn't really have things together. How can you see if any ministry in God? Well take a look at Philippians chapter 2 verse 14. Do all things without grumbling or dispute, so that you may prove yourself to be blameless and innocent, put in the side above your church, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation among whom you appear of light to the world, holding fast and thrusting forth the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may have caused a glory because I did not run in vain or toil in vain Keep correct. We receive the word of some God. That produces in Galatians a freedom of the rest of Jesus Christ in my fear from a life. And from that freedom then, Paul says, here, that produces in you a light, the life of a child of God. If you work out that Christ's life. If you work out his prices, you become those who become remarkably different before your name, before your family And become remarkably different as a community of people that are evident as noticeable in Columbia. Kathy and I were driving back from Tomorrow on Friday evening, as we're coming up Route 29, we saw a fallen cloud. You know, we can uh copy your That's the word that Paul needs to be 15. The word life is the word that means God. He says you appeal before the word of God in that concept. Of lives that have been saved by Jesus because the threshing force, we're really more active than a holding force at the threshing force of the word of life, the volcanism in the context. of light of a glory of gospel. Paul says, if that's what's going on, then I know I saw the glory and I didn't want anything. But he says that's gossip. Whether it's criticism or the grumbling that we talked about in verse 14, if the lines are not noticeably different from those of your ladies about in Columbia, if we do not rush force the doctrine in the contest of the Well, those are usually just a point disappointment. First of all, what is the effect of my emotional body? in the lives of the people to whom I minister. Have I been set by the poor non-commitment of my generation? Never allowing myself to be vulnerable, infusely caring about the people that I talk to you about people, the difference of my movies or about life? And even if I say it, am I not willing to say it myself? Paul. George Whitfield, who died used mighty a couple centuries ago, the mighty of angels that Jesus said. One of the he said, How can I mark you? When you walk me to yourself and I realize the danger is the world And if we have allowed an opportunity to serve those people, to serve them to feel, control, the likely has, to feel the very limited, by the intent of the body personality. Secondly, second question is That's right. Do I know that? Hopefully, me that I've been faithful out of you. What do I feel? possibilities of a real ministry of people. I remember our Martin Tolling the example, illustrating this by a friend who says, John. He's just gone out and uh John has gone out to uh ask his mother to give him his hand tonight. And I'm a teammate and I'm waiting up to see just what's happening. And I hear John from home whispering down. As we don't come up the steps and singing a little song, knocks on the door, comes walking in and have it sound and says that. No, no, she said no, but yeah, I'll try a little bit about it. I'll try that in tomorrow. Sooner or later one's gonna look fine and uh it'll work out We really have a high heart color. And I think it's really on the same body. But all the other hand we put the psychology come home or waiting up for them. You hear them come dragging up the steps and as many classics and touching the steps as you do but you hear the feet cut them, foot taking the door. So the stuff goes in, takes it down, take a look at the how to go there. Well then what are we gonna do about that? And I'm going to keep trying. I'm going to keep living right here. And I'm going to try everything you say in my life. And I'm going to fire every day. Overland you really feel that it's not going to work out until he can fail. He doesn't have a circuit or easy I've been thankful. I've given what I could have. And I feel things to be concerned about an example That's the response provided by the need to have our ministry here and that resides for currently secure. The five of John Markham said in the style Don't find it, but I want you to know. This is what I see And you see the see my statement to you, I bear my own heart to you. But I am the past account anything less. And the result is We talk about when receiving the word as the word of God and not simply the words of men. So all that we talk about is clear that it's God's word of something, not simply our God's word Secondly, that you are free in you. Free in the righteousness of Christ, the righteousness is even on missing, that God can find no place. And certainly that having that freedom then you would normally realize the holiness of Christ was parents being placed And in that context we thrust and forth about the incomingness. With anything else to have, I consider to be a very risk to end columbus. No matter how confident or certain things may do and how suspressed we could ever look with the eyes of you by the other. Let's pray that God will give us a confidence In fully recognized by a danger and feel in the possibility that our labor could be endangered in others' lives, except God We can't put these things together in our own places, but that we told them that our neighbor is not in vain in you, that you will accomplish your purpose here in Columbus, but that God will our leader who will take I think that even this week time I have to do on this afternoon That that really was up to you. But it would have worked with freedom of knowledge that we take up, so we don't have to be focused. father doesn't say have a deep emotional concern about what you're going to be doing the year first next with your telephone as well Father and tell us, you were delivered from the very unites. But if it says, you were protected from that preventing To either receive your word as it really is, the word of God. We stand it on by the two parts and the deep system. And if you reveal your factors, you reveal what you've done in Jesus for us. And you invite us to a life where you have given to us the whole basis. The body section. And I like when it's a common different toughness to build up to that. Define that we'd move it to holy lives, that we'd be free to live life for us, and that our lives would be remarkably different from you. Those about us in blunders. Things who might be right here. And those who are our faith are moving and my family. Father be your peace, available, glorify your needs Because you try to think of this. We ask to see a good according to this one. Because truly the element is scattered before you You have never known if that's great. For the power and the mighty being for the back If your word is not the same. We didn't pay for that. It is restless. Saturday taking the word to go forth and power into Columbia We are an author to other classes. We pray for the Orthodox Christian Church as it images in other coaches in the world. We think particularly of Ralph and Joe England, who ministering in the name of part of our church is Father, we pray that you will spoke a lot of these ministers the name of Christ and and declare for those of you in the countryside way. If you would uh make his words go forth and We pray, Father, for the books that we've got, the theological books that have been so helpful to the church here. We pray to be to continue to build up the church and we're in. Father, let us And it's going to move it into the