We know a lot more about how we ought to be living than what we're doing, though we are very aware of our deficiencies. But right now, Lord We need to see Jesus. We need to see him as he really is. Lord Jesus, we want to see you so that we can be encouraged in our walk with you. We want to see you so that We will love you more. And loving you more, we will want to serve you more faithfully this week. But Lord, we know that we will not serve you more faithfully simply by knowing more about what we ought to be doing. Rather, Lord, we need to see what you have done for us. And that you would move our hearts in response. So we pray, show us Jesus, Holy Spirit, we might worship and adore and be refreshed. Amen. I was just thinking as I was sitting here, uh, just waiting to come up of how grateful I am for you as a people who have indicated so many times that you're hungry for the word. That you are people who don't sort of dare me to interest you in the mess with the message, but rather are looking to be fed. And I thought what a blessing that is. is proclaiming the word of God to those who are saying, we're hungry. We want to see Jesus. We want to work with you to see that. And so I just want to say that I found it a real privilege to be able to, each Sunday, open up the Word of God to people who are looking with hunger to it for them. We come now to what the Christian Church calls the Advent season. Most people simply call it the Christmas season. We at Columbia Presbyterian have made it a tradition of this time to spend a little of the time meditating on a messianic prophecy. And then looking at the Christmas story out of Luke's account. And so if you're new to us this year, this is our sixth year in this series. We began in 1979. And so this is our sixth messianic prophecy that we're considering this year, the last of the five books of Moses. This prophecy for this year is Deuteronomy chapter 18 , verses 14 to 22. So if you open your Bibles with me as we turn to that and look at that together, I see Jen smiling, reminding me that you'll notice that the bulletin outline will say, consistently, I remind you, is that it is Duet 18 that we're reading from. But you can just transpose that in your mind and see that it's Deuteronomy that we're really reading from. Deuteronomy chapter 18, the last of the Messiah prophecies in the five books of Moses. The first five that we have looked at have all presented the Messiah, the coming Messiah as the king, the one who would rule the kingdom of God. This the sixth messianic prophecy presents the Messiah as the prophet, the one who will reveal the God of the kingdom. And so let's now consider this unique prophecy, the first one that presents him in his prophetic office from Deuteronomy chapter 18. After warning Israel to not go after other gods and occultic activities for their sources of knowledge, Moses continues in verse 14 The nations that you will dispossess, listen to those who practice sorcery or divination. But for you, the Lord your God has not permitted you to do so. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your own brothers. You must listen to him. For this is what you asked of the Lord your God at Holeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let us not hear the voice of the Lord our God, nor see this great fire anymore, or we will die. The Lord said to me, What they say is good. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything I command him. If anyone does not listen to my words, let the prophet speak. speaks in my name, I myself will call him to account. But a prophet who presumes to speak in my name anything I have not commanded him to say, or a prophet who speaks in the name of other gods must be put to death. You may say to yourself, How can we know that a message has not been spoken by the Lord? If what a prophet proclaims in the name of the Lord does not take place or come true, that is a message the Lord has not spoken. That prophet has spoken presumptuously. Do not be afraid of him. Sometime shortly before the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem, two Jews are sitting discussing in Jerusalem. And one says, What do you think of this fellow Josephus? He claims to be the prophet that was prophesied and promised by Moses back in Deuteronomy 18. And because he says he's the prophet, he therefore is the Messiah. What do you think of him? Ah, rubbish, Joseph. This fella has been out in the wilderness too long like the others, eating too many locusts. He's a fish monger and just called people to himself to build himself a reputation. And when that prophet comes whom Moses has predicted, he will speak with majesty, like Moses himself. There must have been many discussions like that, arguing about particular people who came along very frequently, claiming to be the prophet that Moses had promised. And many of them argued about his identity and when he would come. But the one thing they only was he would be like Moses. He would be unique. And we see that longing recorded in a number of places about the time that Jesus was born. A longing for the prophet to come. In our own day, there's that same longing for a prophet. Because we need a prophet, don't we? I think that was what accounts for uh the sale of many books such as this one by Kyle J. And there is such a longing, isn't there? For somebody who's got an inside track, inside information on reality? Who can tell us in a trustworthy manner what God is like? Who can tell us how we can gain His love? Who can tell us how to live, how to get love and pleasure? Who can tell us what our values are ought to be, what things we should choose and what things we should avoid. We need a prophet because we realize that we're ignorant of ourselves. And so there's that age old old longing for someone who will come as a prophet. To reveal with absolute authority what God is like and what his ways are like and how we should live. Now the Jews had such a person than Moses. Moses was a prophet. And when Moses spoke, the Jews Jews knew that was God speaking when he said, This is what the Lord says. But Moses is now old and he's ready to die. And so one of the last things that Moses says to Israel before he dies is to give them this promise. And in that promise Moses is giving to Israel three essential things. Notice that are in this text. These three things are not in the bulletin outline, but I just want to sum up with these three things. These three things that are promised are that number one, God is going to continue to reveal himself. You can almost hear an audible sigh of relief, can't you run through Israel as God says, I will give you a prophet. So notice that's not the end of God speaking. We're not saying left to our own devices. God is going to continue to reveal himself. And there's a tremendous relief in that promise. But secondly, he's saying that God is not going to simply reveal himself in other people who have a word here and a word there. But he's particularly prophesying a prophet here. Notice that it's a singular. It is not primarily referring to the stream of prophets in the Old Testament, but he says in verse 15, I will raise up a prophet like me. Verse 18, I will raise up for them a prophet, one particular prophet who And then thirdly, he says twice in these few verses, this prophet is going to be like me. Moses says, This prophet in verse fifteen will be like me. In verse eighteen God says, I'll raise up for them a prophet like you, Moses. And so this is what the Jews were looking for: a prophet that would be like Moses. And so even though through the years God raised up several prophets, Moses and Elijah. And Elisha and uh Samuel uh after Moses and uh Isaiah, Jeremiah, Amos, Micah, and many others. Even though all those men came along, when you come down to the Roman era, thirteen Hundred years later, the Jews are still looking for the prophet. That's interesting, isn't it? The Jews themselves knew that this prophecy was not fulfilled in any of the prophets that came along. Archaeologists have discovered in the Red Sea scrolls that the Living in their caves were constantly speculating on and awaiting with a uh a tiptoe kind of expectancy that prophet who was going to come and break in on the new age. And they speculated just when he would arrive and what he would do. The Samaritans particularly were arguing all the time in their writings about the identity of this prophet. And when Jesus comes to the woman of Samaria, she says, we know that when Messiah comes, he will reveal all things to us. He'll be a prophet, you see. They looked for primarily as a prophet. The Pharisees in Jerusalem looked for the Messiah as a prophet, knowing that he had not been fulfilled. This prophecy hadn't been fulfilled in all the prophets who had come before. It's interesting that after Jesus fed the five. in John chapter 6, in verse 14. The immediate response to that is that we read, after the people saw the miraculous sign of Jesus did, they began to say, Surely this is the prophet who is to come into the world. There's only one Old Testament prediction about the prophet to come who is referring to the Messiah, and that's Deuteronomy eighteen. So in John 6. 14 you have these people saying, Is Deuteronomy eighteen going to be fulfilled now? Surely yes, this is that prophet that Moses talked about in the Feast of Tabernacles in John chapter seven in verse forty. After Jesus has said that I am the living water, come to me, and out of you will flow living waters. The people's immediate response, verse 40, I'm Hearing these words, some of the people said, Surely this man is the prophet. Then that was like saying he's the Messiah. But the Messiah is a prophet. I think that we as evangelicals have largely lost the significance. Of that aspect of Jesus' ministry today. Ironically, at a time when the people of the world are crying out for prophets, we have the prophets Jesus has revealed God. And so we want to take a look at this aspect of his ministry and to see why it is only Jesus who ever fulfilled the prediction of Matthew of Deuteronomy 18. Only Jesus could have fulfilled what Moses was speaking about. Now this text in Deuteronomy 18 has two things to it, two sides. It has both comfort and warning. And so this morning I want to give to you the comfort of the fulfillment of This prophecy. And then next week we're going to look at the warnings that you see in this prophecy so that we might take heed and live. This morning, then, first of all, let's look at the comfort that we see from Deuteronomy 18. And to do that, I would not tell Mr. for you briefly ten ways that Jesus is like Moses. Ten ways that Jesus is the prophet like Moses. Aren't you glad you don't have to take these all down if you got them there in the bulletin outline and drop down anything that you want to amplify. on that, but the ten ways are all listed there for you. Let's go through them each one, briefly touching on each, so that you might see the glory of Jesus Christ. This morning I just really won't more in anyone else, more in any other kind of application, any kind of challenge you get more than anything else in your life that you simply be encouraged to see Jesus. But when you go out of here this morning with the one thing which you said Jesus is even greater than I have thought. Fantastic how Jesus has so far superseded any of the possible expectations anyone would have ever had when they say, we're looking for the prophet like Moses. Indeed he was a prophet like Moses. But so much further beyond that. Let's see how. First of all, like Moses, Jesus was raised up by God. You see in verse 15 and 18 that the promises that the Lord your God will raise up for your prophet, like me. God will raise him up, you see. Verse 18, the same thing. I will raise up for them a prophet like you. This is simply telling us that in the case of Moses and in the case of this prophet to come, it's going to be at God's initiative. This is not a self-appointed prophet. It is a prophet that God Himself has raised up. The world is so tired of self-appointed prophets, isn't it? We're so tired of people who come to us and say, I have the Answer. I'll tell you how you should live. I have the religion that will give you peace and joy. Self -appointed prophets. But this prophet is raised up by God Himself. Secondly, this prophet is going to be from among your brothers. Like Moses, he will be a true Jewish man. Jesus was just as much man as Moses Verse 15, notice, but the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your own brothers. Who do they add? Verse 18. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. Warnings. Repeat it. Jesus, like Moses, was 100% man. Jesus, like Moses, was a baby who had to have his diapers changed. He was absolutely dependent on his mommy to take care of his wife. Interestingly also, Jesus, just like Moses, was delivered from death in infancy. Moses was delivered from death in Egypt. Jesus was delivered from death to Egypt. And so while Moses was delivered from Pharaoh, who was going to kill him, then Jesus was delivered by going to Egypt from Herod. the king of the Jews. Ironic, isn't it? And yet you see in both cases that they are truly men, truly vulnerable, and God has protected them as human beings. Further, like Moses, Jesus, this prophet, Will be faithful. In Numbers chapter twelve and verse seven, we read that God spoke to Moses as a prophet because Moses was considered faithful in all of God's house. In Hebrews chapter three, verses one to six. We're told that Jesus was not only faithful in God's house, he's the Son over the house. And Hebrews goes on to say, That house is us. We're the household that Jesus, the prophet, is the Son over. And so not only is He faithful, in the house, he has absolute authority as the Son over the house. The fourth way that Jesus is like Moses. Like Moses, Jesus knows God face to face. From Numbers chapter 12. In Numbers chapter 12, beginning in verse 6, God is saying to Moses , These precious words, never said to any other person, When a prophet of the Lord is among you, the Lord says, I reveal my Now this is what God's saying about the prophets that are going to come, the one who will be the stream in Moses trained. I'm going to reveal myself to him in visions. I'll speak to him in dreams. Contrast. But this is not true of my servant Moses. He is faithful in all my house, what we just referred to. With him, therefore, I speak face to face. Clearly, and not in riddles, he sees the falling of the Lord. And so Moses had an absolutely unique privilege of all prophets. For Moses did not have his revelations given to him in vision. And dreams, but God spoke to him face to face. God accommodated himself, he puts it in uh Exodus, by turning his back, or let you see my back, or give you some idea, but he was on such intimate terms with Moses that Moses could say, I see God. But what about Jesus? Now Jesus is the prophet who has been with God from all eternity. John chapter one, which you heard read earlier this morning, for those First couple verses. Notice them again. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the very beginning. Then verse 18. No one has ever seen God. Including Moses. Why? It's not a contradiction there. The Bible's not contradicting itself, but simply saying, no one has ever seen God in his essence, as he really is. God had to accommodate himself. Read Exodus 34, you'll see God clearly demonstrates that. And so John says with no contradiction, no one's ever really seen God as he really is. But God, the only Son, who is at the Father's side, has made him known. And so most people prophets that come along are speculating in ignorance about what God's doing. God is like and what reality is. God's appointed prophets speak truth, but only one small portion of truth. True truth, but nevertheless only one fragment of it. And so Scriptures Says that they themselves wrote, not knowing all of the things that they were writing about. But Jesus comes along, the prophet, and he speaks. And as he speaks and reveals the Father to us, we ask him But how long have you known him? He says, I've known him from eternity. We say, but how well have you known him? Jesus says, there has never been a moment. But I have not been at the Father's side. There has never been an instant in which our fellowship has been broken. From the ages of eternity we have walked together. We have thought the same thoughts. We have communicated with absolute unity. And I have laid them on the most intimate terms. And so you can see if you want to know what God is like, listen to Jesus. If you want to know what God is like, look at what Jesus does. Because Jesus acts the way God acts. Jesus reacts to sin and to sinners the way God acts and reacts towards sins and sinners. In his holiness, in his wrath, in his patience, in his love, in his mercy. You want to see the balance of those things? We don't have to guess. Jesus, who has been with the Father from eternity by his side, has come now as the prophet to say, this is what God is like. Watch me, listen to me, and I'll show you. Fifthly, like Moses, Jesus renounced royalty in order to come to reveal God to us. In Hebrews chapter eleven, we are given some insight. review Moses life that we're not told in the Pentateuch. Hebrews chapter eleven, verse twenty-four. We're told that by faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be known as the son of Pharaoh's daughter. He chose to be mistreated as a Along with the people of God, rather than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a short time. He regarded disgrace for the sake of Christ as of greater value than the treasures of Egypt. Because he was looking ahead to his reward. Very next chapter. It tells us that Jesus came. And that he despised the suffering and the shame. Looking ahead to what was to be accomplished. Accomplished in his work. Philippians chapter 2, Paul tells us that Jesus didn't have simply the treasures of Egypt. He had the treasures of the galaxies, the Lord of creation, who is equal with God. prerogatives and authority and ownership and Paul says that Jesus didn't count as something to hang on to. He revanched his royalty. A royalty that Moses never had a glimmering of. But we can look at Moses and identify and think what it would have been like to be the Prince of Egypt. And that guy really gave up a lot to go with those outcast Jews who had nothing and to leave. Then you see Jesus as the prophet, like Moses, who renounced the throne of heaven to come not as the Lord of heaven. Creation, but as the servant of servants. In Hebrews 1 and 2 and 3, and one go on to tell about him, the Lord of glory, who is the reflection of God's own glory himself. And he renounced that so that he could come as a humble prophet and reveal. Reveal God to you and to me, so that we would not be in ignorance and so we would not be lost, never knowing God on a personal basis, but coming to show it to us. Sixthly, a prophet's God's words. And so Jesus, like Moses, speaks God's words, which God puts in his mouth. Notice again the promise in Deuteronomy 18. In verse 18, the promise is that I'm I will raise up a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything that I command him. Verse 20. The prophet who presumes to speak in my name anything that I have not not commanded him to say, or a prophet who speaks in the name of other gods must be put to death. And Jesus is the prophet. And therefore Jesus cannot speak on his own authority. This is something that I think we often miss. That Jesus made quite a point of the fact that he did not speak on his own authority. Now we are so used to seeing that Jesus spoke with formal authority in comparison, contrast to the Pharisees, that we often never the point that Jesus subjected himself to the Father so that the Father commanded him what to speak. For example, in John chapter 7, there's a number of references listed and there's more beyond that. But you can look at those when you get home, but just two of them. to call your attention to here. In John chapter 7, in verse 16 , when Jesus is speaking there again at the Feast of Tabernacles, he says, My teaching is not my own. It comes from him who sent me. Why? Because I'm the prophet, you see. In John chapter 12, verses 49 and 50. Jesus says, For I did not speak of my own accord, but the Father who sent me commanded me. what to say and how to say it. I know that his commandment leads to eternal life, so whatever I say is just what the Father has told me to say. Why? Because he's a prophet like Moses. And Jesus has so humbled himself as the Lord of creation, he doesn't even decide what to say. He has subjected himself to the Father. And he says, Father, you teach me what to say. Father, I only want to say what words you put in. And Jesus has subjected and humbled himself in renouncing his glory so that he might be a true prophet and reveal God to us. And seventhly, like Moses, because He speaks God's words. He has God's authority. Those words have God's authority and therefore they must be obeyed. Deuteronomy eighteen and verse fifteen. The Lord your God will raise you up a prophet from me from among your brothers. You must listen to him. Verse 19. If anyone does not listen to my words that the prophet speaks in my name, I myself will call him to account, God says. So you remember up there on that Mount of Transfiguration, there's Peter and James and John and Jesus is with him. He's been transfigured in all his glory. And remember Moses, kinda like us, you know, he's kind of nervous and when he's nervous he runs off at the mouth and he says, Well Lord, really great. Be up here, you know, I built a temple here, a little tabernacle or something, you know, you break it. You know, just a murder running on, and God stops and shortly and says, Wait, this is my son whom I love What'd she say after that? Listen to him. Stop your own speculating and lay around up the mouth. Listen to my son. Hear him. Obey him. He's the one who speaks with final authority. God calls the person to account who refuses to listen to the words of Jesus. Faithfully Like Moses, Jesus is vindicated by having his prophetic words, words referring to the future. Actually occur. But while Moses spake of things that happen in the far distance, Jesus speaks words that will be vindicated immediately. Verses twenty and twenty-two of Deuteronomy 18. Moses says, here's how you can know a true prophet from a false prophet. If a prophet speaks anything and it doesn't come to pass, he spoke it presumptuously. Don't listen to him. In fact, put him to death. But if what he says consistently comes to pass, and you put that together with Deuteronomy thirteen, he speaks in the name of the Lord to point you to him, then Moses says that's a true prophet. Now Moses wrote things which he said. occurred. But Moses spoke of the glory and of the kingdom. Far distant Jesus comes. And in Matthew 4 he says, repent because the kingdom of God is at hand. And so Jesus demonstrates all the things that he speaks about. come to pass immediately, and we can see who vindicated, primarily of course, when he said, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. And he rose from the dead to vindicate his words as a true prophet. The ninth point, like Moses, Jesus is a mediator of the covenant. Like Moses, Jesus is a mediator of the covenant. Moses was a mediator of the old covenant in De Deuteronomy chapter 28, you have the summation of that covenant. If you obey, here are the blessings that will follow. If you disobey, here are the curses that will follow. And then in Deuteronomy chapter 29, we read that these are the terms of the covenant that the Lord commanded men. Moses to make with the Israelites in Moab, in addition to the covenant that he had made with them at home. That's why Deuteronomy is called Deuteronomy's second law. It's the renewing of the covenant that Moses mediated between God and the people. And that covenant is a covenant of law, verse 9. All of you are standing today in the presence of the Lord your God, your leaders, your chief men, and your elders. Excuse me. Verse 9. Carefully then follow the terms of this covenant, so that you may prosper in everything. That you do. Moses brought the law and revealed it. And that law said how we're to behave. It said what we're to live like in order to be like God. And that law condemns us. Because you and I We know that that law comes and it convicts us, and every time we try to keep it, every time we say, I know this is how I ought to live and I'm going to try to live this way, we fail within a half a day. And we're simply discouraged. And so Moses comes with a pure law. Nothing wrong with the law. The law reveals God. He's a true and honest prophet in declaring that. But Moses has no power, they're happy to keep the law. Jesus comes and he's the mediator of it. New covenant. In Hebrews chapter 8, we're told in verses 6 and 7. Hebrews chapter 8, verse 6 and 7. But the ministry Jesus has received is as superior to theirs as the covenant of which He is the mediator is superior to the old. And it's founded on better promises. For if there'd be nothing wrong with that first covenant, no place. would have been sought for another. But what happened? Jesus comes. And he reveals the law. In fact, he makes the law, he draws out its implications, so we see it strictly says the Pharisees never understood. They hedged it about with external actions. Jesus comes and he says, That's not enough, your whole heart must be made pure. And we're thoroughly and utterly condemned. And then Jesus is the mediator of the new covenant, and he says, Not simply do this and you will that, but Jesus says, I have done this. this for you, and I give you life. I have kept the law that I have declared for you, and I have kept it perfectly. And so keeping that law and in it suffering all the curses for those who did not keep that law, I give to you the gift of eternal life. And you and I can receive that law and can say, God, thank you. Because you show me how I ought to live. But in doing that you've also taken away all the condemnation from it. Because this prophet has come and he's kept the law. And this prophet's not only told me how I ought to live, he's lived like that in my place, and God has lived in his life in my account. And Jesus' life is reckoned to me for righteousness. So this prophet, a perfect prophet, is the one who stands in my place before God. And he's the mediator of the covenant by which I am made acceptable to God. And so Peter, after the day of Pentecost, when he has healed the blind beggar, That says to those who were assembled there in Acts chapter 3. He says, But this is how God fulfilled what he had foretold through all the prophets, saying that his Messiah would suffer. Then verse 20. That he may send the Messiah, who has been appointed for you, even Jesus. For Moses said, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like thee from among your own people. You must listen to everything he tells you. Anyone who does not listen to him will be completely cut off from among his people. If there's any doubt, that Deuteronomy 18 is referring precisely to Jesus Christ. Acts chapter 3, 22 to 26. removes all that. But Peter goes on to say, indeed, all the prophets from Samuel on as many as have spoken, have foretold these days, and you are heirs of the prophets, and of the covenant that God made with your fathers. And he said Let Abraham through your offspring, for all the peoples on the earth be blessed. So when God raised up his servant Jesus, he sent him first to you to bless you. Why? How? By showing you how you ought to live? No. Acts 3. 26 says, by blessing you, by turning each of you from your wicked ways, Jesus has turned us and he has changed us and he has given us new life. And so John reflecting on that would be right early. In the service says in verse 17, John 1:17, that the law was given through Moses. But grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. He didn't simply give us the law, but grace Has come through him to give us a new life. As those who are accounted as having kept that law perfectly. And so we can go from here with a clear conscience if we go to Jesus. Have you ever come to Jesus acknowledging that you could never keep the law? This prophet has given to you. But God, I urge you and beseech you in the name of Jesus Christ today that you would take advantage of this prophet who comes and offers to you the gift of eternal life, and says to you, here's what God is like. He's a God of justice and he's a God of mercy. Don't presume on his justice, don't turn away from his mercy. And Jesus has demonstrated that mercy in his own work on the cross, and he offers it to you and to me. Do not refuse them, I think. Finally the last thing. Is the life Moses What Jesus says comes to pass. But unlike Moses, Moses predicted things that came to pass, but his words had no power to make them come to pass. Jesus Speaks and his words accomplish what he says. And so a paralytic is let down through a roof. And Jesus says to that man, Your sins are forgiven. And everybody says, How can you say your sins are forgiven? That's an arrogant and blasphemous thing to say. Because only God can say your sins forgiven, because only God can make sins be forgiven. And Jesus says, My words accomplish what I say. And just to show you that that's true, I am going to show you that it's no easy. Easier to say to a man, rise up and walk than it is to say your sins are forgiven. But you can see him rise up and walk. You can't see his sins forgiven. So I'm going to show you that. And he says, Rise up and walk. And the man gets up and walks. And Jesus, by that act, is demonstrating that he's the prophet who's accomplish what he says. His words have power. His words have power what he says to you. Come to me and I will give you life. There is nothing in heaven on earth that can keep you from coming to Jesus Christ when he gets a hold of your life. And I pray God will get a hold of each of our lives this morning. Because you see, the hope for us as Christians is that just as God accomplished the promise of Deuteronomy chapter 18 in sending Jesus the prophet back to thousand years ago. We know that because he has accomplished that infallibly, that we wait for that second promise, that he will send again that prophet. And when that prophet comes again, he is going to reveal God to us not simply by words that we Read and the spirit in our hearts, but he's going to reveal his glory fully in us. And we will see him face to face, and there will be no revelation to add to that. We will know him even as we are known. will be content with him forever. That's the hope of the Christian at Christmas. Let's pray. Our Lord our God, we come to you in Thanks for the fact that Jesus is the prophet like Moses. Jesus is the prophet who has so far surpassed the work of Moses that no one could have ever guessed when this prophecy was written. How that prophecy Would be fulfilled. But Lord Jesus, you were the prophet who didn't simply renounce the treasures of Egypt, you've renounced all of glory. And you've come not to simply show us what God is like, but you've come to take a Upon yourself his justice, so that we might know his grace and mercy. Oh Jesus, thank you. That your words accomplish what you say. And when you come to speak to us the words of life. you come to give us those give us that life that you speak to us about. Lord, we pray that none of us would be so foolish. As to reject that life you give us. We pray, Lord Jesus, that we might worship you as Prophet , that we might see you lifted up as the Prophet promised, and that this Christmas season we might rejoice. That the Prophet has come, that we can know God personally, and that we can anticipate that Prophet coming again to reveal God fully in all his glory in us and to us. We await for that. With keen expectation, Lord, in Jesus' name, amen