We could celebrate the fact that on October the 31st in 1517, Martin Luther posted on the door of the Castle Church in Gittenberg, which served as a kind of a university bulletin board at that time. He was challenging those theses that he posted, the practice of indulgences, and many other things that were common accepted teachings of the church in that day. And he challenged them solely on the basis of the Word of God. As Pastor Shaper said, one man with the Bible can tell the majority you're wrong. And that we did exactly that. He later said with familiar words, my conscience is captive to the Word of God. And so he later wrote, after he said that, his view of the scriptures , quote, Well satisfied with the gift of the Holy Scriptures, which gives me abundant instruction and all I need to know, both for this life and for that which is to come. Elements we have the principle of the Reformation which we call sola scriptura. The scriptures give me all I need to know. The scriptures alone direct my life. They are my authority. Adam, another of the chief reformers of that time, uh, wrote, The Bible is the scepter by which the heavenly kings rules his church. So again, he wrote the Lord does not shine upon us except when we take his word as our light. For then, Calvin wrote, unless God's word illuminates the way, the whole life of men is wrapped in darkness and mist. so that they cannot but miserably swear. Where does that drag that come from? They come from the scriptures themselves. And in particular those thoughts come from Second Peter chapter one. They're not going to turn to that in your Bible. And on this Reformation Sunday, I want us to review for our own lives this principle of sola scriptura. I believe that we had in 2 Peter 1 a strong message for also my day. We call ourselves a reformed church now. That is that our heritage goes back to the Reformation. And the bedrock of that is our belief in solar scriptura. The Bible is God's infallible word. But the question that we have to ask is, do we still mean that the way the reformers met it? Do we mean that the way Calvin and Luther met it and they agree and spoke and risk their lives to that principle? We say, Oh yeah, that's why I'm here. Well, what a Bible believing church, and it's a Bible believing church. And so I have no doubt about that. I don't need to review that. That's so basic to me. And yet I think that is really good. Some of the implications of this will see that The church today, while making a great standcare about the Bible being our only authority, may not really mean personally the same things that the Reformers meant by that. Let's examine our own lives as we take a look at this passage. attitude I observed. First of all, Peter begins his letter after his greeting in verses two to four, referring to the knowledge that we have in Christ, which gives us all the provisions and the promises. that we need for our lives. Everything that we have is given to us in the Word of God, every provision, every permanent, we are told about there that we have in Jesus Christ. And then it goes on in verses five through eleven. speak about our response to that, our response of obedience and victory that we have in Jesus Christ to live a life, working out the honestly and the provision to the live in Jesus Christ. And so having said that, let's pick the point of this thought in verse twelve, and let's follow along in our Bibles, just as we follow along in Psalm as I read. Second Peter chapter one, verses twelve to twenty-one. This is God in fallible word. Let's pay attention to it. The soul will always remind you of these things, even though you know them and are firmly established in the truth. You notice that? Firmly established in the truth that you now have. I think it is right to refresh your memory as long as I live in the tent of this body, because I know that I will soon put aside, put it aside as our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me. And I will make every effort to see that after my departure. We did not follow cleverly invented stories when we told you about the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we were eyewitnesses. witnesses of his majesty. For he received honor and glory from God the Father when the voice came to him from the majestic glory, saying, This is my son, whom I love. With him I am Well please. We ourselves heard this voice that came from heaven when we were living on the sacred mountain. And we have the word of the prophets made more certain. And you would do well to pay attention to it. As a light shining in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Above all. You must understand that no prophecy of Scripture came about by the prophet's own interpretation. For prophecy never had its origin in the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. I'd like for us to notice as you follow along and you give us an outline three things in verses ninety two to twenty-one. first of all, the certainty of Scripture, later secondly, the origin of Scripture, and then on the other side we will see the purpose of Scripture. Its certainty, its origin, and its purpose. The point of verse 18, as you see Peter's writing here, is that we ourselves saw Jesus on the mount. Now of course Peter's referring to the experience on the mount of transfiguration, as we call it. Peter's thing is nobody told me about that. I was there. I experienced that with my own eyes. I was there, it was my first born experience. What's Peter doing? Peter's telling about what He himself has experienced. But then notice what he says in verse 13. He says, and we have the word of the prophet made more certain. Literally in the Greek is we have the word. Word of the prophets more sure, more certain. So, more certain than what? So, more certain than verse 18. And at verse 18. Peter 's experience. He says in verse 92 now, pay attention to this because the scripture is more certain than my experience. The scripture is more reliable, more certain. And what I can tell you that I have seen with my own eyes were experienced in my own life. Now, do you catch the contrast between that and what we are there today? You see, what we do today is we say, well now, I need to learn the gospel and so give me a simple outline of that and I will master it so that I can give a five minute presentation of what the parts of the gospel are that person needs to believe in order to come to Jesus. As an illustration or two, and I'll have a few points, basic, simple points with the still essence of the gospel summed up in four points. And then having mastered that, now I focus on my testimony. And the reason that I focus on the testimony. my testimony and my experience with Christ is because that's more compelling to you than seeking to persuade you. You see, you may hear the message, you may say, Well yeah, but I've heard that and I don't know if that's true or not. But when you hear my experience, Then you'll be persuaded of your need for Christ. Do you see that that's just the opposite of the way that Peter presented his testimony? Peter says, here's my testimony. Now I I published myself. Yeah, you'll match testimony. Hey, here's Jesus. Here's Peter. He's alive on the mountain with Jesus in the flesh. Well, how many of you guys match that to a testimony? How many of us can come up with a more stolen, persuasive testimony than that. And yet Peter said that here's something even more compelling and more certain. It's the scriptures. That 's even more certain than my experience. I remember some years ago when I was working with a on campus and I was helping her go to become a Christian, giving her testimony in a number of places. And that was the one day and she was having scared and shall shock, you know. Walked in and she said, I was to a unification meeting last night. And she says, I can't believe it. She says, they were all giving their testimonies. And their testimonies were exactly the same as my testimonies. And we only talk about how their lives were messed up and they weren't going anywhere and everything like this and now and then their lives were changed and not have peace and they have joy and they have happiness. They've got Power there to do it all the time. And our thing was Jesus Christ. But it was the same testimony. What do you guys do with that? He's heard on Christian TV now. How much do you see about who Jesus is and the message? So how much do you say that people 's experience? The whole thing and the drift of our day is an experience that is more compelling, more persuasive than the scriptures. And so the whole emphasis today is reversed when we say But now I had a word more certain for you, and it's my testimony. Scripture says, This will give you my testimony. Now I've got a word more certain for you, and it's what God has said in his word. It is an article written in a new magazine that some of you may have seen, Blue Verizon. Uh this is the actual issue. Now you get this in your home. So it's an automation of a magazine. And this person was an article on uh one of those Although if you go into every bookstore you won't see much of his stuff there because he's a kind of guy who would write. But let's put it this way, Bertha Shakespeare was considered a popularizer of Antil. Well, Van Till has some things to say about the scriptures. It can help us a great deal. And if you saw that article, you see what this fellow who has studied and knows Van Till personally very well has tried to simplify the Van Till so that we can understand And thus in every thought we must presuppose him. God and his will. Are the most reliable, the most certain things we know. And therefore they are the criteria for all other truths. Think about that for a minute. Nothing, he says, is more true. Not mathematics. truths, two plus two is another motion. Two plus two equals four, we are not sure. Not logic, not the evidence of our morals, our senses, not our own existence. His word is the ultimate criterion for truth and falsity. God may not be proved by some principle that's supposed to be more certain than he is, by cause or purpose or logic or self-existence. Rather, more concepts is even intelligible unless it already presupposes the reality of God. Cause, for instance, is born and any cause, or it's nothing at all. Not if any of you have seen this magazine, you'll see that there's a And this one robot is talking to the other robot and he's pointing back to the third robot and he says, Because an atheist, he doesn't believe in man. And you see, you look at that, it gradually dawns into you, and this kind of a profound fortune would you because here's these three man-made robots conversing over the fact that this young guy doesn't believe in man. But he couldn't even force the thought that there was no man without lain to make him. And so that's the way it is with us. God has given us his order in order for us to understand anything, to make any sense out of anything. Ty Packer has said recently that he sees modern evangelicalism Like the giant redwoods in California. Because they're they're very common. They're very powerful. You look at them and they're awful for their size and their dominance. But Ben Packer goes on to say, but you'll notice that the important have fences around them. The reason for that is instead of people don't keep trumping on the roots. Because the root system of the red route is so shallow that even by walking on them and bearing away the topsoil over them, you may make them so far to be the wind. It will blow over the redway. Why is that? Because everything's up here. There's no roots. It goes deep into the soil. In fact, it says, that's my fear to modern-day evangelicalism. It feels very powerful, it is very powerful. on the screen. Any secondary jokes are even made about uh evangelicalism. You turn on TV and you'll turn around the channel and on Sundays and many other times you'll see Christian stations. But as their roots that they deep. In the scripture so that it will keep us solid rather than being blown over in the next generation. So what? I bring it to the question for you as the moon. Which Do you feel more certain of in your own life? Your experience or scripture? Which do you place more confidence in? Your own experience or scripture? couple of years ago I told some of you this day about a couple that I was counseling. This couple were not married, they were living together. And they came to me for some counseling and I sent them to scripture and I showed them I even did a study on this in preparation. to try and convince them to show them that God's word said they must stop living together while they were not married. And I I spent a lot of time working on that and I sought to show that to them. I sought sought to show gently to that seeming superior, I just thought to show them what God said, not what I was saying. They saw it and I'll never forget the response. And the women said, well I see that, I understand that's what the Bible's saying, but I still don't believe that that's familiar. The reason she's He'd make me feel guilty when I do. And I don't. And so it must not be true for me. Both of these were professing Christians. Both of them said that they both love Jesus as their Savior and Lord. But there was an example of the person who was saying, My script my experience is more certain than scripturally. If I don't feel guilty, then whatever the Bible says is irrelevant. It's how I feel. It's what I believe, what I'm convinced of. What about the What's the area for you, for me, that we say, Well I know that's what the Bible says, but I don't think it really can mean that because it doesn't spare with my experience. I don't feel like that's true. Somehow I just don't have peace about that. Without saying educate your feelings. The scripture is what's reliable. It's connected to his origins. That's the second thing. the origin of scripture. See, that's where it all comes down to. The certainty is related to the origin. You see that verse 20 and 21. See, Jesus says, above all you must understand that no prophecy of scripture came about by the prophet's own interpretation. The prophecy never had its origin in the will of men, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. Now, what's he referred to when he says scripture here? Notice the verse 11? No prophecy of scripture. That's absolutely clear in the New Testament. The scripture refers to the Old Testament. In the New Testament was written, the Old Testament had been completed for hundreds of years. Not only had it been completed, it had been assembled. It had been canonized, they've been put together, they had the exact same thirty-nine books that we have today. And those books were accepted as the scriptures, that is a term that was used to refer to them. So it's absolutely clear that I'm reading this what Peter's referring to. But He's not only referring to the Old Testament scriptures here, he is also referring to the emerging New Testament. Say, I don't know, you know, you can read that into it. Well I can prove it. Well I can prove it. Chapter 3, verse 15 and 16. Peter writer, just after he said this, says to the saved people, now bear in mind that our Lord's patience means salvation, just as our dear brother Paul also gave you for the wisdom that God gave him. He writes the same way in all his letters, speaking in them of these letters. We're talking about Paul's letters now. Thirteen of them in the New Testament. What do you think? For his letter contain some things that are hard to understand, you know, hard to go. I think I can just attest to that. There are some things that are hard to understand. Which the ignorant and unstable people to store. Now, come on, Peter, let off, you know. I mean, just because I don't understand it. They tell you some hard things in Peter in Paul's writing. Ignorant people to storic there say is as they do what? The other scriptures for the real destruction. Well he said as they do the scriptures, so they think he's comparing it to the Old Testament, because he doesn't say that. He says Paul's letters are on the same frame as the other scriptures, the Old Testament. And so Peter writes about the prophecy of scripture here in chapter one. referring to the Old Testament, he's referring to the emerging New Testament, or the first testimonies we have in the New Testament, about the New Testament's authenticity being on the same level as what Jesus thought about the Old Testament. So what does he say about it? He says two things. Again says it did not come from man. It did not eliminate its origins were not in the will of man. He says no prophecy came about by the prophet's own interpretation or understanding. Even clear verse twenty-one. Prophecy never had its origin in the Will of man it's absolutely clear. What could be clearer than that? Philosophy did not have its origin in the will of man. Men did not make it up. Isaiah didn't sit down and decide one day, I'm gonna write a book, and he just wrote out the best he could understand of his insights about God. Didn't have its origin in the will of man. But then what is its origin? He does not tell us. But on the other hand, men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit Now what we say along is an interesting word. Does to be moved, to be driven, it's where we used in Acts 27, 15, and 17 referred to the ship being driven along, carried by winds in its sails. So you get the picture. Peter's giving to us here. There's the prophets. They put up their sails, and then the Holy Spirit drives them along to move them to accomplish in writing exactly what he intends. The prophets are active in that. They have to cooperate, be available to the Holy Spirit, and gay rate according to their personalities, but it's the Holy Spirit who is the origin of the thought. He's the one who moves them along with a ship. Now you see this thought a number of times, and I've got done a couple of those just so that you can have them three examples of how this kind of thing is communicated in the New Testament. For instance in Mark chapter twelve, in verse thirty six, Jesus quotes from Psalm a hundred and ten. And how does he introduce it? He says, David, speaking by the Holy Spirit, declares. Moved along, carried along, speaking by the Holy Spirit. This talk, he writes. And then he quote, Psalm 110, verse 1. So that 's verse 25. You have your apostles, your friends, and they've been persecuted, they're coming to the Lord, they're sprayed and they're new as I say , they spoke now. Through the Holy Spirit, through the Mouth of David. The hand of head. You have the Holy Spirit speaking, and you speak through the mouth of David. And then he quotes in Psalm 2. Another example, Acts 3835. You have Paul saying the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit spoke through Isaiah. Well he quotes in Isaiah chapter six. The Holy Spirit speaking, but he speaks through Isaiah as a man. It doesn't have this Isaiah one and three. Testament and his testimony of how the Holy Spirit uses them in order to write his infallible will and purpose, his mind force. Well then, what does that mean for us? But I hope But that's a real encouragement to you. I hope that that encourages it to you that when you say, I need to go by the scriptures rather than by what I think is right, that I can trust the Bible. I can absolutely trust the Bible. Nothing, no certain than this word. Absolutely nothing. Because this word is God's word himself. This word is as absolutely reliable as God Himself is. Because he's the one who spoke during the human office to communicate. big mind to me. And that is so sure that I can get my life down. And I know an author, 20 years ago, penned this little poem that you may have heard called The An Last eve I passed beside a blacksmith's store and heard the angel ring a desperate chime. But looking in I saw upon the floor old hammers bore with beating years of time. How many elephants did we have? said I to wear and batter all these headers though. That one, said he, from the circling eye. The underwear is the headers up, you know. The thing that I the animal of God were for ages. Expected blows have beat upon. Their bills and all the fallen bones were spurred. The anvil is unharmed. The hammock gone. This morning, Jesus. Jesus Christ comes to you through his word and he says, I am the word the truth and the life. If you want to have peace and you want to have the solution to your problems that protects the evil zone , Jesus says through his word goes through this chapter, he says it's through the knowledge of God. and of our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus comes and He says, Come to me. And you can do one or two things to that. You can come to Him and you can say, Lord, I need you. I can't work out my life on my own. I know that. I realize that. I need you forgiveness. I need the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the cross and his resurrection in order to make me right with God. And to make my own life to be an acceptable light to you, for you to fill me with your spirit. Oh. I just said, nah , I don't believe that's funny. I don't I can't explain it all, but somehow that just isn't all true. God, you're a liar. That's what you're saying. See, this uh these people wrote this book as they're removed by the Holy Spirit. And you're saying, I don't believe that. God be a liar. Really post-donner ability there's two alternatives. But now this fire that's of this. The purpose is about the earth may have seen again. The purpose of very practical service. It's to direct you light. It's a light in a dark place. Will it be fair? You'll have the word of Tampus made more certain, and you will do well to pay attention to, as to a light showing in a dark place until the day dawns, and the morning star riseth in your hearts. Dictum feeling here is on the world to fall in utter darkness, the kind of darkness that you saw that Calvin wrote about. A world in murky, misty darkness. Where we stumble around. Having no sense of direction. Have you ever been in an absolute pitch-black night with dog so thick that you can't see five feet in front of your face? And you can hardly see somebody who would be standing right in front of you. And that's the kind of darkness. that he's describing. It's an absolute darkness. A darkness where we can't trust our instinct to tell us where to go. Absolute light. And Peter says we need a light. So no way we're going to get anywhere. We need a light to direct you, to take you. And your light Depends on that. Have you ever been in a situation where it was so dark that you had to have a light and your life depended on whether you did or not? How about you? Experiences that you've had and Dave Kissman does collect him as state exploring. And he did have that kind of experience, and so I asked him to kind of describe just a little bit of that to help you and I to feel this passage. Okay. One of my uh favorite verses have been uh one that's uh going to be mentioned in uh certain later on too. Then uh become more uh meaningful to me since uh Amy Grant put it in the song. He says uh has it this way, I would unto my feet and a light unto my head Psalm one hundred and nineteen one oh five. But you know what the uh words are just before that verse? I doubt if any of you do. I didn't. I hate every long tab. uh running around in the darkness. He took out and caved. He um had to do a lot of hiding, and he did it under cover. And uh he probably took a few long times on occasion. Um the last paper was Benjamin. We're getting used to all these photons around us, artificial photons created and everything like that. One night we camped in the darkness of Ethiopia on a hillside with thousands of people down below us in several little villages. Yeah, that was darkness, like you'd never seen, and yet on occasion you'd see the flare of a campfire or the flare of somebody taking a candle from one place to another. You could see those little lights per miles. And then we had to dollars about it. Uh that wasn't pitch black. Some thing about it well is pitch black. Not a single photon gets down into those places. And your eyes get so well adjusted that you can see Well, I don't smoke. I don't hate the smoking in case, but I've seen it that happen. You can see the person's full face by the glow of a stellar cigarette. Just to figure out that. Our lives and caves depended on life. Literally. You know what we Bible believing Christians know that there's a lot of posts in the scriptures that are figurative, right? But sometimes our experience comes to find out that they're not quite as figurative as we uh imagine them. Now I hope I don't defeat the purpose of your sermon to uh speak to my extreme with experience in the window I can scripture. But uh Um every day explorer takes three lights along. Minimum, three lights. I remember one time we got out of a cave within just an hour of our deadline, the deadline being from the first part of the hour. When you're in a cave though, as you as you uh far back into that cave, there's absolutely no way you can get out without light. Absolutely no way. Uh you will die in that cave. was out of light. Now somebody else may come in for you, that's why you had the backup. So somebody can come in to uh search for us if we ran out of all our light. So five of us went into a cave one time, that's fifteen sources of light, and we came out with three We were joking. Now the problem with the cave, you see, that's why uh David hated every wrong path. It's three dimensional. It's not just two dimensional. I've had one experience one time when I was geographically embarrassed. That's wrong. But I was that I was very practically observed and I literally had to get down on my hands and knees and feel the prayer. Finally I got the cell light and the trees opened up and I saw, Hey, you don't have that. Uh You cannot get out by going up, you have to get out by going the same way you go in. And all those little convolutions in that three dimensional dark environment will mislead you. Every single time your feelings go along that cage wall it'll feel like an opening until you get about three or four feet in and it you come up against a solid wall. You have to have that light because you'll go over that millions and millions of times trying to feel your way through that cave and never get out because they all feel like the same way out. One more thing. Our little light. We don't have even the Bible, we don't have all of God's knowledge by any means. We don't have a very small part of all of God's knowledge. We got enough. A little tiny light, not more than an inch long, will light up a volume of space three to four times as big as this room, so you can see every single detail just as clearly. If you see every single feature with all these photos. One little thing one single light would be that. Okay , because you're surrounded by total darkness. That's what scriptures are all about. It points the way. Thank you, Dave. Very helpful. You see? Look at verse 19. We have the word of the prophets made more search. And you would be well to pay attention to it. Why? Your life depends on it. Because if a light shines in a dark place, I hope whenever you read that you'll remember what it's like to be a cave. In a cave where without a light you will never get out. And there is no other no other way of orienting yourself except through that light and what you see. It's a light shining in a dark place. One of the things that we notice about life, and I don't know if Peter had this in mind, but it occurred to me that as you have just a little bit of life, you get more and more used to it. So that as you get adjusted to that light, You're able to see more and more. And I think that is the picture of God's word here, just as Davis told us. That as we just take that little bit of light and we get used to it, we get used to running our lives by and that light, we see more and More and more in front of our past. Because if we were to turn out these lights right now and have one little match, you wouldn't see very much except that match. But let fifteen minutes go by and you'll find listen more and more and more until you can see the whole room. I used to do that Experiments when I was in college. It took me 40 minutes to adapt to be able to see just that little tiny bit of threshold light that I was able to detect. And so as we get used to scripture, we see more and more. So don't dichotomize it, friends. Don't dichotomize this and say, the scripture gives us religious truth, but I run my life out of repairs. You see, Peter's saying this is a right to repair. values, vet marmies, your really priorities. One of the marks of the Reformation was that before the Reformation, religious truth was expressed in a religious heart. And so if you wanted to express religious truth, you express it in all these people's halo rooms and all the beautiful religious art that there was and that somehow their toes never quite touched the ground and all the rest of that. But the work of the Reformation was that after the Reformation, the the painters were painting bakers and cobblers and people who were demonstrated But the word of God affected their daily reading. There's a little book that I really love the portrayal. Sit out by the Christian Reformed Church. The subtitle is a reform study of creeds and confessions. study of Creeds and Confessions, what the church has historically believed about Christianity. The title of it is A Place to Stand. And I don't know how many of you can see it, even with the light we have here, but what's on the cover? Here's a picture of a guy transforming soil and his pots. And if you look through this book, all the art that there is in this book are pictures. There's a guy doing homework, some kids to the death, here's a woman nursing a baby, here's a dentist. That's appropriate. Here's a nurse. Uh here's uh a fella changing attire, a fella with a drill press, a woman feeding some chickens, kids playing basketball, a woman ironing clothes. You look through this and what begins to occur to you? The things that we believe affect the way we change tires, the way we fix meals, the way we make decisions about our family and everything. we do. That was what the Reformation was about. But finally, Peter says that that won't always be so. He says that that's going to happen until the day dawns. And the morning star arises in the air. What morning star is Venus. I've been enjoying Venus, but Venus has been just beautiful these last weeks. I just I get up to see Venus. I mean my family takes up months, but I call them up and say, hey take a look at this. appreciate this and then would appreciate it but man you get up and voice is so glowing and so bright what he was telling you needless say the day is here Peter's saying Jesus is going to come he's the morning star according to Luke down in Revelation 22 and Jesus is going to come and he's going to come and to vindicate all this truth and he's going to say, the day is here. You don't need this book now to go by my will. Everything's going to be revealed to you. And at that day you and I will see all truth and know everything even as we're known. Because Jesus will reveal it. But until that time, the only light you have is the scripture. Pay attention to it. Let's pray. All right, God, help us. Help us to be self-conscious about our attitude toward your word. Help us now to be aware of those ways that we say, Oh yes, I believe the Bible is God's word. insults you and to other counselors for direction for decisions for priorities for values you become sucked into secular thinking because his word has really taken aback To our experience. So show us those little ways in our lives that we begin to do that. Make us aware that I can't do that. You can only do it in this next week as you remind your people here of the words that they've heard this morning and share them. the absolute certainty of this word that they might rest their lives upon it. Lord help us all in that. And I have for anybody that are here this morning who said, maybe not consciously, but have said, I don't believe that. they call you a liar. In calling that you'd change their minds, you'd reach into their hearts and show them the truth of this, that they might find that light for their lives in Jesus. Amen.