That passage, which was in i in your bulletin, is from Neil Postman , his book, Amusing Ourselves to Death. And he contrasts what we commonly think of the things that cause a disintegration of society. And most of us are familiar with the language of George Orwell's 1984 Big Brother is Watching, all those things. uh particularly those of us who work for the government. But Postman pulls from Huxley's book, Brave New World And says that is is it possible that Huxley, who said that we would be destroyed by pleasure and not by uh power or by uh tyranny, is it possible that he is right And so I give that to you as background in this first message of 1999. And additionally, Ecclesiastes chapter 2, which we will not be looking at as our primary text, but simply is there to serve as a backdrop as we see the preacher who views pleasure under the sun That's a common theme in Ecclesiastes, and it gives the sense of locking uh the supernatural out. In other words, looking from a p purely materialistic view And without God in the picture. Who the psalmist pictures is God being above the heavens. Here we look under the sun and we look at pleasure, and it turns out that pleasure is viewed as an as an end in itself. So we're familiar, I think, as believers, with discussions on the problem of pain. C. S. Lewis has written a book by that name. And we understand the times of suffering in our lives to represent really life's altars. places where God meets us, when we see our need and we see God meeting us there. Now the shortest verse in the Bible is John 11. 34. Jesus wept. He's familiar with that So the question occurs, uh where in the Bible is the verse Jesus left? It's not there. And among our choices, how do we choose legitimate pleasures and reject those that are illegitimate? I would say that we live in a society that uh worships at the altar of entertainment. We talked a little bit about this uh even in uh Sunday school this morning. But our choices seem to offer almost a seamless blend from the beautiful to the contemptible when we look at the pleasures that are there for us. Last month in USA Today there was a little uh a clip that said that the average price of a NHL hockey game for a family of four was $250. Now, for that you get four average seats, and you get four Cokes, four hot dogs, two beers, two programs, and a couple of hats. probably one for each team. And and that's two hundred and fifty dollars for uh two and a half hours of entertainment Actually for us here, it's three hundred and four dollars for the capitals. Hardly seems fair. Um That's a lot of money. But we put that out and we pay exorbitant salaries to be entertained And it's fun. You know, last spring I took Ryan to a baseball game. He just he and I went to see the Orioles play. on the rare occasions last year when they won and it was a you know fifty or seventy-five dollar event. It was expensive to go. But we had a great time. We enjoyed ourselves And then this morning, frankly, I'm already done emotionally after seeing Jessica and Ryan uh come forward and profess their faith and James be baptized. Um How good God is. How good God is. And and that's pleasure too, isn't it? So how do we choose? And how do we discern proper pleasure from improper pleasure? And where does it all fit in God's plan for our lives? A guy by the name of F. W. Borham was writing back in the 1920s, and he writes a piece called Phoebe's Perplexity, where he addresses the idea that Christianity is constantly torn between the extremes of legalism and lawlessness. And I want you to consider his words as you think about our responsibility to instruct ourselves and to instruct our children. It's a long quote, so bear with me, but here goes. Actually, let me get a drink first. Laughter, merriment, and fun were quite evidently intended to occupy a large place in this world. Yet on no subject under the sun has the church displayed more embarrassment and confusion. One might almost suppose that here we have discovered an important phase of human experience on which Christianity is criminally reticent. A terra incognita which no intrepid prophet has explored, a silent sea upon whose waters no ecclesiastical adventurer had ever burst. Dr. Jowett tells of the devout old Scotsman who on Saturday night locked up the piano and unlocked the organ, reversing the process the last thing on the Sabbath evening. The piano is the sinner. The organ is the saint. The play we condemn. The same play, or even a vastly inferior one, screened on film, we delightedly admire. One Christian follows the round of gaiety with the maddest of the merry, another wears a hair shirt and starves himself into a skeleton. One treats life all a frolic, another all a funeral. We swing like a pendulum from the indulgence of the Epicurean To the severities of the Stoic, and we fail to recognize that it is the glory of Christianity that rejecting the absurdities of each, it combines the cardinal excellencies of both. Still, we allow without knowing why we allow. We ban without knowing why we prohibit. We compound for sins we are inclined to by damning those we have no mind to. We are at sea without chart or compass. Is our theories of pleasure are in hopeless confusion. Is there no definite doctrine of amusement? Is there no philosophy of fun? There must be, and there is It is in that background and in that context that I want you to turn this morning to Psalm sixteen. This is a Psalm of David, and we won't read the entire psalm But I'm going to read a couple verses from it. Listen now to the word of the Lord. In verse 1 it says, Preserve me, O God, for I take refuge in you. I said to the Lord, You are my Lord. And now I'm going to skip down and read verses eight and nine. I have set the Lord continually before me, because he is at my right hand. I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will dwell securely. In verse 11 You will make known to me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand there are eternal pleasures. Let's pray. Father, you are so gracious to us. And great is your faithfulness, Lord, to us. Morning by morning, new mercies we see. All that we need, your hand has provided. Father, I thank you That you provide for us, for our needs, and for our desires. Lord, I thank you this morning. For the grace that you have bestowed upon me , Lord, upon my family. For the pleasure that is there in knowing you. Father, I pray that you would instruct us this morning from your word. Open our eyes that we might see you clearly Oh, that we might not just come away from here having been to church, but that we might have met with a living and holy God and be changed by it. In your precious name I pray. Amen. So our text is Psalm sixteen and primarily verse eleven. The first point in the outline, I think, is pleasure must be seen in the context of a life committed to Christ. Pleasure must be seen in the context of a life committed to Christ. Remember verse 2, where David starts talking about pleasure in Psalm 16 by saying, I said to the Lord, You are my Lord. And that instructs everything else that is in the Psalm. It is critical, I think, that if we're to have any coherent answer to the place that pleasure is to occupy in our lives. that we begin, rather rather than beginning in Ecclesiastes chapter 2 with setting out to please ourselves, that we start in Psalm 16, you are my Lord. But further he goes on in verses eight and nine, which we read that he set the Lord continually before him. And then in verse eleven we find David saying, You will make known to me the path of life. So first things first, we must know the purpose for which God has made us. We must know the purpose for which God has made us. And I want you to understand that that can be both specific and personal, or it can be the biblical mandate for our lives. To give you an example from my life, over the past seven years, Maureen and I have been, and the children too, have been on this journey of being in medical school And of being a doctor, going through residency. And leading up to that, we were very unsure about what it was that God had for us. We sat uh one night, which I will never forget, in North Carolina in July in nineteen uh ninety two, trying to figure out what we were gonna do for our lives. It was very cl it seemed very clear to us that medical school was not in my future. uh that there we weren't gonna uh be able to go to medical school and yet I was getting out of the navy and there was uh something had to be done. We had to had to place uh food on the table And we considered missions. We considered whether this was God's call for us to step out and do something completely different. And it was the next morning that I got a call, a long distance call, from a Christian that worked in the admissions office at the medical school, who had taken my file from the pile in the middle of the pack and placed it at the top of the pile. And a person had dropped out at the uh kind of the last minute, and they called and offered me a position in medical school And I tell you that because the past seven years have been very difficult for us in many ways. And the thing that instructs us, the thing that keeps us, is the fact that there we met God and we saw his purpose for our life. And I can't tell you what it is I can't tell you where God is taking us, but I can tell you that He took us this direction. And it changes everything. If you've been paying attention to Alan's messages , And we've lost track of how many messages on Ephesians. Something comes through very clearly. Even in the way that he broke Ephesians up, chapters 1 through 3, tell us who we are in Christ. Chapters 4 through 6 tell us what we should do as a result of that. Be who you are in Christ. Our destiny, what God has called us to be, defines the direction of our life. What is the call that Christ places on you this morning? Because that call is going to define how pleasure impacts your life and how God will use it, and in fact, how you should even begin to think about it In India they have a a slow bike race. It's about a hundred feet and all the bikes line up in a row and the gun goes off and off you go. The object is to come in last. And so it's a balancing act. Right? You've got it you can't touch the ground. You've got to ride your bike But the person that can ride their bike over a hundred feet the slowest wins. If we were to step into that culture and and uh you know being uh medal winners and cycling over here uh say we can teach these guys a thing or two about cycling, hop on our bike, and the gun goes off, and boom, three seconds we cover a hundred feet. And we came in last Because we didn't know. We didn't know what the direction of the race was. We didn't know the purpose. What was it that was trying to be accomplished? The same is true in our Christian walk. The places we go, the friendships we have, uh the movies we see, the pleasures we engage in. Do we think about, do you think about those things in relation to what God has called you to do? And are there situations that you are in That based on the purpose that God has called you, you could legitimately, he could legitimately say, What in the world are you doing? We have to know our purpose before we understand pleasure. Secondly, pleasure is a means to an end. Joy is the greater end. Pleasure is a means to an end. Joy is the greater end. In your bulletin this morning, the scripture verse across the top is Hebrews 12. 2, talking about Christ, the author, the perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. And here in Psalm 16, we find the same theme. In your presence is fullness of joy. I would say that of of the five things that we talk about this morning, this is perhaps the most difficult to practically apply in our culture. I think particularly for our young people. Because we live in a culture that has uh really castrated itself by disallowing any moral absolutes And so if we look at our society, we see pleasure completely untethered and really uninformed by any type of moral boundaries, by any type of ethical boundaries. And pleasure becomes an end in itself and not a means. And this is not how God meant it to be. Pleasure was meant to be a servant, but instead it has become served. Pleasure was meant to be a servant, but instead it has become served. In uh Titus, in letters to Titus and Timothy. This theme comes through in a couple of places. In Titus chapter 3 and verse 3, he's talking about ourselves. He says that in talking about the things that we were Talks about the fact that we were enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, that we were slaves to pleasure. And then in 2 Timothy 3, verse 4, I can find it here. Talking about the last days and difficult times, and he lists a series of things That will be characteristic of it. And one of the things that he says that men will be lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God I want you to turn keep keep your finger in Psalm 16. We're going to go back there, but turn to Luke chapter 8. This is the parable of the sower. And we're all familiar with it. There's different types of ground. The seed is sown on, and we find out that on some types of ground it takes root, grows for a period and then dies, in other types it just dies. In other types of soil it flourishes. And Christ speaking in a parable, the disciples ask him about it and he gives them the answer. And he says, the parable is this. This is in verse 11. The seed is the word of God. So he's talking about the word of God here. And it's being and it's being sent out among to different to really different people. And he goes through in verse 12 and 13 talking about some of the different types of people. But in verse 14 it says that the seed that fell among thorns stands for those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked by life's worries, riches, and pleasure. And they do not mature. Here is pleasure as a not as a means to an end. But pleasure is an end in itself. And we see that when that is the case, Christ tells us in Luke chapter 8 that it grows up like thorns. And it chokes the the seed, which is the word that fell there. And it prevents it prevents us from maturing. So the question is, are there pleasures in our lives that have grown up and choked the Word of God to prevent us from maturing? I want to briefly touch on the next thing in the outline, which is these three principles I'm going to just spend a minute to say that I think that these three principles can be instructive within the bounds of Christian liberty to give us a method or Finepost, really, to prevent pleasure from becoming an end in itself and keep it in its proper perspective And so I'm not going to be exhaustive on these at all. And I pause after that because I think it's critical. And again I have our young people, I think, primarily in mind here, as as I seek in raising with Maureen raising Jessica and Ryan and James to provide them with scriptural basis for the thing for doing the things that they do. There are three things at least that I have seen fall out that are instructive. The first is pleasure must protect others' rights And I won't go into the story, it's in 2 Samuel chapter 2, other than to say it's about David, who rejected pleasure because he felt it violated the sacred right of another. He rejected pleasure because he a specific pleasure because he felt that it violated the sacred right of another. The second point is that pleasure must be kept in balance. Pleasure must be kept in balance. That comes from Proverbs 25, 16. As I said in the first service, this was probably James's favorite verse. from the uh from the whole uh message. When you find honey, eat just a little bit. If you eat it in in excess you'll vomit. And uh the idea is that pleasure, even the best of pleasures Because honey is a good thing, right? It represents in Israel all that was good, the land that God had given them. Uh we see that the Word of God in Psalm 19 is spoken of, you know, as being sweeter than the honey or the honeycomb. So this is a good thing. But if it's taken to excess and it ca it causes the appetite to be destroyed and disfigured, doesn't it? I mean the image is clear. that the pleasure taken in excess destroys the appetite for which the pleasure was attempt which the pleasure was attempting to satisfy. So pleasure must be kept in balance. And the last thing is that pleasure must not make God's command a burden. And that's from 1 John chapter 5, where we know that we love God if we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. So that if there is something in our lives that creates a sense of burden in carrying out what God has called us to do, the Bible says that we ought to leave that influence alone. So finally, Ecclesiastes chapter 2, if we look at it, tells us the end of a person that seeks to make pleasure their goal. It's it's the reason that we looked at this morning for this point right here. Pleasure, when it's an end in itself, is is a vanity. It's a chasing after the wind. And it leads to nothing. It's not enough to do what you do with all your might. Paul says that when we do what we do, whatever our hand finds to do, we ought to do it as unto the Lord. Point number three God is the source of all good pleasure. God is the source of all good pleasure. Back in Psalm 16, David is specific. Verse 11, he says, In your right hand are pleasures forever. In your right hand are pleasures forever. Verse 6 is instructive about this as well. The lines, which were the basically David's lot in life, have fallen to me in pleasant places. Indeed, my heritage is beautiful to me. And again, even in verse nine, therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices. So there is a joy and a pleasure that is there. And David recognizes in verse eleven That it is at God's right hand. The New Testament, James picks up this theme in James chapter 1 and verse 17. It's a passage that you're familiar with. Every good thing bestowed and every perfect gift is from above, given by the Father. It's interesting in James that verse, which we all know. We really also know the verses that are around it, but we don't always tie them together. Because in the three verses before that, James talks about the idea that that when we are carried away by our own lusts, that is our own desire for pleasure. that it leads to sin and ultimately to death. And right on the heels of that I that discussion that that makes it sound like pleasure is a bad thing The desire for pleasure leads to sin, sin leads to death. James turns around and says, but wait, every good gift, every good thing bestowed, every perfect gift. The pleasures of life, the true pleasures in life, they flow from the Father who loves us. And he buttresses that by coming along in verse 18, and he says, He's given us salvation. He he and that's the pinnacle of the gift. So God is the author of pleasure And it's Satan that disfigures, not the other way around. Contrary to everything that we see in whatever media that you watch or listen to. That the world in our culture tries to tell us God is the source of all good pleasure. I think human sexuality is something that that really demonstrates this. It's a tremendous example. When I was in medical school I had the opportunity to be Uh I I thought it was an opportunity to be on the labor and delivery deck and to take part take part in uh the the birth of babies and to bring forth a new life And it was emotionally the most powerful thing that I experienced in medical school. And if you've uh read Nielsen's books or seen the pictures really, about uh life inside the womb, we're staggered, aren't we? The beauty of it, the wonder of it, the sublimity of it is overpowering And yet God doesn't leave it there because we also have the Song of Solomon. And so God not only gives us the miracle of birth, but he gives it to us with a consummation. Which embraces pleasure and intimacy. God is the source of all good pleasure. The question is: is he the source of pleasure in our lives? Following on this, David says that in your presence, in your presence is fullness of joy. The fullness of joy is found in God's presence, so that joy is ultimately found in true worship. Joy is ultimately found in true worship. Turning over a few pages to Psalm 42 and actually Psalm 43, I believe they go together. We just sang this, as the deer pants for the water brook, so my soul pants for thee, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before my God? And then continuing in Psalm 43, you hear this. O send out your light and your truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling places. Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy. And upon the lyre I shall praise thee, O God, my God. The joy that David is experiencing is centered in the worship of the living God. Psalm 168. I have set the Lord continually before me. His life is worship. Paul picks this up in Philippians. I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Jesus Christ my Lord. I count all things, pleasures, pains, love, relationships, hardships, beauty, all things to be lost In view of the surpassing value of knowing Jesus Christ, my Lord. That's a series of messages in itself, isn't it? The worship of the living God. The question for us is, do we find our joy in the worship of Jesus Christ? You've heard Ecclesiastes chapter 2. I want to read a brief, well, moderately brief, brief for me, quote from Malcolm Muggeridge. And I want you to compare Malcolm Muggerage 's quote, he he was a late comer to the faith. He was an outspoken atheist who God miraculously brought to himself and humbled, and his life stood as a beacon the remaining years of his life. But I want you to listen to his testimony, and I want you to compare it with that of a man who sets out to seek pleasure as an end in itself. In Ecclesiastes 2, which you've already heard. Here goes. I may, I suppose, regard myself or pass for being a relatively successful man. People occasionally stare at me in the streets. That's fame. I can fairly easily earn enough to qualify for admission into the higher slopes of the IRS. That's success. Furnished with money and a little fame, even the elderly, if they care to, may partake of trendy diversions. That's pleasure. It may happen once in a while something I said or wrote was sufficiently heated for me to persuade myself that it represented a serious impact on our time. That's fulfillment. Yet I say to you, and I beg you to believe me Multiply these tiny triumphs by a million, add them all together, and they are nothing, less than nothing, a positive impediment. Measured against one draught of that living water Christ offers to the spiritually thirsty, irrespective of who or what they are. What is it that you find pleasure in today? Is it the fame of your life? Is it the success? Is it the money? Is it the pleasure? Is it the fulfillment of your job? Jesus Christ stands before you. And in knowing him, you can know a joy which takes everything else in your life and makes it nothing, less than nothing. A positive impediment measured against one draught of the living water he offers. That brings us to our last point. Before we leave that, let me just say this That our joy and our pleasures in life, that God gives, remember, God is the source of good pleasure. But they find their climax in the worship of Jesus Christ, the living God. And I want to read you a quote that about worship, and I just leave it with you because it it's a powerful quote and I think that it needs to be heard. It's from Archbishop William Temple. And he's talking about worship. And we're talking about worship and the joy of knowing God. Worship is the ultimate submission of all our nature to God. It is the quickening of conscience by his holiness, the nourishment of mind by his truth, the purifying of imagination by his beauty, the opening of the heart to his love And the submission of the will to his purpose. All this gathered up in adoration is the greatest of all expressions of which we are capable. Brothers and sisters, we have just a couple of minutes. But I want to tell you something. Point five. Point five Well when I when I first looked at it and I really captured it in my heart, it staggered me And it actually was something that Alan pointed out when we were going over the text. But listen to verse 16 again, or verse 11 in chapter 16 again. In your right hand there are eternal pleasures. The completion of our joy awaits us in eternity. There is no Jesus laughed in the New Testament. The merriment of God Joy, the serious business of heaven, cannot be contained on this side of eternity. But there awaits for each one of us a joy and a pleasure that is eternal. And God promises that we will grow to know him more fully, to love him more completely, and to be more enraptured by his holiness And by his love for us. In the triune God, the living God, the creator of all the universe. There's no bounds, and in him we find perpetual novelty, joy that is ever fresh, and yet it is always, always framed in his unfailing love for us. The pleasures of your life today, the question we ask is: do they honor God? Do they comport with the purpose for which God made me? Do they protect the rights of others? Are they kept in balance? But beyond that, in all of them do I find my joy in the worship of the living God. And my hope in looking forward to worshiping him and to enjoying him and his eternal pleasures as we move on out into eternity with him. Is that your hope today? Is that your hope today? Let's pray. Gracious Father. Your love has no bounds. And we stand in awe of the way that you have reached down to us, sinful men and women, and in your mercy. And your grace, you have saved us. And you have brought us into a relationship with you. We are so thankful for the pleasures that you give us That dot our pathway in our lives. But Lord, we are more thankful for the joy that can be ours in the worship of the Holy God Jesus Christ. And we thank you, Father, that we have to look forward to an eternity at your right hand with eternal pleasure. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.