Uh Hayege Mahapsud was Aiddin when it sheriff Mahabad kill with Rab I'm so happy to be today with you all. That will be a good refreshment that we're gonna study from the Word of God. And Be together. And from all my heart I would like to thank the church who support us and have the heart of giving and loving and supporting us. And sending missionary all around the world Today, by grace of God, we're gonna speak about a great mission. When we go back to the Old Time and Old Testament, we can see how the Lord God creates Adam and Eve from the dust. Allah amal Adam Amelu Yani. Allah amal ajmal Nusha. God created Adam in the best image. Sha'aru can Zay Shahruku, Ayunukhra Zay Ayunku, Jesmu Mutanasu, Kulishifi Kenjamil. He made him as a perfect image. He has hair as your hair, he has beautiful eyes as your eyes, he had a perfect body as your body. But Adam was dead. Until God breathed in him and he was alive. And store this relationship between Adam and God. Tafa almur Allah awjad. And one day because because our sin And one day because our sin, the light was not there anymore, because we get separated from the Lord. That's why our Savior Jesus Christ came. We is with thou in the fanatzah. Jesus came to breathe in our life and give us new hope and light that can brighten inside us. B'Busaala injil metta ta' miniya wa ishrian bilagin al masihba di Muhammad al-Fideh, Wijmam kulish aqah ir saleyya muhemma. We can see and look in Matthew 26 that the Lord after sorry Matthew 28 after the Lord gave us the salvation He gave us a great mission that we have to go and make disciples. and all around the world. And we have to go disciple and baptize all around the world. And this is the same message the Lord send it to us today. I would like to take one moment just to pray and ask the Lord's grace upon us. God, we come before you today and we just ask you, Lord Jesus to speak to ourselves. Give us a special grace today to open our thoughts, Lord. We not just hear your word today, Lord, just we do do your will In Jesus' name. In your holy precious name. Amen. When we look today on Matthew 28 and Mark 16, God command meant a great mission that we have to go and make disciples. Daiman binakhodin wadufa, innu in al ayam, that can gabl, gabli ma gel inhabul aalam, gal dufa alayya, kurmu sultan, mimfisamah ou mim mal. He said, go to the word and disciple. But before we go, God give us all authority to be his his disciple and minister. We have to understand that Who we work with. We work with the God Almighty. God has authority. He's under control. Fa Al-Saleyatul Masiya Leena in Nuanadha wa Nukhabir become sana Rabbi Been Wahlamma The great mission? To go and speak and proclaim what God does in your life and my life. Did you think the Lord Jesus, if he send you to disciple? In certain area, he doesn't know what this area is. Lam'ars al Rasul with Nissarin uh Rasul. Ba'atum Lin Bakan always wahali, Musma anyadab ilai. Of course Lord will send his disciples, the seventy-two disciples all around the world, to preach the gospel. He knew where he sent them. Yeah I mean who were we the Attna Niban, who were Isa. But the Lord when He sends us, He sends us the place when He wants us to go. Not we we want to go, He wants us to go there. Well gallin, Idaho il alajma, we could have a bad thing. Lord commandment to go and preach the gospel and he said, I am with you. Fear not, I am with you. Like him Bishop Bishop. As we see the promise of God in the Bible That the Lord with us and with them, with every disciple, he go and preach of the name of Jesus. Lakin ilwah, ha wa akhtalul ashras, ellibiestihalu fi haplu. We do believe the Lord Jesus is with us in every time. But we believe too that the Lord be with the machinery who go there to purpose to preach the gospel and be a witness of Jesus Christ. Femathu damish qaktura rahm al-Masia. From Matthew, this is no suggestion from the Lord, you know? Let's know am This is an order He gives order. Now we'll mudirul Bashari attack um with the manifestation. If your manager gives you an order to do and you didn't obey your your manager. If your manager gives you order and you disobey your manager, you can lose your job. But the Lord Jesus, all mercy, he gave us, you know, order with love that to go and preach the gospel. Can I speak a bit good nest? We do have now many churches. Just you know invite people, just please come and attend. And the Lord Jesus said to the churches, he say Go and preach the gospel. Go reach out the people on the streets. Go to the nations. Go to all around the world. But the Nabah. When the church goes outside and start preaching the gospel and reaching the people this is the promise gonna have eternal life who believe in Jesus they're gonna live eternal life and found their salvation. Why we have to stand up and go outside the church and take our Bible and speak about our Savior. Of course all of us now you see the sad news for a week now. And before this week even We've been seeing all the sad news. Will Baladin Matharishima Balatanya Fiya Hrub Ahlia? Will the Maandun Shahrub Ahlya? Fi il Hukumad Ket Mahana Fasinas will stabana You know when you see all around the world now war. You know, nation against nation and this country against this country and the civil war now, it's all bad news. Al Ir Saliyya Mao Judah Fiya Fikhira Mao Judah Fifikaswa. But the great mission It's been long time a target that the Lord Jesus pointed us to do. The Mamnirja al-Alaqah bin il aabul ib. Allah il ab er sadul masihil When we see the Lord God sent his only son to save the world And the Lord Jesus said, as the Lord send me to the world, I'm gonna send you. Tabiatil Irsaleyya Innu Kama ersalullah al-Masiah. Al-Matiyyah Arsala Khinais al-Alam. The Great Mission As the Lord, as God sent the Lord Jesus to us, and the Lord Jesus He will send us to be His disciple, His witness on the earth. Why the Lord Jesus give us this order? We have to go and preach the gospel and go to every nation and speak in the name of Jesus Christ and speak about the salvation. La makantab local in Jil between Mizu, Sawafield is Gallu Bus Gallu and Haqala Mak Minil Bad in the Yasuwah, Makan Shiptaqala, Lakin Yasuwa Kalayafal. Why you are? When Apostle Luke he wrote to his cephalous that that's his students and he told him, the Lord Jesus It's not just writing the word, he did the action, he did the deeds of the word. Bagul Amma ana fakad atait. Why Jesus came to the earth He came to save the sinner. He came to save us. We need him here. Today, if you look to the whole picture for all nations, you can see the sadness hopeless. And people just Depressed. The church is a truly hope for all nations. The church gives the good news to everyone and share it with all the nation. Just think about what the Lord Jesus said I came to save the world. And the Lord Jesus, he came to serve us. Bene, you know about the Rabbi Firkinisa, Ubishub, U bin Kum Kumfisharaq alohayah, dakin Alena Amr. Muhammad Jidan, wawannahman-sabarra. It's so important to come every Sunday, attend the service, attend the church and have this, you know And this ha we bond all together and we know each other and then what? We have to do action and we go. Let the people see our deed and see the light of Jesus in us. Allah ar salib, Yasua Libdin al-Alam, we can way kinisa. God sent the Lord Jesus as our Savior and our Savior Jesus Christ. sends us to be his witness to save others. And then we cannot stop. The message cannot stop here. It has to be continued. And in our salawahda. We do have only one message. Makadhayash. Never change. Hayya heyah We can stay forever. The same message that we deliver. We can speak clear about it. We share it with everyone who around us. And the Lord Jesus came for you. Your khala smaq adhalaq. To save you from your sin. So Ali. Suali. Can you imagine if God gives us give the church told the church please rest, I'm gonna use my angels. the angels. If you read the whole Bible, the Old Testament and the New Testament, there is no angel just hold the message of salvation and go give it to the human Yes, you can remember in Acts 10, the Kerillions. He always fast and pray and do good deeds. But he always Seeking God, seeking this relationship with God. Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sala kugallu irsin ila samayan. But God sent him an angel and he told him, Go to Simon and he will show you the salvation. The angel who will not carry the message of salvation. Only the man, only the church can deliver this message. To be successful to deliver their message There are many steps. We believe that the Lord Jesus equal with God. But he lived as a human in the flesh. He's our Lord Almighty. He's Himself and live a natural life. But like you pickle. When we look to the Lord Jesus, he humbled himself and came as human as you and me. The disciples have some one day have some arguments who are gonna be greater, who's gonna be smarter We are so athamid that you could head him the cult. And the Lord Jesus gives them the great lesson. If you want to be the greatest, you have to be the servant and serve. Finnu Kama canas Sayyid Yahzim Nahlu Aizan Nahdim. Nikhli Nufusna Asha Nikza Luf Sadan Nasinha Hawala. And today Your education doesn't matter, your money. Everything that you have nothing. Look to the Lord Jesus And try to be humble and ask him for wisdom. Ask him for to be humble as him and serve other as he served before. Bolasubhulwa in Kuntu Horum na Jamia, the kinni usta abatinafsi, Ashaniar Ba in Nas al Hawaii. Apostle Paul he said I was free from all the people around me, but I became as a slave to win everyone on my side. B In naakun Jay, in naaqun fitawasul ma' annas, asirul daif, daif, wulil hakeim haqeem, wulil kawikaue. To build this strong relationship with the weakness, I'm gonna be a weak weak to come closer to the weakness I'm gonna be a poor to be more close to the poor people. That means all of us we have to empty today ourselves and represent the Lord Jesus. All the world here in the United States. We every nation here. If you have if you like to go as a missionary and disciple in Africa, in Middle East. God brought them to your shore. They are here in your country. Let me I'm just explaining to you clear. Of course there is many missionary, God called them to go minister in different in in different nations, you know, in different worlds. But to be honest that they many people here they need you God today He called you And the good mission that as he used Ibrahim, he left his land, his country, his people, and brought him to the new land. Today the Lord calls on you. Let you know that that challenges that challenges God sent you this. special mission for you when you enter yourself and go outside from your comfort zone this is you can see the challenges and express your f your faith in the Lord Jesus. I will just let you know to be successful in our mission, you have to get out from your comfort zone. As the Lord Jesus did. If we didn't empty ourselves, if we didn't deny ourselves and go closer to the people whom it every day. If you cannot do that, that means you have a big problem. Yeah, we can see many like different sites, many churches. They are so active, you know, and they gathering, do events, and invite people to the church That if ilhayat qisa mada'uwah the handul in jirkamara. But more than this, most important The great message to share the gospel with those people, to invite them and share the good news with them Allah be stepped on in Mu'munen to have an armament. Of course, the Lord Jesus used the believers, send them special to this world to be hope to the hopeless. Is that Kenisa is a Mu Manil Hamagoane. If the believer today close their eyes Who gonna open who can open their eyes? They need to open their eyes and share the good news with others. We had a great experience back in Guru. We go to the church and minister and go outside the church to plant like churches and disciples. But can it be a haribam minness? And there was a a main question, why you don't share the gospels with your neighbors, with your friends, with your communities. We don't share it because sometimes we get we get afraid, they cannot reject it. They cannot reject us and reject the word of God. We take it personally like we get so sensitive and ashamed sometimes to share the gospel, the word of God. Wut ħushu salam salam. Il yitruduk khalas, nafadul qhabar minala, il-ahziat ta' kum u khalas ruq. I encourage you today, as the Savior, the Lord Jesus said to his disciples, when you go to the city and enter their home to preach the gospel, if they reject you, go back Don't get offended if they reject you, they reject the Lord. Jesus Christ too. Hadithanibi will uh share in jee. Ma khat is kadril. And some machinery, they said like, I don't know how to start, you know, share the good news with others. And some machinery they judge the people and said Maybe this kind of people they don't need Jesus. But they judge them. But to fill Hagia, I even added, But now I'm telling you, everyone on this earth, they do need Jesus Christ, our Savior, in their life. But sorry for the Soviet Major, we are not going to be able to do that. Tiftikur eih al-majda yaswa alnu yasuwa yishfi marid, awungawa ma'yyat minul mot, awun wahat fagiri yhni Ma il mayyid al-Jayamut, Will Shafa al-Jayimla, that can Afdal Majiza waham majiza biamlayatwa, kunla lahzah ha wabi Khalla sul-khati. Do you know that Jesus every moment, every day do miracles? What are the miracles in your mind? To heal the sickness? To raise the dead, if someone died, he can raise them. No. To save the sinner every moment. Lord do miracles he can save you and save me and save everyone on this earth. God speak to us, speak to you and to me today. We all all work under his authority as believers. We have to be his witness and share the good news. Tell for Bishpulasura Sul Jad Maya Swathasama. Do you know Apostle Paul? He's with the Lord Jesus in heaven. Every day people leave and go to heaven, yeah? Allah be sensual, Arab is sensual. Let's imagine the Lord Jesus He said Okay, you came to me today to the heaven? Through who? Who led you to come to me? He said. And you know, the person says Apostle Paul, he led me to you. He showed me your way. This is the salvation. Of course, make us so happy and proud when the Lord Jesus use you and use me to save others and be his witness. God used the dreams. God speaks to us even through dreams to send and deliver his message, the message of salvation. But the Lord even he wants to use you today. Allah is tagh alma aina. God, he wants to work and have a strong relationship with you today. Khayel Fitarnimer, but Kaifa Asad waara wajiha abi, wa echi lay samai. There is worship lyrics called in Arabic of course, How I'm Gonna Go, Face the Lord of God, and my brother is not with me. Our message, I'll just ask you today, what is our message today? To give peace to the human Let's get it to send the eyes can of an eyes sharp microwave and eyes red and eyes and sharp eyes short away. Amen. Shaykwa. There is many refugees came to our center and they mentioned we do need furniture, microwaves, tables, you know, dining room, all these needs they do need because they don't have anything. They don't have nothing But you know, they may need they only ha need their salvation. They need Jesus Christ. Yeah. Of course, the people without our Savior Jesus Christ is gonna be dead. Yeah, unfortunately now the world and the people live in this world who don't know Jesus, they live under authority of evil. Did you remember when Jesus Christ came to the earth how many miracles? He healed the sick people, how many people follow him? Shaankan Sulbana. Even at that time, the evil have this authority on in that time. We are so again in unkacherov Lara. And Jesus said they are as a shepherd They are as a sheep without shepherds. If you look now to the whole picture thousand years ago and now you can see the same picture. There are people surrendered to the evil. The people rejected Jesus Christ And there gonna be death. Bishinnahat il-baramish hatatisadinness, laqi il-amel-hay, wil amal-sah, wil amel il-hayisa i-din nas, wil khalasul mafi ilisma'h al yaswa al-masqyy. The hope for all these people who come to the United States not to have a good life, good future, financial needs, all this gonna be covered by our government But the important things they need to hear about Jesus Christ, to know He came to save them, to love them. And we are the ambassador, we have to share the message of the salvation. We have to share the news and be witness for Jesus Christ. Talat sinin wa tilt. Ajmu al masih alalar, akar bada khidma tu fim, bada al-hidma fihum, talat sinin wa'tilt And the last three years of the life of Jesus on the earth, he just star his mission was there He changed the world. He changed the world in these three years In la a ayalam, be airful wishrap ala has ever sin was it. You know we get survived in our life, we get survived. We are alive now because of grace of God and the ministry he shared with the people around the world. And we have the great message as a believer. We do have the solution. We have the good answer and the good news. And every one of you, you are the solution. You are the answer. You can't change the world. Let me speak in our perspective as a Mediterranean, Mediterranean people, we use this expression. Anda alayhir farras. We have the greatest person that we are so proud of. Ela Shufne. Our greatest God. We saw him and we touched him When the Lord invites us To be his disciples. The Lord saw Simon. He was a fisherman. Simon, he was just take the fish life and put it on the side so can die and the people can buy it and eat it. But the Lord Jesus said to Simon, come, I'm gonna get you. I'm gonna let you. fish that and make them alive. It's not changed in the same time that we live after thousands of years. As a believer, we all follow the Lord Jesus. He disciples us, he teaches us, and we equip ourselves and we go to the world to disciple and share the good news. And this is the same message for all of us. And everyone, you have the freedom to take your decision, to accept it or reject it. As Khalina Dakar, a Dakar Nashva Dakarku. Let me remind myself and remind you that the obedience the obedience come after rejection. If we obey God in some stuff that we believe as believers and we disobey in certain areas, that means we're not obeying the other God. That's why we have to surrender to the Lord, obey Him, and do His will. And this is This order from the Lord, we have to receive it, accept it, and do it. And God commandment to go today and start work in his vein Fiqrofi Mabda Dil Qurasa, Maakuru Kamis Kraser for Christ. The crew mission must perseverita serve with they have like the great commandment. Amen. How to preach the gospel? Preach the word of God, leading by the Holy Spirit. And just give it to the Lord. You can plant the seeds and the Lord you can let it grow. As our mission to be successful, you have to empty yourself, ask the Holy Spirit to continue you and can get up and go to the nation, go to the world, disciple. And share the good news. Please let's understand there is two things. First, God has calling and some missionary. Ask them to go to certain country and go serve him there. Allahanibitali Allah Yajol Kulbil Mumani no masharku satan. And second, God calling today all the believers. to be his witness and be his disciple and share the message of salvation and the good news with everyone. We are some among Jews. That's why we are present all here today and the Lord Jesus with us. If you are now working to do that great mission in your life, that's perfect. Allah Yumbuleyum I lected that. But if you didn't start it yet, just please take the step and say This is my great mission, to be witness of Jesus Christ and go share the good news with all the nations. You are alive today. You are present in this church today because the Lord is willing to come here today and listen to the message Khreenan, Nyaqudla Hazat, Monsalvi Maabad. Yeah, can you can we bow down our head please and pray together? your own decision to follow Jesus and be his disciple. The same decision that you're gonna take today and be his disciple. And remember how great that the Lord Jesus did in your life. Remember, the great mission always connected with the greatest God that we worship. When we go to the people speak up about Jesus Christ, He is with us. It's a great honor to be his disciple. Because we give him all the honor to serve him and love him as he loves us. Amen. In Jesus' name, Amen. What a powerful, powerful message. Thank you, Brother Reda.