If you have your Bibles with you, can you turn with me to 1 Peter? We've been looking at 1 Peter, starting a new series in 1 Peter. So if you have your Bibles, if you can turn with me to chapter 1 in 1 Peter, or activate your Bibles and look at 1 Peter, chapter 1. Our focus this morning is on verses eight and nine, uh but to give us a little bit of a context to remind us some of the things that we've talked about in prior weeks of What has led up to 8 and 9? I'm going to start in verse 3, and we'll read to verse 9, though specifically focusing this morning on verses 8 and 9. 1 Peter chapter 1, starting in verse 3, reading through verse 9. Before we turn to the living word, God's word, let us go to Him again in prayer, seek His blessing. um upon it. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for loving us We thank you for saving us. We thank you for Jesus Christ, our Lord. Father, we thank you that you are not a silent God, but that you speak to us and that you speak to us this morning. We thank you that you're not afar off. We thank you that you are working, and Lord help us because we're weak. Lord, help us because we're frail. Lord, we can't worship you like we even want to, or what you desire, or what you deserve. But Lord, help us. And our tiredness, open our eyes and our minds, our ears that we might hear and know your word. Bless it, because it is your word we pray. Give us understanding that we might love. And believe and have joy in Jesus Christ our Lord. Lord, this is not our church. This is not our day. This is your church. This is your day. Let us worship you in Christ's name. Amen. 1 Peter chapter 1, starting in verse 3, reading through verse 9. People of God, hear God's words. Open your ears and hear the living word. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice. Though now for a little while, as was necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire. may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not see him, you believe in him, and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. May God bless his word. The new birth that we looked at several weeks ago that we read here again in our text, a new birth brings new identity. New identity to those who are serving the Lord, those who are seeking to reflect and bring Christ praise, glory, and honor? Brings grievous trials and distress, as we talked about last week. Faithfulness to Christ has a cost It's not easy to be a Christian, is it? We sacrifice praise and glory and honor from peers We don't receive it from men. We don't do what we want. Because we want Christ to have the praise and glory and honor. And we want to do what He wants. But it's not easy being a Christian. Have you asked yourself this question before? Do I really believe this? Do I believe this Christianity thing? Because I don't really feel joy. I've never really seen Jesus. I've never seen him with my eyes. Can I believe this thing that we're talking about? That we have been talking about it? Is this ridiculous Well, here's the truth of our passage this morning, and we'll break it down, we'll walk through, but here is the truth. Of all truth, truth of God's word is that followers of Christ have an inexpressible joy. In an invisible Lord in whom we inherit salvation. So let's let's work through our text. Let's consider this question because these are real, these are heavy, serious questions. And so let us turn to God's word for the answers, because only there and always there do we find truth, the answers to life's questions. Inexpressible joy. Inexpressible joy here in our text is connected to the Christian faith. Um in verse five and six we see that Peter directs us to heaven, right? He directs us to an imperishable, undefiled, and unfading inheritance that is Being kept for us, and we are being kept for it. And last week we looked at verse 6, where Peter Peter tells us that in this we rejoice. Peter gave us reasons to rejoice, not only looking to heaven, but if you remember, Peter gave us reasons not simply looking to heaven, but because God is purifying our faith now. He's pulling those impurities out of our heart that our faith might reflect the glory, praise, and honor of Jesus Christ. But here in verse eight, when Peter is finishing his thought on suffering, he says that we rejoice For that our joy is largely inexpressible and filled with glory. What's inexpressible joy? What is this? What's happening here? We're told to have joy, but what is inexpressible joy? Have you ever felt inexpressible joy? Do you know what that is? Sometimes I think when we think of heaven, when we think of the images and ideas and delights in a heaven our soul fills up and it bursts with ideas of joy, of praise, and glory and honor, where there's no death, there's no pain, there is no suffering. And sometimes when we're singing, we can't really sing the way we want to because my voice is cracking, it's tired, and it's weak, we're weak, and we can't really Praise God like we want to, be and it's inexpressible. We just can't express our love for God In that way. When sometimes we have those moments. But here in our text, Through various grievous trials, the inexpressible joy that we produce sometimes A quiet type. It's sometimes a non-verbal kind. It's inexpressible joy is a reality in our hearts That our words can't really adequately describe. Inexpressible joy is the kind of like explaining the sun. To a blind man. A person who's never seen the sun, a blind man who has been blind from birth, can't really understand the sun But the person who sees the sun in a moment when it shines upon them, they understand, and y you can explain to that person who can't see the the brilliance. When I say sun, I mean su n Right? The the the thing in the sky? And you try to explain it to someone who's never seen it before and you how bright and brilliant you can't even look at it because it's so bright. But you can't really express it to someone who's never seen it, never experienced it. But for you, words can't even describe it when the sun hits you, you know it's the sun, you know it's it's light. So even if we can't properly express it, we know what it is and so it is with God Many people are blind to the truth of God. Trying to explain to them your faith, even though you're going through some very, very difficult trials. How can you trust God in this? How can you have joy in him in this How do you praise God when you're facing what you're facing? It doesn't make sense. How do you pray? How do you worship Him? How do you explain this? And you see, if the scales were to fall from their eyes, and if and when the scales were to fall from their eyes, and they could see God. They could see his word. They could see the truth immediately. But right now, they don't understand. It's incomprehensible. And maybe that was some of you out here today. Some of you looked at the Christian faith probably like that. Uh you didn't really get this Christianity thing. You didn't really get the joy and love. Even when it was explained to you, someone told you about it. But when God Opened your eyes for the first time, you understood it, you got it. And we certainly have sound objectives and reasons. About the Christian faith and what we believe and why we believe it. Christianity is certainly reasonable. There's lots of things that point to the historicity and accuracy of the gospel and of the word. But those reasons and arguments are about the same as helping to explain light to someone who has never really seen the sun. But those who see it, those whom God has opened their eyes, they get it, we believe it, and it's and it's a joy that's inexpressible It's it's of high highs where we can't even lift our voices to to praise God of how we want, but even when we're suffering. It's an inexpressible type of joy and love because we trust God, we we love God, we we know what He's doing. And this joy is not only inexpressible, we're told, but we're also told that this joy is filled with glory. Because the joy is rooted in Christ. This joy is not only inexpressible, and it's not only glorious, but because it's rooted in Christ, and it's these things. You can have joy in other things. And it's not glorifying joy. You can have joy in making fun of people. You can have joy in participating in gossip. You can find joy in being selfish, can't you? But those aren't joys that are glorious. Christian joy is inexpressible and glorious because that joy is fixed and rooted and pointing to the praise and glory and honor of Jesus Christ. The Christian has inexpressible joy that's filled with glory because the Christian loves Jesus and believes in Jesus. If you look at the text, those are those, those are the words that are coming out. These are the marks of the Christian. This is what it means to be a Christian. Peter is defining what it means to be a Christian. A Christian loves Jesus. A Christian believes in Jesus. A Christian rejoices in Jesus. Christianity is about Christ. Christianity is not about being a good person. It's not about showing an outward politeness or smiles or letting people merge in front of you in the lane. Christianity is not about that. It's about Christ. To love Christ, to treasure him above all things. Because of his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection. And that's a joy that's inexpressible, and it's filled with glory. Its inexpressible joy flows from the love and trust we have in Christ. Here's the tough question. How do I believe, though? How do I have an inexpressible joy that is glorious if I can't really see Christ? He's not here. You're up here, Dan. I want to see Christ. I wanna l and then I would know. Then I would then I could have joy, but he's not here. Can I have this? Inexpressible joy. Can I have joy that is filled with glory and I can't even see him? Can I love? Can I believe and have joy and not see him? Notice though here in the text how Peter is telling them that this is what they're doing. He doesn't say you should have love and joy. It says you are loving. You are believing and you don't see him. And you're greatly rejoicing, even though you don't see him. So Peter here is moved by the fact that his readers in this epistle love Christ, believe in Christ, have joy in Christ despite never seeing him. They are truly walking by faith and not by sight, and Peter encourages them in that. It's repeated twice in verse 8: the fact that they do not see, but they love. They do not see, but they believe and have joy. Peter reflects on the love his audience has for Christ, this love, this trust. That makes them ready to suffer, to prove their faith, so that their faith is a tribute to Christ and reflects him like we talked about last week. reflecting him. But Peter here, of course, here's the unique thing about Peter writing this epistle is that Peter has seen Jesus. Peter has seen Jesus and Peter can probably remember pictures of Jesus. Peter even maybe recalls his love for Jesus. When Jesus said to him, You shall no longer be called Simon, but you shall be called Peter. Maybe Peter can picture Jesus even walking on water and lifting him up from the sea. Saying Peter, you have little faith, why are you so afraid? Jesus looking at Peter after his denials or Jesus alive again sitting by the coal fires on the shore of Galilee and asking Peter, do you really love me? Peter had seen Jesus and loved him and believed in him and seen him, but Peter knows far too well it is not his physical association with Christ. That has joined him to his savior. Even though Peter has been able to see and touch and believe and love Jesus because he's seen him, Peter knows it's not the physical that has associated and caused him to love and to believe in Jesus He knows that Jesus gave his spirit to the Gentiles, too, who by faith, though never seen, may share with Peter in loving Christ. It's not necessary for us to have been in Galilee with Jesus. It's not necessary for us to have been at the cross watching Jesus. We have something, in fact, that is far better than actually being there. Even though we haven't seen with our own eyes, we have something better now. Than actually being there, and that is the gospels. Through the witness of Peter and other apostles, we learn about what Jesus said and did. The Gospels are better than being there. The counts that we have are better than being there. We can see Christ more clearly for who He is in the Gospels of Matthew. Mark, Luke, and John. We get four complementary pictures painted for us of who Jesus is, what he said, and what he did, covering the whole range of his teaching and ministry. You get to be in the inner circles. You get to be up on the mounts where you would not have gotten to go before. But now in the gospels you do. Even though we don't see Jesus face to face with our physical eyes, we don't see him now face to face with our physical eyes. We see him in another way that's more important. We see Christ in a way that is more important now. And here's what I mean. An example from is from Romans 15, verses 20 through 21. Paul described his mission to a people who had not been reached by Christ. People who had not seen Christ before, and Paul says, I aspired to preach the gospel, not where Christ was already named, but as it is written. They who had no news of him shall see, and they who have not heard shall understand. You see, in the preaching of the gospel, Christ can be seen in a way that is more important than seeing him physically. Seeing does not mean believing. Hundreds of people saw Jesus. Thousands of people saw Jesus physically and yet never really saw him. Seeing they did not believe. We mustn't simply see Jesus with our physical eyes. We have to see him spiritually We must spiritually see Jesus, and this is what it means to be saved. To spiritually see and understand and know who Jesus is is what it means to be saved. Thousands of people saw Jesus with their physical eyes and were not saved. When the word is preached, when the gospel of Christ is preached You can see Christ more clearly than someone who saw Christ with their two good physical eyes. A good example of this is a story of blind Bartimaeus. We heard not that long ago here in this church the story of blind Bartimaeus, a man who was blind from birth. He couldn't see Jesus with his eyes. He was blind. But we know that Bartimaeus, even though he couldn't see Saw Jesus better, knew Jesus better than all those around him. Because Bartimaeus saw that Jesus is the one whom he could find mercy. He saw with the eyes of faith and of his heart that Jesus is the one that could save him, and Christ alone, the Son of David, who could have mercy. To see Jesus with our eyes, with our physical eyes, it's a good desire Don't get me wrong, this is a good desire to want to see Jesus one day with our physical eyes. It's a godly desire, it's a biblical desire. There will be nothing better. than to see Jesus one day. There will be nothing better than to see him face to face But we do not see him now. We walk by faith, not by sight. We long for Christ We long for him so much. We long to see the physical, real face of Christ that we reject other images of him because we don't want to see Christ generically. We don't want to see a generic man of Christ. We want to see the real Christ. We want to see the real Christ for who He is. His nose, his eyes, His face. We reject the images of Christ because we long to see the real Christ one day. Part of Christian suffering that we face. That you face is to not see him now. That's part of the suffering that Peter is telling his hearers. That part of suffering is to not see Christ. We do not see him now, but there is a day. There is a day coming when there will be no suffering, and we will see Jesus. We will see him face to face. The day is coming when Jesus will be revealed. And in that day, the goal of our faith will be realized. Our eyes will behold the one whom we have trusted and loved. And we will see Jesus. Verse 9 says, obtain the outcome or end of your faith, the salvation of your soul. End of faith does not mean the termination of faith. The end here is points to a finale. an end, a a destination, a goal, an aim, a purpose of your faith? The purpose of your faith Is salvation. Salvation of your souls. And the salvation of your souls can be taken in two ways It can either, when you read this, it can either people can take it to understand salvation of your whole person, or specifically just your soul as part you know distinguished from your body. You know, God only saves your soul, but not really your body. But that's not what Peter's getting at because we know that Scripture talks about how the final consummation when Christ is revealed Not only are our souls saved, but our bodies are a part of us. We'll be resurrected as Christ was resurrected with a real body So what Peter is saying here is that we must understand our our present situation, our our Our present circumstance in light of that glorious future that God is raising for us. Peter again points us to the end of our faith, salvation. It here we are only in verse nine. We're only in verse nine, but can you see a theme with Peter? As and and causing us to look f upward and heavenward and And not really seeing how temporary this life is. We're only in verse 9, and Peter has talked about salvation and glory so many times already. Our lives now ought to be filled with a forward-looking desire, forward-looking eyes looking to another dimension of heaven. Do you think that's lacking in Christians today? Do we live now in the light of a glorious future to come? Have we grown too used to the situation that we're in? Do we just simply sit and soak in our experiences now? Has it lost an importance in our daily living that Christ will be revealed, that we will have a full and complete salvation? Dear Christian, there is a day drawing near and soon to come, maybe even today, when the clouds will be split And Christ will return. The day will come when Christ will be will return. And that will be a glorious day. You will be ushered into heaven to the presence of Jesus where you will see him face to face. When you picture heaven, when you think of that day, do you picture Christ? Does your heaven have Christ in it? Because if it doesn't, if you can somehow picture heaven and Christ is not there ushering you in, if Christ is not in your heaven, seated on the throne and all glorious filled with his honor, praise, and glory. You're not in heaven. You're in hell. If you do not believe in Jesus If your heaven does not have Jesus sitting and ruling it, if you think that somehow you're going to float to heaven on your own merit without Christ, there is not a day of glory waiting for you. But that day of terror, because you have rejected Christ. John 3, verse 36 reads: He who believes in the Son has eternal life. But he who does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. If you don't believe in Christ, it's like being a blind man walking out on Route 95 and saying, I don't believe in trucks. It doesn't matter if you believe it or not. There's a day of judgment coming. Like there are trucks coming on 95. And unless you put your trust and faith in Christ, you will be able to. You'll suffer. You'll get hit. It doesn't matter if you see it or not. This is the reality. This is the truth, because this is the truth of God. So I plead with you to open up your eyes. Today, this morning, open up your eyes. Open up the eyes of your heart and see Jesus. As your only hope, as your only salvation, love, believe, and find joy in Him alone. The salvation of our souls in the last day is the goal of our faith. Yet, you Christian, we experience it now in part. Because Jesus has already come, Jesus has already come in the flesh, and he's brought his spirit and he's ushered in his kingdom already in part, our hope is realized, in part. We know Jesus in part. But then face-to-face, as we're told in 1 Corinthians 13, because Jesus is coming again, the king kingdom of God is still waiting in its fullness to be ushered and poured down. The goal of our faith is still future, still waiting for that final salvation. And we long for that day. And for those who believe, you'll finally be able to express that joy. That joy that burns in you like a fire that you can't really express now. You'll be able to express it then. And that longing to see Jesus now that you can't see him, you'll be able to see him then. And that desire of having that final salvation, the end of suffering and pain and being with our Lord, it'll be ours. Believe, open your eyes. Put your hope, love, faith, and joy in Christ. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we praise you for being God. Lord, help us to love. Help us to believe. Help us to find that joy in you. We again are so weak and weary, and we need you. Lord, rid us from our hearts of ourselves that we might find ourselves fixed to the cross, fixed to the foundation of life in Christ. Father, let us live today, let us live this day, remembering that this world is not our home, that we long and look forward to a final redemption. Let us live with a resurrection mentality that we are simply aliens and pilgrims in this world. So help us to love, help us to be faithful now. And we long to see you, Lord our Jesus Christ. Face to face.