Birth can be a burden. Even if you have an occupation you really enjoy. It seems like we are constantly running into obstacles that keep us from getting our objectives done. And it's the old story of one step forward and three steps back. Sometimes we might even wonder if God wants us in the job we're in. Well I hope this uh I hope that because of it you'll enjoy your job more as you see God's perspective of your job And I hope this message will help young people to pick an occupation, a future occupation, and make those kinds of decisions. And rather than meet just hoping for these things to happen from this message. Why don't we all pray about them? Let's pray. Lord, help us to see better what you say about work. It's Help us to apply those things to our lives, and help us to help each other to apply them. For the sake of Jesus Christ. in whom all creation finds its fulfillment. Amen. Before we take a look at God's view of work and what he has to say about it I think it would be helpful if we took a look at some some of what man says about work, some views of work that are common today. And so I'd like to take a look at two of them. The first one I just call the prevalent view because it is so common. And I think it's based on our materialistic philosophy that's also common in today's society. And it's a view that says work is good. for what I can get out of it. It's a view that measures work, measures the value of work by things like the salary. You've heard might have heard people say he's got a good job. He makes so many thousands of dollars. a year. Or it's a view where the value is measured by the glory one gets from it. And so we have a popular TV show that says Fame, I'm Gonna Live Forever. Or perhaps it's a view that The value of work is measured by the preparation itself, a kind of professional status seeking This view can be characterized by really a general avoidance of work, things like a desire for early retirement, absenteeism, poor workmanship. status seeking, a disdain for menial work, a disdain for homemaking as a full-time profession. These attitudes are common. We see them in ourselves. But they don't reflect God's view of work. Another view of work I call just the evangelistic view, because it is common among evangelicals. And that's a view that says work is good for its contribution to evangelism. That one too is sometimes measured by the salary, but then in a little different way. Now if I make a bigger salary, I can give more money to the church. Or it's measured by the short hours. The less I spend on my job, the more time I can spend doing, quote, God's work Or sometimes the value with this view is measured by the personal contacts one has. The more people I meet, the more people I can evangelize. It seems to be similar to the first view I described, but now it's some somehow sanctified by association with the Great Commission. Where its only value is to contribute to the spread of the gospel. I don't believe that this is God's view of work either. What is God's view? What makes work valuable in his eyes? What is the job God gave us? And how should we do it? To find some of the answers, let's take a look in Colossians three. And uh I'll read Colossians 3, verse 18, to uh chapter 4, verse 1, to put it in some context. Husbands be subject to your wives be subject to your husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and do not be embittered against them. Children, be obedient to your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Fathers, do not exasperate your children, that they may not lose heart. Slaves, in all things, obey those who are your masters on the earth, not with external service, as those who merely please men, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, do your work harvent as for the Lord rather than for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance. It is the Lord Christ whom you serve. For he who does wrong will receive the consequences of the wrong he has done. And that without partiality. Masters, grant to your slaves justice and fairness, knowing that you too have a master in heaven. What do these verses tell us? First of all, they give us God's general perspective on what He's for it. Second of all, they tell us to work hard a lot, literally from the soul, if you have the NASV. You'll see that in the marginal note from the soul or your whole self into your work These verses also tell us that we should work for God and not for men, even though we're under the authority of men. It's really God who is our boss. He's the creator of the universe. Next, it tells us we'll receive a reward. And that reward is a lot more than our paychecks. Those paychecks might be gone before the next one comes along. But from God we leave we receive everlasting inheritance from Him. In particular, I want you to notice that in these verses there's no distinction between the secular and the sacred. There's no distinction between worldly work and religious work. Paul is really saying to the slaves that he's writing to here. that they are as much in full-time Christian service doing their work as Paul himself is. That's really something we can meditate on and something which should encourage us as we go about our jobs every day. As much as this passage tells us about work, it doesn't tell us what work is good, what objectives we should achieve, or what work really is in God's eyes. To do that, I think we need to go back to where work was instituted, where it was invented, you might say, back to Genesis. Let's take a look at the first and second chapter of Genesis. In Genesis 1, I'd like to read verses 26 to 31, and then chapter 2, verse 15, starting with Genesis 1, verse 26. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea, and the birds of the sky, and over the cattle, and all the earth. And over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them And God blessed them, and God said, be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth and subdue it. and rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the sky and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant, yielding seed that is on the surface of the earth, And every tree which has fruit, yielding seed, it shall be food for you. And to every beast and of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, and to everything that moves on the earth, which has life, I have given every green plant for food, and it was so. And God saw all the things had made, and behold Behold, it was very good. There was evening and there was morning, the sixth day. And in chapter 2, verse 15 it says, Then the Lord God took man and put him into the Garden of Eden. To keep it, to cultivate it, and to keep it. Here's our real definition of work. What was the job that God gave to Adam and Eve as representatives of mankind? What are the characteristics of that job? First of all, the job came from God. Next, we can see that it was meant to make man happy. It was part of the blessing. God gave to Adam in verse twenty eight. What exactly was the the job? Let's take a look at the verbs uh the word of God uses in verse one twenty eight and in Chapter 2 verse 15. Man was told to keep the earth and cultivate it. That means he was to take care of it. In chapter 1, verse 28, man was told to rule. lower and subdue the earth. There the idea is one of control, keeping control of the of the earth. We can get an idea of what that means if we look at the a comparison between, let's say, woods, a wooded area and a garden. The woods might be very beautiful, filled with wildflowers and all sorts of plants, the dot hood. But the garden has a different view. It's It's one that's under control. It's subdued. It's has an arrangement to it. And that's what Adam was told to do with the Garden of Eden. He was told to keep it and maintain it. Note also that Adam was given the job of naming the animals. That's in chapter 2, verse 19. We didn't read that. But in the Old Testament, names meant a lot. more than they do now. They were given to show certain characteristics. And so in that job of naming the animals There were certain aspects of biological classification. So Adam's role there was more than we might expect. It was rather a creative role, and it was also a rather scientific one. In chapter one, verse twenty-eight, God also tells us to be fruitful and multiply to populate the earth Sometimes this job is called cultural mandate, and it can help us to look at the roots of that word culture and see where it comes from. What do we think of when we say the word culture. A lot of times we think of art and music or the customs that characterize a society. Or we think maybe of growing things or nurturing. We talk about going to the doctor And getting a throat culture. The doctor swabs your throat, rubs it on some sort of medium, and puts it somewhere where whatever it was in your throat will grow. And then he examines all those. creepy trolleys and determine what made you sick. And that's where we get the word uh agriculture. Uh it means to take care of the ground. And so that idea in culture is one of taking care of and nurturing and making something grow. And so we call this the cultural mandate. And in summary, the job God gave to Adam and us was to take care of, as rulers, the good earth that He made for us, so that we and our children and all the people of the earth would have a wonderful place to live. That sounds like a wonderful Job and a very high calling. What makes the job so hard, so burdensome, and so frustrating? Of course, it's because of sin. The effect with the fall was that God pronounced the curse. And I'd like us to read that about that verse in Genesis chapter three, verses sixteen and nineteen I want to point out before I read this that you'll be able to see quite easily that the curse was aimed at the job God gave us specifically. For the woman, he said, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth. In pain you shall bring forth children. But your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Then he said to the children, To Adam, because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten from the tree, about which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. In toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles it shall grow for you, and you shall eat of the plants of the field by the sweat of your face. You shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, because from it you were taken. For you are dust, and to dust you shall be returned. You shall return. So you can see that this is aimed at the at the very specific things that God gave us as our job. Being fruitful and multiplying was now going to be much more painful. Caring for the earth was going to be harder. There would be toil and sweat and thorns. Living, the whole reason why God gave us our job, to take care of the earth and make it a good place to live, living itself. was going to be cut short. But God doesn't say anything about changing the job he gave to Adam or taking it away. The jobs simply get a lot tougher. Let's take a look too at price impact on the job. Christ did two things when he came. The first one was that he gave us a second job. The second job was the great commission to go and make disciples. Sometimes that second job is called the evangelistic mandate, kind of a parallel phrase to the cultural mandate. But that job, as urgent as it was, didn't eradicate completely the first job. I say that primarily because of the New Testament commentary on work, like Colossians 3. 23 that we just read. You'll find some other verses listed in your bullets that you might want to look up later. And they represent some of what the New Testament says about work. But I would like to take a look at one of them, and that's in Matthew Matthew chapter five, verses forty four to forty eight. So yeah, you can reason the next point. Matthew 5, 44. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, in order that you might be maybe sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he causes his son to rise on the good, the evil, and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax gatherers do the same? And if you greet your brothers only, what do you do more than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? Therefore you are to be perfect if your heavenly Father is perfect. This doesn't talk about work or our jobs directly. But what it does say is God still takes care of this earth for the benefit of both Christians and non-Christians. Would he want us to abandon our role of taking care of his earth to unbelievers? I don't think so. So I believe that the the first job God gave us, the cultural mandate, the job to take care of the earth, is still in effect, even though we have a second job of making disciples. and preaching the good news. Christ had a second impact on our job It was that he healed our relationship with God, the Creator. And that means too that to some degree he healed our relationship with God's creation. And that isn't a mystical kind of thing. Very simply it breaks down into a couple different things that we are able to do because of our relationship. With Jesus Christ. First of all, Christians, we as Christians understand sin. We're burdened by it, but not crushed. We understand the reasons for suffering. on the earth today. Second of all, that same God who pronounced the curse to men is a God that we love. Others may rebel against God for pronouncing that curse, but we as Christians realize how merciful He was when He did that. Because he could have pronounced a curse that would have been much worse. That's what we deserve. But we as Christians know that he didn't do that. And along with the curse in Genesis, he gave the promise of a Savior to come who would redeem us from sin. Thirdly, the purpose of the effects of sin, that judgment in the curse, for us as Christians, is no longer judgment. But discipline or chastisement or seeing God glorified. As Alberta said a few weeks ago in his sermon The effects of sin are something God can fix, and so we look forward to a new earth. How can we apply these things to our lives? Let's take a look at some of the things we can do as Christians In looking at the job God gave us and making it part of our lives. If you'll look on the back of your bullet mount line You'll see some of the adaptations. Let's just talk about them for a minute. First of all, we can see our work In the context of God's cultural mandate and in the evangelistic mandate. This makes all the difference in the world whether we're mowing the lawn. Or washing the dishes. And I'd especially want to encourage homemakers Homemakers have a job which is very easy to connect to the cultural mandate and to the job God gave us. It's easy to see that relationship. It's not easy for everyone to see that relationship. Unfortunately, society belittles what God has said is a high quality. And homemakers, I just want you to be encouraged by this, because God says your job is very important to what his plans for this earth. Second of all, I think that young people especially people who aren't already uh trained for a certain thing, need to look at their futures and pick jobs that are based on both of God's mandates, both the calling to take care of the earth and the calling to preach the gospel. Those two things, plus weighing them with what talents God has given you, can help you to pick an occupation. Thirdly, every Christian should spend some time on both mandates I can't say whether the proportion should be 95% taking care of the earth and 5% preaching the gospel. or whether it should be the other way around. But I can give a couple of examples that might be close to home. The busiest pastor can find time to plant a garden, and the busiest doctor can find the time To lead a Christian growth group. And I think those are good examples of balancing those two jobs God has given us in our lives. I think we should rejoice in our job. And not just in our paychecks. Actually, I think that we might even find more joy in our paychecks if we did rejoice in our job more. Next, I think that we need as Christians to search the ways in which God's word applies to our jobs. The Bible speaks of a lot of different jobs. and the way and what God says about them. A lot of different subjects like art, science, economics, politics, law, law making, civil service, government, welfare work. Those are a that I found that the Bible has something to say about. I want to encourage you to find out what the Bible says about your job. And also not to do that alone, to possibly get together with other Christians to study that. People find someone who has an occupation that's similar to yours and find out what how they think God's word applies to their God and help each other in that. Finally, we should work for God rather than for men. He's the best boss we could ever possibly have. Let's pray. Lord, you gave us this world to take care of, to make it a better place to live. We thank you for that job. And we pray. That you'll help each one of us to see better and in more detail how our jobs fit into your plans. We need, Lord, to be able to conform more closely with the things you want us to do. And we pray that you'll help us to do that. And we thank you, Lord, because you're such a good And loving supervisor. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.