Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word, for its power, for its majesty, Lord, for its utter reliability. And Father, we thank you for the holiness that it shows us with respect to who you are, your character, your love. Your justice, your mercy, all are holy, holy, holy. Father, it does remind us that indeed we are not holy. And Lord, we cling to you that we might share in your righteousness, even as you have taken our sinfulness upon yourself. And so Christ Show us something of your grace and your mercy in this text we read this morning, that we might be led forth from here with joy and peace. Bless the reading of your word. Lord, the preaching that follows it, we ask that you bless that as well. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. On a Sabbath, while he was going through the grain fields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. But some of the Pharisees said, Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath? And Jesus answered them. Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him, how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful for any but the priests to eat? And also gave it to those with him, and he said to them, The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. On another Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching, and a man was there whose right hand was withered, and the scribes and the Pharisees watched him to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might find a reason to accuse him. But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man with the withered hand, Come and stand here. And he rose and stood there. And Jesus said to them, I ask you. Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm? To save life or to destroy it? And after looking around at them all, he said to him, Stretch out your hand. And he did so, and his hand was restored. But they were filled with fury and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well this morning I had the great privilege of joining Mrs. Vicky Vandenhuel and her Sunday school class. And I got to share with all of the primary grade kids, or at least the line 's share of them, I think, uh the five solas of the Protestant Reformation You know, the soul is the only scripture, soul is scriptura, only grace, only faith, only Christ, only glory be to God. And that was really fun to do. I really, really enjoyed that. But I only got fifteen minutes. So I want to spend forty five minutes now. But the kids got to do something that I thought was fascinating. Vicky showed them a video of Martin Luther It was about eight, ten minutes long, and it was enacted by Playmobil figures, which I thought was awesome. And I want to talk to you a little bit now about a different Martin who actually was one of Martin Luther's spiritual descendants. In fact, after Martin Luther died. Someone named Philip Melanchthon, who was actually older than Martin Luther, took over the reins of the leadership of the Protestant Reformation in what is today Germany. the German principalities and the duchies and the remains of the Holy Roman Empire there. And after Philip Melanchthon, one of the prime leaders in the late 16th, early 17th century was a fellow named Martin Chemnitz. And I read Martin Chemnitz when I was studying for my THM in Reformation Studies, and I was fascinated by this figure. The thing that Got my attention most was his careful attention to how we read the Bible. And he exhorted us to read the Bible in three different ways. To read it in whole great stretches all at once, very quickly. Think reading the Bible in a year. And then he thought it's also good to really focus in on one verse at a time or one paragraph at a time, really try to understand what that one paragraph or verse has to say. But then he talked about the middle section of Bible reading that we often don't do. And he talked about reading the Bible in units. For example, determining a section of the gospel, say the Sermon on the Mount, and reading the entire Sermon on the Mount, and trying to get a scope of that whole text. that you might understand the parts better. You see, often we'll think of the whole book and we'll think of the verse, but we don't think of the subunit of the chapters that make up a significant section of a book, say. like Romans or Acts or the Gospel of Luke. And I was thinking about Shemnitz as I was writing this sermon because nearly every commentary I have, and I have about sixteen I've been studying to preach these sermons. says and understands rightly that this verse, but they were filled with fury and disgust with one another what they might do to Jesus. That's the end of the You could say the second, or depending on how you count, the third major section of the Gospel of Luke. And if you look at the Gospel of Luke in chapter 4, verse 14, we have the beginning of this section, and it goes like this. after Jesus is baptized, after he's in the wilderness, after he's tempted by the devil. We read, and Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and a report, remember our word, that's like a rumor. uh the word started to creep out in dribs and drabs as my mom would say and a report about him went out through all the surrounding country and he taught in their synagogues being glorified by all And this larger section of the Gospel of Luke starts with him being glorified by all, full of the Spirit. The word is getting out. And it ends with the religious establishment filled with fury, wanting to kill him. Well, what in the world got us here? Because this section of Luke's gospel ends with, again, depending on how you count them, anywhere from three to five conflict narratives. Where people are disagreeing with Jesus and he is correcting them. How did we get from everyone glorifying this one full of the Spirit? to someone who causes great fury. Well, if we go back and think of the view from 40,000 feet, if you will Jesus goes to Nazareth, and the people all speak well of him and say his words are gracious. He's a gifted man But they want to keep him local and they have a proprietary interest in him and they want him to be their guy and they want him to heal their people and stick around. And so he exposes their hearts and moves on. And then in Capernaum We read about how they recognize not just the graciousness of his words, but the fact that he speaks with authority. The Lord does wonderful things in Capernaum. And then we have Jesus calling his first disciples, fishermen, from the Sea of Galilee, demonstrating his sovereignty. He cleanses a leper, showing that he is willing and able to heal and to touch and to transform the worst sinner, the most untouchable person. in that closest of contacts, human touch. And then we have the first of two Son of Man sayings. Jesus has now finally gone from being rumored about, from there being buzzed, to after he touches and heals the leper. the word, ha lagos in the Greek, the actual bona fide truth of who he is. He is the one with power and authority, full of grace, who is willing and able. to touch and transform even the worst of humanity, now he's got the religious leader's attention. And now we read all the Pharisees and the teachers of the law show up. They've come from Jerusalem and Galilee and Judea. And the power of the Lord is with Jesus. And he says to a paralytic being lowered through a roof, right in the presence of all of these religious powers. He says, seeing their faith, your sins are forgiven. And of course the religious authority is pretty upset about that. And they're murmuring. Jesus, knowing their thoughts, says, which is easier, to say your sins are forgiven, or to say, get up, take your mat and go home? And he says, that you may know the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, I say to you, get up. The Son of Man has power to forgive sins. Religious authorities don't respond to our knowledge. All we read is that everyone said, we have seen extraordinary things. And then Jesus calls Levi a tax collector. And the religious authorities now are upset. And instead of murmuring to themselves Now they question his disciples, why are you eating with someone like that? And Jesus tells them that he has come to call not the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And then they say again to his disciples , Why don't you fast? Why do your disciples not fast like our disciples and John the Baptist? And Jesus, being addressed directly by them, he tells them that he is the bridegroom. And now we come to this place where again They directly say to Jesus, why are your disciples doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath? And now they're outraged by the answer. Now, what when I read this text, I think, of all the things to be infuriated by Why would it be not keeping the Sabbath kosherly You ever thought about that? Why was this the straw that broke the camel's back? Why was it the fact that he said he is the Lord of the Sabbath? What was it about that? That made the Pharisees and the scribes their disciples filled with fury. Why is it that now they were determined to do something about him? Have you ever wondered that? What was it about these two conflicts, clearly intended to be taken together, because we're not told how the Pharisees responded. to the plucking the grains off the wheat stocks until the end of the second Sabbath. So think of an eight-day stretch in which on one Sabbath The Pharisees tailing Jesus to see what they could see about this man, see his disciples breaking the Sabbath by plucking grains of wheat, and then seeing, ah, what's he going to do on the Sabbath? There's a man with a withered hand Then we get their response, rage. Well, in order to understand that and this text and understand its relevance for us, I want to again, like I did last week, ask three questions of this text. First is, why was the Sabbath such a big deal? Why was the Sabbath such a big deal deal? You know, throughout church history, the importance of the Sabbath kind of follows uh there it ebbs and flows. There are times when a spate of books will be written arguing for one type of observance or another. There was in the early 1600s, right before the Westminster Assembly, there was a tremendous flurry of books written. If you're interested, I have many of them in my office. Good luck with that. Why was it such a big deal for the Pharisees? Is in particular the question I want to ask this morning. Well, and I give you three reasons here. These are all from the pens of the Pharisees themselves, recorded in places like the Mishnah. First, God commanded it. You'll remember it is indeed one of the commands. Honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy. On it you shall do no labor. For the Lord created the world in six days, and he rested on the seventh, calling it holy. Exodus chapter 20 and Deuteronomy 5, that fourth commandment stands. As one of the Ten Commandments, it is indeed a serious matter. But we also have at the time of the Pharisees a very keen awareness that, from their perspective, their immediate national future depended upon the Sabbath being kept. Let me read for you from Isaiah and from Jeremiah. Right after Isaiah prophesies in chapter 58 about how the Lord would in that great day of his visitation uh be called the restorer of streets to dwell in, we read this, if you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day and call the Sabbath a delight, and the holy day of the Lord honorable. If you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you shall take delight in the Lord. And I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. And then they noticed in Jeremiah chapter 17 Thus said the Lord to me, Go and stand in the people's gate by which the kings of Judah enter and by which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem And say, Hear the word of the Lord, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem who enter by these gates. Thus says the Lord. Take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden on the Sabbath day, or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem And do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath, or do any work, but keep the Sabbath day holy as I commanded your fathers. Yet they did not listen or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck that they might not hear and receive instruction. But if you listen to me, declares the Lord, and bring in no burden by the gates of the city on the Sabbath day, But keep the Sabbath day holy, and do no work on it. Then there shall enter by the gates of this city kings and princes who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their officials, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and this city shall be inhabited forever. And people shall come from the cities of Judah and the places around Jerusalem, from the land of Benjamin, from the Shephalah, from the hill country, from the Negev, bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices, grain offerings and frankincense. And bringing thank offerings to the house of the Lord. But if you do not listen to me, to keep the Sabbath day holy, and not to bear a burden and enter by the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. Then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall devour the palace of Jerusalem, and shall not be quenched. And thirdly, Nehemiah. And Nehemiah and Ezra, after the Babylonian exile figured hugely in the spiritual imagination and the theological understanding of the people of God in the days of Christ And Nehemiah specifically in chapter 13 calls out Sabbath breaking. And so the Pharisees in the days of Jesus who desperately wanted the kingdom to be restored, taken away from Herod, removed from Roman subjugation, given back to a descendant of David who would reign with justice, looking for the day of the Messiah to come. They associated the return of the king with the ability and the willingness of the nation to properly observe the Sabbath. It was think of it this way for those of you who like eschatology. It was a radical post mill solution. If we establish the kingdom of God and his reign truly and purely exists for a thousand years, then Jesus will come back. Part of the understanding of spiritual national life for the Israelites in the day of Jesus was: if we all keep the Sabbath, all of this Roman stuff will go away. And so keep the Sabbath is something they were very, very intent upon. And they saw the disciples of Jesus radically, and I say radically, breaking the Sabbath You might think, what in the world did they do wrong? Because that's what starts this. Look at what our text says on a Sabbath While Jesus was going through the grain fields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. Now some of you kids might wonder, what in the world is that all about? And I have actually done this before. My father grew up on a farm in Minnesota, and that farm for many years of my childhood had winter wheat in the 200 arable or tillable acres. And my father showed me how you could take the kernel of grain, rub it in your hands, and that separates the wheat from the chaff. And if you throw it up on a windy day, the chaff blows away, and then you can eat the kernel. And I'm not going to pretend it tasted good, but I got to see what these disciples had been doing. And it was breaking the Sabbath. You see, two hundred years before the time of Christ, the Jews who were intent upon honoring God gathered together in their Dozens, scores, maybe hundreds, history's foggy on it, and rabbis from the Jewish world pontificated in what they called the great synagogue. And they came up with 39 rules for Sabbath keeping. And one of those rules, and those rules were divided into fathers and sons. I know that sounds really bizarre. But the fathers of each of those 39 rules were the main principles of that rule, and the sons were the sort of extenuating circumstances that attached to them. So when you took that big rule, one of the thirty-nine and its five or ten major premises, and each of them had about ten or a dozen You had Sabbath rules that numbered in the hundreds. And you simply could not, you were not permitted to walk through a field of grain and pluck grain and rub it between your hands and watch the chaff blow away and eat it because you are breaking the Sabbath. You're breaking four of the 39. Rules. You are reaping, you are winnowing, you are separating, and you're harvesting. You couldn't do any of that. Today, even if you were to I printed this up off the um Orthodox Union. It's a a a Jewish organization today, this is the 39 Melacost. Those are the 39 rules. And to this day, if you're Orthodox In the same category of reaping, such activities as plucking a flower and plucking a fruit from a tree come under this heading It may not be done on the Sabbath. The same is true of mowing a lawn. It was also legislated that we do not handle any growing flowers or plants. It is also forbidden to climb a tree or smell a growing flower. Fruit which falls from a tree on the Sabbath may not be used on the same day. Still to this day these rules exist. And they get uh they they get pretty extreme. For example, if uh Building is one of the major rules, the 39 rules, that you cannot engage in on the Lord's day. Today we apply that in the Orthodox Jewish tradition as including all building and assembling activities like Legos. All building repairs come under this heading, even driving a nail into a wall. The spirit of the law even forbids the opening of an umbrella, even when it will not be carried outside, since it affords the same protection from the elements as a tent, which is a structure. And you can go out of your mind thinking of the fathers and the sons of the principles of Sabbath-keeping. And I suspect some people have done just that. I went through a period in my own life, back in 1991 I was a first-year seminary student down at RTS in Orlando, the one year I was able to afford to pay tuition at that wonderful institution. And I was Determined that I was going to be the most conservative Bible-believing theologian I possibly could be, because I'd seen the alternative in various books I'd read. And so I was an extremely strict Sabbath keeper. I don't know if you knew that about me. I did not tell the search committee. But I determined that I would only on the Sabbath ever allow myself to do works of worship, mercy, and necessity. That's all I would do. That's what the Puritan said was acceptable. I was not going to do anything if it wasn't a work of mercy, worship, or necessity. And so I was a si seminary student. I was I was single. Carrie says unmarriageable. And at the time I would go to a uh I forgot the name of the church. It was uh one of our sister Orthodox Presbyterian churches, it was shady something or other But it was not like shady in the metaphorical sense. It was a wonderful church. And I would go there and as a single sort of pitiful looking seminary student, I would always get invited to lunch And I'd get invited to lunch with some family doing their good deed for the week, and I'd I would eat enough to not enjoy it too much because I was eating out of necessity. And then they'd bring dessert. And I would literally, as a first-year seminary student, have this crisis of conscience. I don't need this dessert. I enjoy it. Isaiah 58 says, not do what delights me. I misunderstood that chapter of the Bible. And then I would say, but I have to eat it as an act of mercy, or else my hostess will think I am rude And I got myself so wrapped around the axle that I decided, that's it. I can't accept lunch invitations. I'll keep going home after church and just And the best way I can keep the Sabbath is pre-opening a package of ramen noodles on a Saturday night and just popping them in my mouth to thaw out for lunch. I'm not even joking. This is not comedy hours. This is real. And then I thought, what can I do? And I and I would acts of worship. I would read the Puritans. That's one reason I know them so well. And then I got to the realization it was a horrifying day for me. I really, really enjoyed reading the Puritans So in Altamonte Springs there was a little pond and I thought I am gonna spend the Sabbath day in prayer and meditation walking around the the pond. And Florida, it was good weather all fall, and I'd walk around that pond praying, reciting scripture, keeping the Sabbath as best I could And I can remember having the thought, it is so pleasant out here. And I can smell the fragrance of the flowers, and it delights me. So I better be sure that I only breathe as often as I need to. All of that is absolutely true. All of that is absolutely a place where I was spiritually, loving Jesus, wanting to find out what pleasing him meant for me on the Sabbath. And all of that is an example of me profoundly misunderstanding the Sabbath. Profoundly misunderstanding the Sabbath. From the best of places, we can create a legalism that unravels our ability to call the Sabbath a delight. And I want us tonight to look a little bit about what Jesus said to them that helps a young theologian like me understand how I can keep the Sabbath. And delight in it. But before I do that, I want to back up and look at one other thing. I talked about the I talked about the uh the the reaping and the harvesting and the winnowing. Right? Well, what was wrong with the healing, you may ask? Why is it that these Pharisees watched him to see he whether he would heal on the Sabbath? You know, in that 39 forbidden actions that the great synagogue derived, it included building and mending, which included healing. And so you were not allowed on the Sabbath, according to the Pharisees of Jesus' day, to practice any form of medicine unless a life was in danger. And this was just a man with a withered hand. And so Jesus had an opportunity. On the two places he and his disciples were convicted of breaking with the great synagogue and breaking the Sabbath and doing whatever they wanted. In every place where Jesus is rebuked for doing something on the Sabbath, he says, no, I can do that. And what I came to understand in my own theological growth was that it is ironic and maybe a little bit tragic. That many of us have taken to three occasions where Jesus was told, you can't do that, and Jesus said, Oh yes, I can. And we've taken those three things and said, okay, those are the only three things we're allowed to do. I'm not sure it follows as closely as we think. What Jesus is saying here in the first place is that I am the Lord of the Sabbath. And secondly, he says that the Sabbath is for life and blessing. Now, I am the Lord of the Sabbath. Jesus has twice identified himself in this broader section of the Gospel of Luke as the Son of Man. And you'll remember, talked about this some weeks ago. Jesus uses the label for himself, Son of Man, some 80 times in the Gospels. Only Jesus refers to himself as the Son of Man. His disciples never do. The Pharisees never do. The narrators of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John don't. Only Jesus does, and the title Son of Man is only ever applied to him. It's his messianic term that identifies completely with the nature of humanity and incarnation. and utterly identifies with the man from heaven, the glorious divine king who will come to right wrongs and judge. And he says, the Son of Man can forgive sins, and the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. Now I want you to back up with me and think about these things in broader theological terms. Because according to the book of Hebrews, we have yet to enter our Sabbath rest as the people of God. That is theological shorthand for heaven itself, chapter 4 of the book of Hebrews. We want to see to it that we will have that Sabbath rest and will enter that rest. And the Sabbath is always a signpost, a pointer. to that absolute rest and peace and harmony we will have with God for eternity in heaven. And the Sabbath is supposed to be a foretaste of that. The Sabbath is supposed to be something that we celebrate and enjoy life together in. Fundamentally focused on worship and being in the presence of our God in anticipation of heaven itself Share with you something I talked uh well I referred to um Martin Luther. Then I talked about Martin Chemnitz. One of my favorite reformers, of course, is John Calvin. This is what he said in his commentary on this passage from the Gospel of Luke. He says, the only purpose of the Sabbath Was that the people might sanctify God to themselves and practice a true spiritual worship, and then they might be released from all earthly business and joined together in a holy assembly. This legitimate observation should be referred to the purpose, for the interpretation of the law is to be sought from the mind of the legislator. That's Calvin's comment on the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. You see, Jesus is saying to the Pharisees and their disciples, don't tell me how to keep the Sabbath. It's my place to tell you how to keep it. I am the Lord of the Sabbath. I am the great legislator from heaven because I am the Son of Man. And the day is not intended to be a day of scarcity, of solemn abstinence. It is to be a day of celebration and worship. John Calvin goes on to talk about the Pharisees and their ilk in John Calvin's own day in the 1540s and 50s. And he says that sometimes we cannot fail to interpret unfavorably perfectly innocent things, as unfair critics usually do. And it's easy for us to want to ratchet down an exhaustive list of what we can and cannot do on the Sabbath. I remember back in the seventies growing up as a kid and the church my parents attended at that time. It was an issue at some point, I I I know, I don't know how much of an issue it was because I was in the single digits. Um As the cool kids say, that was a minute ago. Um but I remember my dad being in a big debate in the church lobby about whether it was okay for us to watch um Animal Kingdom after the evening service. Some of you remember it was sponsored by Mutual of Omaha. Shout out to all you kids from the early 70s. And uh and whether it was okay to play Monopoly on a Sunday. And for the Birkis family, let me just let you know that it was very wicked to play Monopoly, uh, because invariably it ended with hair pulling, punching, biting And my father slapping the table and saying, That's it boys, we'll try this again when you're a little more mature. And to this day we haven't gotten through a game. Wicked, wicked game It is easy for Christians to infringe upon the liberty of the conscience of other Christians regarding what keeps the Sabbath and what doesn't. But I would say this. The Sabbath is a day for healing, for restoration. Ultimately it's a day for worship It is a day to rest and to remember that Jesus Christ has done everything for us, that we do not need to earn anything. And keeping the Sabbath means resting in the promise and the fulfillment of a covenant God's acts Keeping the Sabbath in Jeremiah chapter 17 and Isaiah chapter 58 meant abstaining from those things that You want to do to keep your delight. That's the word for a sovereign who says it pleases us to have them executed. Okay? Well, that's the same word, pleasure. It's used in that exact same sense And when we think about not simply doing whatever we want on our Sabbath, but keeping it a day to specifically and especially remember That God has promised, God has kept, God has finished, God has come through, God has in Christ said yes to all of his promises. And if we take the day and make the day about remembering and celebrating and resting in that, rather than trying to work out our own salvation, rather than trying to do what we think we have to to speed his coming by some obedience to to somebody's rule. I I remember as a young uh seminarian, I was under care of the Presbytery at the time of the Mid Atlantic Presbytery OPC, and there was a vigorous debate on the floor about how we should keep the Sabbath And one older gentleman, and it pains me to say this, but he was probably in his fifties. One older gentleman was arguing from a strict sabotage perspective, we go out to eat at the restaurant every Sunday because I won't have my wife working in the kitchen. And the other one said, also an old man in his 50s, we will never go out to eat on the Sabbath because it requires other people to work. And I can remember at the time thinking to myself, I was probably 21 or 22 at the time. Thinking, what is the official list? Who keeps it Well, I would say here is the official list. Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath. Make it a day about restoration and life. And yes, pursue works of mercy and necessity and worship. I don't see anything in the scriptures that forbid you From recreation. Isaiah 58 isn't talking about that. That's another sermon. But what is important here is that we see Jesus will not play by the rules of the Pharisees. And this is what is very significant for Christians today. You see, ultimately this is about worldly blessings. Because the Pharisees and their scribes want the Sabbath to be kept so that their version of heaven can exist on earth today. And they are not being agreed with in such a manner that Jesus is actually, by example, encouraging people to break their 39 rules. And from their perspective, Jesus is preventing their version of heaven on earth arriving. And therefore, they're enraged. Because it's not just about Jesus doing what Jesus wants to do. It's about Jesus telling other people not to agree with them, such that their edenic utopia can't be established. And I've often wondered at the outrage in our own culture. And I can't help but see that this text might have some hope for us. Dear Christian. Be heavenly minded. Just like those Pharisees, you have your ideas about what will bring about a more heavenly social solution in a weird time we're living in. And just like these Pharisees, sometimes you're tempted to be enraged at somebody who won't play by your rules. And there might be a call it a secondary or tertiary application that I only bring up because of the season and the time in our culture, in which we have to elevate our vision above that. We're citizens of heaven. We know what will bring utopia. We know the bomb that will ease the soul's hurt of many. And it doesn't have to do with how you're going to vote in a couple days. It really doesn't. It has to do with how you're going to live. Who you're going to talk to and what you're going to say, whether the name of Jesus will be referenced, and whether or not you will invite people to join you in the Sabbath rest that is ours in anticipation. of the glorious return of Christ and our return to heaven, our true home. Sabbath is about God's promise, remembering it and rejoicing in it. Personally and corporately. And I would urge you: do not allow anything to prevent you from keeping the day holy. and worshiping individually and together. And if any of you have gotten yourself painted in a corner where you're walking around Centennial Lake, counting your breaths. Stop. Jesus perfectly fulfilled the law so that you can actually enjoy a slice of pie after lunch on Sunday You can stop and smell the flowers. You can wrap up and bandage your neighbor's wounds. Because Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath, and He's the one who made the rules. Only remember to worship Him For the rest he has given you and invites you to celebrate weekly. So, dear friend Think about the authority of Jesus and how the authority of Jesus in this section of Mark's gospel has been seen to extend to the forgiveness of our sins. and absolute lordship and the right to define everything that is important to us for our happiness. Is he Lord of such things in your life? I also invite you to consider whether or not you will enter a Sabbath rest at the end of this life. That rest reserved for us, that rest for which all of our Sundays are but an anticipation and a signed post aimed at. Has Christ paid the penalty for your sins? Is he the Lord of your life? And will you rest with him? To do so, Romans chapter 10, verse 9 says that if you believe in your heart and confess with your lips that Jesus Christ is Lord, Lord of your Sabbath , The Lord who forgives your sins, you will be saved. Please join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. Lord, we thank you that even when we come to an issue that is fraught with opportunity for fine-tuned disagreement , Even when we come to a day that often invites us to make lists, whether it's the 39 no no's of the great synagogue in 200 B. C. or whatever lists we come up with. Father, we thank you that we are reminded that Jesus, your Son, our Savior, is Lord of the Sabbath, and it is a day in which it is appropriate to meet our needs. To eat grain from the field, to heal the sick, and most of all, O living God, to worship you in spirit and in truth. May all of us be worshipers who anticipate that great Sabbath rest. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.