We turn this morning to Acts chapter six, as we continue in this series looking at the early church and the growth of the church as the gospel would go forth. As you turn there. I was uh preparing for this uh sermon and looking for something that would be able to describe how I came to this passage having not preached this passage specifically on its own before. And it came to me as I was listening to a couple of parents with their young daughter describe what her room looked like. They were sitting with us and they looked at their daughter and they said, Would you like to tell them what your room looked like? And she's a little girl, and she was thinking very hard about what her room looked like, and she wanted to describe it. She loves her room. And she's they said, well what color is your room? And she said, she thought about it and she looked deep in thought and she said, white. And uh you could tell her parents wanted her to describe a little bit more than just the white color. And they said, well, what's above the white? And clearly there's some other colors in the room. What's above the white, they said And she thought about it deeply, and she wasn't sure perhaps what she was going to say, and then it just came to her, and she said, shadows. And and they said, well that's right, the shadows were on the ceiling because of the way the light works in the room and and uh but there's also the other colors, the gray above the white and the other designs. I was thinking about what she said because this young mind and these very new eyes was telling us what it looked like from her perspective. Which is very different than her parents who go into that room every day. It was her perspective. Though she lives there every day, she was looking at it from new eyes, new eyes to us, because remember, she's a small child, and so she will Look up when someone comes into her room, her whole life is looking up. And so of course the first thing that would come to her mind is that, yes, there are other colors, but what I see are shadows and On the ceiling. We as adults would walk into that room and what do we see? We're not looking up. We're looking, because we're told we're looking straight in front of us. And we think we know what things look like because we've become so accustomed to them We've put, at times, unnecessarily, limitations on how we describe things because we've we're accustomed to seeing them that way. And it takes oftentimes the perspective of a child to waken you up from a different perspective That's precisely what happened to me as I began to dig deeply into this passage. I had at least gone to this text many times to teach on why the church has deacons, and it's certainly about that. On the doctrine of setting men aside to serve in this role by laying on of hands, it's certainly that But because I had seen it as a proof text for deacons and for ordaining deacons, I had missed to see what else was in the room. And as I began to study it again, study it more deeply to preach it, I realized there's a lot more in this room. And it is the light of what God, I believe, has given to me and I hope is an encouragement to you. As we turn to Acts chapter 6, verses 1 through 7, to see the gospel of grace and justice In those days, when the number of disciples was increasing, the Grecian Jews among them complained against the Hebraic Jews because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution of food. So the twelve gathered all the disciples together and said, It would not be right for us to neglect the ministry of the Word of God in order to wait on tables. Brothers, choose seven men from among you who are known to be full of the Spirit and wisdom. We will turn this responsibility over to them, and we will give our attention to prayer and the ministry of the Word. This proposal pleased the whole group. They chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, also Philip. Procurus, Nikonor, Timon, Promenus, and Nicholas from Antioch, a convert to Judaism. They presented these men to the apostles who prayed and laid their hands on them. So the word of God spread. The number of disciples in Jerusalem increased rapidly, and a large number of priests became obedient to the faith. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we pray that you would open our eyes, that we would see wondrous things in your word, that you would enable us to see all that there is to see in this room as you've invited us through your servant Luke, who's recorded this for us, into the room of the early church. to see how they dealt with conflict in the early church and how it gave an opportunity for the gospel of grace and justice to be preached and lived out. Help us, Lord, to be the body of Christ, the church of Christ that you desire us to be. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The predicament that the early church found itself in is in many ways no different than the predicament we find ourselves in. They had their conflict, we have our conflict. But what is the source of that conflict in one way, shape, or another? That conflict, as the scriptures would teach us, is indeed the consequences of sin, which is at the center of the human nature, the problem that is broken out in human life, in all of human history. Pastor Tim Keller writes about the problem of sin and how it begins to unfurl itself and the consequences and how it begins to infect human relationships when he writes these words. When humanity turned away from God, rejecting his rule and kingdom, the third chapter of Genesis spells out the result in comprehensive detail. Sin entered the world to deface and mar everything that had been made. Because we became estranged from God And we also are alienated from our true selves and from each other. Our primal self-absorption has led to profound social evil To war, crime, family, breakdown, oppression, and injustice. When we lost our relationship with God, the whole world stopped working right The whole world was filled with hunger, sickness, aging, and physical death. Because our relationship with God has broken down shalom Is gone spiritually, psychologically, socially, and physically. The early church Having been transformed as those who were followers of the Jewish faith have now been converted here in Jerusalem to the Christian faith Sin was still present. It was beginning to cause conflict. We already heard it a few weeks ago as Pastor Flora led us through the sermon on dealing with Ananias and Sapphira. And we see now that conflict is broken out still here among these house churches, because that's what they were. They were house churches spread around Jerusalem. And that sin was beginning to infect them, infect their relationships, and how they dealt with those who were hungry, those who were needy. Here specifically, they deal with the problem of widows. But why do we have this passage? Is this passage simply there for us as the church to proof text and to be able to say, oh yeah, we need deacons? And and we need to lay part set them aside by laying on of hands. Is that what it's there for? I don't believe it is. I believe it's there for us to see, first of all, that there was conflict and how the church dealt with the conflict. But secondly, and more importantly, is to see how the gospel of grace and justice, together, the whole gospel, brings about restoration. It brings about restoration of relationships. It brings about a restoration of the full gospel being preached. And the result of that. The result of that is this. We hear it in verse 7. Now the word of God spread, the number of the disciples in Jerusalem increased rapidly, and a large number of priests became obedient to the faith. That means the priests who were members of the Sanhedrin, who were just the ones one chapter earlier, who were persecuting the apostles. You remember, if you were with us last week, at the end of chapter 5, the apostles were defending why they were preaching Christ. They were being forced to not preach Christ, but they did it anyway. And so the Sanhedrin, that is, the religious and political leaders of the Jewish nation at that time were going to give them punishment. That punishment was whips. And after they were whipped, much like their Savior had been whipped, they leave there, and we learn that they rejoiced because they were counted worthy of the name. To suffer for the name of Christ. And then the passage says this. And so they went in the temple courts from house to house. They never stopped teaching and proclaiming the good news that is Jesus the Christ. That means they went back into Jerusalem. They were preaching in the temple, but they were also going house to house. It's because churches didn't have buildings like this. When the Christian church came about, these converts from Judaism were meeting in people's homes. And so it would go from house church to house church. And as they were, the gospel, it tells us, was going forth. In verse 1, it says: and in those days the number of disciples was increasing, the church was growing. But then something happened. An issue arose. And so as we look at this passage this morning, we're going to look at this issue. First, the conflict in the early church. Secondly, maintaining the whole gospel, and then finally the word of God spread. Conflict in the early church. We see that in verses 1 and 2. And what we learn in verses 1 and 2, we learn the context of this conflict. We learn what the conflict is, and we don't know this from the passage, but we need to know a little bit of history of why it was a big issue. So let's look at the conflict. And I I don't know about you, and it's this. If you're a Christian, we need to be very thankful that these things are still recorded for us in Scripture. Because guess what? We need to know that the church, in its earliest, most simple form, struggled deeply in relationship with each other. As young Christians who are witnesses of the resurrection of Christ, who become believers, are still wrestling in relationship with each other. I find that very encouraging. I find it encouraging that someone recorded it because of this. It's a demonstration for how the gospel should be applied to issues of discipline. How do we deal with conflict in the church? If the church does not deal with conflict from within, what happens? It'll implode. It might grow for a time, but conflict unaddressed will hurt the name of Christ. It'll hurt relationships among the body of Christ. And the gospel will not fully go forth. And so I'm thankful that it's here. It's instructful for us. So let's look at then. And what's the context? The context of the conflict is this: it's house churches. And you'll notice in the passage it says there were those who were Greek-speaking Jews, or what they were known as Hellenistic Jews, and those who were Hebraic Jews. What's the difference? The difference is this. The Hebraic Jews, by and large, were those who still who were converts to Christianity, who were still speaking Hebrew as their primary language. Largely was made up of those who either lived in Jerusalem or in its immediate vicinities, its suburbs, if you will. But there were also those who spoke Greek. And Hebrew, but they did not speak Hebrew as their primary language. They usually spoke Greek. The reason for that is because the Hellenistic Jews, as they were known, were a part of the diaspora. So during the time of the Roman occupation, persecution of the Jews was widespread. And because of earlier persecution, Jews were spread throughout the Roman Empire. And so they would travel to Jerusalem for the high holy days. And in this case, in what happened was these diaspora who came to Jerusalem to worship the Lord also in that time became converted, either directly under the ministry of Jesus or directly through the ministry of the apostles. And so they lived now in Jerusalem. So imagine First church on 2nd Street in Jerusalem in a few houses. There were those who were worshiping together in these houses. Maybe, let's say, for example, there were 15 or 20 in a house. Let's say there were seven Hebraic Jews and 13, you know, Hellenistic Jews. One who primarily liked to speak Greek and one who and understood Hebrew, but the other liked to speak Hebrew but understood Greek. What could go wrong? And they've all been converted to Christianity. I can't imagine the conflicts that could happen. Think of the after-worship meals. Yes, we know that the Lord coming makes all food clean, but can I still bring lamb? Or should I just bring matzah? What songs do we sing? How do we pray? What scriptures are going to be taught? How are we going to help each other? Because we know they were seeking to help each other. We know they were helping each other because earlier on in Acts there were some who had need. They were willing to sell their houses to provide for those who had need. We also know that among those we had this Ananias and Sapphira who decided to defraud God, defraud the church, all for the sake of putting out there that they were righteous, but internally they were completely empty. There were some serious issues. So the conflict is that the Hellenistic Jews, the Greek-speaking Jews, were like, hey folks, guess what? Our widows are not being cared for and being fed as much as the Hebraic Jewish widows are. And so they bring it to the leadership. So that's the context and the conflict. Some widows were being fed, others were not. Now, scholars disagree at times that was it food, it could have been money as well. Either way, not everyone was being cared for. Now, why was this an issue? Because it was an issue because of the history of this particular issue. See, we look at this passage and we think, oh, it's an issue of the widows, and we need to take care of the widows, except That if they were Jewish as they were, they would have understood that when you're talking about providing for widows, you're not just talking about providing for widows only. Widows were specifically those who were who were without husbands, who needed care, but widows also represented a larger group of people who had need. It's all over the Old Testament. Let me give you just two passages. That they would have had in their minds, that they would have known. The first is from Exodus chapter 22. Now, this is a reading from the law. It's God telling his people Israel how they're to care. for those in their midst. He says, you shall not wrong a sojourner, think immigrant. Okay? You shall not wrong a sojourner or oppress him. For you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, they will cry out to me, and I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows. And your children fatherless. How important was it to the Lord to care for the widows and the orphans and the sojourner? This passage tells us it was very important. So the question is: if that was delivered to Israel, how did Israel, the church of the Old Testament, how did they do in this category? Well, as the years would go by, we would learn that their scorecard was not too good. Indeed, in a passage in Ezekiel, we hear God speaking through the prophet Ezekiel and saying to the nation of Israel, Nation of Israel, you remember Sodom and Gomorrah? Remember their sins and how great you thought they were? Your sins are greater. Your sins are not caring for the widows and for the hungry in your midst. Now that, if you know anything about the Old Testament, that's a striking statement. And let me say to the church of the 21st century. The church is still caught up in trying to make sexual sin something that gets all the attention. The scriptures will not have it. It is one among many. And the Lord brought it to the nation of Israel's attention. But it is in Isaiah chapter 58 that we hear God confronting the nation of Israel, particularly in their worship. And he says this through the prophet Isaiah about true and false fasting. Cry aloud Do not hold back. Lift up your voice like a trumpet. Declare to my people, says the Lord, their transgression to the house of Jacob, their sins. Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways, as if they were a nation that did righteousness, and did not forsake the judgment of their God. They ask of me righteous judgments, they delight to draw near to God. They say to me, we have fasted. Do you not see it? We have humbled ourselves. Have you no knowledge of it, Lord? And the Lord is saying, this is what the nation of Israel is saying to me. And then the Lord responds to the nation of Israel. To its appeal to its own righteousness, by saying these words through the prophet Isaiah. Say to them, Will you call this day a fast, a day acceptable to the Lord? Is not this the fast that I chose to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free? To break every yoke? Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house, when you see the naked to cover him, not to hide your face from your own flesh? Then shall your light break forth like the dawn, and your healing shall spring up speedily. Your righteousness shall go before you, and the glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard. And then he makes the promise to Israel, if they hear his call to care for those in their midst, He says, This is what I will do for you. I will satisfy the desire of the afflicted, and I shall make your light rise in the darkness, and your gloom shall be as light in the noonday. He will outshine the sun. And the Lord will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places And make your bones strong, and you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water whose waters do not fail, and your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt. And then hear this. He says, You shall raise up the foundations of many generations. You shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of the streets to dwell in. Here's what he is saying. There is a breach. That breach, first and foremost, is a spiritual breach between humanity and a holy God. And God has repaired that breach through Jesus Christ, His Son, who died for our sins, but was raised victorious on the resurrection day, victorious over sin and death. So he has repaired the breach to reconcile us between us and God. Reconcile us to him through Christ if you believe in the Lord Jesus. But he also means to be the repairer of the breach relationally, horizontally between us A repairer of the breach of those who are hungry, those who are naked, those who are homeless, those who are widowed, those who are orphaned. Because remember, as I quoted earlier from Keller, the effect of sin is broad and wide-ranging and affects every facet of human life. So, therefore, as the grace of God comes to work to repair the breach with us spiritually, relationally with Him, He means to bring restoration to those who have need in our midst. You see. This would have been the history that these Hellenistic Jews and Hebraic Jews would have known that if we allow widows in our midst to not be cared for We are disobeying the Lord. We are not honoring Him. And when that conflict arose in the church, if it was not addressed. The church would have imploded. There would have been wars against the Hebraic Jews and the Hellenistic Jews. But thanks be to God, folks, that the Lord opens up for us this passage and shows us exactly how the early church responded. And it responded by giving to us this gospel, of demonstrating to us how it's to be lived by maintaining the whole gospel, verses 3 through 6. And what it shows us is that this early church, the apostles respond, they heard perhaps complaint, but instead of allowing it to grow out of control, they lead. And the apostle said, here's what we're going to do. We need to do two things. One, we need to keep the priority of the word and the priority of justice. Priority of the word, priority of care. And they say this. Now it looks like it's kind of just sort of brushing it off, but this is what they say. They said, So the twelve gathered all the disciples together and said, It would not be right for us to neglect the ministry of the Word of God in order to wait on tables. I don't know if you've ever read that before, but when you read that, it almost sounds like, hey guys, can you go take care of this so we can keep up here preaching? It's the way it sounds, but that that's not the way they understood it. You know why? They didn't have a view of waiting on tables like we often do as Westerners. We often see waiting on tables as a pathway to your real career. Right? So the issue is for them, what they liter literally mean is we need to be Keeping the priority of the word while at the same time we need to make sure those who have need in our midst are served. The word wait on tables there is the word serve. It's where we get the word deacon, deakonos. But here it's in verb form. We would say deaconing, serving. Deacon is not yet a formalized noun yet at this part of the early church. It will become later. But that's what they're doing, they're serving. But notice what they do simultaneously. They talk about preserving the preaching of the word three times in seven verses. So they want to keep the priority of the word central and its preaching and teaching. And I want to say this by way of vision for Columbia Presbyterian Church. In our day, the idea of doing sermons perhaps is growing sort of old-fashioned. But we believe, and will always believe, regardless of where the cultural winds blow, that preaching the Word of God will always be central to our ministry. Because if I do not, and if Pastor Flora does not, and whoever else will preach from this pulpit, if they do not preach the word, what else then do we have to offer but sanctify good advice? You see, it's precisely through the preaching of the word that this conflict arose. That means that the word of God was working. And so the preaching of the word is central to the lifeblood of the church. If we fail to preach the word and keep it as a priority, or Try to push it to the side and push other things to the center. The church will die a very slow death. Throughout the history of the church, it's always been seeing great, amazing growth when the Word of God is brought from the sidelines back to the center where it belongs. So we will always be a church that seeks to experience and extend the grace of Christ through the preaching of the word. But at the same time as they do that, they also uphold the priority of justice. See, the justice that needed to be done is this. They were not experiencing peace. They were disagreeing with each other. And when there is the lack of shalom, where is there the lack of well-being, and for these widows there was a lack of well-being, that means justice was not being done. They were not being cared for. And so for them they said, Choose among you men who are full of the Spirit and wisdom. This is important. They called the entire church together and said, choose among you those who are full of the Spirit and wisdom. That means the church needed to be praying. Let me say to you, I want to thank you, and I know I say this on behalf of Pastor Flora too, I want to thank you for so many of you who say you pray for those of us who are charged with delivering the word to you. Thank you for those prayers, but I want to say on behalf of our diaconate, please do not put the priority of your prayers anywhere like the preaching is up here, but the deacons are down here. Please be praying for the elders and deacons of your church equally. Because you see, deaconing, as this passage teaches us, The priority of justice, a priority of care is an extension of the preaching of the word You see, if all you're doing is if all we're doing is preaching the word, but we're not caring for those who have need in our midst and all to whom God may bring to us, if we're failing to do that, the church then will also implode. Because it will grow old and no one will come because the gospel's falling on ten ears. We're not helping. So we're called to uphold both. So pray for your deacons. Why? Because of this. Can you imagine for just a moment the complexities that are involved with caring for those who have need? I don't care whether it's homelessness. I don't care whether it's hunger. I don't care whether it's orphans. I don't care whether it's widows. Reg Regardless of what those issues are, take any one of them and it would take. years to truly try to plumb the depths of the complexities for why people are in those situations and the pain and the loss and the brokenness that it often invades that space. Reg So we have in our midst a group of men who we have ordained, you have elected and called, and we've ordained, and we have set them out to go into work with those who have felt needs within our body and those who come into our our presence every week who have need, let me say to you, it requires equal amounts of wisdom and wholly inspired guidance to do that work as it does to do and prepare for a sermon. Pray for your deacons. They love you, they care for you And they need to be men who are encouraged to grow in wisdom and to be full of the Spirit, that we would see in their care the fruit of the Spirit, we would see the hands and feet of Christ when they bring a meal. When they offer a gift or assistance that you didn't even imagine asking for but you received. Or those who come into our presence on a weekly basis who have need, there are many. And quietly, silently, and oftentimes at their own sacrifice of time and skill, that is taking place here. Because we as a church don't just want to have the priority of the preached word, we also want to have the other priority of justice. But it's so easy to fall off on one side or the other. If all we do is justice, ministry, or social gospel, or social ministry, and leave the Word of God aside, Then we too will die on the vine. We will become ineffective. Because we might as well just be another nonprofit agency carrying for the poor because we have more to offer than food and clothing and housing. We also have the eternal food, the Word of God The Church of Jesus Christ that is here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. I don't know if you've thought about this before, and if you have. And if this is the first time, let us then commit to one another that we will pray that the whole gospel would be maintained here because it was being challenged at the earliest parts of the church. But it was being dealt with. So why do we have deacons? Why do we nominate them and elect them and train them and ordain them? Why do we do that? Because it is the calling of the Lord. And we see it here. So, how are we doing as a congregation? Of course, we have plenty of room to grow. But I have a word of encouragement for you. My wife and I were transformed when we were interviewing for this role, when we sat in with our deacons. And heard of the mercy ministries of this congregation at the end of it as they went around the table. Both my wife and I spoke about afterward how we were brought to tears because We see the grace of Christ not just being experienced and preached, but extended That's happening today. Today, if you participated in the baby bottle um, you know, giveaway you know that you took baby bottles and filled them with change and checks and money and so forth, and you're going to turn those in today, by the way, this is an announcement, to the to the table in the foyer. I'm, you know, I'm like Paul Harvey all of a sudden. So it's right there in the foyer. But at the same time, whatever amount of money is given by you for this ministry that seeks to care for women who are finding themselves in unplanned pregnancies To care for them physically and spiritually and practically, then they if whatever that gift is, the deacons are also giving a matching gift. to the Columbia Pregnancy Center, which has been here for some time, right in the center of Columbia, but many of us didn't know it was there. They're too doing that same work Likewise, on this coming Friday, the deacons are hosting a thing called open table. And at this open table, it's going to be an opportunity to come alongside our deacons and consider ways in which we can come along other organizations in this community. to care for a population of young people who are graduating out of the foster care system. Where do they go? Where do they gain mentoring? Where do they gain wisdom and instruction and care? We have an opportunity to do that. Our deacons are hosting this. There's Route One ministry. There's ministries going on in Howard County that we participate in in Baltimore, but I want to say this very strongly. Please let us not fall into the trap, as so many do, of looking for the poor in the inner city. The truth is, the census numbers are telling us that increasingly the poor cannot afford to live in inner city Baltimore or in Washington. Do you know why? Because of this word which is often known as gentrification. Or another phrase we like to use, it's an up and coming neighborhood And when that happens, those who have been living there for a long time, the businesses that they worked at, are no longer there because they've been sold for developers. They can no longer afford the tax base. So guess where many of the poor are moving to? The suburbs. And guess what kind of suburbs they're moving to? Places exactly like Columbia, or Laurel, or Elk Ridge, Ellicate City. And they go by phrases like working poor, and they're known by statistics and data. Imagine for just a moment how hard it would be on a rainy day like we've experienced recently. To have to rely on public transit to get to your job in Howard County. A commute that could take you up to three hours on a good day. We have many people who are working very hard to provide for themselves but who are falling behind, who are looking to organizations and who are looking to churches to help. We have an opportunity. And I want to thank you for the ways in which you have responded time and time and time again to those who have need. The grace of God, the holistic gospel, is working itself out. In this body. May God continue to inspire us with the whole gospel to say, Lord, how would you want to send us? With the word and deed of the gospel. Do you see? I'll end with this because I'm going to run out of time. The word of God spread. It tells us that in verse 7. When it says, So the Word of God spread, the number of the disciples in Jerusalem increased rapidly, and a large number of priests became obedient to the faith. What is amazing about this is that oftentimes in our Western and I will say oftentimes preacher-centric culture We we generally see that and say, you see, they got they got freed up to preach the word and and it went forth. But I don't believe that's supposed that's how we're supposed to read that passage. Here's what I believe. Yes, they were preaching the word, and it went forth. But do you know why they were able to preach and move forward? It's because those who had need were being cared for. The holistic gospel was being lived out. We cannot preach and care for the body spiritually as elders. If we also don't have the extension of the ministry of the word in our deacons. And by the way, Stephen was the first martyr. The deacon who got up and preached, who is the first martyr of the church that we will look at next week. So deacons aren't down here, they're right here with us. Central to the ministry of the Word is also Deed. And the Word went forth boldly. Why? Is it because as the watching world looked in at this newly formed church? What did they see? They saw the gospel bringing restoration, the whole gospel, the sojourner, the widow, the orphan. We're being cared for. And Jesus Christ, who is the ultimate Savior, who cared and took care of the breathing. The breach between us and God through the cross of Christ then equips us to be a people who run into the breach with the Word and with the gospel of Word and Deed. Amen. Let's pray. Father, make us a people who have not only received the gospel of word and deed, but who are a people equipped by your Spirit. To go forth to serve those who have need. Lord, we could spend so much time on this one subject, but Lord, we thank you for this your word and how you address the conflict in the early church. And how the gospel went forth. So, Lord, help us to apply the whole gospel in our midst and that you may bring restoration to us and through us. As Christ is building his church. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.