Well I couldn't just do a message without feeling Though it may not be the kind of message that you might expect. What I want to deal with this morning is the question: how do you give thanks and praise to God when everything in you You're tempted to say, from the circumstances that you're in, that God is not faithful. When everything in you says that his promises are not reliable. When the question is burning in you is, where is he? Where is God at this time in my life? How can I thank him for his promises when as far as I can see, they're not being fulfilled How can I do that when I see the tension between the word and the world, in my own personal life or in the world at large? This is the conflict of praise. The conflict that I want to consider this morning. When the word and the world come into tension Tension recipe unresolvable in our own experience. But this is exactly the problem that is addressed in Psalm 89. The responsive reading that we read together just a few minutes ago dealt with the first thirty-seven verses in which we spoke glorious praise to our Thanksgiving, hallelujah, for his wonders, and in particular for his faithfulness That's what we dwell on, if you notice it, through that song, through those verses that you read. But God was faithful. And in particular, we dwelt on God's promise to David. That he would set a king on David's throne who would rule forever. And so his promise to David is a promise in which God has saved him forever That's what we just crave out here. And here we see if you take a look out in your bulletin, I think it's around page fifty-three you'll find the uh uh bulletin outline here. So rifle through your notebooks and dig it out. Um For those who are listening to the tape who don't get that if you have an exceedingly full bulletin this morning. And when you've dug out that uh outline on the conflict of pages, see that the first thing you consider in those verses is the height of God's character. and his promises. And after we just spoke to God, we just read that to each other and read that to the Lord. We spoke to him of the height of his character and of his promises. So the first 37 verses we just read broke into break into four sections. You see, first of all, in verses 1 and 2, an introductory statement about God's character, and in particular about his statement. That statement is then expanded in verses 5 to 18. The outline should say 5 to 18, not 8 to 18, so they don't change that That's expanded in verses 5 to 18. There are two sections. Then in verses 3 and 4, we have a statement particularly about God's promise to David. That general statement is then expanded in verses 19 to 37. They have a general introduction, verses 1 and 2, about God's faithfulness, expanded in verses 5 to 18. And then a general statement about God's promise to David, verses three and four, expanded in verses nineteen to thirty-seven. First of all, this statement about God's character, then we read in verses 1 and 2, I will sing of the love of the Lord forever. With my mouth I will make known your faithfulness. Through all generations, I will declare that your love stands firm forever, and that you establish your faithfulness in heaven itself. Now there are two key words in this poem. The words forever and the words faithfulness You trace those and you'll find that the words forever and related words that mean the same thing, like through all generations, and the word faithfulness and words that are related to it like stand firm each appear 14 times. That's uh interesting number, double seven. But each of those concepts appears 14 times in this song. They predominate. They're the thread that runs through it You see the pattern from verse 23 there. You see the the pattern of forever, stand firm, like Jesus, yeah, forever, through all ages, forever I will sing of the Lord forever, verse 1. Make name your faithfulness to all generations. Your love stands from forever Forever, small generations, forever. You see faithfulness, the same kind of pattern. Faithfulness, stand firm, faithfulness. With my mouth I'll make your faithfulness, man. Your love stands firm forever. is to establish your faithfulness in heaven itself. Their repetition and the interweaving of these two concepts runs throughout the entire psalm. And their expanding. You see the idea of faithfulness. uh expanded in verses uh five for instance. Uh the heavens praise for your wonders, O Lord, your faithfulness too, and your Assembly of the Holy One, verse 8. O Lord God Almighty, who is like you, you are mighty, O Lord, and your faithfulness surrounds you. And verse 14: Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Love and faithfulness. go before you. You see this also in the idea of forever being repeated again and again. Then in particular you have the promise to David. Now that's the second part of it. in God's character, in uh the height of God's character and promises. We focus on his character, a character of faithfulness that is forever. And then the promise seizes on one particular illustration of that. He says there's one illustration I want to focus on about the fact that God is faithful forever. And that's his promise to David. The promise he was given to David in 2 Samuel chapter 7 Where God said that he would establish a king on David's throne forever. And that is God's promise. It's a promise summed up in verses 3 and 4 and then expanded in 19 to 37 You see there that he is a king forever, verse 4. I'll establish your line forever. Let your throne form through all generations That scene is picked up again in verse 28. I will maintain my love to him forever. My covenant with him will never fail. Verse 29, I will establish his line forever and his throne as long as the heavens endure. Verse 33, I will not take my love from him, nor will I ever betray my faith from him. Verse 36 His mind will continue forever, and his throne endure before me like the sun. He will be established forever like the me, the faithful witness in the sun. Not only is this going to be a thing forever, Ethan, who's written this. That's in the Psalms from Ethan, so you're not familiar with that, but Ethan Ezrahite, you notice, wrote this. Ethan not only points to the fact that this will be a thing forever according to the promise, but of course it will come to pass because God is faithful in his promise. When God makes a covenant promise, he's faithful in. We see that. to declared in the beginning and then it's picked up. Notice in verse nineteen. You once spoke in a vision to your faithful people, people who have received your your uh mercies and who are therefore in covenant with you in faithfulness. And uh so how does he speak? Well verse 24, my faithful love, God says, will be with him. Not just his love, it's his faithful love, will be with him, and through my name his glory or his power will be exalted Verse 28, I will maintain my love to him forever, and my covenant will never fail. It'll be satire. Verse 33, I'll not take my love for him, nor will I ever be trust My faithfulness. Verse 34, I will not violate my covenant. That is I'll be faithful to him. I'll never even alter what my lips have uttered, not utter alter one syllable of the promises that I give I'll be faithful to them. Verse thirty-seven. It will be established forever like the moon. He's the faithful witness in the sky. And I think to see the point, actually, he could not God has made a promise forever and God is faithful to that promise. That's what you expect in the Bible. Faith. Except when you come to verse 38 Because when you come to verse thirty-eight, you're into a stop. In verse thirty-eight, we're hit with a great big fight In contrast to the glorious, forever promises and declaration of God's faithfulness, what do we read in the rest of the Psalms? How has in fact God treated his promise to David? And now let's read the scripture for the rest of the Psalm, verses 38 to 52. Follow along But you have rejected. You have spurned. You have been very angry with your anointed one. You've renounced the covenant with your servants. And you've defiled his crown in the dust. You've broken through all his walls and reduced his strongholds to ruin. All who passed by have plundered him. He has become the foreign of his name. He has exalted the right hand of his foes He has made all his enemies to rejoice. He has turned back the edge of his sword and has not supported him in battle. He has put an end to his splendor. He has cast his flame to the ground. You cut short the veins of your youth. You cover them with a mantle of shame. How long, O Lord, do you hide yourself forever How long will your wrath burn like fire? Remember how fleeting is my life. For what these pillages have created all men What man can live and not see death or save himself from the power of the grace? Oh Lord, where is your form of greatness? Where can your faithfulness before the greatness? Remember, Lord, how your servant is in mock, how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the nations The taunts with which your enemies have mocked the Lord, with which they've mocked every step of your manager. Praise be to the Lord forever. Amen and Amen. Now from the hope, God's character and promises we need to be set of current experience You see in these verses 38 to 51, three different parts. At least uh yes, these verses uh 51. That's the second section And in those verses there are three parts. First of all, there are the heavy assertions of Ezra, and excuse me, of Ethan, and the Ezra, Ezrahite. even make some heavy assertions to God. You notice he says, um God used been very angry with you and all this. You've rejected him. You furned him. Uh apparently this was written after the fall of Jerusalem. Well you notice in verse 40 he says he's broken through all his walls and he's beat his stronghold to ruins. So it's apparently that time. We don't know just It that is after Jerusalem has been taken into captivity and has been reduced to rubbish. And uh Ethan looks at that situation and he says it doesn't square with the promise. In fact, he says in verse 39, you have renounced the covenant. That word there for renounce in Hebrew means to disdain something. To see this peacefully, to describe it as a piece of sense. That's what Ethan cries out to die. He doesn't care. He can God has discarded the covenant. You've defiled it. Notice in verse forty-four in time fast to all the glorious forever of the first part of the psalm. He says, You put an end to his splendor. There's no forever. You put an end to it. You've cast his throne to the ground. Again, contrast to forever. You cut short the days of his youth, and you've covered him with a mantle of shame Everything that I see tells me that you have renounced the covenant. Now those are the heavy assertions Then we move on to some hard questions. Beginning in verse forty-six. First of all, has the promise to David ended Now that's the implication, the implied question of all of verse thirty-eight to forty-five. David uh even saying here, everything I see implies God you've ended this covenant. Not forever. It's gone into the dust. It's not forever. Then secondly, he explicitly asked, Will you hide yourself forever? Verse 46. He says, How long, O Lord? Will you hide yourself forever? But rather than showing your covenant forever, it seems like you're going to hide yourself forever. And then he complains about his life. You notice how he says to me in a very human way, Lord, you're going to hide yourself forever. Remember how sleeping is my life. So what utility has created all men. What even saying here is Lord, don't tell me now about how you're going to vindicate yourself later on. I can't live around for a thousand years to get all this insight on what you're going to do But Lord, my life's very short. Then I'm pleading with you, Lord. Vindicate yourself now. Lord, my life is so short and everything I can see fares with you on safe The Lord he says in verse 48, How can a man live and not through death or save himself from the power of the grave? Lord, I need to see the work now. Then he asks servants, where is your faith I've sung about it, I've heard about it. Where is it? Verse 49. Lord, where is your former great love? We can your faithfulness destroyed in it. Where is it, Lord? I don't see it. The result of all of this is our heart is engraved in. Notice verses fifteen and fifty-one Remember, Lord, how your servant has been mocked, how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the nations, the taunts with which your enemies have mocked their nations with which they've marked every step of the anointed one. Notice what each is saying there you say, I bear in my heart the point to your anointed one. Ethan, why are you taking that so personal? But there's nothing in this album that talks about any personal discomfort to Ethan. Nothing here is talking about how his home has been wrecked. Nothing here is talking about his security. Yet he says I bear in my heart the pain of this is something that affects me so most intimately, personally. Why? Why is that? Why does he even take this so personally? I'll tell you why. Because God's charity is expensive that. And God's charity is something that even cannot be going. We have a parallel kind of situation in the book of Daniel. In Daniel chapter 9, verse 1 to 19. Don't look at it now and take a look at it verse mean. But in Daniel chapter nine you have the end of the 70 years captivity. What did God say? He said, I'm going to take my people away and I'm going to punish them, don't put them into captivity for 70 years And at the end of seventy years they'll be released. And in Daniel Mind you have a situation at the end of that seventy years, where Daniel is looking about him and he doesn't see any evidence that this captivity is about to end. And so Daniel says, Hey Lord, there's a problem here. Lord, you promised that this captivity is going to go only going to be for seven years. Seven years are over, Lord. What are you going to do about that? Where the I can't just sit by and watch you be unfaithful to your promise. You see, the question has to do with the one who made the promise. Now you notice that in both cases, Daniel and Ethan, their major concern is not their suffering their insecurity. Daniel's concern in Daniel mind is never, he never mentioned anything about his own concern about being in captivity Ethan doesn't mention anything in Psalm eighty nine about his own personality.