Amen. If anyone does sin, we have an advocate of the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. The departure of the children means that we have children's worship down the hallway in the cafeteria. The advantage of having one service, or the benefit, I guess, is that uh we may have a more fully staffed set of weeks of children's worship. If you're interested in helping out with either the nursery or the children's worship, I'm sure that there is probably someone who would receive your help gladly. I don't know of any immediate need of that sort. So we have before us uh John chapter three and verses fourteen to twenty-one. I'm going to read that in just a moment, but I I wonder if if I were to say in the next 60 seconds, we're going to do a little exercise. We're going to find someone in the room and we're going to spend 60 seconds and you're going to share with them the gospel message. You're going to proclaim the gospel to somebody in the room, and then they'll in turn do the same thing Now I said if we're not going to do that, the chairs are too loud and all this stuff and we're already short on time, but would you be comfortable with that assignment? Where's your comfort level right now, even with the notion that it might possibly happen? And if called upon to present the gospel in a concise fashion, what would you include? Would you tell someone that God has a wonderful plan for their life? Would you tell them that there is wealth and riches untold? here on earth to be had, kingdom now? Would you tell them that church membership and extra percent and tithing is A part of that 60-second gospel presentation? You might even quote John 3. 16. What do you think? Well, it's imperative as we the church realize who the church really is being off campus. If there was ever any association with a building, that can be set aside. It's imperative for we, the church, to know the message that has saved us, has brought us life, and that we have been privileged to proclaim to the world. To all the world, for whoever believes, there is eternal life waiting So I would offer up a simple definition of the gospel. And even this morning, as I was thinking about this, I wanted to add one more thing. But time me and see if I can get this out in sixty seconds or less. The good news of God is this, that Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God, demonstrated the love of God for sinners as he was condemned for our sins. died in our place on the cross, paid the penalty our sins deserved, providing forgiveness for our sins, so that by God's grace we could live by faith have credited to us the righteousness that God requires by believing in his perfect life, his substitutionary death, and his triumphant resurrection from the dead to the praise of the glory of God above. That's the gospel. That's the good news. Why is it so important, Christian? Because without that message, you're not a Christian. If you don't believe that message, you're not safe. If you believe something else, something less, something out there There awaits for you a judgment where you give an account for your righteousness. Why is it important for the church? Because there is no true church apart from that message. There is no true church. Sure, we have a ministry that goes down to Route 1 and meets with homeless people. There are food banks that we supply and monies that we give. There are mission trips that we take and endeavors that we uh uh uh take on as a church, but that's not what makes us the church. It's this message. And I can't think of a better time for the people of God to get Firm the message of God than when we're off kilter, off campus, nomadic This message affects the way we worship. A shallow understanding of the gospel, shallow worship. An exuberant and deepening, ever-deepening understanding of Almighty God taking on flesh, dying in your place, produces exuberant and joy. Filled worship. And that's what we want. This message changes marriages. This message transforms lives. This message restores sinners to a holy God. It's important. So we have before us a very familiar passage. Is the adage familiarity breeds contempt true? I yes, just go on vacation with friends. You'll find that out pretty quickly. But I would offer another adage, and what we must pray against and actively plead with God to prevent occurring in our hearts, and that is familiarity breeds apathy. We could probably quote John 3. 16 altogether. And yet God save us. From becoming so familiar with those words that we lose the message of what is being communicated there So let me read from John's Gospel chapter 3, an encounter that Jesus Christ had with a A religious teacher, a member of the Sanhedrin. He was a ruler in the Pharisees. A man named Nicodemus came to visit Jesus Christ at night. And we'll pick up the uh interaction in verse 14. Jesus says these words. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness So must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already. is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light because their deeds were evil. For everyone who does wicked things, hates the light, does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light. so that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been carried out in God Let me pray for us. Gracious God, we ask that you would bless this time of preaching. Please, Lord, work through me the message. By your grace, would you send your spirit forth now in power to reach and touch the hearts of those that have gathered here Lord, wherever they might be in their understanding of you, Lord Jesus, wherever we might be in our maturity level, would you please now meet us at the point of our greatest need. We ask for these things in Christ. Amen. That's why we've come here today That's why Nicodemus went to Jesus at night. He wanted to see who Jesus was. He wanted to find out more. Chapter 3 of God John's Gospel tells us that Nicodemus started and he says, We know that you're a a teacher from God. We know that you're from God. present to us the factual knowledge that you're special. And it's interesting, if you read the first part of the chapter chapter three, it's interesting That Nicodemus is kind of saying, you know, we we're Pharisees and we teach the law. We know, Rabbi, that you're a teacher of the law. We we should get together. We should, you know, w we you can come and fellowship with us and we'd like to fellowship with you. Who knows why Nicodemus went at night? John doesn't give us a an interesting uh aside and says, Nicodemus was embarrassed, Nicodemus was uh, you know, hideous. It just says He came at night for some reason wanting to invent. Maybe he was busy. You know, there's a lot of busy people during the day. But for whatever reason, John puts that in there significantly So that we see that this is a private meeting. A meeting where Nicodemus may be bringing something to Jesus and saying, hey We understand that you're a teacher of the law. We're teachers of the law too. And look at how Jesus doesn't even acknowledge the statement. Unless one is born from above, you cannot see the kingdom of God. Okay. See how the dialogue between Nicodemus and Jesus goes Jesus' way. The dialogue between you and Jesus, it gonna go Jesus' way. Every time. You bring whatever question, whatever statement, whatever characteristic about the Lord of glory that you want, but if you investigate him His way, he's gonna speak to your need. And I think that's what we see here. I think that's why the the statement is so odd. It's like we are teachers of the law, we understand you're a teacher of the law, and Jesus says, unless Unless you're born from above, unless you're born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus, you know, the back and forth, how can a man enter into his mother's womb again? And Jesus continues with this line that truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born of the water and of the Spirit, You cannot enter the kingdom of God. Now for the Jewish teacher, he would know that a usage of water there, of water, of W-A-T-E-R. However, I'm supposed to pronounce it, he would know that the use of the word water means purification, because that's what it was to the Jew. So unless you are pure, and unless you are, whatever this phrase is, born of the Spirit or born from above, unless you are pure and spiritually born, you cannot enter the kingdom of God. See where this this is where the dialogue is. This is the setting of our text that we're going to take a look at. And it's important for us As we look at this familiar passage to understand that unless we are absolutely pure And unless we have this spiritual birth that is being described here, we cannot enter the kingdom of God. You cannot serve enough soup kitchens to get you in. You cannot unload enough trailers. To get you in. You cannot change enough diapers to get you in to the kingdom of God. You must be absolutely pure and you must be born of the Spirit. And so that that's the setting. And Nicodemus is Aware of where we pick up our text here now in verse 14, Nicodemus is well aware of the encounter of the Israelites with the fiery serpents that's uh uh uh accounted for in Numbers chapter 21. And so I want us to see, I need to see this, I believe and humbly present to you that you need to see this too. That the gift of the gospel, the good news of God, the only life-giving message Is imperative for us to see the component, and I believe we have the components of the gospel right before us. I think the quote is attributed to St. Francis of Assisi, you know, preach the gospel, and if necessary, use words. I say, I don't know if he said that or not, but I say, look, it's all about words. These words have meaning. They have content. They have uh weight and meat behind them. They point us to the Savior. There's a lot of people out there in the world doing altruistic things. But their words need to be the gospel. The foundation, the motivation. And so we have five characteristics of the gift of the good news of God. Five characteristics of the good news of God. It's initiated by God the Father. It's necessitated by God's wrath. It's demonstrated by the love Of God. It's motivated by the love of God. It's demonstrated by God's Son, and it's consecrated by God's Spirit. And it's received by whoever has ears to hear. I pray that that's all of us today. So the first point: the gift of the gospel The good news of God. It's initiated by God the Father. Jesus says, Nicodemus, as he's going through this, entering the kingdom, uh Lesson how one gets right with God. He says, just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so the Son of Man must be lifted up You see, God initiates and God completes salvation. And Nicodemus was well aware of that encounter. The people of God in the wilderness, they grumbled against God's goodness, they complained, and God sent venomous serpents among them. And whoever was bit, whoever was bitten received death sentence basically and people started dying and the people in Numbers 21 the the the the Pentateuch records that the people cried out to God and they repented And God heard their repentance and God told Moses, This is what you do. I want you to fashion a serpent out of bronze, and I want you to lift it up on the pole. Whoever looks upon that serpent If they've been bitten, they won't die. Whoever looks upon that that was lifted up will live. And so Nicodemus now filled with the law and the teacher of the law, a ruler and the Sanhedrin, he's well aware of that story. And so Jesus says, just as that serpent was lifted up and brought life to all who looked. So the Son of Man must be lifted up. I stand in your presence, Nicodemus, the one who must be lifted up. And then we have this verse 16, just that little two-word phrase for God. For God So loved for God. See, God initiates salvation. Salvation belongs to the Lord. It's not you coming up with a plan to get your life right I don't want to burst your balloon here today, but I think it's my job to burst your balloon. You don't own salvation. It belongs to God. This past week, and I know that uh I think George is already gone, right? Headed out to oh is George still here? Oh, he's gone. George is heading to Camp Hemlock 'Cause he's doing aviation week this this week and several of us last week had our uh tree climber sons, our six and seven year old boys at at Camp Hemlock and I recommend that camp to anyone Anyone who likes, you know, sleep deprivation and triple degree heat and a great time with their kids. But one of the activities we did that Tim Green took us through was we constructed, well we didn't, our sons did, that we made a leather belt. And when you create something, you're in charge of that thing. And so if you look at my son Kyle's belt, you'll see he's got his name on there. We stamped the leather, and you'll see he's got a skull and crossbones, and he's got one of them little feet from the 70s that are in all the hang tin surfing t-shirt. He's got all kinds of stuff on his belt because he's the creator He's in charge. He picked the color stain. We set the length. You know, he said, yeah, that looks good, and we clipped it. But he created that belt, and he's in charge of that belt, and we understand that stuff. So, who is this God that's being described here? This God is the creator of the universe. He made everything. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He didn't ask you. He didn't ask me. Do you should I put this here? What do you think about that? God made all things. And by virtue of that fact alone, we understand also that God is sovereign, that He's in charge, that He's in control. That's what the creator-creature distinction is all about. There's a God and we're not Him. And He needs nothing from us either We've got to get these facts in evidence in our brains and in our hearts if we're to understand properly the good news of God. God initiates salvation. He's free from any outside force compelling him to act. Even though I helped Kyle get the letter straight, God needs no help That's why the Westminster Divines could so boldly assert in the Confession of Faith, Chapter 3, that those people who are predestined to life God, before the foundation of the world was laid according to his eternal and unchangeable purpose, and the secret counsel and good pleasure of his will, has chosen in Christ. to everlasting glory. He chose them out of his free grace and love alone, not because he foresaw faith or good works or perseverance in either of these. Or anything else in the creature, as conditions or causes that moved him to do this. No, he acts freely, all to the praise of his glorious grace. I don't know why people so violently react to that truth that God is sovereign. Well I I guess I I do know why, because we're we're sinful, we're prideful, we want to do it. We want to be in charge. That's why we react to this. But if you think about it, if you think about the fact that God initiates, that God Facilitates that God completely accomplishes and applies salvation. Isn't that a comforting thought? Isn't that just the most tender thing that you can think of? That as I express the faith that He gives, and I repent of my sin that He grants. That He secures me and He grows me and He brings loving brothers and sisters into my life to correct me with the bony finger of the Lord God Almighty up in my grill. Because he loves me and he wants to see me grow and mature and develop and be further conformed to the wonderful and glorious image of the Almighty Son of God. Isn't that a precious truth? The scriptures reveal that this God is creator, that this God is sovereign, that this God is holy. He's righteous in all his ways. We've got to know this as the first step because if we go further and we still have a really small view of God, the gospel's not going to make much sense God is a holy God. He is a righteous God. In Exodus 34, there's an interesting exchange between Moses and the Lord After Moses, remember Moses comes down from the mountain, he's got the two tablets upon which were engraved the commandments that God was giving to his people, those truths that represented God's character. And he comes down, and the people have been so anxious and bored that they fashioned a golden calf to worship. And Moses' anger burns and he smashes the tablets. And when the interaction between God and Moses takes place, Moses says, I just want to see your glory. I want to see who you are. And that exchange in Exodus 34 and 33, God tells this to his servant Moses. Says I want to read it. I don't want to get it messed up. The Lord passed before him, that's Moses, and he proclaimed these words. The Lord, the Lord, a God, merciful and gracious. Slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. That's a wonderful picture of God. But God doesn't leave his character Halfway. The verse continues, but who will by no means Clear the guilty. He will not let the guilty go unpunished. He would deny his character if he did so. So he visits the iniquity of the fathers on the children and on the children's children to the third and to the fourth generation. And Moses' only response was to quickly bow his head toward the earth. And to worship the Lord his God. Because the God that we serve and worship and endure is a holy God. He's a righteous God. He's not to be trifled with. And that brings us to the next characteristic of the gospel. The gift of the gospel is necessitated by the wrath of God. A whole lot of us have probably memorized verse 16, and rightly so. It's good news for great joy for all types of people, but few of us probably have memorized verse 18 And following. Because the scriptures go on: whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already There's there's no fence in the gospel. There's no neutral ground. Maybe you were raised with the idea or the notion that you kind of ride neutral for a while until you make your decision to be evil. and do bad stuff or good and do godly stuff. But there is no fence. We all have Sinned and fall short of the glory of God. These are the truths of the Scriptures. These are the things that we must Encounter and embrace in order to have the life that's provided in Christ. In Romans chapter 3, Paul laying out the doctrine of salvation and how sinners are justified before a holy God, he comes to that uh Quotation there in verse 10, and he says, There is none righteous. No, not one. I think we need to I think we need to let the word nun sit on us for just a moment That there's none righteous And that nun includes us You see, if you pause and you meditate just a brief moment, it actually does punch you right in the gut. That there's no way for me to be right with God in and of myself The other night, my older son, Kevin, had a baseball game under the lights up at uh Olney Regional Park. And I must warn you, if you head up 108 towards Olney, there is a section of uh road there that is 30 miles an hour And they have these photographic things on the side of the road. And when you drive through there, if you're doing more than thirty miles an hour, you become aware that they are there And as we left the game about 1015 or whatever it was, darkness shrouded the earth. All of a sudden, I realized as the strobe cut the night sky. That I probably was soon to be receiving in the mail a very unflattering photograph of my face and my windshield and my license tag. We're still awaiting that mail. I'll let you know how the story comes out. But I didn't think one bit about the speed limit on 97 and 108 Coming home from Olney Regional Park until the reminder of the law hit my eye. So it is with us, beloved. We don't want to spend time studying the Bible Our flesh reacted. You have a hard time doing a quiet time? Welcome to the Children of Adam Club. Our flesh does not want to encounter the righteous requirements of God because in so doing we are reminded of our lawbreaker status. As the strobe light hits our eyes and we know, wow, I'm doing 40s, what? And someone comes and they say, you know, your speech was divisive. You don't seem to be using your tongue for the building up of the others. You know, husband, your vow that you made to your wife to love her the way Christ loved the church and to lay your life down That's God's word penetrating to your heart and reminding you that our God is holy You see, the wrath of God is poured out on lawbreakers We've got all kinds of ways to get around that. We talk of the gospel being a sense of uh guilt or purposelessness or emptiness in life and we we're gonna get we're gonna get uh higher functionality and and all those things or meaninglessness. There's a sense that I didn't have the right upbringing. Well that the Bible describes, and those things are all uh they're all problems. Don't don't get me wrong. We we have a sense of meaninglessness. There's a vagueness to our direction in life and stuff. Yeah, we feel that. But that's not the issue. The issue lies beneath the surface of those things. The issue is sin. The issue is our sinful hearts. The issue is our sinful condition. And the terrifying truth about the wages of our sin, it's found in the scriptures as well. The penalty that your sin and my sin. deserve his death. The gospel is necessitated by the wrath of God. At one point in time And Paul goes on in chapter 3 of Romans in verse 19 to say, at one point, when each of us stand before that judgment seat, he says these terrifying words, every mouth will be stopped. We won't have an excuse. We won't have a poor childhood or a bad economic state or a you know really tough circumstances that nobody else could understand. We won't have any excuse at all. Paul says, when we stand before that judgment seat, every mouth will be stopped And God's wrath will be poured out fully on all those who are not safe in Christ. Which brings me to the third characteristic. It's motivated by God's love. Come on, let's get to that. You can't really appreciate the good news, the wonderful news, the joyous news of the gospel until you feel the weight That you are condemned, that you are by right and righteousness supposed to die But God has done all the hard work and he did it all because he loves you more than you could possibly imagine Listen to me. Admit that you're a sinner. Go ahead and admit it. Fully, freely, acknowledge it, and then flee to Christ. It's the best place to be God loves you, and he invites you in. Look at what the Gospel of John says: For God so loved the world. For God so loved the world, what? For God so loved the world that his only son was given. It doesn't say that God so loved the world, so he created about fifteen parallel tracks to get to God. This is exclusivity in the extreme. You get this? This is our message, beloved. There is one way to salvation I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through me, Jesus said. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son as the gate, the door, the way of life. That's the gospel. That's our message. I often tell young people of dating and marrying age that true love gives. False love or lust takes. True love is other centered. False love is self-centered. True love is generous. False love, greedy. True love sacrifices. False love refuses to serve another. We have true love in view here. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes on him should not perish, but have everlasting life, eternal life. At camp this week, we had a little lesson, and we were supposed to ask our young tree climbers what forever means. And so I said, Kyle, what does forever mean? And he said, never stopping. Eternal life, never stopping. The Apostle John bears that out so clearly in his first letter. Son of God took the wrath of God upon himself. The wrath of God is coming, poured out for unrighteousness. But in 1 John 4, 9 and 10, this is how love is defined. It's defined This way, this love of God was made manifest among us. It's clearly seen. God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him, never stopping live through him. Is In this is love, not that we have loved God. Remember, God initiates salvation. Not that we have loved God, but that He loved us. And he sent his son to be the propitiation for our sin. It's what Alan preached from 1 John 4 10 a couple of weeks ago. That word propitiation. Learn it. Love it. Live it. The wrath of God has been poured out on one who stands between you and that wrath. And he has appeased the angry deity. Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, has been given. Has been given to take the wrath that you and I deserve. Oh my It was demonstrated by the Son of God. I've been angry before, I must confess. I've had a lot of sinful anger, explosive anger, fits of rage kind of anger, boiling seething under the surface kind of anger. And to my shame, I will not even count the number of times, couldn't probably. But on a rare occasion, I've approached. What is defined as righteous indignation as a result of an injustice that's seen On a rare occasion, I think I felt that white hot anger against the perpetrator or perpetrators of the injustice that's taking place. And in that moment, I cannot fathom the even the remotest possibility of taking one of my sons or daughters. And giving their life up for the one against whom my white-hot, righteous indignation burns. Can you? Can you imagine that? And yet that's exactly what God did for sinners. That's what Paul says to the Christians in Rome. He says, We've been justified by faith. We have peace now with God. We're reconciled to God. We're going to talk about this a little bit more at Rolling Hills Baptist Church tonight as we come before the table of the Lord. We've been reconciled to him. God demonstrates his love for us. For who? For us. The ungodly, the weak, the frail, the rebellious. He demonstrates his love for us that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. He's taken the wrath on himself. That's the message of the gospel. You and I deserve the wrath. Jesus Christ has taken the wrath, and he offers to us the record of righteousness that God is pleased with. Behold, my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. And that record is given to us when we believe. The gift of the gospel is demonstrated by the Son of God, and it's consecrated by the Spirit of God. Earlier in chapter 3, Jesus is describing this birth from above for Nicodemus. He says Nicodemus. He kind of uses a play on words. He uses uh pneuma. He uses the word that can be translated spirit or wind or breath. And he uses that word interchangeably. He says, the spirit is kind of like the wind. He's just saying pneuma there. They say you can observe the effects of the wind. We could go outside on a breezy day and we could see trees swaying. You can't see the breeze. Even if particles of dust are being caught up in a tornado-like fashion, you're still not seeing the breeze. You're seeing the effect of the wind. And so it is with the work of the Spirit. And that's why we gather together as a church. That's why we grow together in community. That's why you need a church home. That's why you need to be in attendance. and a part of the body of Christ, because therein we get a chance to observe the effects of the Spirit in your life. And you get assurance, and we get assurance, and we grow together in maturity, and the Lord gets the glory. The effects of the Spirit, the Spirit works this out. Paul reminds us of Ephesians 2 that we were dead in our transgressions. Until God who is rich in mercy, because of his great love. Paul always puts that in there. God who is rich in mercy, because of his great love, with which he has loved us. Even when we were dead, he has made us alive together in Christ. By grace, you have been saved. It's a gift. That's what makes it an amazing grace. Because you don't deserve that gift. You deserve wrath. So do I. One last point to add to these five points. The sixth point is this: that it's received by whoever believes. The gift of the gospel is received by whoever believes. What does belief look like? It's an acknowledgement, an open acknowledgement, a free and open and full acknowledgement that you're a sinner. You can't save yourself. God is sovereign. He's supreme. He is in charge. He's the Lord of glory. And his only son, his one way, is the only way. That's what these new members just recited for us. That's what we were blessed to hear. Said aloud again. I am unfit and unable to come to God on my own, and I trust In Christ alone for my salvation. I believe the Bible, the Old and New Testament, to be the only Word of God, and it teaches the true doctrine of salvation. And that's what you do when you admit you're a sinner and you say to God, I cannot save myself, and you cry out for mercy, and then you grow in grace. That's as simple as it is. I don't believe you're going to experience waves of liquid love throwing you against the wall. I don't believe you'll fall forward or backward. You might But that's not a part of the equation. It's belief in Christ. It's placing your faith in the object of faith, Christ, and his finished work And I trust that that is what you have done. If you're here today, the gospel is for you. If you're a believer, if you've already trusted Christ, then I trust that this message is like refreshing water in the midst of a dry and barren land. Cool, crisp, clean water refreshing you, inspiring you to move onward and upward with Christ. If you're here today and you've never expressed faith or you've never trusted in Christ and you want to, then today is the day of salvation. It's a mystery, Jesus told Nicodemus, how the Spirit works. But if right now inside you internally something is saying Give it to God. Then I would plead with you as the preacher in Christ's stead. Give it to God. Let me pray for us. Gracious God, thank you for the opportunity again to see this wonderfully familiar and and blessed passage of Scripture. We pray that you would by now, uh by your spirit now Take our hearts and transform them and deepen our love for you and cause us to walk with you faithfully all the days of our life. Thank you for hearing us and for answering according to what's best in your good timing. In the name of Jesus we ask. Amen. Amen.