If you have your Bible with you today, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to Titus chapter 1. As we go through the series in which we're looking at the church that Christ instituted and is established and described and prescribed in the New Testament. This morning we're going to look at a very critical element of the church, and that is the office of elder. There are three offices in the church, and we see this. As Edward noted last week in Philippians, which is one of the last New Testament letters written by Paul while he's in prison, when he writes to the Saints to the church in Philippi, together with the elders and the deacons. So here's a church in its maturity, and it is comprised of three offices: Saints, Elders, deacons. and And today we're going to look at the elders. And here I've been talking and I didn't turn to Titus. Here we are. Titus chapter 1. Please join me in prayer before I read this for us. Almighty God, we thank you again and again for your word. Lord, we thank you that you have not left us in a silent universe, but you have spoken. Lord, not only through creation. But through your word, through specific propositional statements, through careful descriptions and accounts of who you are and what you've done in history. And Father, we pray that we would value your word for what it is, that it would be for us the very foundation of our thinking about you and about our life and about each other in this universe. And Father, we ask that as we come to this place in worship where your word is read, Lord, make us mindful that it is your voice speaking in Scripture. And Almighty God and the preaching that follows. And as much as it is a faithful echo of what you've said, Lord, bless it to us. Make it not only memorable, but helpful, encouraging, humbling, uplifting. We ask these blessings in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen. Titus chapter 1, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, For the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God who never lies promised before the ages began. And at the proper time manifested in his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the command of God our Saviour. To Titus, my true child in a common faith Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior. This is why I left you in Crete. so that you might put what remained into order, and appoint elders in every town as I directed you. If any one is above reproach, the husband of one wife, And his children are believers and not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination. For an overseer, as God's steward, must be above reproach He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered or a drunkard or violent or greedy for gain, but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught, so that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine, and also to rebuke those who contradict it. This ends the reading of God's Word. I've learned many things from the men of this church growing up here at Columbia and in Columbia Presbyterian Church. And back in the 1980s and 90s when I was a teenager and in my young twenties, from ages 15 through 25, I worked at a restaurant, Duke's famous Delicatessen, out on Route 1 in Jessup. Anyone been there? I see a couple hands. It used to be owned by Rocket Burgerson, who is a member of this church and a dear friend and mentor of mine. And uh he came to Christ during a Billy Graham crusade in Baltimore. And uh his real name was not Rocket, but that's a different story. I was doing deliveries at one time for Rocket. And I had gotten up at like five in the morning as during the summer, whether I was uh in an under upperclassman in high school or in college, I don't recall. And I'd been doing deliveries oddly up in the Route 40 area, Pulaski Highway, and I'd stopped into a Dunkin' Donuts to get a breakfast sandwich And within an hour and a half I was violently ill. Now no offense to Dunkin' Donuts. I got back to the store. Food poisoning. And I told Rocket what happened and he said something I'll never forget. He said, Bob, when you go to Dunkin' Donuts, buy a donut. There's something about all the fringe things we do that we might do with excellence, we might do very poorly. But you can be certain that if an entire business or entire organization has built its identity around one thing, that one thing they're probably going to do well. Which brings us to the Presbyterian Church. The Presbyterian Church is named the Presbyterian Church. Because we are very distinct among the churches that came out of the Protestant Reformation, and that we are governed by elders. It is the thing that doesn't define us so much as distinguishes us from all of the different churches Whether they be Greek or Russian or Eastern Orthodox or Coptic or Catholic or any of the variety of Methodist or other Protestant or Baptist congregational churches, we're a Presbyterian church. Therefore, if there's something we need to be careful to do right , it has to do with elders. Given that it's such a constitutional element of our shape, of our government, of our form, of our discipline, if we get this wrong, we will probably make many other errors Now, I don't believe it's the most important office in the church. I believe that theologically the most important office of the church is the office of saint, the office that we all share in. That we all of us who by grace through faith are united to Christ are children of the living God and citizens of heaven, living our lives here on earth as we await our Savior's return. But the office of elder is important. And this is one of two texts, this text and Titus I read for us, which describes the office in ways that, while not being inclusive, are direct and very helpful. We're going to use this as a as a beginning point and draw into it some of the other elements that we discover elsewhere in the screen. Scripture by asking three questions or noting three things that this text directly states or implicitly states. First, we're going to talk about the nature of the office. What is it to be an elder? Second, what are the qualifications for that office? And third, what is the function of that office? So first, what is the nature of that office Paul, after that introduction of himself to Titus, which merits a sermon series in and of itself, that long, extended, beautiful sentence, he says, right to you, Titus? And he says immediately This is why I left you in Crete. Crete, that island south of what is today Turkey, where Paul had visited on his really his first missionary trip that he out of Antioch that involved a boat. And he left the churches there in a state of incompleteness. There was something lacking. So he leaves Titus, and we're told why he left him. I left you there so that you might put what remained into order, or provide for what is lacking, is another translation, and appoint elders in every town. Now, it is, as far as I know, unanimously agreed upon that what this text is saying, that the appointing of elders in every town is what was lacking. Which brings up the first point about elders and the nature of that office. It is a necessary office for the well-being of the church, When there are no elders in a church, something is lacking and requires redress. It demands attention. There must be elders in a church. We believe that so passionately in the Reformed Presbyterian world that we will not Transition a church from being a church plant to being what we call a particular church until there are elders. Only when there are elders plural will we then particularize the church and make it a congregation in its own right. Up until then, it has to function really as a small group. a community group under the oversight of other sessions of the Presbytery because what is lacking must be provided for And what is lacking often is elders. It's a necessary office. It is also an office of dignity It's an office to which we should aspire. We don't see that as clearly in this text, but we do see it in the parallel text in 1 Timothy 3, where The Apostle Paul writes there to Timothy, another one of his mentees. He says, it is a noble thing, it is a good thing to aspire to the office. The idea of being a servant in the first century world in which Jesus and the apostles lived was not a good thing. It was a demeaning thing. It was unworthy of freedmen and Roman citizens. To be a servant, a doulos, which could also be translated slave, which is the word that Paul and Timothy constantly apply to themselves. Whenever you read a servant of God as you do in Titus chapter 1, verse 1, He's that's the word do los, a slave, a slave of Christ. He is putting himself, if you will, at the very bottom of the ladder of society, as society was understood in the Hellenistic world. And yet he's saying it is a great and a good thing for you to aspire to that kind of a role as a Christian. Because it's no other than the aspiration of Jesus Christ, the suffering servant. The one who came not to be served, but to serve. It is an office of necessity and dignity. It is also an office of plurality. Look carefully at verse 5 with me. This is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into order and appoint elders in every town as I directed you. Now, pay careful attention to the number of those particular words, elder and town. You are to appoint elders plural in every town singular. And in the missionary state of the early church, to the church In Philippi. The churches in Galatia. That's a region, not a city. The church in Thessalonica. Every place where there was a church, there needed to be elders plural. When Jesus sends out his disciples, he sends them two by two. In fact, it is remarkably rare that one person is doing something in the Bible And those are usually dire circumstances, like the days of Elijah before he had Elisha alongside him, or Elisha after Elijah had gone to heaven. It is a remarkable thing that the office of elder is something that should not be pursued singly outside of fellowship with other elders. We in the PCA and in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, and as far as I know, in other Presbyterian denominations. distinguish very carefully between what we call joint and several powers. You might think, what in the world are you talking about? A joint power is something that elders possess as a power only when constituted as a session. No one elder has any right, prerogative, or privilege to exercise power, for example, over the shape of worship, or how the Lord's table is administered, or how church discipline is exercised. No single elder has vested in themselves that authority. The session comprised of elders plural Does have that joint power. And in that way, God has provided checks and balances to help allay some of the difficulty or resolve some of the trauma that results. from individual people who have too much power in themselves. That's almost n in fact, maybe I can say apart from the person of Christ, that's always a bad thing. There's also what we call several powers, things that elders can do just in and of themselves. They can visit, they can pray for you, they can encourage you, they can serve you. When it comes to the exercise of the office and its authority, that is jointly pursued. It is an office that is necessary, it is dignified, and it is plural. There are always multiple. Those are not the only three things that can be said about the nature of the office, but those are three things that this text points to that are absolutely essential to our understanding of the office. I want to stay as closely tied to these texts we're picking for this series as I can. This text then pivots to talk about the qualifications for the office, and let me review them for you. If anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers, the word could also be translated faithful. Get to that in a moment. And not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination. For an overseer, as God's steward, must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant Or quick-tempered, or a drunkard, or violent, or greedy for gain, but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught, so that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it. I want to observe two things. In your outline, the qualifications for office are described by two words, character and doctrine. And I want to offer that as something of a challenge to the way many churches have operated throughout really church history, where we tend to think that the Qualifications for office are influence and talent. If somebody is really, really gifted Notice that this description of the qualifications for office don't say anything about the degree of giftedness. You can be a remarkably gifted individual, but yet not have the divine mandate to be an elder. You can have the tongue of Chrysostom, the great preacher of old, himself And be disqualified from office. Because God throughout the Bible makes it clear that He can use donkeys to speak His word. He doesn't need someone who has mastered everything that Toastmasters can teach It also has nothing to do with wealth or power. Now, whenever you look through church history and even cast your eyes across the church today , It is often the case that we are like the Israelites looking for a king, and we want our souls. Our tall, strong, noble-bearing. We're looking not at the heart of a man. But we're often tempted to look at the outside trappings of the man. And God, in his description of the elder, exhorts Titus and Timothy, and through those exhortations, all of us to look deep within a man, past Some of the things that might suggest to us, well, he scutters like Moses. Or he doesn't have a lot of wealth. Or he doesn't have much influence, or he's not very accomplished in his worldly calling. When I think of two of the finest elders I've ever served with, and I've served with probably close to 30 other men as elders in the three different churches I've pastored. When I open the Bob Birkes Dictionary of Elder, I flip there to the word Elder and I see two men. One, an older man Who had been the head of dentistry at Johns Hopkins? Theologically a deep education Life experience would have been successful by anyone's measure or anyone's book. The other A guy who never finished college, who loved the Lord Jesus, had a blue-collar job, and worked on telephone polls. Those two guys were elders' elders. Why? Because they were humble? Because they were not arrogant. Because they were peaceable, not quick-tempered, because that they loved what was good and were self-controlled. Because they were upright, holy, and disciplined, and because they were above reproach. Now let's stop on above reproach. Who here is above reproach? Any hands? You see, here's the thing. I should see some hands. Because that word, it does not mean what you think it means. That's a reference to Princess Bride. I think some of you missed that. We had long conversations in my Presbyterian California, and I wrote a position paper on this that if any of you are really interested, I can get you a copy of it. Because the point was made when we were dealing with a pastor who was clearly not above reproach. He was a bully in his congregation, plagiarized , lied. It came to the attention of the Presbytery, and we as a Presbytery decided we needed to act. And the point was made: well, he is above reproach because he is in Christ. And we meet all of these requirements only in as much as we are in Christ. You follow the logic there I believe that as a Christian, my life is hid with Christ, so that when God looks at me, he sees the perfect obedience of Jesus Christ Should I therefore say that as an elder candidate, because I'm hid with Christ, I de facto meet all of these requirements? I'd say that is not the case here. Because here the Apostle Paul is clearly talking about things that actually Discriminate between different Christians who are equally hidden Christ. Some of them are married to one wife. Some of them in that culture at that time were polygamists. Equally hidden Christ. Some of them struggled with alcohol to the point where they struggled with sin and were drunk. A drunkard is someone who doesn't make one mistake. But there's a habit there. And his life is also hid with Christ, but he too is not eligible for the office. A man who is constantly getting into arguments, constantly debating with people and breaking relationship and fellowship, he is also hid with Christ. He too is not a candidate for elder yet. You see, these requirements, these character requirements Show us a picture of a basically mature Christian person. We should all aspire to every one of those elements. But until we have in our progressive sanctification, that is our growth with Christ, attained to a certain level where people would say, Yes, that is a peaceable man. Yes, that is a man who is not a drunkard. Yes, that is a man who is not uh quick tempered. Yes, that is a man who does love what's good. That is a self-controlled man. Until a candidate or an individual has reached that point, I would think of them as a pre-candidate. And when an elder falls below that mark, that is someone who needs to step away from the office And pay attention to their life and their walk with Christ. So back to our first word. What does it mean to be above reproach? How can an elder be above reproach? It doesn't mean that he has never sinned. It doesn't mean that he doesn't sin now. I can tell you right now that there is not a day of my life that I am not 100% certain I sin. I'm certainly not happy about it. We believe that the Bible teaches us that we are sinners through and through, that apart from the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are without hope in this world. For either justification, being counted righteous in God's eyes, or sanctification, becoming holy and growing in Christ's likeness over the course of our pilgrimage, our life here on earth. But it is not the case that every time I sin, every time I might say something that's snappish at my wife, every time I might think a thought that's inappropriate for a married man. Every time I might uh be envious of someone else's gifts or money or car or the fish that they caught that I didn't When these things happen, they don't immediately disqualify me from the office of elder, because as a pastor, I am an elder. Rather, these things bring me to my knees and bring about repent repentance. That's Reproach doesn't mean to be above reproach does not mean perfect. To be above reproach is a very specific word that shows up in ancient Greek. and in Roman translated into Greek, texts concerning ethics. And it means that word means that there is no civil charge that can be brought against you. To be above reproach in the eyes of the law. You see, it's not a synonym for not being a drunkard. Because there was no law against that in the ancient world. It's not a synonym for being holy or disciplined. Those words are different. This word doesn't involve so much a spiritual arena as much as it does a civic arena. If, for example, I had a long rap sheet of issues that could cause scandal or shame to the church. I ought not to serve as an elder. That's not to say that any ex con can't, by the grace of God, become an elder, but those things need to be resolved. In all of these things, we see the character of a man who is committed to following Christ and pursuing Christ-likeness and has attained a level of spiritual maturity in which he is regarded as a mature Christian man by the assembly, by the elders , by the saints, by the deacons. So when you think about an elder or an elder candidate, and as congregants, it is within your right as saints to to nominate to the session at it really at any time. Write down a note and send give it to your elder and say, you know, I have you ever thought about so-and-so for the office of elder? Now if you do that, you will not hear back. But we'd like to hear it. And let me tell you why you won't hear back. You won't hear back from me or another elder. Because what if we talk to that guy and he has something in his life that prohibits That's not your business. Amen. What if he doesn't want to at this time in his life? Also, not necessarily your business. But I would encourage you to be thinking about who among the men here is potentially called to be an elder. Are there people that meet these requirements who could serve in this way and would be willing to? There's no magic number for how many elders a church should have. It just has to be two or more. What about doctrine? Doctrine is important. After this lengthy description of character It says in verse 9, he must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught. He must have a firm grasp of the doctrine as taught by Christ, his apostles, and the church today. And we do here at Columbia Presbyterian Church carefully examine our elders. They're trained. Some would say too too much. We have classes. On doctrine, we examine them in the Bible and in theology. And when they have passed those exams, they are presented to the congregation with the recommendation from the session to be elected by you, the congregation. Doctrine is important. He must be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it. And that word to be able is the only word that suggests giftedness in the entire description of the elder. And that could be translated apt to teach. And if someone is apt to teach, that doesn't necessarily mean he's the best teacher east of the Mississippi. If I say that someone is apt to teach, I'm saying that if push comes to shove, they are capable. It's not a high bar. You don't have to have a master's in pedagogy to be an elder. You just have to be willing and able in a pinch. Knowing doctrine well enough, caring about souls deeply enough, that you are ready to share what God has by grace taught you from his word and through his church to others who need truth. And sometimes in the face of hostility, sometimes an elder must rebuke those who contradict. So the nature of the office is one of necessity, dignity, and plurality. The qualifications for the office focus on character and doctrine. What about the function of the office? Well, in the New Testament, there are two words that we translate elder. One of them is our word presbyteros, or presbyteroi is the plural form, and that means elder. If any of you have presbyteriopia, does anybody have that disease? Ha! Did you know it's a disease? It just means old man eyes Old eyes. When you get old and your eyes start to go sideways on you, uh that's Presbyteropia. Ask your ophthalmologist. He'll be very impressed. And uh there's a sense in which that word, which in many cases just means old man or old person in the feminine or in the plural old people Technically is a reference to an office in the church, elder. And this office of elder was called elder all the way back in Deuteronomy 18, where the Old Testament version of this word that gets translated elder And texts like the Septuagint, where ancient Jews translated their Hebrew into the Greek of the New Testament. When Jethro, the father-in-law of Moses, says, What you're doing is not good Singly, on your own, Moses, dealing with all these people. Again, we're getting back to the necessity of the office of elder. He says you should appoint men, men who are recognized, men who have this kind of ballast of character from which to operate on. And these elders are called elders. They've attained a certain maturity. They have a certain spiritual gravitas. They are ready to shepherd others. The elder is always with reference to someone who has attained a certain degree of experience. and inner qualifications that they have something that they can impart to others in discipling them. I want you to think about what a disciple is again. The definition for disciple that I find suggested throughout the scriptures has three parts. Someone who follows another in order to learn from them, in order to become like them. And when you think about who should be an elder, it's worth asking these three questions. Would I follow them? Can I learn from them? Do I want to be like them? And if the answers to those questions are yes, you have a candidate for an elder. An elder. Someone who has attained and has to offer an overseer. That's the other word that shows up again and again. It shows up here in Titus chapter 1. We have this description of appointing elders, that's the word presbyteroi. And then it says in verse 7, for an overseer as God's steward must be above reproach. So there's a clear instance where the word overseer is used as a synonym for elder. That is the word, and I know we're hitting hard with these Greek words, but they're words that are familiar. Presbyteroi is the same thing as episcopoi. What does episcopoi sound like, kids? That's exactly where that word comes from. Sometimes it's translated bishop, overseer. It's a word that shows up in our text in Philippians chapter 1, verse 1 that I cited earlier. Paul writing to the church, to the saints in Philippi, together with, the actual word is the episcopoi. That's synonym for elders, together with the deacons. This is a word that is used to describe elders over and over and again. And it is a word that has an office that involves the idea of shepherding. It's translated bishop It's translated in ways that require that person to be functionally engaged at a deep and personal level with the people God has entrusted to their care. So we have the New Testament vocabulary suggesting that the functions of the office involve this discipling role and this caring aspect which rolls right into that. The words overlap significantly. And we see this office in action here in this text and in places like Acts chapter 20. Heralding back to the pastor who founded this church, Alan Harris, the elder has three functions to protect, direct, and protect. And correct. To protect, direct, and correct. To protect. Because your elder is a shepherd, because he is an episcopoi, because he is an overseer, he is careful to try to keep safe that which has been entrusted to him Together with the other elders. He is very concerned at the things that might shatter or break or splinter the church He directs. He has a position of authority, together with the other elders , to make decisions. To govern, the New Testament word to rule, as a servant, of course, and to correct. Even this text we've looked at here. There's a sense in which the elder, individually and plurally, must be willing and able to give instruction and even to rebuke. Those three things, protecting, correcting, and directing, stand at the heart of what the session comprised of a plurality of elders must be engaged with those objectives. And it's easy for us to forget It's easy for us to become merely businessmen, merely a board of directors , merely something other than elder When I think about an elder, I think about two overmastering concerns that must shape the heart of an elder. And these are words that come out in the prayers that I offer at the beginning of session meetings and have for 25 years. May all that we do tend to the glory of God and the good of his people. It is necessarily a selfless calling in which we are in submission to the brethren. No elder gets their way on anything all the time. But by the grace of God as it should be, when we don't get our way, we work the hardest to make sure that whatever way was gotten is successful. I want you to think for a moment about this. I've been a cross coach for over 30 years. And if I'm the head coach, which I've been for many of those years, and I have a defensive coordinator and unoffensive coordinator And I, as the head coach, decide we're going to play a slow game that's going to emphasize ball control. And my offensive coordinator is seething at that. And decides, ah, we're gonna run and gun. How well is that game gonna go Anybody? It's gonna go, I'm gonna lose that game. Typically I'm gonna lose that game because there's a reason I wanted to slow down offense. I knew that I was thin on defense and they needed a lot of breaks because they're we're playing a fast offense. Playing against a fast offense. There might be reasons for that that in this one individual's perspective are not apparent. And if that one individual decides that I'm going to break ranks and do what I or I'm not going to contribute to the success of this bigger plan, all of a sudden you're almost guaranteed to lose. You're almost guaranteed to lose. And this picture of a mutually submissive eldership should be a picture of a mutually submissive church. In which we look not only to our own interests, but also to the interests of others. And we as leaders are modeling this radical selflessness where we're willing to say, this is not what I wanted to do here, but this is what we're doing. So I'm going to support it, and it is not going to fail because of me. And what if we had that attitude together? Now there's something that is absolutely essential if that's going to work. And that means that the ultimate goal must be correct. If I'm a lacrosse coach, what is my ultimate goal? To win a lacrosse game. The ultimate goal is to win. And I'm not ashamed to say it. If I'm stepping on, I've been on over a thousand sidelines, and every time I'm on a sideline, there's one goal. Win that game. And if we're all pursuing that goal , We are able to get in line together and pursue it, whether I'm in the role as defensive coordinator, goalie coach, offensive coordinator, head coach, been all of them. That's the goal. What is the goal of the church? We've already had that alluded to earlier in this series. We're going to focus on it at the end of this series. The goal of this church, and here's a shocker. Is not to build this church. Who's going to build the church? Yeshua. Jesus is going to build the church. He said, on this rock, I will build my church. He doesn't say on this rock you will build my church. Jesus is going to build it. Our job is to confess Christ. Make disciples. Of everyone we encounter. And if we can keep that evangelistic fervor which weighs more heavily than the balance of creation itself, the worth of the soul of one individual. And if we can be united in that goal that we want to see people translated from the world of death and the governance of Satan to the world of life and the Princely kingship of Jesus Christ Himself. If we are united in that goal, the strategies can take their proper places. The philosophical nuances can fall in line. We can agree to disagree on a million lesser downstream issues The job of the session is always preeminently to care for that which had been entrusted to them. What has been entrusted to your elders? What is God going to require an account from your elders for? You, your souls, that which is eternal That which is made in God's image, that which possesses in itself a glory that causes galaxies to look dim and the ocean to look shallow And when we as elders put the absolute premium and the highest priority on shepherding the flock and make all of our directing and protecting and protecting and correcting uh activities in line with that great objective that by any means we might win some to Christ and see you presented perfect in him The gates of hell will not prevail. We are the Church of Jesus Christ. We are saints, and we have elders, and we have deacons. When you think about your elders, welcome their ministry. We live in a culture where we need to be aware, personally and keenly aware. of the fact that in the West we have been programmed to rebel. We have been programmed to exalt individual over community We have been programmed to exalt self over others. Everything about our upbringing in the modern West is me, me, me. Unless you recognize that and address the bias inherent in your every reaction to direction, protection, and correction that results from the world. Infecting you. Unless you would recognize it and address it, you will have challenges welcoming the ministry of the elders. Welcoming my ministry. And let me speak for myself and say my ministry will be far from perfect. And so will the ministry of your elders. Mistakes will be made. But nonetheless, we are called with grace To welcome and receive the giftedness and the callings of others. And will you pray for your elders regularly? Your elders, inasmuch as they are by grace through faith united to Christ, are in the eyes of God the Father as pure as wind-driven snow. Their sins have been removed from them as far as the East is from the West, as far as the judicial gaze of the living God and his indescribable holiness. But in our experience of living, in our careers, in our devotions, in our marriages, our families. We are on this side of heaven, broken and sinful men, eagerly looking to Christ so that we can grow and be healed and possess more than the modicum of godliness and reputation and irreproachable conduct We are looking to become more like Jesus. Therefore, we want your prayers. Pray for us. Pray for your elders earnestly. I will never forget one of the very, very difficult questions that another man in this church asked me in 1997 when I wanted to marry his daughter. I won't name that guy. I went to ask him for his blessing and Proposing to Carrie. And he said, Have you guys talked about the fact that you're going to be a pastor? And that means that there's a special sense in which Satan has a big target on your family and on my daughter and on my future grandkids. And I said to my father-in-law now No. It never came up, never talked about it. I was sweating bullets. I have since experienced it. And for those of you who are men who have dared to serve as elders, your great enemy That lion who prowls seeking someone to devour, he knows your weaknesses. And he is keenly interested in you. Be encouraged. In Christ you are more than a conqueror. And though you have fallen a thousand times, you can stand up. And dear church, pray. For those who have dared to stand up on the front line and accept that target on their back, that they might counsel you, pray for you, weep with you, laugh with you. Attend your weddings and funerals as a shepherd, not just a friend. Lead you in worship. Direct you in Bible studies. Pray for them. Pray for their families. Pray for their marriages. Because they are not safe in the trenches. They are in the no man 's land , seeking to make gains for the kingdom. And it is spiritually dangerous work. But it is good work. It is blessed work. It is beautiful work. It is work that lasts. And it is work that can, on occasion, cause the angels in heaven themselves to rejoice. That is what we are a part of. as Presbyterians, as saints, as Christians, as we support the office of elder, as we aspire to it And as we exercise it. Almighty God, we come before you asking that you would bless this church. Father, we pray that we would do eldership right. That our exercise of the office would not cause illness and distress, but blessings upon blessings. Father, I pray that you would keep the elders of this church humble and united as we walk alongside wounded and weary sinners, saved by grace, seeking to bring always, always seeking to bring them. to higher and holier ground as they experience your goodness in overcoming sin. Father, I pray that you would protect the elders and their families Almighty God, I pray that you might put a hedge about them, that no weapons forged against them would prevail. That that target that is on their backs, on their families, Lord, that that target would become blurred, that the enemy would never catch a good glimpse of it. Father, I pray for this church that you would cause us in every way to double down on what your Bible, your scriptures, your word to us has said, that we might find the way and be safe in it. Father, help us to rightly exalt the office of saint and to see one another. as indescribably majestic, beautiful souls created in your image, destined for glory. Lord, help us to see our elders as brothers and sisters who are called to and entrusted with a great and necessary task. And Father, as our elder Wayne pointed out early, Lord, bless their wives. Also a very difficult calling. And Father, in every way we pray that you would be glorified greatly in and through us as your people. Your people here at this one church among many. That call on your name and trust in your Son, our Savior, and walk with your Spirit to your eternal glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.