Psalm 37, verses 1 through 11, the Word of God. Do not fret because of evil men, or be envious of those who do wrong. For like the grass they will soon wither. Like green plants they will soon die away. Trust in the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and enjoy safe pasture. Delight yourself in the Lord, and He will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord, trust in him, and he will do this. He will make your righteousness shine like the dawn, the justice of your cause like the noonday sun. Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him Do not fret when men succeed in their ways, when they carry out their wicked schemes, refrain from anger, and turn from wrath. Do not fret, it leads only to evil. For evil men will be cut off, but those who hope in the Lord will inherit the land. A little while, and the wicked will be no more, though you look for them, they will not be found. But the meek will inherit the land and enjoy great peace. Nearly ten years ago, University Christian Fellowship, which is a campus ministry in the United States and other parts of the world sent me a manuscript that they wanted me to take a look at. They were very concerned about this manuscript. It was the pre-publication manuscript of a book. And they found that this manuscript was getting circulated around a number of places in the country and everywhere it was going, it was creating controversy. people would read this and then they would say things like, Well you really don't understand the Christian life unless you've read this book. And then people would react to that and it was producing a kind of a it sounded like a cult, you know, to them. It's just something that was producing an in-group. And it seemed very unhealthy, was divisive. It was using terms that seemed uh to not make sense, like it was based on this idea of Christian hedonism Which seemed like kind of an oxymoron, or you know, that means it's kind of a self-contradiction. Didn't make sense. And so my assignment was to take this manuscript, to read this, to discover the heresy, and to expose it. So I read the thing rather skeptically, looking at it and thinking, all right, now where's the problems here? Uh expecting some superficial analysis. And I became more intrigued as I was reading it to see what this person had to say and as I was getting more intrigued I was getting more caught up and captured and finding a number of insights and I wound up giving the book a very positive review And I must admit that I was greatly relieved when I found out after it was published that Jack Packer gave it a positive review. I was beginning to wonder what I had missed. Well, this book um made the basic thesis that uh though we tend to think that the pursuit of pleasure is a suspect and non-Christian pursuit that in fact the pursuit of pleasure is essential to glorifying God aright and living the Christian life as God intends. The book sought to support that through a number of scriptures and then to show also that this wasn't simply some new idea that this author had come up with, but it was rather an idea that had been held in the mainstream of Christian leaders throughout the church history. The book quoted extensively from people like C. S. Lewis and Jonathan Edwards, a couple of my heroes, to try to make those points. A couple of years ago we had uh a laughter that sought uh that had a discussion on this book. And again, we found it was controversial. Some people thought it was really helpful and other people thought, oh, I'm not so sure about this. I really Not sure this is balanced or biblical. The book was John Piper's book, uh Delighting Desiring God, a meditations of a Christian Hedonist. Now, I believe that Piper , while Piper is certainly not without error , has a number of insights for us to consider. In a couple of ways, it is place in our church. First of all, there are those of us who are very busy in ministry, we're very involved in ministry. And ministry is accelerating. We're getting even busier. The opportunities are more manifold. Classes are already crowded, and there's more and more opportunities to be able to serve the Lord. And there's a danger that we're going to experience burnout or become weary or overwhelmed. And I believe that it's at this point that we need to be refreshed by the gospel. We really need to come back to understand what it is that God's intention is for us and how he meets us in his fullness And the other category of us that are here broadly speaking, or those of you who may come just since this ministry center opened And I'm certainly not naive enough to think that all of those of you who are coming to visit with us understand the gospel, have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, understand the fullness of what the Bible is talking about, what it means to follow Christ. And so for you also, I think it would be very good at this point to stop and to look back at the basics and to see what is it that the gospel entails? What is the Christian life all about? And so I'm going to begin this morning a major series. Then we'll run through the spring and part of the summer. We'll have a couple of interruptions with Easter and of course uh missions conference coming up in June. But For a number of weeks, uh actually a few months, we're going to be considering this whole subject uh that I'm talking about now, proposing to you a thesis that you see there uh on your bulletin outline. Uh if I can find it myself, it's somewhere around here. Anyway, the thesis that um where what this says, this is my thesis, not Piper 's, that whereas the the law commands duty The gospel compels delight. I thought about that after I wrote it and I began to think about it. More and more I thought about it. Even up until this morning I started arguing with myself. You ever started doing that, you know? Well I lost the argument with myself, and so I persuaded myself That that really isn't a proper thesis. Because I believe that the the law in the Bible does compel delight And so I'd like to restate what you have on that bullet line to put it this way whereas we think that God commands duty, then in fact he compels delight. I believe that we need to see what delighting in God means. And that is the title, as you see, in your outline of the series that we're going to be considering. Delighting in God. Now let me say right up front, this is not a series on John Piper. We're not going to study John Piper. We're not going to critique John Piper. It is a series. in which we as believers do what we must always do, look simply at Scripture. And that's all we're going to be considering here. I acknowledge that some a number of the insights will come from John Piper. I'll just tell you that now so you don't think that I'm just stealing ideas without giving credit. But we're going to look at scripture to see if these ideas are supported. I want to propose to you that I think, and in fact, many of us have had great disappointment in God and in our relationship with Him. Because we have missed what his intention is for us, to delight in him. And that's what I want to explore with you for these next weeks and months. I believe that God calls us to delight in him because as you see under that statement, we think that God commands duty when in fact he compels delight. Why? Because our God is a God of exquisite pleasure. Our God is a God of exquisite pleasure. For example, the last couple of weeks we've been looking at this verse, Psalm 118, verse 3 here. In connection with the ministry center. Where do the nations say, where is their God? And verse 3, our answer, our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Now I get a lot of feedback from the congregation. It seems like more and more I get notes and I really appreciate them. I don't get to answer them all, but I really appreciate them And I got a letter in uh in response to a message a couple of weeks ago on that in which one of you mentioned that uh that sounds, to quote uh from the letter, this sounds willful and arbitrary, not winsome. As if God just sort of does whatever he pleases, and if you happen to be in his way, you will become metaphysical wordkill, as the letter put it Well, I understand that. But you see, if we understand what the word means here in Psalm 118, verse 3, God does whatever He pleases That word pleases is a very significant word. It doesn't mean that he just does whatever he wants in some arbitrary sovereign will. He is sovereign. There's no question about that. But the verse is saying something more than that. The verse is saying that he does whatever he delights to do. The word pleases there in the Hebrew means to delight in something, to take pleasure in something, to find enjoyment in something. And so what that verse is saying, that God does, our God does whatever he delights to do, whatever he finds pleasure in doing. For instance, that same word is used in 1 Kings 9 and verse 1. When it talks about Solomon, it says right after he built his palace and then he built a temple, and he had done all that he had desired to do. The word desired. It's the same word as Psalm 115 verse 3. God does whatever he pleases. It's something he delighted to do, something he enjoyed doing, something that he wanted to do. We take also the same word appears in Genesis chapter 34 in verse 19. In Genesis chapter 34 and verse 19, you read about Shechem. how Shechem uh saw Dinah and he was delighted in her. He found her very attractive. And in fact it led to very unfortunate events where he raped her But the verse says there that he delighted in her. And that word delighted in her in Genesis 34, 19. It's the same word, Psalm 115, verse 3, which says that God does what he pleases, what he delights to do. Or take even more than that, Esther chapter 2, verse 14. Now that's a fascinating verse because Esther chapter 2 is a description of the rules of the harems of Persia. Kind of some background to understand the book of Esther. But in this description of the uh rules of the harems in Esther chapter 2, uh we read there that uh when the king wanted to select somebody from the harem, they had to get ready to go meet with a king, have a kind of a date, one night time with a king, King Xerxes. Now you know how long it took the women to get ready for that one night they were going to have with a king Read it. Ex Esther chapter 2. Twelve months. Twelve months of beauty treatments is what Esther chapter 2 says. And you guys think that it takes your wife a long time in the bathroom to get ready, right? In Esther's Day took twelve months of all these ointments and oils and salves and all this kind of stuff so that she'd be ready for that big night. And then chapter 2 verse 14 says, after that one night was over, she went back to the harem, and she'd stay there. And that was it. Never to come back unless it says the king was pleased with her and called her by name. That's a pretty sensual word. And that is the word, brothers and sisters, that's used in Psalm 115, verse 3. God does whatever he pleases. We're not talking about here just raw will. We're talking about taking delight in something. We're talking about finding pleasure in something. And so it's significant, I believe, that when the psalmist talks about doing God's will, when you come to Psalm 40, verse 8, Verse 7 says uh where God is talking there and in anticipation of the Messiah. He says Then I said, Here I am, I have come, it is written about me in the scroll. Verse eight, I desire to do your will, O my God, your law is within my heart And that word desire right there is the same word as Psalm 115, verse 3. I delight to do it. I find pleasure in doing. It's something I want to do. It's the same word that's used of King Xerxes finding pleasure in this woman who had been prepared for a year for him to be able to take sexual delight in. Now, what I'm saying is, I don't think God intends for us as believers to simply do his will out of duty. In fact, what his will is for you and for me is that we find a delight in doing that will. And we find the delight in doing that will because we find our delight in him. And that's what Psalm 37 verse 4 is about. So if you haven't turned to it when Bob was reading it, if you have your Bible, please have it before you now. Again, see what this says. Now you remember back in January we had a series, and my intention was that this would have been much more closely connected to that series. But you know about the delays for the ministry center, we kept adding messages and messages and every week you know I'm thinking up well what message shall I stick in here? So we had a few messages we didn't anticipate But now we're coming back to it. And if you can recall back in January when we looked at Psalm thirty-seven, we took a look at the fact that God gives us here four steps to peace First step, verse 3, trust in the Lord. Verse 4. Second step, delight in the Lord. Verse 5, the third step, commit your way to the Lord. And then verse 7, the fourth step, rest in the Lord. Now, this second step in verse 4, in the context of a psalm where people are fretting, where they're feeling like they've gotten the raw end of the deal in following God, that people in this world really have more delight. That's the context. What God says here is: I'm giving you a command, my people. Delight in me. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. You ever meditated on that verse? It's kind of scary actually to think about that, isn't it? Because it's the kind of verse that we look at and we say, I don't think it really means what it says. It doesn't really mean if I delight myself in the Lord, he's really going to give me the desires of my heart. I was talking to a fellow who was a young Christian once and he said, Does that mean that I can pray for a Ferrari and God's going to give it to me? I said, Pray for that Ferrari, man. You know what happened? He didn't get the Ferrari. But he learned that what God was saying to him first was to learn to delight himself in him. And so I believe that in this verse we have more than what we may think. We think this means, okay, delight yourself in the Lord. And if you do that enough, then He's going to take those desires and He's going to kind of minimize them and He's going to transform them so that they're really not so passionate and full of things in this world. And he's gonna take those things and there'll be sort of, you know, spiritual, nonworldly desires and and he'll take those desires As minimal and as uh as weak and anemic as they are and he'll make those come true. Because you sort of wiped everything out, you know. You said, Well, I'm I'm a necessary I don't really want for anything. You know, I've lost the passion. But all right, so now God's finally going to give me that because it's all satisfied in prayer meetings and hymn things. I don't think that's what it's saying I think what God's saying here is learn to take your desires. In all of what that means, we're going to look at that in a minute. Delight in me. Find in me the summation of those, and in the very act of that. The invitation is joined with the promise. Find in me your delight, and I will give you, because I will be to you the very desire of your heart. Let's take a look at what that means. What I want to do this morning is just take a look at that word desire, delight, that you see there at the beginning of verse 4. And the word's used a number of times in the Old Testament. And it's a word that has a particular kind of connotation that I think we need to appreciate in order to understand what God's calling us to do here. What's He saying when He says, delight yourself in the Lord? Take a look at five uses of that word in the Old Testament. The first use of it is to mean nourishment and comfort. Backside of your bulletin outline, those are the first two blanks. Nourishment and comfort. And that's used in Isaiah chapter 66. In Isaiah chapter 66, Isaiah is talking about the restoration of Jerusalem. And he's talking about what God's going to do when he gathers in those last days all of his people to himself. And he says, We're going to come to him, and what's going to happen? And you see what he says there in verse eleven. For you, this is us, the people, you will nurse and be satisfied at her comforting breasts. You will drink deeply and delight in her overflowing abundance. And that word delight is the same word as Psalm 37 verse 4. Delight yourself in the Lord. Now what's the picture you have here? It's a picture of a baby at its mother's breast. And this baby at its mother's breast is getting not only nourishment, not only the physical nourishment, but you notice what he says there, you will be satisfied at her comforting breast. A lot more going on there than the transfer of milk, isn't there? The baby is getting a bonding. There is a comfort. There's all the emotional needs that are being satisfied. There's the security of resting in the mother's arms. A feeling of absolute well-being and tranquility. Don't you ever long for that? Sometimes you say, boy, you know, you see this kid and you watch Timothy and Thomas and you say, miss, I wish you could be like those kids. Not a scare in the world They're there at their mom's breast, they're in her arms, and man would be nice to be. God says, that is what I want to do for you, my people. I want to take you as a mother to my breasts And give you nourishment and comfort and delight. Or the word is used concerning riches in Job chapter 22. In Job chapter 22 Eliphaz is speaking to Job, and he says to basically your life would be okay if you just got your priorities straight, Job. Put the God first in your life and set your priorities where they ought to be. And if you did that, Job chapter 22, verse 25, then the Almighty will be your gold. The choicest of silver for you Surely then you will find delight in the Almighty and will lift up your face to God. Now what's Eliphaz saying there? In other terms, he's basically saying, if you get your priorities straight so that you're able to get God where he ought to be in your life, and our understanding is the Lord Jesus Christ, if he is where he ought to be, it's like winning the Maryland lottery. The same kind of sense of exhilaration that you would have, the sense of I have got all that I need, would be yours because you would find your delight in him as your silver and your gold. He's not saying here simply that God's going to replace silver and gold with Himself as if uh silver and gold is not important. He's using that delight that we find in that to say The deepest satisfaction that you find in that is what you would find in me. That's what I intend to be to you. Or you take the word, it's the same word that's used thirdly To refer to a feast in Isaiah chapter 55. Do you remember that invitation of the gospel? Come, all you who are thirsty. Come to the waters. You who have no money, come and buy and eat. Come and buy wine and milk without money and without cost. Why spend money on what is not bread and your labor on what does not satisfy? Listen. Listen to me. And eat what is good, and your soul will delight in the richest affair Again, the word delight in the richest affair. Delight there is the same word as Psalm 37, verse 4. Delight yourself in the Lord. And he'll give you the desires of your heart. Now what's this saying? Isaiah saying here, you who are thirsty, you who are hungry Spiritually, you find that longing. There's the emptiness, there's the disappointment, there's those things in your life that you wish could be different. And Isaiah is saying here beyond all that there is that there's that emptiness because of a lack of a fulfillment in your relationship with me. There's the guilt of your sin. There's the Longing to be what you can be, the bondage. Come, you who are thirsty, come, I've got a feast for you And the Lord Jesus, of course, is is the fulfillment of this in that Merry Supper of the Lamb, when we come to that feast to sit down with him, in that delight of that feast. A feast where there is no concern for cholesterol or calories, and you can eat anything that you possibly want, and it's guilt-free, and you can indulge in all of that to the fullness of your delight. Yeah, something we don't know about, do we? Anything that we want, we think if I take excess in it, then it's wrong, it's bad, and that's generally true. But here's a feast that God is saying he gives to us, and that feast has no limit To the indulgence of our delight and our joy in it, because He is the one that we feast on. Delight in the Lord. He'll be to you the desires of your heart. Solomon used that same word when he talked about the pleasures, the sensual pleasures that he found in this world. In uh Ecclesiastes chapter two and verse eight. Solomon says, I amassed silver and gold for myself, the treasure of kings and provinces. I acquired men and women, singers, and a harem as well. The delights of the heart of a man. All these physical, sensuous things, and he says they're the delights of the heart of a man. It's the same word, Psalm 37, verse 4. Delight yourself in the Lord. And he'll give to you. He will be to you the desires of your heart. For the word is even most sensuously used concerning specifically sex He'd say, oh come on now. We shouldn't talk about that stuff in church. Hey, it's the world that wants to make us think that sex is something inappropriate for us to talk about. God wrote a whole book on it, the Song of Solomon And uh it was the most popular series I ever preached. I think I may preach it again sometime. In the Song of Songs, in chapter seven. You have the husband, the lover. He's describing the perfections of his beloved. And the way he does this in chapter 7 is he starts at the soles of her feet, right down to her sandals. And he starts right there and he says, uh, uh, how beautiful are your sandal feet, O Prince's daughter. And then he works his way, bit by bit, you know, part by part, right on up to her tip of her head Ten descriptions, ten 's number perfection and completion. And he gives ten descriptions of her loveliness How wonderful she is in his eyes. And you notice after he goes through things like her navel's like a rounded goblet and all the rest, you know, waist like a mound of wheat. You know, some of these things as we saw and we went through it, you have to get a little bit of cultural background to appreciate the beauty of what they're saying. But then when he gets up to verse 5, it's a little more obvious to us. Your head crowns you like Mount Carmel. Your hair is like royal tapestry. The king is held captive by its tresses. He can identify with that, can't you? Run his fingers through her hair and just say, It's just so beautiful. I'm just entranced. I'm captivated by the delight of your beauty. And then verse 6. How beautiful you are, and how pleasing. Oh love with your delight. That word delights there is the same word. Psalm 37 verse 4. Delight yourself in the Lord and he'll give you the desire of your heart. And I'll tell you, he's not talking about her cooking when he says, I rejoice in your delights. It's a very sensuous word. It's a word talking about exquisite pleasure. Now, you see, what I'm trying to get at, brothers and sisters. Is that I think that when we look at what it means to follow Jesus and what we mean when we talk about following him in the ministry center here and the things that he's calling us to do, we have this idea What God wants us to do is to take all these these deep passionate desires that we have for life, life to live to the full in terms of relationships and terms of the things that give pleasure and satisfaction And he wants us to put down those desires. He wants us to somehow put them aside because serving him should be without any self-interest. Serving him should be something that doesn't involve our passion. Serving Him should be something that is on the spiritual realm, and it is it is separated from the intensity of our desires. And I want to suggest to you that that's not only counterproductive, it's not biblical. And I don't know anybody who put it better than C. S. Lewis did in one of the messages he preached in a book that's no longer in print, as far as I know, called The Way to Glory. But he said this in a message in which he preached on this. Lewis said if there lurks in most modern minds the notion that to desire our own good and earnestly to hope for the enjoyment of it is a bad thing. I submit that this notion has crept in from Kant and the Stoics and is no part of the Christian faith. Indeed, if we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the Gospels, it would seem that our Lord finds our desires not Not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased. The Lord Jesus stands before you this morning. And he wants for you to cultivate the delights, the desires of your heart to such an extent. That you will be convinced, not because somebody else is telling you, you will be convinced. That nothing in this life and in this world has enough to satisfy that desire And then you will see in the Lord Jesus Christ Himself that invitation. Delight yourself in me. Come to me and eat and drink Come to me to that feast of which it is so exquisite that the Lord's Supper is simply an hors d'oeuvre. Come to me. Delight yourself in me. And I will give to you the fullness of the desires of your heart. You see, what this is what the Psalm is talking about, because it goes on, as Bob is reading just a part of that to talk about how The reason that you and I are able to take hope is because when we see the disappointment of those desires, the psalmist is saying, but don't you understand when you look at the people who are finding all the fulfillment of those desires in this world that they're going to be cut off and they're not going to experience the fulfillment of those things. But you are going to inherit the land. And what is the land? The land is that place. The land is that fulfillment of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ of all the desires that you and I have. And so he says in verse 9, for instance , Psalm 37 , Evil men will be cut off, but those who hope in the Lord will inherit the land. Verse 28. For the Lord loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones. They will be protected forever, but the offspring of the wicked Will be cut off. The righteous will inherit the land and dwell in it forever. And why is that so wonderful? Because in the land, the Lord is the undimmed source of all its joy and pleasure. The one who created these delights and placed within us the capacity for them has placed also within us that longing that says and knows that in this life there will always be that disappointment. But he intends. That the more you understand by fixing your heart on that land and the Lord of glory at the center of it, the more you will understand in this life that your delight can only be satisfied in the Lord Jesus Himself. But that He does give delight. He doesn't dangle it before us in order to taunt us. He intends to fulfill that desire of your heart with Himself. And with that there comes that hope that in that day when you and I come to that land, that He Himself will meet us there personally. Revelation chapter 21, you have the description of that. Then I saw a new heaven. And a new earth, or the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. And I saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem. This is that land now that Psalm 37 is speaking of. This New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. And he will wipe every tear from their eyes. And there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away There will be that day at the wedding when you and I will walk down that aisle as a bride and see the face of the bridegroom Jesus looking with such longing, saying, Come. Come. Let me show you how I can far outstrip every delight that this world has ever had to offer. Because I want to be that delight to you. Come more in touch with your longings and your delights so that that passion drives you to Jesus. And he will be the delight of your heart. And in the weeks to come, we're going to explore these delights. We're going to talk about what this means. And I wonder in your heart this morning, do you find a longing for that? Is there a longing in your heart and your soul for that? Do you find as I'm saying this that you're thinking I don't even know the delight of that kind of a relationship with Jesus. And if not, I'm going to ask you, put it on your grace lift, just a little note there where it says comments. I'd like to talk about this. In order that I can explain to you more fully what Jesus has done to take your sin, to die on the cross, so that you can be forgiven of all those distorted and perverted means of seeking to fulfill those delights of your heart. And find what it means to have that forgiveness and that transformation that only Jesus can offer, that He could be the delight of your heart. And for all of us here this morning, who work and are tired and are laboring to long to find that refreshment in Jesus I hope so. Somebody say amen. Do you long for that? Then let us look for it together in the weeks and the months ahead. Because I believe that our God wants to meet us And show us new depths of the delights that He has for us. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we are so much like the child in the slum Playing with mud pies and puddles, seeking to fulfill those desires of our heart and things That frustrate, that give momentary desire, the delight. But Lord, we in many cases have wondered if you could really be that delightful. And so, Lord, we want to confess right now, we have been like the people in Jeremiah's day who have gone after broken cisterns in order to qualif our thirst. And so, Lord, I want to present before you this morning these thirsty people. They're hungry and they're thirsty, and I've told them that you could be their delight. So your reputation is at stake in fulfilling that. And so, Lord Jesus, I ask that you would come into the lives of these people. And you would show them, even as at various times you have given to me a glimpse in my own life of what it means. For the passions of my heart to rise to such a fever pitch that it is very obvious that nothing in this life could ever satisfy. And then you bring yourself near to us. And you show what it means to give the desires of my heart. And I pray that you will do that for each one of us here who are seeking you. And that if they're not seeking you, that Lord, I frankly ask that you will make them miserable in the pursuit of their desires until they come to seek you. And that you will give to each one of us new eyes to see what you intend to be to us. That we would delight to do your will, because we delight in you. I can't do that. None of us can do that for each other. You alone can do that, and we're asking you to do that now. That you might honor and glorify Jesus Christ through lives that recognize that you are the beast of our delights. In Jesus' name. Amen.