Thanks. Under this series, one for Diggs will be continuing Concerning the consequences of not forgiving. Under this heading of forgiving one another, we've considered the universal requirement of the scripture To forgive the one who has wronged us, and sometimes doing that with rebuke, other times with forbearance. Be considered the motive for forgiveness. And that it's always on the basis of the predictions that we have received from Jesus Christ, and not the effects, of what we do in forgiving the other person. We've considered something of what is involved in forgiving a person as we looked at the life of Joseph, who he was forgiven with his brothers Now we want to consider the consequences of not forgiving one another. We consider this from two passages, Matthew chapter 6 and chapter 18. Two passages that we looked together at some months ago, earlier in this series, on March the fourth to be exact We look at these two passages again, at that time considering forgiveness with respect to our relationship with God and now with respect to our relationship with one another. Matthew chapter 6 Verses 9 to 15 first. The Lord's Prayer. This is how you should pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread. Forgive us our debts. As we also have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one For if you forgive men when they sin against you, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their sins, your father will not forgive your sins. Then chapter 18, the parable that Jesus gave of the Master who had forgiven so much And the servant who was unable to forgive so little, beginning with verse twenty-one. Peter came to Jesus and asked, Lord, how many times shall I forgive my brother when he sins against me? Up to seven times? And Jesus answered, I tell you, not up to seven times, but seventy-seven times. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is like a king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. As he began the settlement, a man who owed him ten thousand to Talents about ten million dollars was brought to him. Since he was not able to pay, the master ordered that he and his wife and his children and all that he had be sold to repay the debt. The servant fell on his knees before him. Be patient with me, he begged, and I will pay back everything. The servant's master took pity on him And canceled the debt and let him go. And when that servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denaries. just a uh few days wages. But he grabbed him and began to choke him Pay back what you owe me, he demanded. His fellow servant stalled the hiddenys and begged him, be patient with me, and I will pay you back. But he refused. Instead, he went off and had the man thrown into prison until he could pay the debt. And when the other servants saw what had happened, they were greatly distressed and went and told their master everything that had happened. Then the master called the servant in. You wicked servants, he said, I canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me to. Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant just as I had on you? and in anger his master turned him over to the jailers until he should pay back all that he owes. This is how my heavenly father will threaten each of you, unless you forgive your brother. from the heart. We see in chapter six, verse fourteen, the clear conscience of forgiveness. If you forgive men when they sin against you, your heavenly father will also forgive you. We see that contrasted With a conscience that is not clear, because it is not willing to forgive. In verse 15, if you do not forgive men their sins, your father will not forgive their sins In chapter 18, verse 34 and 35. He answered his master, turned them over to the jailers until he could pay back all that he owned. This is how my heavenly father will treat each of you, unless you forgive your brother from the heart. Now back in March we considered these verses and how they're related and the consequences toward God. We talked then, remember, about how we will have a loss of fellowship with our Father. How we will lose a sense of our forgiveness as we begin to operate with others on the basis of law rather than grace, we begin to see God operating toward us on that basis. So perhaps it It even goes to where a Christian can lose a faith of the assurance of his salvation. We saw at that time that this is not a question of salvation. It is not a question of these verses talking about the evidence of salvation. Salvation. It is not saying that the evidence you are saved will be seen in the fact that you forgive someone else, and if you don't forgive them, that's the evidence that you've never really known salvation. Remember we saw at that time. How this both of these uh teachings are addressed to the disciples. And both of them lay heavy emphasis on the fact that it's your heavenly father who says these things. A term is never used for the unbeliever. So it is presuming that the person is a believer in Jesus Christ. It's talking about their relationship with God as Father rather than as judge The distinction that we made at that time. It's talking about parental discipline. But now we see some of the consequences of this toward one another. How God's discipline and how the effects of our master giving work out in our relationship with one another. Three things I want us to notice. There's a number of things that can be looked at But in the time before us I want to just focus on three things. Number one, physical consequences. The physical consequences of not forgiving one another. These three things, incidentally I take in very largely from Bill Gothard's material in his basic youth context the basic seminar. The basic seminar is coming up on November twenty-sixth to December one. We encourage all of you who have not been to that seminar to pray about the possibility of going to that. There's literature on the rear table. We will be setting up uh arrangements to go as a group. uh from the church to facilitate more people being able to get there. I encourage your consideration of that to get to that material. Here's an example of some of the material A lot of this drawn some gossip insights. First of all, the physical consequences of not forgiven. Instead of Psalm 38 uh these kinds of consequences. Although Psalm 38 talks about the consequences of a a guilty conscience You see, the body has amazing mechanisms to cope with all kinds of stresses. But there is no mechanism in the body to cope with guilt Or bitterness. It is always destructive. And we see that portrayed in Psalm 38. Uh we see the same idea here, uh as we see in these verses, verse one, O Lord, do not rebuke me in your anger or discipline me in your wrath. You see there again, uh there is the discussion of discipline. Not talking about judgment. It's the believer talking to his father, and he's afraid of this discipline Because what happens? Your arrows have pierced me and your hand has come down upon me. Now, as we consider the physical consequences, let's be clear that these are not impersonal laws. It is not just somehow this is just what happens if you don't forgive. And that God's hand is in this, particularly in the life of the believer. And this is discipline. And this is the effects of sin. And it's always destructive, but it's for a positive effect. It's for a positive result, bringing a person to the realization of that. But what are some of the effects? Well, notice briefly there that uh there's no help. Verse three, because of your wrath there's no health in my body, my bones have no soundness. Uh verse four, the effect of guilt, my guilt has overwhelmed you like a burden that's too heavy to bear. You see that sense of weightiness of the guilt A verse seven, my back is filled with fearing pain. There's no health in my body. Verse 8, I'm feeble, utterly crushed. I groan in the anguish of my heart. So here you see that the effect of sin Have very severe physical consequences. But that's particularly aggravated when there is not only guilt but it's a lack of forgiveness when I am unwilling to forgive another person. Because then I not only have the guilt of sin in general, but I'm afflicted also with a chronic low level anger. It releases particular hormones in my body, stress hormones, and it builds tension in my body. So I'm always living with low level tension, and that can produce such things as ulcerative colitis, toxic bladers, and high blood pressure Why? Because I'm unwilling to forgive someone that low-level pressure eats at me and eats at me I fatigue more easily. I can't do a day's work like I used to. And because of that excess stress, that resentment I become tired much more quickly. The tension of bitterness also enjoys all of destroys all of my enjoyment of things. Uh this is what I think uh Proverbs has in mind when we read in Proverbs 1517 that better is a meal of vegetables where there is love. I than a fatter calf with hatred. I just don't enjoy a fatter calf if I am in a in a state of resentment and bitterness Toward another Christian, toward another person. And so it's better to have something uh that's very meager. I can enjoy it with my body rather than under tension produced by bitterness. Well that's the physical consequence. Secondly, let's notice the ministry consequences of an unforgiving heart. Now, all of us are Christians, who are Christians, are in the process Of having a ministry that it means either widening or narrowing. In every one of us The ministry that we have for Jesus Christ, the influence that we exert on other people for Jesus Christ, is either widening or it's narrowing in its scope. And here's the principle. Every time there is one person that you say, I can't relate to that person. We usually call it a uh personality conflict. You know, how many personality conflicts do you have? If a personality conflict is just a pop-up, there are personality conflicts. It's only sin that produces conflict. The personalities that are different, if it's in the spirit of love, produce us both. Where there's conflict Let's not cop out on bad relationships by calling them personality conflicts and then saying, therefore I don't have to deal with it, I just ignore it Because every time there is one person that I say that I cannot relate to, then that I have begun a process Of shutting off for my life everyone else who's like that person. Everyone else who reminds me of that person I shut out because I see them as like that person. Look at the diagram and you'll see what I mean. You have there, you see these two fellows on the upper left here. Uh there's you and there's A. Okay, see A there? And I let's suppose that uh A is your father. Alright? But I suppose that you you have grown up seeing your father as a person who is overly strict. A person who was unyielding and very severe. And you looked at him this way, and therefore you became he began to build up resentment and bitterness toward your father. He never really raised you right. Too severe. Because of this resentment and this bitterness, uh then you come over and you see on the uh upper right hand side there, uh anyone that you meet who reminds you of your father. being uh overly dogmatic, being overly strict in the way that they deal with things. A person who resembles your father's character will also turn off. You won't be able to relate to them. Because they will remind you of your father and you never could relate to him. You've written him off. You see, the the thing here is that this generally will generalize more and more widely in a person's life. It starts out the people very similar to your father you can't relate to as you grow up. who are like him, teachers perhaps. But then as you grow up, more and more people feel vaguely like your father. reminds you of him. And you can't relate to them either. You know, I know of women who can't relate to men in general because of conflicts that they've had with their father. They generalized with all whole male sex. It generalizes more and more broadly as it beats away at us more and more deeply until we deal with the fact that we need to forgive that person from whom we were first alienated. We need to get down to the root of it. Who was it? The first We began to build this bitterness in and began to generalize that throughout the rest of our life. On the other hand, you see what we need to do. This diagram there in the lower part of it Section 2, if there's reconciliation, you see communicated by the arrow there. Reconciliation between you and that person that you are alienated with Then the opposite effect occurs. A deeper relationship, a special ministry to those who are like A will begin to open up in your life because of the grace of God that has been worked through you in dealing with that difficult relationship. But we take of Joseph, for instance. And Joseph could have been an expert in dealing with selfish brothers The Peter had a terrific counseling ministry in Egypt because he knew what it was to come from a family of conflicts, and he knew how to deal with those conflicts. Therefore Joseph had a terrific ministry, could have had, well I know that he ever did, but he could have had a terrific ministry, you see, with people who had come with our brothers. Because we've seen the grace of God operate in that. And in your case and in my case, we find that God gives us a special love for people that we've been alienated from and then reconciled to. that. Think of a fellow who was on any of our city staff that I had severe conflicts. I told you about this fellow once before. Our conflicts were so severe that after three days of knowing each other we already had to get together for some sort of reconciliation because we couldn't even talk to each other. And but at the end of his ministry and going off staff, he was a fellow that I felt particularly close to, much closer than other staff that I had gotten along with okay, because we had worked with We have come to a place of tears and repentance and embracing one another and working through the grace of God and reconciliation in us. I was talking to a pastor last week. He said that in a session as he worked with it was one fella who always gave him problems. Now I'm not applying this to our session, of course, you understand that. There was one fellow who always gave him problems And in that one case, he said, this guy would always come up, he'd always have something to criticize and we'd always have to work it through. But he said, you know, we had come to work through our relationship So much the grace of God. And he said when I left that church, he was the hardest fellow in the whole session to say goodbye to. I felt much closer to him than to anyone else. Because the grace of God had supernaturally worked in that relationship. Relationship. When you are able to forgive by the grace of God a person that you're alienated to, that opens up a Special relationship with you or that other person and others who remind you of that person then become precious by that remembrance. Rather than shutting them out of your life, you welcome them in. Not because you see of your love for them, that's the first thing. But you also see there's a greater relationship there because of their interest in you. Now what do I mean by that? I mean that if the friends of that person or people who are like them see you respond in grace, in for business, they wonder what it is that caused that. What accounted for your being able to reconcile with that person when they see that they have similar kinds of problems. And so when they see that in your life, that opens up an opportunity to show people about the power of the gospel in a way that you would have never had if that relationship had never been reconciled. And God will use you in that. To have that ministry with those other people. How do we see the character consequences? The character consequences of not forgiving. But the character consequences are illustrated simply in that principle that I've written down there. And the principle is this: we become like The person who is our emotional focus. We become like the person who is our emotional focus. But this is why you see Hebrews twelve two tells us to fix our eyes upon Jesus. He tells us after that array of the faiths in the category of the Hall of Fame of faith in chapter 11. He tells us then that we should be looking unto Jesus, who's the author and the finisher of our faith. If we look unto him with a steady, fixed, habitual gaze. That's literally what that Greek word means. A steady, fixed Habitual gaze, looking on to Jesus. Obviously, not physically, but in what? In a rapt attention An emotional focus upon Jesus Christ. This is what Peters is talking about there. You see, any anthropologist will tell you But a people become like what they worship. The anthropologists will tell you, describe to me the gods the people worship, and I'll tell you what those people are like You and I become like our emotional focus. If we center our attention upon Jesus Christ, God will work in us to become like Jesus Christ. He then becomes our standard of comparison and determines our root attitude conformity. We become like him in our attitudes. We become like him as we compare ourselves with his attitude. In particular circumstances with a land become second nature, always looking unto Jesus in whatever circumstance we're in. But now let's suppose that you're wronged by someone. And that's That you f refuse to forgive that person who wronged you. What happens? You react to them. Once you've reacted to them, you begin to measure yourself by them In order to determine your superiority, to justify your bitter attitude toward them, you have to continue to assure yourself that you have the right to resent them. The only way you can do that is to continually compare yourself with them, to look at them and to see how they've wronged you, to review the wrongs. uh to check up on them every once in a while. And go through the file to make sure that they're all in line and that everything still squares up to establish your right to resent. And when you do that, what happens? You begin to measure yourself by them rather than by Jesus Christ. Or you have to see a reaction to them. But nevertheless, bear your standard of comparison rather than Jesus Christ, a negative standard of comparison. Uh this we see happen uh very often in the lives of parents to children. But we see children who compare themselves with their parents and say, I'll never be like my father or my mother. And then they become just like them in their root attitudes because they've never forgiven them. Their parents have been their standard of comparison rather than Jesus Christ. And then you have, for example A parent who will be, for instance, overly severe and inconsistent in their discipline of their children. And the children go off and they say, I'll never be like my parents I'll never discipline my kids like that. So what's the model of their discipline? It's not what the scripture says, it's what my parents didn't do. It's reacting to them. And so those people grow up and then they have kids and they discipline irregularly but too laxly. And they discipline uh too uh with not enough of the rod and not enough spanking. I'll never spank my kids but And so we react. So the model, the negative model that we've looked at, our emotional focus. Then those kids got, but what do they do? My parents never cared for me. They just let me go. They never really loved me. I'm not gonna be like that with my kids, boy. I'm really gonna lay it to them. I'm gonna show them they better. And generation after generation it goes one reaction to another reaction. Nobody using Jesus as the model, but rather simply reacting to their own parents, competing with them, comparing themselves with them. Wal The only way to break that is by breaking the chain of bitterness By forgiving my parents, by looking at them, and being able fully for my heart to forgive them so that I'm able to look at God as my father as my model. To see him as the model for my being a parent rather than reacting to my own parents. To make him my emotional focus. Well In application, I want to just lay these four questions before you for you to take and for you to consider as you go home today First of all, do you have a clear conscience and peace of mind because of God's forgiveness of you personally? Have you trusted in Jesus Christ so that you will have a sense of his forgiveness as a model? For your own forgiveness. You've gone over this time and again. And yet without that as the starting point, none of the rest of it will ever make sense. You alone can determine that. I plead with you to consider that most seriously. So secondly, ask yourself: are there people that you can't relate to because they remind you of someone else else that person A we talked about. If there are, if you say, well you know, if I look at this person and I found why can't I relate to that person? I don't know. Why is that No, it doesn't matter just turns me off. Just don't need seem to get close to them. To be honest with yourself, is it that they remind you of someone else When you look at that person that they remind you of, is that a person that you say has wronged you and you've never forgiven them for it? If they remind you of that person, that implies that you've never forgiven that other person for something, and you must make it right between you and them. There's no other alternative than your ministry and your relationship. Relationships will continue to narrow and to shrivel until your life becomes dominated with bitterness rather than openness. Third question Is there someone who is your standard of comparison more than Jesus Christ? Is there somebody that you find that you're constantly saying, I'm not going to be like them? Or if there's one person I'm not going to be like, It's that person. There's a danger of that person becoming your emotional focus, zeroing in or more attention to not becoming like them than becoming like Jesus And if that's the case, then you really can't see Jesus because that person's standing between you and Jesus. And the only way you can get them out of the way so that you can see Jesus clearly is by forgiving them. is by revealing again the forgiveness that God has given to you through Jesus Christ. Ephesians 4, Colossians 3 And looking at that, meditating on that, come to a state of putting things in perspective and then forgiving them by the grace that was given to you. It is because of your reaction, your only freedom. You've been forgiving them. Finally, the fourth question. Do you have bitterness towards your parents, causing you to compete with them? My parents have predicted failure in my life. I'll show them. To compete with them or to react to them. This is what my parents' values were. Mine are the opposite. Want to know what my values are? Look at my parents, mine are the opposite. By definition, go right down the line, see. That defines your values, that's a negative way of creating your values in life. It'll never work. You have nothing to replace it with. It's sickly negativism. It's destructive. If you have that kind of bitterness towards your parents, to be thought will determine how you behave as a wife, as a husband, as a parent. And it will never work out in Christ-right living. Again, forgiveness alone will enable you to model yourself after Christ. rather than after them. Let's pray. Lord our God, as we've considered these things briefly this morning, we ask your spirit to speak us. Lord again, I will thank you for the forgiveness that you offer to us. Forgiveness that's complete. It is totally of grace, a forgiveness that you didn't deserve. I know that some of us may be thinking of these people that have determined the the whole realm of people that you can't relate to. As we think of parents or of others, and did we react to because of Our bitterness, our resentment toward them. Father, we wonder how we can ever break that. We recognize it, and yet we say, How can we go beyond that? Lord, we pray that you would turn us again to see Jesus. Jesus. Turneth again to see what He has done in reconciling us to you. Turneth again to see our own sin. To think how much we deserve your forgiveness, and to realize again that forgiveness is not something given because it's deserved. But forgiveness is always of grace. pray that you would enable us to experience the grace of forgiveness not only in receiving it, but also in giving it But to free us from relationships to tie us and bind us because of our bitterness and our design, and even if it seems very slight, perhaps there's a number of us who say, I don't have any big But for many of us, fathers, it's it's just little things It's these little things that rob us of a clear conscience before you. And we pray that you would enable us to see them, to be honest about them, and to make them right before you Give us grace for this so that we can come to celebrate your supper for this evening. Of course, our Jesus of heart, because we want you to have your way in our lives And we want that specifically for these relationships that we're reminding us of now. For the sake of the honor, and the progress of the work of Jesus Christ in our specifically, in our ministries, and in our character. Amen. Let's now turn to number three hundred and sixteen. This is a a prayer for the whole congregation upon parting after a worship service. Number three hundred and sixty. Sixteen.