Whole venture, I have good news and bad news for you. The good news is that the dollar amount doesn't really matter. God says it's your heart attitude toward him that really counts. The bad news is that the dollar amount doesn't really matter. God says it's your heart attitude that really matters toward him. You see, that principle is kind of a double-edged sword The fact is that I believe that if every one of us have our hearts right before the Lord, whatever our capacity is, doesn't really matter. I really believe Sincerely, I really say that I've thought a lot about that this week in preparation for this message. And I can really say to you, I believe that if our hearts are simply right before the Lord, He will provide for us to have that facility. Now, you see, I hope that can take some pressure off you, because you can realize it's not the matter that it depends on me to get this thing up. All I have to do is to have my heart right before the Lord and to be able to be used by him in whatever way he wants. And so as we think about this, I think that probably the best illustration of that principle is found in the story that has been traditionally called The Widow's Might. And that's found in Mark chapter 12, verses 41 to 44. And so I'd like for us to look at that and consider that this morning. Turn in your Bibles if you haven't already, then, please, to Mark chapter 12. Verses forty-one to forty-four. And let's hear together God's word. Jesus sat down opposite the place where the offerings were put and watched the crowd putting their money into the temple treasury. Many rich people threw in large amounts. But a poor widow came and put in two very small copper coins, worth only a fraction of a penny. Calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, I tell you the truth, this poor widow has put more into the treasury than all the others. They gave out of their wealth, but she, out of her poverty, put in everything, all she had to live on. And I'd like to offer three observations and then two final notes on this passage for your thinking. First of all, I want us to notice that Jesus observes our giving. That's the first blank. Jesus observes our giving. Verse 41 says, Jesus sat down opposite the place where the offerings were put, and he watched the crowds putting their money into the temple treasury. Picture Jesus taking time out of his crowded last week of his life on earth before his death. And of all the teaching and the healing and all the things that he does, he stops and he sits down opposite the treasury box in the temple. And he sits there and he just observes for some period of time the people as they go past, and as in this holiday season, Passover Uh it was then that they come past and they put their offerings into that box. Jesus simply watches them. He observes them doing that. Now what would you have thought if just uh a few minutes before this when we took up the offering, as uh Martin and Rick and Phil and whoever the other one, we have four up here. You guys were all coming along and taking up the offering along the aisle. Suppose I had been standing beside each one of them. And uh as you put in your offering, I was watching to see what you stuck in there Let's suppose that besides just watching whether you put anything besides a yellow slip in there or not, I was also able to see the amount that you had written on the check that you put in there. Let's suppose further that I was able to know what you're going to pledge toward the Vision 91 campaign. And let's suppose beyond that I was able to know your motivation in doing that. How would you feel about that? Probably say, mind your own business, Harris. He'd be right. It's not my business. But it is Jesus' business. And the Bible tells us that when these people came past, Jesus watched them. And he knew their hearts. See, I think as Christians we often have a dichotomy in our thinking. It says that God's very concerned in my interactions with people and how I treat people, whether I'm kind to them or not. But he doesn't really follow me into the mall. He's not really very concerned what I do there or in the shopping area or in the food market You know, God just sort of looks the other way. I mean that's kind of boring to him. He's not really interested in what goes on there. He wants to see the spiritual things that we're doing. He's very interested in our prayer book, but he's not very interested in our checkbook. Well, the Bible says that's a wrong view of God. And Mark 12 tells us that specifically. Jesus watched these people as they wrote out their checks and put their money into the treasury. He observed them. He was very interested in that part of their lives. The second thing that the Bible tells us about this is that Jesus evaluates our giving. He watched them, he watches you. He evaluated them, and he evaluates you and me. Now uh that first point there should have said verse 41 rather than verse 42. And the second point uh really deals with verse 42 and 43, but let's pick up with verse 41 again. Notice what it says here. Jesus sat down opposite the place where the offerings were put. He watched the crowd putting in their money into the temple treasury. Many rich threw in large amounts, but a poor widow came and put In two very small copper coins worth only a fraction of a penny. Then calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, I tell you the truth. He always says that when he has something particularly important to say. So as I tell you the truth, this poor widow has put more into the treasury than all the others. Now you've got to realize that what the others were putting in was probably a fair amount of wealth. Here's one guy comes along and he chucks in a hundred. Another guy comes along and he chucks in three hundred. No pun intended on the chucking there. Somebody comes along and he sticks in a thousand dollars And then here comes this little widow, comes along, and how much does she put in? Well, you know, it says she put in a couple copper coins worth only a fraction of a penny. And I think we often think that, you know, she put in a penny or And she sawed it in half and put in a part of a penny or something. What she actually put in was worth about 164th of a common laborer's day wages. I think in buying power, it's kind of hard to estimate, but my guess is that that's about a dollar that she put in. I think it's important for us to see that it wasn't a penny, it was a dollar. Because to us a penny isn't even worth bending over to pick up. But a dollar can buy you some bread, it can buy you a few things. A dollar has some value And so here's this one fellow, and he comes along, he's just stuck in a thousand dollars into the treasury, and then comes along a widow, and she puts in one crumpled dollar bill. And then Jesus turns to his disciples and he says, She gave to God more. That's that blank there. She gave more than all the rest in his sight. How can you say more? Obviously she didn't give more. Thousand dollars is worth more than one dollar. So how can he say she gave more? He doesn't simply say She gave more significantly or she gave more sacrificially. He simply says she gave more. Why? I believe that Jesus is calling our attention to what really determines value in this world. You see, what determines ultimate value is not man, but God. And so in God's sight, he gave more. Because in God's sight he looks not simply at what we give, but at what we give relative to what we have to manage. And to God, she actually gave more in eternal value in how God looks at the giving of our hearts. She gave more And the fellows who are throwing in the five hundred, seven hundred and fifty, and thousand dollar checks. Now that Should cause you and me to stop and to think for a moment. I remember some years ago there was an NBC News special during the famine in Ethiopia. And they showed how in Harlem one school class had been challenged by the teacher the next day for everybody to bring in a penny to help with the famine. Turned out that the next day no kid brought in less than a dollar. One fellow went home and he broke his piggy bank and put in all his savings, $18. That he had saved for himself to give to the famine relief. He gave more, you see, than somebody who would have given out of abundance In God's value system, it's not the dollar amount of the cash. And I believe that for us, it's God who's going to put up this ministry facility. You and I do not have the capacity to do it. God can prosper, He can prosper with contractors and timing and all the things that you and I can't know about Where there can be stumbling blocks that you and I could never overcome. That's up to God. He can do that. All he's asking for you and for me to do is to be aware that we give in his presence and not before one another. And so this widow Jesus says gave more. Now, what does he mean when he says gave more? Why is he evaluating that? Is he evaluating it that God's saying she gave in more so I'm going to take away all the enjoyment that these Pharisees have of their money. I'm going to punish them in some way. They're not going to be able to Spend what they have, I'll take it away, I will judge them in some sense. No. None of that is stated. And that leads us to the third point. That is that I think what Jesus is impressing upon us here is that Jesus appreciates our giving. Jesus appreciates our giving. Particularly our generous giving. Now look again what he says. Calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, I tell you this truth, the truth. This poor widow has put more into the treasury More in the absolute sense into this treasury, as God sees it, than all the others, not just than any one of the others, than all of them put together. They gave out of their wealth, but she out of her poverty put in everything, all she had to live on. His point, you see, is not to condemn those who gave out of their surplus. He doesn't speak condemnation to them at that point. His only condemnation of them is their hypocrisy and their greed. You notice back up in verse 38 to 40, he talks about their hypocrisy in their display. Of hypocritical generosity. Why was it hypocritical? Because you see in verse 39 he says that they have most important seats in the synagogue and places of honor at the banquets. And yet, you see, verse 40, they devour widows' houses, and for a show make lengthy prayers, such men will be punished most severely. It's that little phrase there, they devour widows' houses, you see. So here they are driving these hard bargains, no mercy to anybody they do business with, trying to grind out every last bit. Of whatever they can get that they consider is their right, and mercy doesn't enter into their thinking in their business dealings They're greedy and they rationalize and justify their greed. And out of the vast amount that they have made Through their questionable business dealings and their merciless attitudes, they give to God some to salve their conscience And Jesus says, their whole perspective is wrong. It's worthless in God's sight because of their attitude. Cause of their heart's desire. It's all for me. And I'll skim off enough so that I don't feel guilty to indulge myself with the rest. Jesus says, this one widow gave more than all they gave. And his point particularly, as I emphasized before, was not to condemn them. He doesn't say a word about them. All he focuses on is the widow. He says, she gave more. Because she gave out of her poverty. She put in everything. All that she had to live on. And I believe that he is saying he appreciates what she did in at least three different ways that occurred to me. You see them listed there. First of all, I believe that he appreciates her and our stewardship of his resources. He appreciated her stewardship. Of his resources. Clearly she was managing her money with God in mind. She was managing it for him. She wasn't spending it for herself George MacDonald has in one of his books for children the story of a father who teaches his son to not think of spending money, but he talks of using money. He says, don't ever think of spending money. We use it. Money is something that we're stewards of to use, realizing that everything we use it for, we do in God's presence. And this woman must have had a pretty powerful sense of that. And I believe that Jesus is saying that he appreciates what she has done. Now, she certainly wasn't aware. That the Son of God was observing what she put in. Perhaps she didn't even know he was looking at her. Perhaps she didn't even know who he was. She certainly wasn't aware that he understood the extent of her sacrifice. No word is given of any kind of relationship that they had. This was a revelation, I believe, that was given to Jesus of what she had done. And besides that, she certainly didn't have any idea that what she did would be recorded for all the generations down to you and to me to know of that sacrifice. All she did was do what was right with the money. That was her only concern. I want to do what is right with what I have. And God honored what she had done in multiplying it through the ages, in terms of the inspiration that's given to thousands and millions of others In our own giving to the Lord. Simply doing what she thought was right. And that is all God is asking you to do and for me to do during this campaign. Not to bow to pressure to what other people think or anything else except, Lord, how would you have me to steward what I have And I hope all of you will be back the second hour as Ed Spiber talks to us about the principles of stewardship, not just in terms of this campaign, but generally principles of stewardship that will help us as Christians thinking about this. The danger in those kind of things is that the people that are kind of already really big into this will come back to get reinforced and you'll be preaching to the choir. So I hope that all of us will be back here to be able to learn from the things that God has to say through Ed. I think there's a second thing that Jesus was saying in this. I believe he was appreciating what she did because he was appreciating her and our faith in his provision. Appreciating her faith, our faith in his provision. This giving was clearly an act of faith on her part. You notice what it says again, verse 44. They gave out of their wealth. They had plenty left to pay the bills. But she out of her poverty put in everything All that she had to live on. There was nothing left. She was going to go to the temple. She looked into her purse. All was there was this one last crumpled dollar bill. And in a rush of faith, she said, I'm going to put it all in, and I'm going to trust God to take care of my needs. I'm going to put it all in for him. If he's my father, he can take care of me. But I'm not going to go there and put in nothing. I'm going to put in what I can. I'm not going to ask somebody for change. I'm just going to put it in. Put in all that I have. Not very much. What do you think that meant to Jesus? To see someone trust him so implicitly, so childlike , to say, Lord, I just want to give you all that I have. It's not very much. It's all I can do. I want to give that to you. Reminds me of a fellow by the name of Billy Bray, who was a cornish alcoholic, radically transformed by Jesus Christ. became uh one of the great Cornish evangelists and not in some official capacity so much as just that he in his own testimony and joy of the radically Changed life that Jesus gave him in releasing him from the bondage of alcoholism and sharing his faith and testimony to people in his area. He was a poor fellow. Had several children. On one occasion, one of his children was deathly ill. And all that was in the house was 18 pence. He asked Sandy and Lorna what 18 pence are worth It took 18 pence to go to the doctor and to try to buy some medicine. On his way to the doctor, he was met by a friend of his Who he was convinced, after hearing him, was an even more urgent need that he was in. And so as an act of generosity and faith He gave to that friend the last eighteen pence, and then turned around because now there was no sense to go to the doctor or to seek to get any medicine. But in a rush of faith and assurance He knelt down and he pled with God to supernaturally save his child because he had done this to please him. Now I'm not saying that we act irresponsibly. But Billy Bray felt convinced of the Spirit that he should trust God. And he prayed that God would heal his son. He was granted such assurance of that that when he went home, he said to his wife as he came in the door, Joey's feeling better, isn't he? And she said, Yes, he is. He said, the child will live. And so he did. Now, God the Spirit has to give to you and to me that kind of faith. We don't have that kind of faith, do we? Our whole nature is to protect and to preserve and to watch out. To be responsible, to care for our things, and to manage so that we can see where things are coming from in the next weeks and months. But occasionally God calls us like that widow to step out on a supernatural faith and say, God, I'm going to give you this, and I don't know where the rest is coming from. I don't know how I'm going to pay all the bills, but I'm going to trust you, in a rush of faith, to believe that you will take care of me. I believe that's related to the third thing that Jesus appreciated in her, and that is that he appreciated her and our love and gratitude for his grace. Appreciated her love and gratitude for his grace. They gave out of their wealth, but she out of her poverty put in everything, all she had to live on. And I believe that that statement that she put in all she had is intended to catch your attention and my attention. To show us that in fact this woman was one in spirit with the Jesus that she gave it to. Because this is the last week of Jesus' life before he gives his life. For you and for me on the cross. Jesus saw your need and he saw my need, and he didn't give some of what he had. He didn't give out of the surplus of heaven. He didn't budget us in to eternity's relegers. He didn't fit us in so that there was enough for him and for the Father, but there was enough so that he could help us out. Jesus knew that nothing less than all he had would save you and me. And so he who was rich became poor, became man , suffered poverty, born in a stable. Living without a home, living without changes of wardrobe, living not knowing where his next meal would come from many times, humanly speaking, he gave all he had So that you and I, by his death, taking our sin, your sin, taking the burden of your sin , Taking that weariness that has dragged you down in a conscience that has not been clean before God, taking the burdens of your sins that you're not able to change. Jesus took that. And he's rescued you. He's rescued me. He's taken you out of the pit. And he's granted you forgiveness. And he's granted you eternal life. Why? Because he gave all that he had. And so out of love and gratitude we give to him. Not out of guilt. That'll only produce resentment down the road Not out of human pressure. That too will eventually rebound and boomerang to resentment and to self-protection. The only thing that can really motivate me to open my pocket is love and gratitude for the fact that Jesus Christ has transformed my life. He has given to me everything that I have that is worthwhile. Everything that I have that will outlast this life. Everything that I have that is of value more than passing tinsel. and transient joys Jesus has given to me. How can I not love him? How can I not want to please him When I consider he gave all that he had for me and for you. Now two final notes on this that I want us to notice on the back there. So that you don't misunderstand this passage. Two knots. Notice that Jesus did not say, go and do likewise. He said, whoo. He did not say that this is normative. He did not say that this is a command or expectation for you and for me to give everything that we have. To, you know, if you're really going to give. I mean, there's the Pharisaical giving, skimming off the top. I mean, 10%, that's nothing. You want to really give in this campaign, you ought to walk out of here saying, I don't know how I'm going to make my next car payment. I don't have any money left for the summer to live on. Now we're finally in tune, you see. Hey, we got a building, but we're all going to the deacons to live, you know. That's not what this is saying. He does not say you go and do the same thing. Jesus is using her as an extreme in contrast to the Pharisees. The Pharisees were giving hundreds of times as much as her paltry little dollar. But he wants to make the extreme case to show you in God's eyes what she gave, which is an extreme sacrifice. was more than what they gave, even though it was riches, hundreds or maybe thousands of times as much He wants us to put giving in the presence of God and in God's perspective to understand that. It's not a normative principle, it's an example of an extreme to make the point. But now, before you rest too easy and say, great, I'll give what I thought all along, you know, you just really took away everything you'd said the last 20 minutes. Notice the other not. And the other not is that Jesus did not say her giving was irresponsible. See, if I hear somebody doing something like Billy Bray did or like she did, that she gave everything that she had and she didn't have any money left to even buy a loaf of bread or a box of oatmeal or any fruit, I say that's irresponsible. That's just tempting God. And you know, the Lord says you shall not tempt the Lord your God. So she was not doing something very wise here. And now she's got to go to the deacons, you see them. It's ridiculous. Why give everything you have, and then you don't have anything to live on? That's presumptuous. What's interesting to me is all of that which is my thinking is not Jesus' thinking. Now there is a giving that can tempt God. If you and I in this campaign say, well, I'm going to give a ridiculous amount And I'm just gonna see. I'm just gonna write this out and I'm gonna give that and I'm just gonna see what God does. All right, God, you really okay? I'll show you. I'll give a hundred times more than I was gonna give, and I'll just see what you're gonna do about it Then you may suffer a great deal of short fall months in the years ahead, you see? Because that is tempting God. Point is that she was not trying to tempt God. She was giving everything she had and the implication of what Jesus is saying here. Is like Mary who poured out the precious gnarred ointment upon Jesus in John 12 for his death. Lavishing her love on him. She simply gave out of love. She wasn't tempting God, she wasn't trying to make a point, she wasn't trying to show anything off, she wasn't trying to impress anybody. She did it out of love. And her attention was directed simply on the Lord. Jesus says that is not irresponsible, even when it's done in the extreme. And can you imagine that she went home hungry and that God did not take care of her in the days ahead? I can't imagine that. We're not told what happens to her. But somehow I can't imagine that this woman went home and starved. I don't know that she became rich. But I do feel confident that God took care of her. And I don't know about you, but that really rebukes me, you know? Because as soon as I begin to think about giving extreme, as soon as I think about giving more than I can afford to give, I think, well that's not irresponsible. I've got to take care of myself. And I look at this widow And all of a sudden I'm rebuked because I realize how small is my love and my faith. Jesus didn't say she was irresponsible in doing that. He says, I appreciate this woman because she gave everything that she had for me. She was one in my spirit, because that's about what I'm ready to do, to give all that I have for her and for you and for me, that we might live and not die. And so as I come to this, I look at my own timidity, my own inclination to protect myself. And I realize that the crucial issue here is not how much I give. The crucial issue is the attitude of my heart. It 's the attitude of your heart. My love is so weak. My faith is so weak. But the Holy Spirit can change my love. And He can change my faith. And I'm not going to tell you what I was planning to give. That's between me and the Lord. But I will tell you that this morning as I prayed finally , In coming to this, the Holy Spirit gave me freedom to double that amount. And I believe each one of us simply need to come before the Lord and to be able to say, Lord, what do you want me to do that I might extend Experience your goodness. It doesn't matter whether I give a dollar or a thousand dollars in terms of your love for me. But it does matter in terms of my love for you. And I want to grow in that. And I want to grow in my faith and seeing you provide for me. I want to please you. I want to be available to you. And so let's come before the Lord now. Lord, as we look at this widow, I know my first impression of her was to be kind of turned off at the whole thing. Because as I looked at it, I thought, well, this is just some extreme case, and this woman really was sticking in some change. It really didn't matter, amount to anything. So why not? But that you've shown me that what she put in was probably her last human hope to get through the next week. And I've never been in that situation. My savings account is certainly not empty. My checking account's not empty. I don't I'm not stripped of resources to fall back on. We're a people who have so much, and our finances tend to be so complex that we think in terms of our liquid assets as well as our other assets, and they all mount up to quite a mount. And Lord, we see from this your word that you're not calling us to empty out everything that we have. But you are calling us To examine our hearts' motives as we come before you. To be able to look to you and to be able to see By your sacrifice and your love for us that motivated you to give all that you had That we might out of the rush of gratitude and faith trusting you as our Heavenly Father You, Lord Jesus, as our Savior and Holy Spirit, you who change our hearts from stingy, loveless hearts, become hearts that trust you. It looked to you. Pray that you would work in our hearts. And then we would begin to see you do a miracle. Only you can do that. And we come before you, asking for you to do that, and that if there's anyone here who has not ever known the love of Christ in their own life. Having come to him for salvation and forgiveness, that you would speak to that person of their need. Draw them to yourself. Hear us, Lord, together. In Jesus' name. Amen.