Heard uh some of the problems that Indonesia's been having recently, economic problems, very serious uh situation there in the country. The their their currency, the rupee, is really devalued. uh significantly over the last six months. Now th their problems started last summer. We left the country last May, so I don't think there's any correlation between us leaving. We had nothing to do with their economic problems over there. I don't think there's any correlation there. I would like to uh to start this morning by uh by reading a very interesting verse in the Gospel of uh not in the Gospel in the in the Acts. It's uh Acts chapter eight verse one. Why don't you turn there with me? We'll look at that for a minute. You know this podium was not built for somebody as tall as I am. I'm gonna have to pick this up. Alright, Acts chapter eight. Verse 1. Now the background of this is uh the Stephen, remember Stephen who was uh who was stoned, became the first martyr, uh gave a great testimony to Jesus Christ, but the Jews didn't receive it and they they killed him. And right after that, verse 1, chapter 8, says, On that day a great persecution broke out against the church at Jerusalem, and all except the apostles were scattered throughout Judea and Samaria. Now, that may just seem like a a a very normal average verse, but I find this very fascinating. Particularly this this this the last part of it says accept the apostles. Except Jesus' twelve, you know, the twelve the guys that were with him. all during his three years of ministry on earth. Everybody else was scattered all over the place except for the discipl the disciples. Now, why is that so strange? Why would we why would we expect uh that they would stay in Jerusalem? You know, uh the great missionary to to Indonesia, Don Richardson, he's written a lot of uh fascinating books like Peace Child, some of you may have read that one, and others. He said one time, the Christians think that Luke's acts of the apostles record the twelve apostles' obedience to the Great Commission. Actually, it record records their reluctance to obey it Their reluctance to obey it. Um they one reason I guess we would expect that the that the apostles would be taking the the message of salvation to the ends of the earth was that Jesus told them to. I mean the last thing he said in uh in uh Acts chapter one verse eight, you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth So there might be a reasonable expectation that the that the disciples would be would be interested in in fulfilling that, but yet the the witness of of acts, at least based on the record that we have here, it just seems like they were they were either slow, reluctant, or even hard headed, uh stubborn about uh fulfilling this great commission. In fact, it's not until uh chapter eleven that they even really admit that they should have some kind of a ministry to the Gentiles, to the non-Jews. Peter has come back from and told the the apostles and the and the brothers in Jerusalem what had happened with Cornelius and how the Holy Spirit had come upon them. And uh in Acts chapter 11 and verse 18, after Peter gives his report, when they heard this They had no further objections and praised God, saying, So then, God has granted even the Gentiles repentance unto life. I find this really amazing. Here we are halfway through the the the book of Acts and the and the disciples are just admitting, hey maybe we you know maybe there's something that we need to do about the Gentiles. Maybe God really intended, maybe he was really serious Yeah, maybe Jesus is really serious about about the fact that the Gentiles are going to be brought into the the body of faith, bought brought into the church I can just uh I can just hear the disciples discussing uh Jesus' commission to them when he told them to go to the ends of the verse. I think probably Thomas was the one who who said, Now wait a minute guys, you know, do you really think he meant that? I mean Remember the time we talk about plucking out the eyeballs? You know, he wasn't really serious about that. Um, you know, maybe he was just speaking figurative when he said we're supposed to go to the end of the earth. But it's not just one time that that that Jesus told them. He told him many times. You know, we have the the in in Mark fifteen Verse 16, go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation. He told them again, Matthew 28, 19, go and make disciples of all nations. It wasn't just a one-time thing. Jesus told him many times Now this word nations, uh go and make disciples of all nations, it's not the Greek word there's not nations like we think of America or Canada or or um Italy or something like that. Gr the the word nations there is more probably close to our understanding of like the Cherokee nation. Uh maybe easiest to understand it as a is a people group, a a language group, rather than uh strictly a a political nation. Now they did they just they just didn't have Jesus' direct commands to go and preach the gospel to the ends of the earth, but they also had his his example. uh of ministry to gentiles. You remember in uh Matthew chapter eight, the Roman centurion uh came to Jesus to ask him for uh to heal his servant And Jesus demonstrated his concern for people who were not Jews, but the Gentiles there. The the Canaanite woman who came and asked Jesus for uh to help uh in Matthew chapter fifteen. And also Jesus' healing ministry in in Matthew fifteen, where he he healed many people and he feeds the four thousand And many s many uh experts believe that they were they were Gentiles, they were not Jews, because of uh some of the evidence in the text there that indicates that they were Gentiles. And many other examples like that where uh Jesus demonstrated graphically to the disciples that uh God's blessing was not just for the Jews, but he he intended it for the non-Jews too, for all the nations. So they had Jesus' commands, they had his uh they had his example But they also had uh what I think is even more significant in some ways because it because it's part of their culture, they had the Old Testament, they had the scriptures, the witness of the scriptures that shows God's heart for the nations. Now what do I mean by that? Let's turn to Genesis chapter 12. I want to read to you a very significant passage. Genesis chapter 12, verses 1 through 3 The Lord said to Abram, Leave your country, your people, your father's household, and go to the land I will show you. I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you. I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will curse, and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. This is not just some insignificant passage in the Old Testament. In fact, uh John Scott once wrote, he said, these are perhaps the most unifying verses in the Bible. The whole of God's plan is encapsulated here. The whole of God's plan is encapsulated here because it explains what God's purposes were, his intentions, and what was promised to Abraham. Well, one of the things he promised, I will make you into a great nation. I'll make you a great nation. I will bless you. I will make your name great. Now have these things been been fulfilled? Have they been accomplished? Yes, they have. Uh Abraham and his descendants, his children became the nation of Israel. So God has fulfilled that promise to make him into a great nation. He greatly blessed Abraham In that way. But what about this what about the last promise in the last part of verse three? Now all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. Has that promise been fulfilled yet? We'll get to the answer to that question later. Interesting too, I wanted to point out to you that in Galatians chapter 3 Galatians chapter three verse eight, what Paul says about this particular passage in the in the Old Testament. Galatians chapter 3, verse 8. He says, the scripture foresaw that God would justify the Gentiles by faith. and announced the gospel in advance to Abraham, all nations will be blessed through you. You see, Paul looked back at this passage in the Old Testament and saw the gospel there, saw God's intent to bless the nation of Israel, but to bless them for a purpose. That is, that all the nations on the earth, all the sons of the earth, would be blessed through them and through Abraham's descendant. But this is not just an obscure passage in the Old Testament. It's repeated. God repeated this several times in Genesis, Genesis chapter 18 and verse 18. Abraham will surely become a great and powerful nation, and all nations on earth will be blessed through him. Again, God repeating this promise. In Genesis chapter 22, turn over a couple more pages. 22 and 15. The angel of the Lord called Abraham from heaven a second time and said, I swear by myself, declares the Lord. That because you have done this and not withheld your son, your only son, I will surely bless you and make your descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and the sand on the seashore. Your descendants will take possession of the cities of their enemies, and through your offspring, all nations on earth will be blessed because you have obeyed me. He didn't just stop there with Abraham. He repeated again to Isaac, Genesis chapter 26. Genesis chapter 26 , we'll start with verse with verse 4. I will make your descendants as numerous as the stars of the sky and will give them all these lands, and through your offspring all nations on earth will be blessed. You begin to see what what God's heart is, how serious he is about this. He wasn't content just to tell it to Abraham one time. But he told it to him several times, and he repeated it to his son, Isaac. He repeated it to Jacob in Genesis chapter twenty eight. Genesis chapter twenty eight ten through fifteen We see the same thing. Your descendants, starting in verse 14, your descendants will be like the dust of the earth, and you will spread out to the west and to the east, to the north and the south. All peoples on earth will be blessed through you and your offspring And that's that's a powerful statement. All peoples on earth will be blessed through you and your offspring. Again reminding us of what God's intent, God was telling him ahead of time what he was going to do Uh Paul says this is the gospel that was preached to them back then. Well maybe we could maybe we could uh We could understand the apostles if uh if they had forgotten about these these few passages, but what about the Psalms? What about the psalm that we just read, Psalm 67? What a great, what a great missionary psalm. But that's not the only one. There's others. Psalm 1849, I will praise you among the nations. Psalm 45, 17. Therefore the nations will praise you forever and ever Psalm 46, 10, be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations You know, I remember talking uh to a friend in Indonesia. Indonesia is the largest Muslim country in the world. Uh about eighty Eighty-five to eighty nine percent of the country is Muslim. And I remember talking with my friend saying, you know, I don't understand why you Christians don't honor our prophet Muhammad. I mean we honor your prophet Jesus Yeah, oh yeah, we we consider Jesus one of the greatest prophets that have ever lived. And I told him, I said, Well, I appreciate that, but Let me ask you something. Your president, President Suharto, uh was a general, you know, rose to the highest level in the army before he became president. What if I, in talking with with him, addressed him as Lieutenant Suharto? Am I honoring him by giving him uh that title? Of course not, because he's risen much higher than the level of lieutenant. He's he was general, he's even president now. So see, calling Jesus a prophet, that's good, but that's that's not his only that's not his only title. He's the Son of God He's God in the flesh. And to and to deny that, even though you're giving him an honorable title as prophet, is not really honoring Jesus. So see the nations, not all the nations have know about Jesus, uh, and and certainly don't don't honor him as the Lord. I want to read to you Psalm forty-seven. Another interesting passage. You can turn there with me. Well here this is this is uh the an awesome passage that shows God's heart Uh and shows that David understood it. Clap your hands, all you nations, shout to God with cries of joy. How awesome is the Lord Most High, the great King over the earth! He subdued nations under us, peoples under our feet. He chose our inheritance for us, the pride of Jacob, whom he loved. God has sent it amidst shouts of joy, the Lord amidst the sounding of trumpets. Sing praises to God, sing praises, sing praises to our King, sing praises. For God is the King of all the earth. Sing to him a pr psalm of praise. God reigns over the nations. God is seated on his holy throne. The nobles of the nations assemble as the people of God of the God of Abraham. For the kings of the earth belong to God. He is greatly exalted. Then again in uh in Psalm 67, I wanted to point out one more thing to you. We read that we read that this morning uh together. But the first couple of verses, may God be gracious to us and bless us. Then Dan and Bursu, that your ways may be known on earth, your salvation among all nations. This is another theme I think is important. We saw it with Abraham. We see it again here in the Psalms. That is the idea of God blessing people for a purpose. He doesn't just bless them so that they can enjoy their blessing themselves and only for themselves, although that's part of it. But he blesses people in order to be a blessing. You know, he told Abraham, I will bless you and you will be a blessing to others. And this Psalm also reinforces that. Bless us, Lord, that your salvation may be known to the ends of the earth. We could go on and on to this. I'll just read a couple more of them. Psalm 105, 1. Give thanks to the Lord, call on his name, make known among the nations what he has done. Psalm 117, praise the Lord, all ye nations. Not just the Psalms though, and the prophets too. The same theme is repeated. Isaiah 56, my house will be called a house of prayer for all nations Isaiah 49, 6. I will make you a light for the Gentiles that you may bring my salvation to the ends of the earth. Even the Jonah, the story of Jonah. uh is a great illustration of how of God's love for all peoples. He wanted Jonah to go preach to the Ninevehites. They weren't Jews, but Jonah was uh resistant, was stubborn. It's it's interesting, that seems to be a consistent theme with the Jews. The nation of Israel is that God had blessed them and intended for them to be a blessing, but they weren't really interested in that part of it. They were happy with the being being blessed part, but they weren't that interested in being being the blessing Jonah even r uh refused to do it until God uh helped him to change his mind Back in 1917, a young man went out to uh set Central America, uh, answered the call to go distribute uh Spanish language Bibles in, I think it was Guatemala And he was back into the the the mountainous area where the where there wasn't there weren't that many Spanish speaking people. There were mostly uh tribal people there. and he was trying to d sell these Spanish Bibles and just wasn't having much success. And he was he relates one day he was You know, trying to trying to uh talk to people about how great God was, and this and this old man came up to him, got right in his face and said, Look, if your God is so great, how come he can't speak my language Uh he didn't have an answer to that. And he ended up spending the next uh chunk of his life translating the Bible for for those people so they could know uh so they could know about God in their own language, a language that spoke to their heart uh so they could praise God along with him and know how great the God is that we serve and how greatest salvation we have through Jesus Christ. That was the start of uh Wycliffe Bible translators. That man went on to to found the organization and And since then, Wycliffe's been working in um hundreds and hundreds of languages around the world translating the Bible into uh into the local languages. You know, the uh the village that we stayed in Indonesia, the Herman mentioned, um, they are they are um I guess you'd call them culturally Christians. They have a church there. Uh they have a Bible that's in the the national language Indonesian. Uh the problem is not many of the people understand that language. It's a foreign language to them. I remember coming out of church one day and I saw a gentleman sitting in front of his his house. He didn't go to church and I I went over to him and said, What's the matter Were you sick today? I didn't see I didn't see you in church. And he says, bah. You go go ask those people that are coming out of church if they understood anything that was said. They don't understand it. And I have to admit, my My observations were that it was true. That um uh they really didn't understand what was going on because in in Indonesia Uh the Bible is God's language is Indonesian and the preachers preach in Indonesian, but the people who speak six hundred and eighty-five tribal languages across the country Uh many of them don't understand Indonesian well enough to understand uh what the gospel is all about. I mean these the people that we were with would consider themselves Christians, yet if somebody was sick in the village, they would they might call the the an elder from their to pray and ask God to heal them, but they would also call the the witch doctor to come and sacrifice a goat or a chicken uh to ask the the the ancestors to heal this person. Or they might try to appease the spirits because they would say, well we don't know who's causing this illness. It may be God, it may be the spirits, maybe the ancestors. We've got to cover all the bases They just don't understand God's power, uh, and they're not willing to trust in him alone. Uh another friend of mine uh he was uh explaining to me why he put these little charms in his garden, why he uh why he called on the evil spirit to empower this charm. He said, well it's because if I don't do that then my you know my neighbors will steal out of my garden. They're afraid of this. They're afraid of the power the evil power in this in this charm and they won't steal stuff from my guard and I said, Well aren't you guys all Christians? Yeah, so? So they just they just don't understand uh what it's all about. And I 'm convinced that's because they need the they need the Bible in their own language. Okay, all these verses, we've kind of took a taken a whirlwind tour through the Bible, and I wanted to demonstrate to you that the Great Commission didn't just start with Jesus, but it was given all the way back to Abraham. this idea that God intends to reach the nations. Now the now the Paul I'm not really picking on the disciples. You know, I can't I can't uh I can't really honestly criticize them for what they've done. I don't I don't know their situation. Just The appearance though is that they were reluctant or hesitant to uh to reach out. Speaking about that, I'm the story of my wife, she's sitting over here, should introduce her to you She uh when she became a Christian at the age of twelve, she said, God I'll do anything for you, just don't send me on the mission field because all she knew about missions were that they uh you know live with snakes and had to put up with malaria and they lived in a swamp and alligators nipping at their ankles all the time and she didn't want to have anything to do with that. Well then when she went to college, she went to she made the first mistake was going to Wheaton College, which is a very strong Christian college And uh they require students to be exposed to missions. They take a take a third world missions type class and they have missions emphasis weeks and she saw her heart started to become softened And she started dating me and I was very in very um very uh determined at that point to to seriously think about going into missions And uh as I got more and more serious about missions and I got more and more serious about her, I even proposed to her and she thought, whoa, I gotta I gotta start I gotta start thinking about, you know, missions for myself. And she even decided to start dating somebody else at the time. And the funny thing was they were interested in missions too. She couldn't get away from it. So she finally came to her senses and we got married eventually in the rest is history. Okay, so we've uh we've seen we've seen uh the guide's heart from the mission through this whirlwind tour through the scriptures. We've seen how the disciples seemed Reluctant. I mean one one one writer I was reading said it probably wasn't until Jerusalem was destroyed in A. D. seventy that the disciples were actually forced to go out of Jerusalem because there wasn't any Jerusalem left. And we have the traditions uh of the church that that many of the the apostles did go out at that point and around the different places of the world and and and plant churches around But at least initially they were reluctant to do that. And I think uh I think we reflect a lot of that too, that reluctance to to um to be involved in missions. But first before I want before I want to dress before I come back and address that issue, let's let's look at the condition of world missions today. How have we done, have we done any better job than than the disciples They have they have passed the baton to us, so to speak, down through the generations. Now now we have the baton. We have the commission. to go out and preach the gospel to all creation, take it to all the nations. How have we done? How has the Christian church done since then? Well at first glance we've done very well. I mean there's undoubtedly there's a church in every continent uh on the globe and almost in every in every country there's a church. So at first uh at first glance it seems like we've done pretty good. But as you might expect on a closer inspection It seems that maybe the Christians over the generations have also been reluctant to go out of their Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and go to the ends of the earth You see, while the gospel has gone out all over the globe, there's still the issue of the unreached people groups. Ralph Winter, uh great missionary strategist of our time uh write writes this, and I want to read this rather long quote to you. He says, in re recent years a serious misunderstanding has crept into the thinking of many event evangelicals Curiously, it's based on a number of wonderful facts. The gospels now have now gone to the end of the earth. Christians have now fulfilled the Great Commission in at least a geographical sense. At this moment of history, we can acknowledge with great respect and pride those evangelists of every nation who have gone before us and whose sacrificial efforts and heroic accomplishments have made Christianity by far the world's largest and most widespread religion. with the Christian church on every continent and practically every country. This is no hollow victory. Now more than any time since Jesus walked the shores of Galilee We know with complete confidence that the gospel is for all men, and that it makes sense in any language, and that it's not merely a religion of the Mediterranean or of the West. Now this is all true. On the other hand, many Christians as a result have the impression that the job is now nearly done And that to finish it, we need only to forge ahead in local evangelism on the part of the now worldwide church, reaching out wherever it has already been planted. But see the awesome problem is the additional truth that most non-Christians in the world today are not culturally near neighbors of any Christians, and it will take a special kind of cross-cultural evangelism to reach them. You see, w roughly just about one-third of the world today are Christians. It's about 1. 7 billion people out of a total of 5. 3 or 5. 4, whatever the latest figure is Of that figure of the 1. 7 billion Christians, 1. 2 billion are what we call nominal Christians They may go to church once a year, uh Christmas, Easter, that kind of thing. They're not really that that involved. Maybe half maybe half a billion, five hundred million people would would what we call evangelical, Bible-believing Christians. Okay Now, of the rest of the world, of of the the rest of the world besides the one point seven, about one billion non Christians live near Christians and could be reached by Christians doing evangelism, in other words, sharing the gospel with their people in their own cultures. or people who are very similar to them. Okay, that's another one billion. Now that totals three point nine billion people These are all these are the people that are either already uh we could consider reached or could be reached through evangelism. But see that still leaves quite a large chunk to illustrate that. If every if every Christian in the world would reach their neighborhood for Christ There still would be 2. 4 billion people who didn't hear anything about Jesus and who were never going to hear anything about Jesus unless somebody goes cross-culturally To share the gospel with them. These people need to be reached by what we call pioneer or frontier missions uh someone crossing cultural barriers. They would have to go and learn those people's language, learn their culture, and figure out the best way to communicate the gospel to these people. Now this this 2. 4 billion people represent thousands, some estimates have been 17,000 people groups, individual people groups that are still unreached. unreach and that they don't they haven't heard about Jesus. They can't hear about Jesus. There's no Christian bookstore in their in their town. There's no church in their town. There's no Christians there. There's nobody to tell them And for that situation to change, Christians around the world have to take up the call to go to go and reach them. Now it's interesting that God has built into every culture some some cultural things that help them to understand the gospel, to help them or be help them be prepared to receive it. Some of you may have heard the story about the peace child. The book there's been a book and a movie where missionaries went to Erie and Gi and and had a hard time reaching the Stone Age tribe. They couldn't figure out how to communic communicate the gospel until they saw uh the ceremony that these two two warring tribes were making peace and the way they did that was one tribe offered a child, literally gave one of their children to the other tribe. And as long as that child was alive, there would be peace between the two warring tribes and they called that child the peace child. And the missionary realized, hey, this is the perfect analogy of the gospel. God has given us his Son to make peace between Between us and God. And that's how they explain the gospel. Another case, uh, this past year in the Philippines, uh a New Testament, the Subnan New Testament, was dedicated. And it seems that years ago uh two Subinan seers or prophets who lived generations apart told about the white-toothed people coming and and sharing about a new belief Now see white tooth people referred to outsiders because at that time all the Submann people they filed their teeth and stained them black. So the people with white teeth were outsiders But see when they they had this thing in their culture, this belief that at one point some white tooth people would come and and share a new belief. And so when the missionaries came, they were prepared long before by God to ri to receive it Now here's the problem. It's not just that there's all these billions of people out there who are not going to hear. That's not the main problem, although it's very significant. The main problem is the statistics on foreign missions. It seems that's 90% of foreign missionaries, 87% of missions funding, and 94 % of full-time Christian workers are directed toward to those countries where 60% or more of the people identify themselves as Christians. It seems that most of missions, the vast majority of missions, is is trying to call nominal Christians back to faith rather than reaching cross-culturally to uh to these unreached people groups That's a ser that's a serious problem. But it is but it's exciting to see what God is doing today as Christians are starting to think strategically about this problem of the unreached people groups. They're starting to work together Uh they're starting to pool their resources in in a way that we've we've never seen before in history. Um things like you may have heard about the the AD 2000 project, the Joshua Project, these these groups are trying to mobilize Christians churches here in the States and around the world to adopt an unreached people group and pray uh and send people to plant a church in in all the remaining unreached people groups by the year two thousand. Uh Ralph Winter again wrote, he says, for the first time in history, the church has the resources to fulfill the Great Commission. Part of this is technology. I give you one example in our case. I've been working since August here in Baltimore, full-time, with two translators who live in Indonesia. They when they translate a chapter, they send it to me as a as an email attachment I get it on my computer within within minutes of when they send it, I do my editing and and corrections and changes and send it right back to them. And uh it's just a miracle how how technology has made this this kind of thing possible. That's just one example of of the times that we live in. Now in the in the remaining minutes here, I wanted to turn our focus on Columbia Orthodox Presbyterian Church. What is your role in all this? You know, as I as I looked at your involvement in missions, how many missionaries you support, the the people that have gone out from your congregation I'm tempted to say, well, you know, what can I what can I say to these people? They're already doing a good job. They're already doing it. They're making a difference in the world. Uh they're they're doing their part. But I know that um if I as a missionary can experience i if I have myself have have lost the vision at times, being become discouraged, uh become distracted by other things, kind of my my heart for missions has grown cold And I've been overseas actually doing it. I know people here who um who are living in this culture also could experience the same thing. And I want I want to encourage you not to lose heart. One of the things you could do as a church is as you look at your missions giving and as you plan for uh increasing your uh your your giving to missions, begin to think strategically Um, if you haven't already, begin to think strategically about meeting meeting these needs, about reaching these unreached people groups. Uh the church that I come from has targeted two unreached people groups, one in Indonesia and one in in Kyrgyzstan, and it's focused the majority of our funding and sending people to the to try to plant churches in these two unreached groups. That's one model to follow What some of you in here may not be might not even be yet involved financially in giving commissions. And I would encourage you to ask ask yourself Why not? Ask God. Why why why not? Why should I why shouldn't I be involved in giving financially to missions and to helping fulfill the Great Commission? And and finally, you know, you need to ask yourself, is God calling me to make that sacrifice and go overseas? Um It's not a guilt thing. I don't wanna I don't wanna uh I think the wrong response to this kind of message is to feel guilty. Oh why am I why am I not willing to do that? But it's listen to your heart. Is God is God speaking to you? Is God is God building an excitement in your heart for this kind of thing That may be that may be God's way of calling you into missions. Listen to your heart, listen to what God's saying to you and be open to that. I know got people have million reasons why they they would never think about going overseas, but I can tell you from my experience Uh God can protect it. He's protected us from from many things, from uh things miners, poisonous snakes and scorpions to being uh set adrift on the ocean when the engine died. And uh we had to wait until the wind kicked up and we could use our little tiny sail to help us limp into shore. We were miles away from shore, but we just trusted God and and God's protected us. Uh being times when we're out in the village, days, literally days away from medical health, he protected us, kept us healthy, uh, kept us free from injury. And I know God can can do the same thing for you All right, so to wrap all this up, we've seen what God's promise is to Abraham to bless all the nations. Has he done it yet? Well, if if it's true that there are all these unreached people groups The job's not finished yet. Do you think he still intends for that job to be finished? Well, in Revelation 7. 9, we get this beautiful picture that uh this vision that John has of heaven He sees the he says this, after I saw the four angels standing at the four corners of the earth holding back the four winds. Skip downstairs, skip down to verse uh verse four. He says, I heard I heard the number of those who were seated, who were sealed, 144,000 from all the tribes of Israel. And he goes on, he he he has this picture of this vision of what it's like in heaven. And he says, Before me in verse nine, after this I looked and there were before me was this great multitude that no one could count, from every nation, tribe, people, and language, standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. They were wearing the white robes and they were holding palm branches in their hands and they cried out in a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. See this this is actually my my my life verse, the verse uh my favorite verse in the Bible because we get this picture in heaven of people from every nation and tribe and language praising God and worshiping God. So I think I think we have to say that that God really intends for some from every people group to be there represented in heaven and worshiping together with us So let's not lose let's not lose heart, even though there's this great task before us, 2. 4 billion people, 17,000 people groups uh w however you want to look at it, it could be discouraging. Uh it could be like the it could be like Goliath and the and the and the Israelites were discouraged in the face of him. But let's don't let's not take that attitude. We can do it I think we're at the end of history. The church has the potential to finish the task, to finally finish the Great Commission. So I would encourage us not to lose heart in doing good. I also encourage us to continue to follow in Christ's footsteps and uh to finish the work that He's left us to do. And I want to leave you with this verse from Psalm 72. Verse 19, praise be to his glorious name forever, and may the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen