When you hear the words the last judgment, what do you think of? I know that there are many sorts of ideas floating around about the last judgment. Some people think of the last judgment as a time when there will be a massive scale set up. Each individual will come before that scale. Their good deeds will go on one side, their bad deeds on the other side, depending on how that balances. They will go to heaven or hell. Other people think of the Last Judgment as being a doomsday when God will finally come and get the world, perhaps by a nuclear holocaust, perhaps by just the earth blasting into smith of. But they think of that last judgment as a day when God gets his just desserts. Other people think of that time of the Last Judgment as a time when people stand before God. And based on pretty much his whim, he points to heaven or hell. Go here, go here. What do you think when you think of the last judgment? Do you have any thoughts about it? Do you have any scriptures that you can bring up into your memory that speak to the Last Judgment? This morning I intend to go through some of the facts the Bible gives us about the Last Judgment. I hope that we'll be able to indicate some of the ways that those facts, coupled with your own minds and hearts, can affect your lives from this day on. A key passage when considering the Last Judgment is Revelation 20. The Last Judgment is referred to many places, and in the notes you have in the bulletin, you will see many references. Don't be intimidated. plan to speak to all of those. Those are there for you to look at this week if you wish to study this subject some more. The Book of Revelation is an incredible book. It's a book which forms part of what we call the apocalyptic literature of Scripture. The apocalyptic literature speaks of the end of the world. And in the Book of Revelation, we find a grand piece of literature. We find prose that just swee through time and eternity As you read that prose, you're swept along into the incredibleness of a God who came from eternity into time to make us, and then to deal with sin. And so as we read these passages this week and next, and if you look at them during The week. Be impressed. Open your minds. Think of the words and the pictures they're intended to portray. These are ideas we can't grasp. Eternity is an idea we really can't grasp. But God who came from eternity into time. For us, it is an idea that's very hard to grasp. And John, as he wrote down his vision, wrote it in words which try to get that idea across to us. It's much like reading the Narnia Chronicles to your children. It's much like reading Lord of the Rings, where you see evil And good portrayed and valid. And so as we read this now, let your thoughts roam. Let your thoughts try to pick up the images of what we're going to be considering. Before we go to Revelation 20. To read that though. I'd like to read a few words from Revelation chapter 1 to prepare ourselves for the rest of what we read. Revelation chapter 1, verses 1 to 3. The revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ, which God gave him to show his servants what must soon take place, he made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, who testifies to everything he saw, that is, the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. Christ. Blessed is the one who reads the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear it, and take to heart what is written in it, because the time is near. Let's pray. Our God. As we come to these words, we would pray that you would cause us to read them, to hear them, to absorb them, to take them to heart, for indeed the time is near. Prepare us now to consider your words. Amen. Turn with me then to Revelation chapter twenty. We 'll be reading the entire chapter. Revelation chapter 20. And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key to the abyss, and holding in his hand the Great chain. He seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who was the devil or Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. He threw him into the abyss and locked and sealed it over him, to keep him from deceiving the nations any more until the earth was a very good. the thousand years were ended. After that he must be set free for a short time. I saw thrones on which were seated those who had been given authority to judge, and I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony for Jesus. And because of the word of God, they had not worshipped the beast or his image, and had not received his mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to the life. To life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy are those who have a part in the first resurrection. The second death has no power over them But they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him for a thousand years. When the thousand years are over, Satan will be released from his prison and will go out to deceive the nations in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog. Gather them for battle. In number they are like sand on the seashore. They marched across the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of God's people, the city he loves. But fire came down from heaven and devoured them, and the devil who deceived them. Was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown. They would be tormented day and night, forever and ever. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it. Earth and sky fled from his presence, and there was no place for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Another book was opened, which is the book of life. The dead were judged according to what they had done, as recorded in the books. The sea gave up the dead that were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead that were in them, and each person was judged according to what he had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. The lake of fire is the second death. If anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Thus ends the reading. of God's Word. Now let's consider it. The book of Revelation is divided into seven histories. Seven histories of the time interval from Christ's first coming until his second coming. The first few of these books emphasize events near to the time of Christ's first coming to the early church. The latter of these histories emphasize the time near the end when Christ will come again. If you look at the pattern of those seven, you'll see that the first three, chapters one through eleven, refer to the struggle on earth between the forces of evil in the world and the church. The last four, in chapter 12-22, speak of the spiritual. The spiritual struggle that underlies that earthly struggle speaks of the way in which Satan is persecuting the church. Throughout the book of Revelation, there are references to people, places, and things that were at the time of the writing of the book. Book was written for the people of God in the first century. But in this book are also principles, ideas that apply to us today. And it's to these that we are going to look today. The seventh history. Given in the book of Revelation, covers chapters 20 through 22. This is a history which emphasizes two things. The doom of Satan, that one who has been warring against. Christ and his word, whose forces have been warring against the people of God throughout the book. It also emphasizes the last judgment and the reward for believers. This week we'll be considering the events up through the Last Judgment. Next week, we'll be considering what is in store for the believer in the new heaven and the new earth. Chapter 20 is divided into four sections, which we'll quickly cover as we set the stage for the fourth section, the one describing the last judgment. In the first section, verses one to three, we see the account of Satan being bound. We see there an angel coming down, an angel which pictures Christ. Who takes a chain, who binds Satan, and throws him into an abyss for a thousand years. A thousand years. What does that mean? In Hebrew literature, Numbers are very significant. In apocalyptic literature, particularly, the symbols we see of the creatures, the events that go on, the numbers, the names, are even more significant. The number 10 is a number in Hebrew thought which indicates completeness. Remember, the Holy of Holies, the place where the priest went into in the tabernacle once a year, had dimensions, 10 cubits by 10 cubits by 10 cubits. It was a cube, ten cubits on a side. A thousand is ten times ten times ten. It is a number which indicates a complete period of time. So what we see here is Christ coming down to earth, binding Satan. For a thousand years, for a complete period of time. Why? So that Satan cannot prevent the church from going out and proclaiming the gospel. We see before Christ came, Satan came to the church. Satan held most of the world in bondage. Only the people of Israel worshiped the true God. A few people came in now and again to worship with them. But by and large, the whole earth was held in bondage to Satan. He deceived everyone. When Christ bound Satan upon his first coming, he bound him so that his efforts would be curved, and he could not frustrate the spread of the gospel, he could not gather the forces of evil to come against the church like he will at the very end. We see a reference to that in verse 3, that after the thousand years are over, Satan will be released for a short time. In the Great Commission, Christ refers to this, he said, All power, all authority is given unto me. Will therefore make disciples of all nations. He's saying Satan's power is broken. He still has an influence, but he cannot thwart the church. The church will grow, the church will go on. Satan is bound. The scene then shifts from the earth and Satan being bound to heaven. Starting in verse 4, we see a picture of heaven. In that picture, we see what goes on in heaven for those thousand years. In this passage, we see that. The people of God, those who have trusted in Christ, are with Christ. We see that the dead in Christ are with Christ during this age. They are with Christ, but they don't have their resurrection bodies. That comes later. The unbelieving dead, however, are not with them. We see a reference in those verses to a first and second resurrection. That may be very puzzling to you, but it needn't be. I think we can easily see that the first resurrection is the description of we who are in Christ, dying, going to be with Christ. We are with Christ. We don't have our bodies, but we're with them. That's what's spoken of as the first resurrection. The second resurrection here referred to is when Christ comes in judgment and all the dead will be raised. We will all receive our bodies, both believers and unbelievers, and stand before God. The second death referred to here in this section is the death which unbelievers face at the end of the age. For them there is two deaths. For the unbeliever there is the death when his body dies and decays on this earth. He does not go to see Christ. He dies. For him, there's a second death when Christ comes again. His body is resurrected, and then when he is thrown into the lake of fire, he dies again. He is separated from God forever. We see a picture in the third part of Satan's doom. We see that when the thousand years are over, when these thousand years during which Satan has been bound, so he cannot deceive the nations any longer, these thousand years during which the dead in Christ have been with Christ. been ruling with him in heaven, we see that Satan is loose. He is loose, he goes above the earth He goes, he gathers all the enemies of Christ together, enemies of the church together, and he comes to do battle with the church. The picture here is of him surrounding the city of God. Surrounding God's people. At that point, we don't have it described here, but elsewhere in the book of Revelation and in the New Testament. As well as other places. We see the picture of Christ coming back. At that crucial moment in history, when Satan's forces are laid against God's people, about to devour them, fire from heaven comes down, devours Satan's forces. At that point, the devil, the deceiver, Satan is thrown into the lake of fire, from which he'll never come. From that point on, Satan will be out of the believer's hair. Never more to tempt us, never more to thwart the spread of the gospel, never more to struggle against that. He's gone forever. At that point, We see the judgment. At that point, men and angels alike will stand before God. What are the circumstances of that judgment? First of all, when is it? What is the time of that judgment? We see in chapter 20 of Revelation that this judgment comes after the present age. It comes after Satan is thrown into the lake of fire, into hell. It comes at the same time as the resurrection when we all receive our bodies. It comes, of course, before the new heaven and new earth, which is spoken of in Revelation 21. How long is the judgment? Scriptures refer many times to the day of judgment. The day of judgment. It also refers to the day of salvation, the day of our Lord. It's a time that we don't know. We don't know how long it is. We just know that it's spoken of as a day of judgment. But in that day we know something of what will happen. As we look at these verses now, chapter twenty of Revelation, beginning with verse eleven. We'll look at what we can see there, what kind of facts we can pull out of there to help us understand this judgment. First of all, we see a picture there of a great white throne, and we see one seated on that throne, and we see the earth and the sky fleeing from it in fear. The earth and the sky is a picture with pictures for us, all peoples, heaven and earth, everything. Everything's afraid of that throne. People And creation alike are afraid of that throne. We don't have specifically here a reference to who is on that throne. But if we look elsewhere in Scripture, we find many references to that judge. In particular in 2013, 2 Corinthians 5:10, we read Paul saying, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Christ is that judge. That one who was once a baby in a manger. That one who We say, took little children on his knee and loved them. The one last week we heard of, who had compassion on the people he encountered. That one who caused everyone who met him to decide for him or against him. This one is on that judgment throne. This one who was made flesh for us, who experienced life and we experience it, is sitting there to judge all men, all women. If he is sitting on that throne to judge us, who then are judged? Who are the defendants? We are. All people, all people will be there to be judged. In verse 12, we read, and I saw the dead, great and small. That means the powerful men and women who wielded great power. Great authority on earth, as well as the peasant, as well as the one who seemed to have no power. Both of them alike stand stripped of all of their authority here on earth, stand before the judge. They stand before the throne. The books are open. An awesome scene. Then again in verse 13 we see the sea gives up for dead, and Beth and Hades gave up for dead. Each person was judged. Everyone who has died will be raised to life to stand before that throne. Those who have died in the ocean, those who have died on land. All men. Lest you think you're off the hook if you happen to be alive when this happens and haven't died yet. The rest of Scripture is also very clear that everyone comes before God at this point. Matthew 25, 32 says, Before him will be gathered all the nations, everyone. Romans 2, 6 says, For he will render to every man according to his works, every woman as well. Everyone will stand before that throne on that day. Sometimes we forget, I think, that that includes believers as well. Everyone, everyone will stand before that throne. No one can go off in the corner and hide. Many will want to, they'll run to the mountains and ask the mountains to fall on them, but they won't. They'll run to the sea to hide in the sea, but they can't be hidden. Everyone stands before God at that point. believer we need not fear we need not fear that day because Christ has stood there before for us Christ has paid the price that we would be required to pay We'll come back to that in a moment. As all of people from all of time stand before Christ on that day, before that throne, what will be the basis for the verdict? Upon what basis Will the judgment be made? It says in verse 12, The dead were judged according to what they had done as recorded in the books. In verse 13, Each person was judged according to what he had done. When you stand there, and those books are open , And where do you read from them? What will you say? What have you done? What have I done? Have you broken God's law? Have you ever hated your brother? Have you told the truth each day? I haven't. The judge will stand there and say, You, Al, have broken my law. My books say so. In this record of your deeds, what you have done is broken my law. You have offended me, a holy God. What is the sentence? Look at verse 15. The sentence is that lake of fire, where up to this point the ones swimming around in it are Satan, the beast, and the false prophet. that lake where everyone will be thrown. Everyone has broken God's law. Everyone, when those whips are open, deserves to be thrown into that lake. The sentence is given. Get it away. But wait, that's not all. Remember back in verse 12. There was another book opened. It says, another book was opened, which is the book of life. Verse 15. If anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. There's suddenly a pardon. Suddenly there are some people who are not thrown into the lake. There are some people who get to go free. There are some people who escape that sentence. They receive a pardon. What is this book of life? What is it? I would think that every Everyone would want to have their name in that book. That's the way out of this judgment. In Philippians 4:3, we read Paul writing to the people in Philippians. five. I plead with Eodia and I plead with Synthe to agree with each other in the Lord. Yes, and I ask you, loyal yoke fellow, keep these women who have contended at my side in the cause of the gospel along with Clement and the The rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life. This idea of the book of life is not often mentioned in Scripture. It's mentioned in the book of Revelation, it's mentioned in Philippians. The book of life. Paul says is where these people who have struggled beside him in the faith have their names written. If we look in Revelation chapter 13, Revelation 13, verse 8, we read, All inhabitants of All whose names have not been written in the book of life belonging to the Lamb that was slain from the creation of the world. Aha, this book has something to do with do with the Lamb. In the book of Revelation, the Lamb is a picture of Christ. Remember, in the first few books of first few chapters of Revelation, we see this scroll that couldn't be opened. It finally comes the one, the line of David, the Lamb, Christ comes to open that scroll. It's Christ who holds this book. This is the book of life belonging to the Lamb that was slain. It's Christ's book. It's got this book that has his people's names in it. Let's go on to look at Revelation 17. Revelation 17, verse 8. The beast, which you saw, once was, now is not, and will come up out of the abyss and go to his destruction. See the picture? Satan? The inhabitants of the earth whose names have not been written in the book of life. From the creation of the world will be astonished when they see the beast. This book has been there since the creation of the world. Does that bring into your minds the images of Paul when he writes to the people in the churches in Europe? In Asia, when he writes and says that from the beginning of time God has selected you. From the beginning of the time, he has loved you. He has drawn you to himself. This book is Christ's book with the names of his children in it. It's in that book where the names of the elect are written. That is the book in which if you are a believer Today in Christ, if you are trusting Christ as your only hope in life and in death, if he is your Savior and Lord, your name's in that book. And on that day, when you stand before that great white With all the other peoples of the world, and you hear that sentence ring down, guilty, you've broken my law. You know that there's that other book. There's the other book that has your name in it. And if your name's in that book, you will not be thrown into the lake of the world. the fire. Are you in that book? Are you sitting here today and your name's not in that book? If you are, I would really encourage you, I would exhort you to reflect on what the outcome will be for you if your name is not in that book. You will be sharing for eternity the fire the torment of that lake of fire. There will not be a moment of peace for you for eternity. But if your name is in that book, you have nothing to fear. If your name is in that book, you will know that that judge sitting on that throne, that awesome judge whose voice thunders, is the same one that you have many times called Daddy. Abba Father, that one who has adopted you as his son, he will not throw his sons and daughters into the lake of fire. He will preserve them, he will keep them. In the height of their catechism, there's a question. Which addresses this thought. The question which goes, What comfort does the return of Christ to judge the living and the dead give you? Here's the comfort that in all affliction and persecution I may await. Wait with head held high, the very judge from heaven who has already submitted himself to the judgment of God for me, and has removed all the curse from me, that he will cast all his enemies and mine. Into everlasting condemnation, but he shall take me, together with all his alike, to himself into heavenly joy and glory. What powerful words. What a great hope we have. When we think of that day of judgment, it will be a time when deeds will be placed in a balance, like we mentioned at the beginning. Indeed, God says He will judge us by our works. We have done. But that scale every time will tip to one side. Guilty. Indeed, that day will be a day of doom. It will be a day in which we'll discover next week. The earth, as we know it, will be destroyed by fire. But God's people will enjoy a new heaven and new earth. Indeed, that day will be a day when Christ will sit on that throne. And as Matthew twenty five so aptly describes it, he will separate the sheep from the goats, his people from those who do not trust him. But that will not be done capriciously, that will not be done randomly by a throw of a dice. That will be Done by the God of the universe who has sent his love on his people. And so if you're a believer here today, be awed by this judgment scene. But don't be scared to death because It is not death for you. It's life. That judge comes to give life for you. What then is the impact of this judgment they seen on us today? For the unbeliever, the impact is One of motivation to turn to Christ. If you're sitting here today, as I mentioned before, and you know deep in your in your breath, that if you were to stand before that throne today, You would end up in that lake of fire. Please reconsider. Think about it. You do not want to end up that way. The pledges of this life aren't worth it. The pledges of life, the Satan would pleasure. before you and say, This is what life is about, isn't worth it. On that day of judgment there will be many who will quake and tremble. And even before their names are called out, they will know where they're going. That's a dreadful, dreadful Situation. Please, if you're in that situation, turn to Christ today. But if you're a believer contemplating this judgment scene with Christ on the judgment seat, we should be encouraged. Because on that judgment, With the people of the Old Testament. We will wait, we will see our God coming to vindicate himself. He will come in judgment. The day of the Lord will have arrived. He will come to save his people. He will come to judge his enemies. It's a day of vindication for our God. A day when all people will bend their knee before the Lord. As we read in Philippians, every knee will bend. God, both in heaven and on earth. Some will bow as Him as their Savior, others as their condemner. Reflecting on the second coming should also be motivate us. It should also motivate us to two things, to good stewardship, and it should be a consolation to us in ad adversity. If you look in 2 Peter, and let's just read these two passages together as we close. In 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 11, we read , Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people ought you to be? You ought to live holy and godly lives as you look forward to the day of God and the sp and speed is coming. That day will bring about the destruction of the heavens by fire, and the elements will melt into heat. But in keeping with His promise, we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. So then, dear friends, since you are looking forward to this, make every effort to be found spotless, blameless, and at peace with Him. Let the consideration of Christ's coming as judge motivate. you to be a good steward. Use the time left well. Use the time left well. His coming again in judgment should also console us in our adversity. Look at 2 Thessalonians. Chapter 1, verses 5 to 7. Paul is comforting the people there in Thessalonica. He says, All this is evidence that God's judgment is right. And as a result, you will be counted worthy of the kingdom of God. God, for which you are suffering. God is just. He will pay back trouble to those who trouble you, and give relief to you who are troubled, and to us as well. This will happen when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven in blazing fire with his powerful. Angels. When Christ comes back, those who have troubled the church will receive their reward. When Christ returns, those of his people who have trusted him , will receive their reward. He will say enter into a blessed heaven with me forever and ever. Next week we'll look at that and we'll see what's in store for God's people after Their pardon on this great day of judgment. Christ is coming. Christ is coming. He's coming as judge. That dread judge of all. Are you ready? Are you ready? Let's pray. Our Lord, we fear, we tremble, we wonder at your greatness, your power. We all wonder what that day would be like. Give your people grace to understand that the pardon you give us, because of your death on the cross, covers all our sins. When those books are open, Lord, when you open them and look, you will see our sins. But in that other book, you will see our name. Ah, Lord, we praise you for your mercy. We praise you for your love. Keep us as you have promised. And Lord, if there be someone here whose name is not there , pray, Lord, that you would turn them toward you. That you would draw those people that we've been praying for and hoping for to yourself. We would long, Lord, that those we know and those we love would be with us in your li Help us then today to to see you as our judge, but also as our Savior. Amen. Him 243 continues in this theme of Christ as judge and appeals to Jesus to come and judge all and reign over all. Let's sing together in two forty-three. Let's stand. Some of these weird.