Well, good morning again. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to Hebrews chapter 12. Today we are going to be ending our summer series for 2025. uh our series has been on uh the church and we've stressed uh uh ten or ten or eleven different Major themes or doctrines associated with the church. And to today, as we conclude that service, we're going to talk about the worship of the church. And the text we've uh selected to Have that conversation is Hebrews chapter twelve, beginning with verse eighteen Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. And Lord, we thank you for what it tells us about who we are, not only individually, but who we are corporately. Who we are as the body of Christ, the expression of your kingdom here on this side of heaven, on this earth you've created Lord, we thank you that you have told us things about our mission, about our purpose, about uh what it means to be a part of it. Lord You've told us about officers that you would appoint in your church, elders and deacons, about the glorious privileges of being uh saints in your church. Lord, we thank you for the sacraments. And Lord, we thank you for that central and defining role of worship that you've given us. We are a worshiping community. And Lord, we pray that as we read your word together now, and as it is preached in a moment, that you would impress this picture on our hearts and minds. This picture of a people worshiping you, surrounded by thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly. And the souls of saints who have gone before us, who are now perfect and blameless in your sight. This picture of the company of all who worship you rightly, that we are participating in even now. Father, we ask that you bless the reading of your word and the preaching of it. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Hebrews chapter twelve, beginning with verse eighteen, the word of God For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness, and gloom and a tempest And the sound of a trumpet and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them. For they could not endure the order that was given If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble with fear. But you have come to Mount Zion And to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festival gathering. and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect And to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. This phrase Yet once more, indicates the removal of things that are shaken, that is, things that have been made, in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain Therefore, let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe For our God is a consuming fire. This ends the reading of God's Word. I was once asked what I thought would be the most difficult books of the Bible to preach through, and I think the person asking expected me to say something like Song of Solomon or Revelation or Ecclesiastes. My answer was, I think the most difficult Old Testament book to preach through would be Zechariah. The most difficult New Testament book would be Hebrews. And why would Hebrews make the list? I'll talk about Zechariah another time. Hebrews is a book that is so dense that it would take a decade You almost have to parse every single verse. So deep and rich and powerful are the images. And so it is with a good measure of fear and trembling, which is appropriate in this text for a number of reasons, that we look at a total of eleven verses. To tease out one theme, the people of God as a worshiping community, and what that means. But in order to tease out that one theme, I want to give you a view from forty thousand feet, which I am afraid is gonna create more questions than it answers, but yet in a way it's important. So if you have questions, our intern Edward Ruiz is on vacation this weekend. He returns on Tuesday, so uh email him. There's three parts to this. A description of this old shakeable mountain This new unshakable mountain, and this exhortation, see to it that you don't refuse him who speaks. Through it all there's a God who speaks, and his words are shut down in the first part Embraced in the second, and urged upon you in the third. Now, key to understanding this text is looking at the first mountain and the second mountain For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and a tempest, rightly connected with Mount Sinai, where God is giving the law of Moses, the Ten Commandments. And there we see, in fact these words, uh, for there there was an order given, if a beast touches the mountain it shall be stoned. We can find that in the Pentateuch. He's talking about Mount Sinai. Now, it would be easy then for us to say, okay, the first mountain is a description of the old covenant administration of grace. The second mountain, this new one, this one that says, but you have come to Mount Zion , to the city of the living God. the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable or thousands upon thousands of angels in festival or joyful assembly. You have come to the gathering. The word there is ecclesia, the church. Two places that word shows up in Hebrews, once in chapter 2, verse 12, the church of the firstborn. Those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life, those who together with Christ are part of this tremendous work of redemption the living God has accomplished on Calvary. It's easy for us to think then that the first mountain is law, the second mountain is grace. The first mountain is the Old Testament, the first mountain is the New Testament. That is not what's happening here. What's happening here is the first mountain is a mountain that is marked by unbelief. By people who refuse to listen, who want no more speech from the divine Creator. The second mountain is the mountain of those who believe. And it consists of a worship connected even to the souls of just men and women made perfect who were at that very Mount Sinai when Moses first climbed it with fear and trepidation, trembling with awe, receiving the tablets. This is about whether or not you are one of the firstborn, whether or not you have come to Christ, whether or not you Have resisted that all too human impulse to refuse him who speaks in your conscience through the universe, declaring his glory, and in his word, summoning you to come with repentance. This is about belief. I could preach a year's worth of sermons on these verses, but I've just used the five minutes allotted this morning. What does belief create in an unshakable people, an unshakable kingdom? A group of men and women, boys and girls who have come to God, heard his voice, appreciated the beauty of the sprinkled blood of Christ, which cleanses consciences and souls alike. What is it about that group that is so essential to understanding what we are and what we do even on this morning? Here in Howard County, Maryland. Therefore, let us be grateful Johnny Erickson Tata once asked me, I was her pastor back in California for 16 years. She once asked me what I thought was the chief marks of the Christian life. And I didn't have to think very hard about that, because I am a very careful student of John Calvin. John Calvin was once asked that question, and he said, There are three marks of the Christian life. Humility. Humility and humility. Now, I I have adjusted that a little bit. So you want to take this with a large dose of salt, not a grain, a dose. You see, I think part of humility is a deep, down to the marrow gratitude. And so I would say gratitude and humility are the marks of Christian maturity that I aspire to. Gratitude and humility. You see, the more I walk with Christ, the more steps I take in this pilgrimage, the more humbled I am as I recognize increasingly the way sin has had its way with me. Increasingly recognized, as Martin Luther, another great reformer, said, those who walk closest to the Savior are most aware of their sins or as Charles Spurgeon mentioned earlier, the great 20th-century London Baptist preacher whose pulpit shook the world. Those close to Christ best see their own spots. And the longer we walk with Christ, the more we realize just how much we have to repent of, but also Our eyes are increasingly opened to see just how much we have been forgiven, just how great is the love of God The power of Christ's blood, the holiness of his spirit that contends in and for us. And so we are increasingly humbled and increasingly grateful to God. Amen. As we with belief lay hold of this other mountain and take our place on Mount Zion, the heart of the worship of God's people and the the city, the gathering, the church, all around it. We are grateful. We are grateful If you stop and think about it, you can't really be grateful without being humble, can you? You know, if I give you a fine gift, but it's something that you deserve, Your gratitude is something of a legal myth You might say, thank you, but you deserved it. You had it coming. You would have been angry if I didn't give it to you. In fact, you'd maybe take me to small claims court, or maybe even large claims court. You'd have insisted upon your right. You would have wanted justice because you didn't get what you had coming to you. But if I give you something that you are so humble to recognize that you did not deserve That's when gratitude comes into its own. It's one of those words that only exists really when certain other conditions are met. It's like the word commitment. Commitment only comes into any functional, meaningful reality when convenience stops I can say I'm committed to you as long as you are bringing me candy bars and gourmet coffee for my Keurig machine. But not only the day that stops, but the day you bring me things I don't want. All of a sudden, convenience is over, and I've moved on. You see, commitment, commitment , Survives inconvenience. Gratitude survives and thrives In the presence of deep recognition of how unwarranted we are. These are just two of many, many words that cannot exist in a vacuum abstracted from context. And this word gratitude Is one that should shape us. It should shape me. I should recognize as I'm increasingly humbled by the Word of God and my fellowship with the saints. Just how blessed I am, and believe it, I am blessed by God through you. Deeply blessed. I am grateful. Chiefly for the forgiveness of my sins, for the fellowship with the Spirit, but also for the privilege of being your brother Of you being my sister, my brother. The blessings God showers upon us as his people are such that our true response should be gratitude. Think for a moment what Paul writes in Romans. The great failure of the world is that they did not give thanks and exchanged the glory of God for created things. They did not give thanks. We are here called to be those who do. Therefore, let us be grateful. That despite the fact that everything can be shaken and everything that is made will be dissolved one day when that great once more happens When history and time come screeching to a halt, as it were, and everything stands still before that great white throne. Let us be thankful that we will not be shaken. Because Jesus Christ in his awesome majesty stands behind us and over us with his arms stretched out, saying, These are mine. These are mine. You are mine, Jesus declares over you. And thus let us offer to God Worship that is described in three terms acceptable, with reverence, and with awe. For our God is a consuming fire. This is a theme that the church growth movement doesn't focus on too frequently. Our God is a consuming fire. All will be shaken and consumed, except us Therefore, we will not refuse him who speaks. Therefore, we will peel back our eyelids and open up our ears to the fullest, and we will drink deep from the springs of God's word to know him. And our hope and his power. And therefore, we will be grateful for all that he says and does in such a way that we will worship him. We will be a worshiping community. We will be a church that worships acceptably, with reverence, and with awe. Acceptably. That is an interesting word with which to begin this description of worship that concludes this powerful text in Hebrews. And it immediately alerts us to the fact that it is possible to worship God unacceptably, or to do things in worship that are unacceptable, and therefore not be worshiping God. I have a couple of texts written here that I'd really encourage you in your community groups to spend some time discussing. The first is in Leviticus 10, chapter 1, where There are some Levites, some priests in the Old Testament community of God under Moses' authority who decide, you know, we God's told us to do some pretty cool things, but you know what? These Canaanites, they have some pretty cool things they do in worship too. Let's do this. And so they offer to God what is called a strange fire. And they mix the pure worship of God with things that the pagan world does and values and appreciates. Things that are nowhere commanded or modeled or imitated or blessed by God. Thinking we will worship God in ways that seem good to us. We will worship what God because this makes us feel good And the Lord rejects their worship utterly. One of the first books that I preached through as a young preacher, in fact, it was the second book I preached through, the first book I preached through when I was Newly ordained, far younger man, was uh noticed far younger, I'm still young. Uh just as a reminder to those who think I'm elderly Uh I was called a grandpa for the first time, for those of you visiting and I'm not a grandpa. Uh for those of you visiting, that's the backstory on that stranger side Second book I preached through was Amos. And think about this. Think about what the living God says through Amos so many centuries, millennia ago. I hate, I despise your feasts. He's talking about things like tabernacles, lights , Passover And I take no delight in your solemn assemblies. Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them. And the peace offerings of your fattened animals I will not look at them. Take away from me the noise of your songs, to the melody of your harps. I will not listen. But let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. Worship can be unacceptable to the living God when it is not paired with what Jesus defines in John chapter four as spirit and truth. Worship must be This expression of gratitude that is marked by a life imprinted by the Spirit and authentically offered. You cannot go through the motions with the living God. And you cannot organize what you're doing according to your schemes and schedules and priorities. Such that this is just one thing you do and you check the box. Acceptable worship is not only what we do, it's how we do it. Now, we are, since this is the series of sermons on the church, we are a Reformed Church that stands in the Protestant tradition. We stand on the shoulders of men like Martin Butzer and Martin Luther and John Calvin and so many others. And we're focused by what the English Puritans did in their great work in creating a summary of what the Bible teaches in the Westminster Confession of Faith. Which is certainly distantly subordinate to the Scriptures. The Scriptures are our alone authority, but a wonderful survey of what we believe the Bible teaches. And one of the things that we believe the Bible teaches about worship is that it is regulated by the Word of God. Therefore, we have what is called a regulative principle. And that means that when we worship the living God here at Columbia Presbyterian Church, we are limited to those elements or parts of worship in our liturgy that we see in Scripture. We're not making stuff up and importing whatever makes people feel good or have experiences that we find desirable on a Sunday morning gathering. Ultimately, because we're committed to this regulative principle, do you know whose experience I'm concerned about when I, as the pastor of this church, think about our liturgy? I'm concerned with the experience of God. I'm not concerned with my experience. And believe it or not, I'm not too concerned with your experience. We come to lay ourselves down before the living God in an acceptable manner as He has decreed To with gratitude present ourselves as living sacrifices, dying to self that we might be filled with Him and live for Him. And so we in worship do things he has commanded and that are positively exemplified in the scriptures. There are some things we do in worship that are simply by good and necessary consequence required. For example, you could say, well, not everything you do in worship is explicitly required in the scripture because you meet at 10. 30 a. m. and the Bible does not say thou shalt meet at 1030 a. m. No, but we have to meet at some time So by good and necessary consequence, it's 1030. Not by a biblical mandate, but because sometime had to be met. We don't have dress codes, we don't have vestments, because we don't believe the Bible teaches they are necessary. We are a priesthood of believers. We are the church described in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 as coming straight from work. Some dressed as servants, some with more means, nonetheless dressed modestly and with respect. But we are keenly interested in what the Bible says about worship and about whether or not God sees our deep gratitude. As we offer ourselves to him. And in offering ourselves to him, we are so careful to do that as best we can as broken vessels, honestly. in spirit and in truth. Now that spirit can rightly be understood to be in the Holy Spirit, or it can also be understood to be In and from our innermost being. That's a debate for the Bible scholars. It's very difficult to know which one specifically Jesus is referring to there. That's another sermon for another day. But the second word that follows up truth might shed some light on it. Authentically. Does that mean that you cannot come and worship God if your just heart isn't in it? Absolutely not. For those of you who are visiting, you might notice that we do something every Sunday. We have a call to repentance a prayer of confession and words of assurance. Not a single one of us can come into this building and hear a call to worship and think, Got this. God, you're going to love my worship today because I am so in the right place. Think about that. We come as weak and wounded and weary and doubt-conflicted saints. We come struggling with addictions and mess and troubled homes and broken bodies. We come with fears about the future, with struggles in our careers. We come with so much. And we come humbly saying, God, thank you. Thank you for what you've done for me in Christ. Here I am. I am going to, in the words of one poet, I'm going to lisp to your praise this morning. From me, you are going to receive a broken hallelujah. And we'll grow into that. We'll have seasons of our personal life and in our corporate life in which that hallelujah is more or less broken But when it is built on a foundation of gratitude to the God who has promised that because of Jesus Christ we will not be shaken, it is acceptable. Amen and amen. God accepts my worship. God accepts the sermons that I am preaching in Christ, not because of any other reason And in the same way, he accepts our singing, our offerings, he accepts our prayers, our greetings. Because he looks at us through the work of Jesus Christ, his beloved Son, in whom he is well pleased, and he sees Christ's likeness being impressed upon us, in some cases just beginning, in some cases backsliding, in some places flourishing. But he sees the marks of Christ's blood on the doorposts of our inner being, and we are not shaken. We worship acceptably, with reverence and awe. These two words are synonyms. And I'm parsing them very finely in this sermon And you need to really consider these as words that overlap, much like two words in a Venn diagram do. And it's very difficult to parse out what God means here in his holy word when he uses this word that we translate reverence. and this word that we translate awe. Both of them are used so frequently in a synonymous way, and yet there is one very subtle distinction between them. Reverence is a word that involves a comparison with self. Awe is a word that reflects just a staggering awareness of how awesome and majestic something is. So give you an example of this. If I were to meet the Tawartan Award winner, that's the highest award of Division I lacrosse. I would athletically reverence him because I would become keenly aware of the fact that He is all that and a complete commentary set when it comes to lacrosse. And I I I'm just a high school lacrosse coach. And I would show reverence, respect, admiration. You see, I recognize the distinction between us. And I respond in a way appropriate, which does include awe, but reverence is relational, it's comparative in many of the cases we find that word translated throughout Scripture. Awe is something that's not necessarily comparative. It's this overwhelming sense that my wife is so beautiful. And when I can struck with that thought, it's not like I'm thinking all you other women are ugly. I don't think that at all. But my wife Or that mountain, or the Pacific Ocean with all of its beauty, as the sun sets over it. I'm just struck with awe. Let's tease out these words in the context of worship and in Hebrews 12. Reverence I describe here as a a felt recognition of one's relation to something superior. And so in worship we come to something that can't be touched and is unshakable. Everything else in our world, including ourselves apart from Christ, are so very touchable and shakeable. But not this. The God who has revealed Himself in Christ and accomplished our redemption on the cross. We have found that one fulcrum that enables us to move the entire world. We found that one fixed point in the universe Upon which we can actually build. We have found that blood that speaks a better word than even the blood of Abel, the first martyr. And what about awe? In my old college dictionary, and I can't remember if it's a Webster's or uh whatever the other big name is. Awe had a definition that I once memorized, it goes like this. A feeling of mixed Reverence, dread, and fear. Now, it's not very helpful when you're distinguishing two words and one of them shows up in the definition for the other. But awe is this overwhelming sense of the utter majesty and grandeur of another. And when we look at this picture here, I want us to notice some things that must be true of the awe that we experience when we consider Christ. when we consider our triumph God, when we consider the work of revelation, not only in creation, but in scriptures and in particular. the covenant of grace by which God has provided in his own person the Son of God a mediator who will die for us. All of these thoughts They should fill us with an awe that is touched by joy. Very first thing we read here. We have come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to thousands upon thousands, innumerable the ESV translates it, angels in festal gathering. To the church of the firstborn, the ecclesia, the assembly. This is a description of one event, one gathering. And if God's holy angels, despite the fact that they are mystified and long to look into these things, like, why in the world would the living God redeem people when he didn't redeem fallen angels? What is going on here? Pondering keenly and deeply, yet with an overarching and deeply abiding sense of joy. A joyful assembly of which we are a part. That's so important to keep in mind and hold in mind Some of us, myself included, tend to have something of a melancholic bent to us, as Martin Lloyd Jones would say. We tend to Without self-consciously reminding ourselves, we tend to gravitate towards the cup is half empty. And this is a word for us. That we should rejoice when someone says to us, let us go up to Jerusalem. Our feet are standing in your gates, O Jerusalem. We should come and rejoice before the Lord. We should worship joyfully. And even though there are many laments in the book of Psalms, many laments, and we experience many grievous and deeply saddening things in our lives. The Book of Psalms divides into five smaller books of Psalms, as many of you know, and the conclusion of every one of those books is unbridled joy. Even the Psalms of Lament, in almost every case, end with joy and summon us to it in the midst of our trouble. And there is a sense in which it is absolutely true that when I sit down and I write a sermon, I think according to the book of Isaiah and the prophecy that God has given us for every age. The purpose for which God gave his word and for which I should preach it is that you be led out in peace and with joy. We are a people called to rejoice in the fact that no matter how broken or how weak, how troubled, how fragile, how frail , You and I are today, how shakable we are in ourselves, how shaken we are. Jesus Christ is unshakable. And he says to us, even when we are at our worst and our lowest, this one's with me. And if we can allow that tendril of truth to wrap itself around our hearts. Though everything around us is utterly dark, and we are without hope in this world, we have Christ We have a light at the end of the tunnel. And despite our temptations and distractions, that light will and can and must ultimately burn away. All such shakable doubts and fears. And so when we worship, we come joyfully, recognizing all that the blood of Jesus Christ has accomplished for us. Recognizing that God, our Heavenly Father, is the Judge of all, and He has declared us to be just, and when we die We will indeed be made perfect, even as are the saints who are worshiping with us right now, who have gone before And we will always be mindful of his holiness. I want to clue with this one concept. Think about this picture of worship as worship that includes the angels and the saints that have gone before us. And how sometimes we are limited with the physical eye just to see however many of us are here this morning Worship is so much bigger. Now I want you to think about the angel's joyful commitment to and participation in this worship that we are performing right now. What does that worship look like? In Revelation, well I'm hitting all the difficult books this morning, except Zechariah. We're leaving that one alone. John the Revelator, his first glimpse of the throne. He sees these four living creatures, angels. With six wings full of eyes all around and within, and day and night they never cease to say Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. Day and night they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy. And I want you to imagine this as we conclude this service by singing our last song in Christ Alone. I want you to imagine that underneath of that song Are millions of angels joyfully singing, holy, holy, holy? As the baseline to everything that we do, this fact that the living God, in his triune being, eternally, past, present, and future, unendingly. Is utterly righteous, immutably good , morally pure beyond our conception And he has declared us because of what Jesus has done to be his own. The holiness of God. The grounds for worship, the foundation of our praise, the hope that he will never change his mind about the redemption Christ accomplished The proof, if you will, of heaven for us. Do you worship the true and living God? Notice, I'm not saying, are you grateful this morning and are you filled with joy? But I would say, do you hear his voice? And is there the least glimmer of gratitude? The least spark, the tiniest fragment, the faintest echo of your God saying, Come, come and worship. Or do you need to stop refusing him who speaks? Because you're so painfully aware of how shaken and shakeable you are, and you feel there's no hope for you. Dear friend, the blood of Christ speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. The blood of Christ is Abel. Able to forgive you of all that would make you shakeable, all that shakes you today, and take you out of miry clay and set your feet on a rock, a rock that is himself. Almighty God, we ask that you would bless us as your people. Lord, we would be a worshiping church, and all that we do would be an acceptable worship service. Whether we are worshiping corporately or worshiping at home, whether worshiping individually or as families, whether we're worshiping you by doing all things as unto the Lord in our neighborhoods, in our workplaces. Father, help us to have reverence and awe as we come before you joyfully with gratitude. And Father, grow us in these things. Make us your own. So imprint your will and your works upon our hearts that people see us. And over time they increasingly see the image of our Savior, whom we long to imitate. And bless those who are seeking and have not yet found you. O God, in your sovereignty, find them. Lay hold of them that seek you. And help them to taste and see that you are good. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.