Come now to set aside the book of Ephesians and spiritual warfare for uh a bit over four months. We're going to pick it up again in April and uh we are now coming to the holidays. You can tell you see because I got my turkey tie on. That's a particularly delightful time to me because it's a time when we focus our meditations more particularly on Jesus, his person and his work to revel in that and celebrate it. And so this Thursday is Thanksgiving, and we've got a lot to be thankful for this week, don't we? You think of the uh victories, the progress that's been made against the Taliban in Afghanistan, you think the amazing thing that's been done in the rescue of those eight workers. Christian workers there in Kabul. I remember back in September, I believe it was uh it was before the eleventh, seeing on the television the um parents of those two girls that had just said goodbye to them and the uh Taliban had was expelling them, said they had to leave And uh they were weeping, thinking uh very likely that they would never see their daughters again alive Um be under the sentence of death for sharing the gospel, which was of course forbidden by death penalty by the Muslim government. And their home church vowed that they would pray 24 hours a day, nonstop Have somebody praying all the time, bringing before the throne of grace their names so that uh they would do that until they were released. And what seemed impossible, God has done. Amazing. And yet we know that the war is far from over. We realize that there could be some very sobering retaliations, possibly even this week. We just we don't know what is ahead And yet even Time magazine has said this has changed a lot of the spiritual climate of America. People are more humbled, they're more relationally oriented this Thanksgiving. They're more sensitive to spiritual things. And so we see God doing things that that we marvel at. You think of the last Sunday as we ended the spiritual warfare series. Let me tell you, when you see a hundred Presbyterians come out on a sunny Sunday afternoon and pray with the vigor that I heard in that meeting, you know the demon's gotta be getting nervous, right? Amen That was a great time, very encouraging time. We have a lot to be thankful for. So I would like to offer to you this morning a message to help you to observe this week's feast in perhaps a more meaningful way. Now let's keep in mind that like any holiday that is not Sunday, Thanksgiving is not a biblical holiday. It actually has its origins in the three Thanksgiving feasts that the pilgrims held, 1621, 1623, and 1630. generally just focus on the one in 1621, but there were two others that were also as significant to them. But uh even biblically I think our idea of Thanksgiving is rooted in three ideas. First of all just the general call of Scripture to us to be faithful people. And that that's a virtue. It's it's what God commands. And um, you know, you gotta throw Ephesians in there somehow, I guess. But you know, Ephesians chapter five and verse nineteen and twenty tell us, um To sing and make music in your heart of the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. I don't need to put a marker in Ephesians. I just flip open the Bible and just there it is, and I can just read it to you anytime. The second idea, of course, is that uh the Bible speaks of a thank offering in the Old Testament. And uh there are some principles there that are helpful for us to observe. And uh the Thanksgiving, it's good to think about those. The third biblical basis is uh the harvest feast that was in the Old Testament. The Feast of the Ingathering at Harvest Time. And that's what I want to focus on this year. And I want to do that because some while back I was meditating on that myself in my own devotions and I saw some connections between that feast and what Jesus does in John 7 that I had never seen before, and they amazed me and they blessed me richly, and so I offer them to you for your meditation this week in the hope that maybe they'll bless you too. Now you remember that that harvest feast was the last and it was the longest feast. It was the last feast of the year. It was at the time of harvest, early fall, actually And uh it was a feast where uh uh they were celebrating for eight days the fact of the harvest. Now, harvest is not a big deal to us because we don't live most of us close to farming. But an agricultural society found harvest to be a major event. I mean, you had months ago plowed the earth After you had ploughed that soil, you took the seed and you sowed it in the soil. And then you prayed for rain to come and to germinate that seed, and as if the rain came in answered to prayers and seeking God's blessing, you saw the green begin to come up and as that grew, then you prayed there would continue to be rain and then as it grew some more then you had to deal with the bugs and you know and the locusts and the grasshoppers and all that stuff and what the bugs didn't get, then you prayed about the plagues and the blights and the diseases and the virus, you know, all the stuff that was coming through there. And then if grew and beyond all the diseases then You had to be concerned that hail wasn't going to come and take it out before you harvested. And if the hail didn't come and survive that, then you prayed that the enemies wouldn't come through and raid it and steal it all. And so when the harvest came, you really had something to celebrate, you know. All this stuff and God had blessed, and you were going to eat this winter. I mean it wasn't like if the safe ways out of it, you go over to the giant. Harvest was a big deal. And so God said, celebrate for eight days. Now God commanded them not to work. That picture picture of God? Well you think God only does his command to work But some of us are so busy, you know, we forget that our God said, Stop working. In fact, he said, Everybody come for a big camp out. Move out of your house. Everybody come on down to Jerusalem and pitch a lean to. Now, traditionally it's been called the Feast of Tabernacles, the Feast of Booze That really doesn't say a lot to us. I'd like to suggest you think of it as the feast of lean tos, because what they did is they just took some myrtle branches and poplar branches and That's kind of stuff, palms. And it would just put them together, kind of tie them up, and it would just leave them inside those mean twos for those eight days. And God said, You can't bring your laptop, you can't bring your palm pilot, and you can't bring your cell phone. All you're going to do is you're going to sit there and you're going to eat and you're going to play games. It's kind of like the World Series of the Jewish, you know, and you're going to just relax and have a lot of fun for eight days and celebrate my goodness. Now there are two things that they were to celebrate in particular. First of all, God says, celebrate my goodness as Creator. That's the first blank that you see there. Be thankful to me. that I as your creator have provided this harvest. It was a recognition that God was merciful and good, that He had provided rich food, plenty of food, a variety of food I don't know about you, but even in our society, I find that there are seasons that I really celebrate. I look forward to when cherries come out You know, and you can count on super fresh, putting them on half price for a couple weeks, you know. And I just stack those things up, you know, and then corn comes in and nectarines And um I used to grow my radishes and tomatoes, haven't done that for a few years, but I used to really look forward to those first radishes, the first tomatoes. watermelon, you know, all that stuff, you know, and and those are seasonal. So you really look forward to this. Well imagine um a Jewish man, Jewish woman popping grapes in their loon tube. Kids are outside playing. And you're just, you know, you're just enjoying these grapes and you're thinking, life is good. God is good. And what's what's particularly striking about this is the simplicity of it. Don't miss that. Whether you were rich or whether you were poor, for that week you all lived the same. Everybody just lived in a lean two. Couldn't tell who was rich and who was poor. And so they all just lived simply. And I remember when we worked with Intervarsity, every year we'd go for a month camp, and everything we lived on was packed into our little Volkswagen bug You know, we didn't lack. For a month, you know, you can live and don't even think you missed. Very simple. Just out camping. Um It brought back to their minds some of the basic essentials and the values of life. God has given us all we need, right here, and he's good. The second thing that they were to be thankful for was that God was their redeemer, not only their creator. Bountifully given to them, but the God was their redeemer. You notice in as I haven't read it in Leviticus chapter 23 there in verse 42, 43. Live in booths for seven days All native-born Israelites are lived in Buzos or Lean Tus, you know, live in Lean Tus, so that your descendants will know that I had Israel, the Israelites, live in lean tos when I brought them out of Egypt I am Yahweh your God. It's not just to remember the harvest, it was also to remember that their ancestors had camped out when they came out of Egypt in the wilderness. And that that meant they had been delivered from their bondage. They had been freed by God. That's a basic part of a harvest festival. Uh because this was before Christ, they made offerings, sacrifices. It's interesting, you read through Leviticus and Numbers to see what those are, but basically so you don't have to Do all the work yourself. Let me tell you, became the 13 bulls Joffered plus two rams and fourteen lambs. Now every day that's what the priest offered for the nation. So you're all gathered around there and you come and you see that's what the priest is doing. And uh every day it's two rams and fourteen lambs, plus two other lambs with morning and evening sacrifice. So the only thing that changed was every day there was one less bulls. Thirteen on the first day, then twelve, eleven, ten, nine, eight, seven, and then one. If you add up all those sacrifices, you come to uh 70 bulls, 14 rams, and 98 lambs plus the other fourteen, and interesting that all of those numbers are evenly divisible by seven. Which is God's number of perfection in creation and in salvation. So that was reminding them by the offerings and by even the numbers of the offerings. that he was their God who had accomplished a perfect creation and a perfect salvation. But they were waiting still for that salvation. They were still living under a sinful king in a land where there was war and raiders and times of course ebbed and flowed, but there was death and there'd be somebody who wasn't there this year, who had been there last year. And so they were still waiting for the hope. Now, sometime after this, sometime after the time of Nehemiah, it seems, they added something to the harvest festival. It's called the water ceremony. That's the next blank there to put in. The edition of the water ceremony, and that was to commemorate. Somebody had the idea, we don't know who, where, it's not recorded in scripture, but somebody had the idea that something really neat to add to to this would be to also commemorate the fact that God had not only brought the harvest, but that when they were in Israel when Israel was in the wilderness, they were thirsty And you remember there was that time when they had nothing to drink, and Moses struck the rock, and as he struck the rock out of that flowed water And so from that time onward, they added the water ceremony. In fact, the water ceremony, commemorating that God is the one who provides not only water for the plants, but quenches our thirst that uh he is our joy and that became such a big deal that by the time of the day of Jesus in the New Testament, the water ceremony had become the climax, the high point of the whole feast, the whole eight days. In fact, there was a proverb at that time that said, He who never saw the rejoicing of the drawing of water never saw rejoicing in all his life. Like they really let loose. This was a big, big time. May you come to John chapter 7 in the New Testament And if you have your Bibles, please look at that. And you read these words. Jesus didn't say in a loud voice, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. By this he meant the spirit whom those who believed in him were later to receive, up to that time the spirit had not been given since Jesus had not yet. yet been glorified. Now, let me ask you, is that promise precious to you when you hear it? If anyone is thirsty, come to me and drink. For I will provide streams of living water in your being. You say I've experienced that, I want to know more of it, but I know what he's talking about Or do you find that that promise kind of mocks you? You say, well, that's what he says To tell you the truth, I I've been feeling pretty thirsty and I haven't been tasting of that refreshment that he seems to promise there. I don't know what the problem is. I don't know why, but It's not real in my life. Let me suggest to you that unless you understand the context and the background of this promise and invitation, it really won't make sense. See, the only way that this promise becomes precious is when you're in touch with your thirst. And what I discovered in my study of this a little while back was that John makes a point of the fact that Jesus spoke these words at the climax of the harvest festival, and that Jesus in fact delayed going up to that festival, verses 1 through 6. Because he was at this point a very controversial figure, and there were many people out to kill him And so if he went up at the beginning of the feast, then there would be perhaps so much disruption after the first few days that he wouldn't get to say what he wanted to say at the end of the feast. But if you read in John chapter 7 verse 14, you read that not until halfway through the feast did Jesus go up to the temple courts to begin to teach So what you need to see is that this promise that I just gave to you is preceded by a statement at the beginning. So now David put it up there, please. You see that what it says is on the last and greatest day of this feast The harvest feast, the feast of lean tos. That's when Jesus says in a loud voice, if anyone is thirsty, Let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him What Jesus does is that in those days preceding this statement, he takes four themes from the harvest festival. He uses those themes to stir up the thirst of those who hear him. So that when he makes gives this invitation and promise, they're in touch with their thirst, and the promise becomes precious. Now that's what I want to do in a very few minutes with you, but what I'm urging you to do is to take your bulletin outline, take these verses, and meditate on them in terms of your own thirsts. This week, and use that to put you in touch with the Jesus who invites you to come to him that he might uniquely and completely satisfy your thirst. What were they? Four of them. Notice the first thing is the first to make a difference with my life. The first to make a difference Do you have that thirst to make a difference in what you do? Now think back again. What was the harvest beast about? It was about the completion of the year's work. You had come and all this labor of the ploughing and the sowing, the cultivating, the weeding, all the rest of that, that was your work. And so you brought that and you offered it to God. And said, My life has made a difference. My labors have paid off. God has blessed what I've done. What were the offerings that were offered in the harvest festival? If you look, you'll see they're all burnt offerings. Now a burnt offering is not what your spouse gives in a lame attempt to make dinner. The burnt offering Was an offering, not the sin offering, but an offering of dedication. The burnt offering symbolized that I was giving myself to God. And the animal is consumed as a symbol of the fact that my life is being given totally to God. So that all those bulls, all those rams, all those lambs were offerings of dedication And what they were saying is, my work matters because it is dedicated to the God who sees and works with me to bless it, to receive it, and to give him joy, to honor him. Your work then has significance as it is offered to God. Do you thirst for that? Do you thirst for your work to have significance? Now what does Jesus do with that idea? He says there, you notice in verse 17, he picks up on this idea and he says, now Do you really want to serve God? Do you really want to do his will? Well then he says, listen to me. Because my words are God's words to you. If you really want to do His will, then you'll know whether my teaching is of God. And then you see he comes to the end where he says, now here's my teaching. Come to me. You want your life to make a difference? You want satisfaction in your work? You want to be able to know that God receives it? Just come to me. Receive me. There has to be that personal relationship in order for your work to make a difference. And what Jesus does is he takes that work and he shows you its significance to him and he gives you the hope of heaven. Where all your creative energies and passions will be unleashed to the fullest measure of joy Because all that you love to do, you will be able to do with abandon and creativity and no frustration. Come to me and let your efforts be significant in my sight and see how I will make a difference. But our efforts are so marred and mixed. And so the Harvest Festival not only had burnt offerings But we're also told in Deuteronomy that there was also a goat as a sin offering. And it was a pretty bloody week You know, there were a hundred and ninety-six animals that were killed during those eight days, plus the goats for the sin offering You see, because even at a time of such celebration, God was reminding them of their sin. God was reminding them that their work wasn't really fully dedicated to Him. Your work and my work is so self-seeking. It is so for my credit and for my image, and it's not for his glory with a wholehearted devotion. So what does Jesus do? During the feast, you look down there at verse nineteen, and Jesus says, Has not Moses given you the law? That's God's will. That's how you please Him. That's what you do. And yet, not one of you keeps the law. Why are you trying to kill me? I'm bringing to you the full revelation of it, and the hardness of your heart is revealed in the fact that You want to kill me? None of you keeps the law. Can you imagine the reaction? What do you think we're here for? We're here to keep the law. We're faithful Israelites Our whole life is devoted to keeping the law. Don't you tell us we don't keep the law? To do not touch with the thirst. The longing that says, I don't keep your law. I know my heart. I know the self-centeredness of it. I know the grasping nature. proclivity to gossip, to defend myself and blame shift, and on and on and on. Jesus is trying to put them in touch with their thirst, you see, so that then when he says, Are you thirsty? You see, the second thirst is for a clear conscience and peace. To know the peace of God who's forgiven your sin. The peace of God who has taken that. And so you see, what happens here is that Jesus states this. And again, don't miss the context. He wants to do that at the end of the feast where? Right after the water ceremony. Because you see, at this point, the priest has brought the water up to the tabernacle and poured that out as an offering to God. And Jesus says, think of what's being commemorated here. Exodus 17. When Moses came and the people were thirsty, and they had no way of providing for themselves. And Moses struck the rock, and you know what Exodus 17, 7 says? It says, He struck the rock, and Yahweh was at the rock. So in striking the rock, he was striking Yahweh, God, their covenant God. And Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 4, very clearly, that rock was Christ. So that when you read the promise, John adds this addition in verse 39. By this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive. Up to that time the Spirit had not yet been given, since Jesus has not yet been. glorified. When was Jesus glorified? John 17 tells you the climax of his glory was at the cross. That's where God struck his Son, Jesus, in your place and in my place, so that the living water of the Spirit could come into your life and pronounce you clean. Innocent, forgiven. God Himself holds nothing against you. Of all that you've done this week Of all your nasty, bitter self-centeredness, of all your lusts and greeds, not one speck Is held against your account if you've come to Jesus to drink. If you've come in touch with your thirst to say, Jesus, I thirst for a clear conscience. I long for the forgiveness that only you can provide because you were struck in my place. It's worth thinking about this week. Be in touch with your thirst. That you may be in touch with the satisfaction of Jesus' provision. Not only for the forgiveness and the peace But also he wants to put you in touch with your brokenness. That's the third thirst. To be in touch With your brokenness and to be made free. Again, when you think back on the harvest beast, the lean to's were to remind you that you'd been brought out of bondage in Egypt and were a free people. You were no longer slaves in bondage. He could relax. He could eat all those grapes and all the good things God had provided because you were a free people. It's interesting when you come to this passage, the priest At the climax of the harvest beast, he took a bowl, a basin, and he would march down to the great ceremony, the pool of Siloam. And there he would dip it into the waters and bring that back with everybody singing and shouting and dancing and screaming and hollering and all this stuff going on. I mean they're just you know going out of their skins with celebration and he would pour it out before the Lord. John chapter 5 tells us that that pool, just a short time before, a few days before, Jesus had gone to a man who was a paralytic, broken, couldn't even get up and walk. And Jesus asked him a very strange question. I've been there sitting there for years, hoping that when the waters were stirred, he might be the first one in with the hope that they had that that would bring him healing. And Jesus says Do you really want to be healed? What kind of question is that? It's a very searching question. Because some of you prefer to continue in your brokenness than to have the disruption of wholeness. The healing that Jesus can bring you will change your relationships, it changes your responsibilities, it changes the way you look at life. And so he asked, Did you really want to be healed? You see, he picks up on that idea right there in verse 21. He said, Remember, I did one miracle here just um last week? And you're all astonished. And yet because Moses gave you circumcision, though actually it didn't come from Moses, but from the patriarchs, you circumcise a child on the Sabbath. Now, if a child can be circumcised on the Sabbath so that the law of Moses may not be broken, why are you angry from with me? For healing the whole man on the Sabbath. Stop judging by mere appearances and make a right judgment Jesus says, you guys are so locked up in what things look like that you've missed the healing that I can bring to your life. And so is invitation. Are you thirsty? Are you thirsty when you look at your life in the broken, dysfunctional way, the fears, the insecurities, the addictions You look at this season coming up and you say, I really like looking at the season because it gives me an excuse to go shop, but I'm addicted to shopping. Or I'm addicted to eating or drinking or something else. And Jesus says, Do you really thirst? To be made whole. You thirst for that freedom from the bondage, of which the deliverance of Israel was simply a picture. Come to me. Come to me. Not to a self-help book. Not to a counselor Not to a sermon, but to Jesus Christ. And I bid you go this week and Start your day by opening your Bible and coming to Jesus and seeing the promises, seeing what He can do in the areas of brokenness in your life. Remember we said last week, Satan wants to say you'll always be that way. Never change. Jesus says in the gospel, I can change you. I can heal you. I can heal that brokenness. I can give you new patterns of thinking. Come to him, so that out of your inner being is not only the thirst which is quenched, but waters that can flow to other people That draw them to Jesus and the healing that He's able to bring because you've experienced it And finally, the last thing he says is, do you thirst for an intimacy with God as your Father? In intimacy with God as your father, can you imagine those those women who've been rescued, as well as the other six from Australia and Germany? Those who have been rescued, what it means for them to call God Father. Big emphasis, you know, on the harvest feast. You look in Leviticus, you look in Deuteronomy And uh won't take the time now, but if you look, as you look at it this week, there's two ideas at the end of the uh both of those instructions. You celebrate that the Lord is the Lord your God to give you joy. He is your God to give you joy. Again and again. That's repeated. And yet there was the sense of distance, you see, because of the sacrifices. Reminder of sin Jesus comes, and he says something rather astounding at the Harvest Festival in John 7. In verse 28, he's teaching in the temple courts and he cries out, Yes, you know me! You know where I come from. I'm not here on my own, but he who sent me is true. You do not know him But I know him because I am from him and he sent me. You imagine the rage they must have felt when Jesus tells them You don't really know God. What do you mean? We're Jews, our fathers Abraham, are they all the nations? We are the ones that know God Jesus says, you think you do. You're focusing on all the appearances. You really don't have that intimacy. And see, it's in that context that he says, now you're really thirsty? You're thirsty to know God as Father? Are you thirsty to know that you're not an orphan, to live this week on your own? Worried about every next news report and anthrax and what's going to happen in your job and the economy and your family and what's going to happen when you see your relatives on Thursday and all the rest of that. Are you thirsty for an intimacy? But the Heavenly Father who will take care of you, come to me, He says, Come, come. And out of your being will flow living rivers, streams of water. And what's all this got to do with Thanksgiving? The word Thanksgiving, as we've seen in previous years, comes from the root word kara, grace, and karas, joy. Because thanksgiving is the realization that I have received by grace more than I deserve. And that gives me joy. Be in touch with your thirsts, and then come to Jesus for the joy of the satisfaction of his being and his presence. To quench your thirst, as nothing and no one else can. Let's pray. And so, Lord Jesus, I ask that you would put us, as I've sought you in my own life. As we put us in touch with our thirsts. We are so out of touch with those thirsts. We we so mask them and cover them by noise. Amusements and toys and busyness. Give us this week the grace to be still To be in touch with our thirst that we might come and see this promise as precious, that you bid us to come to you To believe you, to trust you, that your spirit would come and fill us and quench that thirst. With a sense of your presence revealed in your word, that only you can do, that your spirit would fill us with joy I pray that for each one of us for this week in Jesus' name. Amen.