My Lord, we come this morning as your people, we do praise you that we can sing your praises as we've already done to you, our King. But Lord, as we come, we confess We are a sinful people. Lord, we need your forgiveness. Lord, we do listen to stories and jokes, the TV, the radio so intently. Get to your word , we get distracted so. Lord, we just confess our weakness and we pray your Holy Spirit to come and help us this morning to hear your word read and your word preached and to act upon it. Lord, I pray you'll help me. Do not prevent me from preaching clearly, but might make me all the more dependent on your Holy Spirit to help. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I have a question for the children. What is the most important? We talked last week about proclaiming the gospel with our lives. Today we talk about proclaiming the gospel with our voices. Which is most important? With our lives or with our voices? What do you think? Anybody want to try to answer that? With your lives. You want to witness? Which of my legs is the most important? Which one? My family's not having me happy. Maybe my arm, but my legs were both the same. I couldn't pick. And so we see is the church must proclaim the gospel with their lives like we saw last week. Equally say we must proclaim the gospel with the other leg, with our voices. We have to. They both go together. We can't pick. The church in Acts we really see both. They do both. They gather together. They proclaim with their lives. They scatter with their voices. A friend of mine named Dick Keith. was with his uh unit in nineteen seventy five. Uh he was a Marine first lieutenant and you know kids his men they didn't care very much about learning about how to shoot their machine guns and their murders and everything and they were kind of lacking and they fought and knew each other. Their comb laddering wasn't that good. They were a new unit. They'd only been together for about a month. And all of a sudden they got a call, come out of the field. And within a very few hours they were on airplanes and they flew 3,000 miles to Utah Airport Base. in Thailand and they found out that they were getting ready to go into combat to rescue the ship the migrant. Some of you may have remembered that back in nineteen seventy five. It was a a Distilla merchant vessel that had been seized by the communist Cambodians on the high seas. And uh those men, he told me it was amazing how much they changed. All of a sudden, instead of not caring about how to adjust that motor fire, it was Sir, could you show us again how to adjust that motor fire? As I waited there on the runway. waiting for those helicopters to take them into combat. And their camaraderie? Huh, it couldn't have been tighter. As they knew that they would be depending on each other as they ran in the battle for the first time. And yeah, I think that's really often the way it is with us. You know, we it's great to have our small groups and to gather together, but there's something about scattering and going that pulls us together. It brings joy, it makes us have camaraderie Christian circles we call it fellowship, deeper fellowship and and uh it makes you want to learn not how to adjust motorms, but more of God's word and more of how to give an account of the hope that is in us. So the two roads are together, one leg before the other. They They complement each other. And today that's what we look at. As we see the early church proclaim the gospel, not just with their lives as we saw last week, but with their voices. Let's hear now God's word as we read from Acts chapter 8, verses 1 through 5. And Saul was there giving approval for his death, Stephen's death. On that day, a great persecution broke out against the church at Jerusalem, and all its chapters. The apostles were scattered throughout Judea and Samaria. Balley men buried Stephen and mourned deeply for him. But Saul began to destroy the church. Going from house to house, he dragged off men and women and put them in prison. Those who had been scattered preached the word wherever they went. Both went down to a city in Samaria and proclaimed the Christ there. The church proclaims the gospel to those who are near. Who's behind this spreading out of the church, the scattering of the church here in Acts chapter eight? Very clear we see that the Lord is behind it. He it didn't happen by accident. He had said in Acts one eight, so you got him switch it. 18 and 8. 1. In one eight he said what would happen? The gospel would spread to where? Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria. And switch them around, and in Acts 8. 1 it happens. We see Judea and Samaria as the gospel begins to scatter, to go out. out there as God scatters them. He raises up a persecution. Jesus had said that my church would go forth, but the gates of hell would not prevail against it in Matthew 16, verse 18. And here we see this happening. He ensures that it will happen. And he uses a persecution to spray these people out, so that they wouldn't only be gather gathering, but that they would be scat scattering. We like the gathering. We talk about the fellowship and honor, we really do. We play 'em together. And maybe they work too, maybe Maybe that's why the Lord needed a persecution, to scatter them out. Well, if God did that, surely it wouldn't be a big persecution, would it? I mean, to make his people go out and preach the gospel all around. But we see here that there's a great persecution. mega, you know, big. It was a mega persecution that God brought upon the church in Jerusalem to scatter them so that they lived telling the gospel. It wasn't just a gentle merge. And tragedy, how we need to be the same way, to look for God's hand. He He so often does use things like persecution or tragedy that we can speak a word for Christ and honor his name as the kingdom is advanced. Well, God is behind it. Who actually does it here in Acts chapter eight? Notice in verse one. we see that all were scattered. And if we go a little further down in the end of verse one it says, Except the apostles. Then we go down to verse four it says, Therefore those who have been scattered, all, went about preaching the word. I always want to call it a heresy. That's a little strong maybe, but this view you often hear today that only some people are supposed to preach the gospel and spread the good news. Only the apostles, only the leaders, only these, only those, but that's not what we see here. when it says all in the Bible we gotta take it as literature. You may say everyone was in church this morning, we don't mean everyone, but it's a and that's the stimulus feature. Most of the Christians were spread out and they always they went about they went about sharing the gospel, preaching the gospel to They didn't all do it the same way, I'm sure. Uh some may have used EE, some may have used five day clubs, others may have, you know, focused on friendship evangelism. Lots of ways maybe they did it. Home Bible studies we saw that on already last week and we see it all through acts as they gathered in homes to study the Bible. But the point is they did it. As they opened the people as they were scattered, the Holy Spirit who filled them overflowed into people's lives as they touched them, as they spoke over. The gospel to be preached is not just for a few people. There, I'm sure as they went through Samaria at the McDonald's game, you know, they sat down and they would talk to people about Christ. They couldn't help it because it was in them. It's for all of us to do. I left Second Corinthians five. You know chapter seven verse seventeen is a very uh verse often quoted. If we manage in Christ, he's a new creature. All things are passed away, new things have come. That's talking about every Christian. The next verse says Now all these things are from God who reconside us to himself then stop there and gave us us all Christians all who have been made new creatures gave us the ministry of reconciliation and he goes on for we are ambassadors for Christ. We, who 's believed? Christians. It's for us to take this good news of reconciliation, to spread it to others. I asked my dad when I was in military struggling whether I should go in to the ministry and uh through Covenant Church and down down the road, our mother church and some elders there. I was really in childhood and was leaning towards it. We were in a grocery store and I said, Dad, how do you know it? My dad's a little crazy. He started going like this and said, Can't let it I can't help it. What are you talking about? He said, I can't help but preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. He said, You can't help it. But it's not only for preachers. Because here it says they all went preaching. Every case in Acts where it talks about preaching isn't to be assembled believers, it's to those who button of the Lord, it's preaching the gospel. So we're all to do that, to overflow, like Paul said in in uh first Corinthians nine. I Like Peter said in Acts four. I can't help it. Can't stop speaking the thing which we've seen and heard. And why couldn't they help it? It's such good news. The word here in verse four. You see it in the delicate outline. They were scattered about preaching the word. The new the NASB has it in the margin and shows how the word there is. Bringing glad tidings, the word. They brought the good news. It's the same word. You know, it's easier to describe it. But to give an example than a definition almost. It's the same word as in Second Kings when the two lepers they came upon the Syrian army who was there assembled with a great host to defeat the Israelites, and the Israelites were hold up back in Jerusalem, scared to death. And they come and the angel of the Lord have come and the Lord has driven the series away, they left all their gold, all their stuff there, and these two lepers come upon it and they're tempted to, you know, just keep it all for themselves and not to go back and tell everybody. And one of the lepers says to the other, how can Why not go back and tell them this good news? And the Mr. The Greek translation of the Old Testament. Guess what word that is? Same word we get evangelism to go with hell. The good news. You you can't help it to it. How much more do we want to tell? This great news, these records were compelled too. And their news was of much less significant than the news that we had in the past one case. to take our sin, even the Lord Jesus Christ, and to give us new life, not just eternal life, although he did that and that's the most important for fund at life now. What good news. How we should overflow. We can't help it. people this good news that he wants us to tell. Philip is a real example of this. We see Philip in verse 5. It's a different word there here, but the same root. And Philip went down to the city of Samaria and began proclaiming Christ as a And proclaiming several words used. You may have heard words for preaching the gospel. Had a professor in seminary, Dr. Richard DeWitt , those have heard him speak before, and some others, he used to hate it when people Would say that. Share the gospel. He didn't like that. He didn't like that. Because sharing seems to take away the authority of the gospel. But the gospel is something of power. He said, You don't share it, you protect And yet we do share it. I think both words are good. But there's something about that. There is authority in the gospel. There's power. We talked several weeks ago about the power of the Holy Spirit. Dynamon. The dynamic of God. The power, the dynamite of God, the Holy Spirit. But that's not the only power. The gospel is powerful. In Romans one sixteen we're saying that how that gospel is so powerful. It is the thing that will convert people and change them. I don't know if some of you saw the car 's prayer letter this past week. He leads a paragraph in there. he talks about it, maybe in the in your newsletter, I don't know. But he talks about how he his first person has come to Christ and you've done this, he's preached the gospel. And he said how we need to believe the gospel has dynamite, that it has power, that it can change people as they hear the good news. And especially because we see that he preached Christ. Philip, that Christo -centric preaching we see in verse five, that he preached Christ. We see it later on in the chapter where Philip, I mentioned it last week or the week before, where he went up to that Ethiopian unit and he preached. Jesus to that. Jesus is the sum of what we want to preach as we tell the gospel. He is the center. So easy I find to preach doctrine that talk about the atonement and all the you know the concepts and we need to do that. But at the center of our message. We need to preach Christ. For he is the son of the gospel. Well, we see that they preach the gospel to those who are close, but also they took the gospel to those who were far away. When we talk about close, we don't We're not only talking geographically, we're talking culturally also. But here we see in Acts chapter thirteen now. We see when the modern when the missionary movement begins back then, and we see where the church consciously begins to reach across borders to other cultures and other geographies. The church proclaims the gospel to those who are far away. Look at uh Acts eleven with me first before we go to Acts thirteen and we see the progression here. In Acts eleven, nineteen We see the connection between Acts eight and Acts thirteen. Look at Acts eleven , nineteen. So the Rosen were scattered because of the persecution, remember that we just read about, but arose in connection with Jesus and they made their way to Phoenicia and Cyprus. Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the words to no one except the Jews alone. But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to Antioch and began speaking to the Greeks also. They went across the cultural barrier, preaching the Lord Jesus. Verse twenty one, and the hand of the Lord was with them, and a large number who believed turned to the Lord. So what do we have in Antioch? Well, we have a church established in Antioch. It's north of Israel, north of Lebanon, and today's map, almost to where the Mediterranean turns. The city of Ant Antioch, we have a cross-cultural church here. Greek Christians and Jewish Christians. And I think that certainly brings glory to the Lord to see people from different nations, kings, and tribes together. And now we come to chapter thirteen. at this church in Antioch. And then it wasn't the Jerusalem church that first really crossed the water barrier and started missions, but it was the church in Antioch. Let's read verses 1 through 5 of chapter 13. Now the rare Antioch in the church that was There, prophets and teachers, Barnabas and Sarmon, who was called Miger, and Lucius of Cyrene and Menaeon, who had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch and Saul. And while they were ministering and worshipping the Lord and fasting, this Take that word out, you don't like that word. Rather listen to the word of fast and try to say it fast when you meet it, you know. The Holy Spirit said, Set apart from me bonabas and saw for the work to which I have called them. Then when they had oh there it is again, then they had after they prayed and laid their hands on them they sent them away. So being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to solution, and from there they stood to Cephas. Verse 5. And when they reached Salinas, they began to proclaim the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they also had John as their helper. This is the story where we see the first missionaries are sent across the waters. It's poor, the church spends it. Who's behind it? Again we see it's the Lord, just like he was behind the scattering for those near back in Acts chapter eight. He is the one who sets apart while they're praying and while they're worshiping, as we see here. And again we three weeks ago about prayer. The close connection of prayer to revival and missions. In the history of the church, revival and missions have gone hand in hand. They've happened simultaneously. Revival can't help destroy God's people to want, to spread the gospel. We've seen that. Oh the boy that certain of all these, maybe the one several weeks ago was the most important on prayer because that's what starts everything. You really see this. But not only is the whole Holy Spirit involved here. We see that the church is involved here. Who actually does this work of going and ascending them? We see the church. Real clear, verse one. The church in Antioch was there. The ecclesia, the the people gathered together. is part of the church. They confirmed this message from God. You know, a lot of people nowadays say, well I'm going unfold and it's this autonomous, independent thing, not a part of Christ's church. That's not what we see here. It's part of the church. Like one lady down in the country in North Carolina heard she said there there's there's some preachers there was some that was called and there was some that just went. And that's kind of the way that it is I think with a lot of uh missionaries and preachers also maybe there was some that's called and there's some that's But here we see that the church confirms the call. It says, Yes, we agree it's not an individual autonomous thing, but the church stands Brim out. Why does the church need the symbol? Because we need a a necessary The importance of setting is is really clear. I don't have time to read it, but uh you might drop down Romans ten, thirteen, that passage where Paul talks about how are they here? unless there's a preacher and there won't be any preacher unless he is set. It is the church for sins. It is central to part of our task is to sin. Regan Curry. Seventeen ninety two the modern missionary movement was started with him and he was compelled as he read the Bible and as he saw the needs around the world. to go. And his church has said to them, Okay, we'll go, you hold the loops. You see, people can't go by themselves. So what are the lopes that the church has to hold as they run over the side of the cliff, so to speak, to India to take the gospel there? The ropes of prayer, a base that will really praise the church sends the missionaries. It's not just something for them, it's us that sends them as they go. And finances. The church took care of Vigant Terry. They helped them to go. We got told that in Acts chapter 13. We're told a lot about prayer in Paul's letters talking back to Church of Antioch and others. But surely it must have helped them some that way and the provision to enable them to go. Of course they didn't have international banking and the easy things missionaries have today, but somehow the church hasn't and the church divided with people. Prayer, provision, and people to do the work. They came back and the second time they took some more people from Ariel to go with them. And they divided into two kings as they were. The church has the ropes and has the assets. Yet it's so easy for us to hoard our assets. assets and to not really be willing to divide up. We notice here that they were willing to give how much of their leadership to God? There were five leaders mentioned in verse one. And who did they they took two of those leaders and sent them Now are you willing to do something like that? To take two of the others, the leaders of that church, to go start a brighter church, or to go do something like that? It's uh it's an exciting thing, something you really need to think about. The Church of Antioch is willing to spread out their assets so that that the kingdom might be advanced. And we see as they go that they took a team. It wasn't something uh that was autonomous by you know one individual being said even, but it was a team that went. A mini church to model what we talked about last week. They can show Well that's a great apologetic, isn't it? How we love Holly Manna, there are three of them that do that. Paul, Barnabas, and John. Paul, the one who God used to scatter the church back in Acts eight, is now the one that's being scattered himself. So if he's wearing a different uniform this time as he goes. is the herald of the king. In John, he's the lowly mere intern says in verse five. He's the one in training. And he goes and he goes with Paul. And later on, just a good the first time, but the second trip of the And what do they do as they go? They proclaim the gospel. They tell the gospel to other people. Acts thirteen, verse five, we see it there. We won't look at it, but we will see a model of this in Acts chapter 40. 23 through 31. No, 23 now, but you might look at it. How uh we see Paul witnessing, sharing the gospel, meeting in the house daily, all day it says, taking the word for people. The scripture is the base. The scripture is the way that we we we use to share the gospel. It's powerful. People we need to get people around Christians, and we need to get people around the word. They do this a double-edged sword for the word of God. It's sharper than any two edge. It's piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of strength and malice, able to judge the thoughts and the intentions of the heart. The word is powerful. We need to get people around it. That's what Paul did. His model in Acts 28 is a good model. Into more detail than we have here in Acts 13. We also see follow-up. Turn over to chapter 14. As they read verses 21 of chapter 14. After they had preached the gospel of that. Had made many disciples, they returned to Lysra and to Iconium and to Antioch, strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith and saying, Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. We see them spreading. gospel that way. And then turning back and strengthening the disciples. Discipleship is true. But is that all? No. We see in verse twenty three. And then they had appointed elders for them in every church, having prayed and is that we 're They commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed. They appointed elders. That's part of follow-up and discipleship. There would be a church there, under eldership, to take the gospel, to help Christians go, and to keep doing the same thing that's happened before. And then lastly in uh chapter fourteen, verse twenty seven through twenty eight, what did they do? We're told and when they had they came back to Antioch in verse twenty seven, they gathered the church together and began to report all the things that God had done. And how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. And they spent a long time with the disciples. That was the first mission conference, wasn't it? The missionaries came back after being sent by the church. We came back, what if nobody came? What if they gave a missionary conference and nobody came? Well that almost happened to us this past year. We had one of our missionaries who we sent, the church sent, whether we knew that or we went or not, it was a church, and they came back and there were sixteen people here. There's three reasons to come. There's two reasons at least, probably more to come than we have. When these missionaries come back, it's biblical to come and to gather the church to even report of what God has done. That's the second reason. We own it. It's not something we're doing individually, it's part of us. We all can't go. God versus has to be a big base. But when they come back, they're part of us. And it's something that we We do together, we gather the church and and there's a third reason six years from now, 'cause when we come back and uh and if you have sixteen people, I'm gonna come get you. So no, I wouldn't do that. But but think about that. It's something so The church that doesn't. It's something that we do together. Some go, some some stay. But it's something that we do together. And we see they go again, but you can see Paul don't stop. They go out again on the second missionary journey. Well in Acts, we really see the urgent. in the priority of taking the gospel through all the different things we talked about in this series. We see the gathering, we see the scattering. It usually takes priority though, the gathering, unfortunately. Something about us, we're praying just to want to gather. But in Acts we see both ways working, the gathering and the scattering of the church as they take the gospel. Individually and as a church. How are our priorities? Do we have biblical priorities like we see in Acts? individually and in our church. Hard to measure sometimes. Harold Hendrix says, uh show me a man's checkbook and show me a man's calendar. Or a woman, I guess, he said a man, but I think it applies. And I'll show you I'll I'll know his priorities. Something to think about individually and as a church as we look at our church's checkbook and as we look at our church's calendar. We need to have that balance. Again, not everybody doing it the same way, but as a church, taking the gospel to those near and to those for us. I was thinking about that this past week. Tuesday morning for prayer time and was singing. What is your hymn? one of my favorite hymns, Jesus What a friend for sinners. And I was singing it. And uh you know I just was thinking how so much of our many of our hymns and so much of our singing is on the gathering and on Inward focus. It is a you know this is a great hymn, one of my favorites. But as I just was praying and thinking about the words I got thinking about the series and we need not only gather, we need to scatter. So I wrote it here. I'd like you to look at it with me. So anyway, you see it's uh four verses. I was hesitant to sing this together, but Kathy Bane and Jan convinced me to do it. Uh Kathy kind of smoothed out the words for me. But um notice in the first verse there, Holy Spirit, how we need you. We've seen the Holy Spirit in this series, how he's the one. Cause our hearts to be knit together, that the world may know the Son, like last week. It says we're united together. That's the final apologetics in the chorus. Hallelujah, what a savior. Hallelujah, what a friend. Change the course. You're saving, helping. Remember the Holy Spirit, the paraclete, who helps. Sending. And then we're saved. We're helped. We send. Where have we heard that before? Where does it tell us that he's with us to the end? In the great commission. When he says go, that's what he says, and lo I am with you already. Maybe he doesn't seem to be with us. because we're not doing the first part of the Great Commission. That's where he said so we Jesus what a helping witness, though our voices are so weak. Again, the Holy Spirit's the one that gives us power. By your spirit, give us boldness. Help us lovely not to speak. And verse three, Holy Spirit come with power. May we spread the gospel more. Help us speak to friends and neighbors, those who are near. Help us reach the other shores, those far away. And then the last verse is a verse of praise. And the first message in the series with certainty that the gospel will produce. And we praise the Lord Jesus together that he will produce. Let's sing this. Let's uh maybe sing verse one of the oh one of that sign. Let's just sing these four verses and when we have them here Uh Jesus, to the food of Jesus would have thrown for sinners. And let's say let's sit and let's say it as a prayer. You notice each of the verses except the last one is a prayer of petition. And the course and the last verse a prayer a prayer of praise. And so let's lift up voices on the last verse in the last chorus as we praise the Lord that He will take His gospel, He will build His church to the ends of the earth. One to be a little bit of a look at we 're spared the law.