If you have your Bibles with you, please turn to the Gospel of Luke, chapter eleven. This morning for our text, I'm going to be reading for us Luke chapter 11, beginning with verse 24. Let's pray. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for its truth. Lord, we thank you for the beautiful message that it presents us with. Lord, a message that tells us who we are, who you are. It identifies for us what is wrong with the world and even with us. And it points us to the great remedy over and over again, what you have done for us in Christ, the Passover Lamb, who takes away his people's sins, who died in our place and was raised. That we might have a sure hope of heaven. Father, bless the reading of your word to us. And in the preaching that follows, Almighty God, in as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, We ask your blessings on the preaching as well. These things we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 11, beginning with verse 24, the Word of God. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, and finding none, it says, I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order. Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, that is a parable that Jesus teaches that doesn't often get discussed when the parables of Jesus are meticulously gone over. Remember, a parable is a story that's told, a story that is representative of truth that makes a point. And it fits within what you might think of as a matrix or a A culture in a petri dish or a framework of understanding the world. And for us, the matrix of this is alien. You know, since at least the at least the Enlightenment, if not the Renaissance, or if not Plato before that, there have been a couple of competing visions for reality that have clamored for allegiance. One is this perspective of brute materialism, that underneath everything and at the end of every day, all you really find are atoms and molecules and energy and time and space. That's the worldview of our day, increasingly. That really what is out there is really stuff. And since we can't absolutely, in the words of Immanuel Kant or David Hume, know about feelings and faith and things that are invisible and not empirically verifiable, well those things, since we can't know them in the same way as we know, What our chair is made out of, well then it must not be as important to know. And see, that deception lies at the heart of much of the Western secular worldview. Because opposite of this gross materialism is this concept of an abstract idealism that says, no, that what really is eternal is merely spirit. And we see this in some of the more extreme versions of a Hindu worldview where nothing is real. Pain is imaginary. And standing against all of that is a biblical vision for reality that Jonathan Edwards might call a moderate idealism. Jonathan Edwards being, by some counts, the most brilliant American to have ever lived as an American per se, and forgive me for the Western uh privilege here. Uh There were many brilliant people before people like Jonathan Edwards were born on this continent. But Jonathan Edwards The first American published in Bryant British Scientific Papers, The Great Preacher of Northampton, Massachusetts, in the 1730s. Insisted that everything we see is real because it is sustained by the creative sovereign agency of God Himself. Underneath of everything is indeed spirit. Underneath of everything is God Himself. And Jesus Christ is the creator and sustainer of all things. And we know that pain is real, that pleasure is real. We know that substance is real because it is God who sustains it. And what in the world does that have to do with this parable? We often forget that we are spiritual people designed to be inhabited. Have you ever pondered that thought? That we were created to have an intimate fellowship and communion with the God who made us as we walked in the garden in the cool of the day and talked with Him. We were, as Augustine said, designed with a God-shaped hole in our heart that must be filled, and it will be filled. We are spiritual beings in a spiritual world that is nonetheless real in its material components. We are houses that will be inhabited That's a part of understanding what the Bible teaches about what it means to be a human that we often forget. We are houses designed to be inhabited. Now the title of this sermon is The Dangers of False Deliberance. Jesus has just talked in the verses prior to this about how it is that demons are cast out by his name. And he goes on to say that even the disciples or the sons of the rabbis and teachers of the law are casting out demons. In fact, Psalm 91, which was used earlier in worship by Anthony in leading us, that was a text that was used as an exorcism text. by the Jews in times before Christ. This notion that we could be inhabited by that which is evil, commonplace. Taken for granted. Now in our materialistic world we deny it, but that doesn't change the reality of it And let's look at this parable Jesus tells after he's acknowledged that demons are cast out. That doesn't necessarily mean that the people involved are disciples of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God. And he makes that point by telling this parable, warning us of the dangers of a false deliverance. And we can talk about this in three terms. A blessed relief, a temporary peace, and a tragic end. And I want to mention with a blessed relief, we see here, at the very beginning, when the unclean spirit has gone out of a person. Thus we know this is possible. It is possible that an unclean spirit, and an unclean spirit is nothing less than an angel that has fallen, that has rebelled against the living God, one of those Third of the stars that are swept out of heaven. Malignant spirits, restless spirits, spirits without peace. Spirits who would take their wrath and their bitterness against the God who made them out on you and me. We were taught to pray by Jesus Himself, deliver us from the evil one. We say deliver us from evil. Check the study notes in your Bible. We are mindful of the fact that we have an enemy who prowls like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. Reference to Satan himself. And we understand that as C. S. Lewis famously warned us in the screw tape letters, we have many lesser minions of that great evil. Who would delight to see us undone, who would take up residence, who would take advantage of the fact that we have left a foothold for Satan himself in the house of our life. As often as we go to bed angry, what a thought that an unclean spirit can go out from us. What a thought that for those of us who struggle with demons and deep temptations, what the old Puritans called sins of dominion. Profound addictions, inexplicable hostilities. What a thought that we can be set free. And that by God's grace, both special and common, such things can be driven out Unclean spirits and demonic possession are as real today as they ever were. We just don't see them the same or recognize their reality. But nonetheless, they are profoundly real. And we are woefully unprepared to live lives and truly grow as Christians. without recognizing the reality of angels and demons alike. I've been asked many times, some of you know that I'm a lacrosse coach and Many people think I'm a way better lacrosse coach than Pastor, but I'll leave that up to you to discern. I was a well maybe I was a better lacrosse coach, but it's easier to know if you win at the end of the day if you're a lacrosse coach. Been asked by many players, high school kids over the years, do I believe in aliens? I don't know why that interests so many young people. And I would say, of course I do. There's angels and demons all over the place. Give some thought to that. It is crazy to me how many people are open to all of these weird ideas. about an inhabited universe who would nonetheless deny angels and demons. The Bible teaches their existence clearly and warns against their danger. persistently. And we have to recognize their reality, but also recognize that we can experience a blessed relief From the horrible influence they can have on a human person. It's also important to notice that exorcism and conversion are not synonyms. In the Bible, you can have blessed relief from a demon and yet not choose to follow Jesus Jesus heals and feeds and purifies many people. And they do not all alike turn to him with repentance and faith and follow. To cleanse and to forgive were synonymously used in the Gospels. A demon could be cast out only to have it return later, because the house was left empty, and the house is meant to be inhabited. So that blessed relief is not a permanent state in every case. Sometimes it leads to what I will call here a temporary peace. You know, so far the emphasis has been on the unclean spirit, which could be translated demon. That's what unclean spirit referred to. He has left with all of his evil and he's looking for a place to inhabit. He is seeking rest. And he figures, I'll go back to the place where I came from. And notice that it's when an unclean spirit leaves a person in verse 24. And here he says at the end of verse 24, I will return to my house from which I came. You see, the person is a house designed to be inhabited. And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order. It finds that that person has gotten their stuff together. The house is a person and the person has improved their life. The person has put away the effects and the damages of a disordered, demonized life. They have straightened up their addiction. They have reconciled with key relationships. They have mended their ways and turned over a new leaf. They can check the boxes on all of their New Year's resolutions. And see, it's important to realize that we as people can do all those things. And it is very temporary. Think for a moment about George Smeaton. I know you've all heard of George Smeaton, right? George Smeaton was a 19th-century preacher, and he was writing on the atonement and on sanctification. And he makes the point, he lists seven different worldviews that are capable of moral reformation. He says to Bible-believing congregations and audience that followed him, and he was an immense scholar in his day, and it's a it's a shame we don't know his name, but but we don't, and most most of us will never meet. meet meet up with any of his books in the course of our life, even if we're bookworms. There are many other people to read as well, so don't feel like you have to run out and Google George Smeaton, but you probably should. But George Smeaton documents the fact that there are seven different ways you can be a stoic following the ancient Greek tradition. And that is a great way to harness and control your passions and emotions and put your life together. And you can be like Marcus Aurelius, and the famed philosopher from that tradition, and really get your life together pretty well. You can be a mere deist. And just believe that there's a higher power. Think for a moment about people you know who were raging alcoholics. They availed themselves of the common grace, wisdom of the Twelve Steps, a program founded by two Christian men. But their higher power was the oak tree from the backyard of the house they grew up in. Nonetheless Their sobriety was real. Their mended marriage was real. Even though that oak tree that they fondly idolized and looked to for constancy Might have been chopped down long ago and has since rotted in a landfill. Moral reformation is very possible by God's common grace. drop another name on you. We've been talking in our Sunday night class about the Holy Spirit. And I can recall in my early twenties coming across a book by a Southern Again, another 19th-century figure. C. R. Vaughn, V-A-U-G-H-N. I see some pens moving. Good. He wrote a book about the work of the Holy Spirit, and I was stunned to discover that the first two-thirds of that book were about the work of the Spirit and the life of the unregenerate. That means the work of the Holy Spirit in the life of the unbeliever, the person who's not a Christian. Do we ever ponder that? Think on this for a moment, Christian. We believe that the Bible teaches that we are all false and full of sin. We are our mouths are like open graves. There is no unrighteous, no not one, that we are depraved through and through, that sin taints everything we do. How is it then possible? That anyone can see any improvement in any part of their life. Well, God who causes the rain to fall on the just and unjust alike. God who universally bequeaths wisdom to the children of men and women, made in his image so that they can experience a remediating degree of reformation in their life. And in every case where that happens, the credit belongs to God Himself. Think about the nature of the Holy Spirit's work in John 14. He brings conviction of sin. Think about Romans chapter 1 and 2, that the conscience of all men excites a sense of want, of need, of failure. That's the Holy Spirit working. One of the reasons I can be so bold in evangelism is because I know, no matter what that person might say to me. That God the Spirit has been and is currently actually working in their life, perhaps not redemptively. I can't know that. But if they've ever reconciled with a middle school friend, The fingerprints of the Spirit of the living God are on their timeline. Because it is very easy. For us to see real improvements that give a temporary peace in our life. Perhaps that's a description of some of you. Perhaps you have a theology where you've been pulling yourself up by the bootstraps and are really a deist or a stoic, and you've just been Doing the whole stiff up or lip, whether you're British or not, and you have been toughened it out spiritually, making the hard decisions, and you've actually seen improvements across your life, and you're doing better. But you're still bound to be inhabited. And that's where the tragic end comes in This unclean spirit returns to the person, the house it left, and finds it all in order. And he goes and he brings seven more spirits, more evil than itself, degrees of evil amongst the unclean. And they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first. Two lessons we need to draw from this. There are many more, but two I think we must draw one is that human effort cannot produce spiritual safety. If your house is empty, if your heart is unoccupied territory, there's nothing you can do to prevent its habitation. By default, it is a welcoming place to that which is evil. That's why it is so hard for you to do the right thing and so easy for you by default to do the wrong thing. Have you ever pondered that? How easy it is to lose your temper, how hard it is to control it. How easy it is to ignore people, how hard it is to forget yourself and focus on them. Human effort cannot produce spiritual safety. The only thing that will produce spiritual safety is to have a stronger inhabitant. than the interlopers and trespassing spirits that would intervene. That's the only way to be safe. The only way to be safe is to have their rightful inhabitant taking up residence in your own being. The only way to have spiritual safety is to have the God who designed you with the capacity for his spirit to dwell in you as if your house is a temple of the living God to take up residence. And you'll find the sign on the door to your soul flipped to say no vacancy. Therein lies spiritual safety The second great thing we have to observe is that we will have a final state. The last state of that person is worse than the first. There will be a last state. What will the last state of my house, of my person be? Will it be a state in which I have found that I have been set free from the dominion of evil and the possession of sin? spirits and demons and unclean things alike? Will it be a last state in which the Spirit of the living God has taken up residence? and is sanctifying me through and through as I abide in Christ and seek to live for his glory and to be a blessing to my neighbor. Will that be my final state? Will my final state be just the end result of trying to do everything stubbornly on my own? To make my own life better, because after all, I'm a pretty good person. After all, I graduated from the University of Maryland. True fact. Therefore, I must be okay. West Virginia is called almost heaven because it's next to Maryland. And I graduated from Maryland. My credentials are all in order. As we close, I want to offer you a couple of thoughts that I want to encourage you to discuss in your community group. And I'm delighted to know that about 80% of us are involved in community groups here at CPC. And our community groups always have an empty chair for you. They're places to process life, to live life together, to grow, to pray for each other, to experience a commitment that is Harder to experience when you're sitting with 280 other people, easier to experience in a living room with a group of 12 or 15. Ask yourselves, and ask yourselves this also over lunch tables today. Do we think of ourselves as houses or temples? in which we have fellowship with either God or his enemies. Do we think about ourselves that way? I think about my house a lot now. I'm just so delighted to have a house. And I know this might sound strange, but I'm just so happy to have a mortgage. I lived in houses that weren't mine for many, many years as a pastor. It's so fun to have a house and to dream about what I'd like to see happen in that basement. Up until I get the estimate. It's awesome to think about the renovations, the way uh the ways I want to have it. Do I think about my life the same way? Do I have basements in my person that I need to think about renovating and making habitable? For the right kinds of spirits. Are there things I need to do in dependence on God? To sweep things out, clean things up, and give myself more and more completely to the God who would reside in and with me. That's a wonderful thought and a challenging one, and I want to encourage you to it. This parable makes it clear that we are designed for habitation. The only question is who are we inviting in? Are you trying to clean yourself spiritually? Are you trying to work out your salvation with fear and trembling because God is at work in you to will and do His purpose, His good purpose? These are biblical ideas that are of great importance. We are not saved by the living God. and inhabited by his spirit in order to idle at the start line of life's great race. We are designed by God to live, to be bold, to be dangerous for the kingdom. I love those three words that Crew used. Does anybody remember what they were? Send when build send This idea that we're to go somewhere, and in many respects, that has to do with giving all of ourselves to the living God. And then doing all that he calls us to. I want to invite you to consider how that's all a part of this habitation of the living God who would have you be his hands and feet. his mouthpiece, his herald, his steward, his gift to the people in your office, in your home, on the street where you live. And in conclusion, I want to ask you this question. Have you received the Holy Spirit, whose dwelling in us provides our only true safety? You might go through a period of life where you kick some bad habits, get your life together. But you don't have Christ You have the echoes of his truths and the advice he offers through his children, and you've chosen to apply some of it. You're getting your life together, but you don't have Christ. Revelation chapter 3, Jesus Christ, who gives us his spirit, he says to Christians, people who are almost Christians, people who are In a church. He says, Lo or behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man open up, I will come in and meet with him and he with me. That's the language of this parable. You are a house. Is your door open or shut to the Lord Jesus? And have you invited him to come in? Have you invited him to say, and now here is my own spirit residing with you, having table fellowship with you. The close, intimate communion of family, of friends. Have you given your life to Christ and have you received the benefits of his life? Have you said in opening the door, I am a sinner, and I can maybe kick some addictions, I can maybe improve my marriage, but I cannot reconcile myself to the living God because He is holy and I am a sinner. I cannot defeat the demons and the enemies that would clamor for habitation in my life. I need Christ and the strength that He alone can provide, because He alone lived a sinless life and could die in my place. And reconcile me to God, that I might be a temple to his glory, a throne room for his spirit to reign. This is the gospel. The gospel says that God would live in and with you. And that you would be safe for eternity. Never free from struggles with temptation, but always safe forever. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your mercies to us. We thank you for your reminders again and again that we are spiritual beings living in a spiritual world in which the things around us are so very real. And so Lord help us to remember that as a matter of first importance, we must spiritually be well, and we must be inhabited by you, filled by you, lest there be room for something unwanted. Father, we pray for the deliverance of those who are under dominion. We pray for freedom for those who are inhabited currently by unclean spirits. Lord, it is a strange sound to our Western ears to hear such things, but it is a fact as old as creation itself that will last until you return Christ. And Father, we pray that you would give us wisdom to seek you and to rest having found you. Bless us, O living God, for we are yours, we are your house, we are your temple. And you are our great safety. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen