Good morning CTC. Well I I I watch I watched the other day Matt Bowling, he preached last week and he said he was coming to the close of the series. And And uh so are Craig and I. This is the last installment in our first Timothy series. We're gonna, next time you see, and I know it's been confusing having several series at the same time, but you know, you're smart people, you can do it right now. We're going to start 2 Timothy in a few weeks, but whenever whenever we're when um we begin that series. So be alert that we're finishing First Timothy today and I had I I was given the choice of either chapter something from chapter five or or chapter six. And I've chosen the first part of chapter five, these these verses about uh the widows. And that's my title simply, the widows. If you have a Bible, if you see on the screen, we're going to read the ESV translation of verses 1 to 16 of 1 Timothy chapter 5. Do not rebuke an older man, but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters in all purity. Honor widows who are truly widows, but if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents. For this is pleasing in the sight of God. She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day But she who is in who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives. Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach. But if anyone does not provide for his relatives and especially for members of his household, he is denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband, and having a reputation for good works If she's brought up children, has shown hospitality, has washed the feet of the saints, has cared for the afflicted, and has devoted herself to every good work. But refuse to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not. So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no occasion for slander, for some have already strayed after Satan. If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened so that it may care for those who are truly widows. God's word. Let's pray. Well, use this portion of this word to encourage us, to challenge us if need be, to help us to see you more clearly and understand your church and our responsibilities as a church more clearly. We'll give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Several years ago I had the privilege and responsibility and privilege of funeralizing um a woman who had a profound impact on my life, uh and her name is Yvonne Harris. She was never married. She lived into her 80s and had a profound influence on myself and Terry, Terry and Lee. Though she is not a widow technically , Since she never married, I can't help but think about the impact of this godly woman and her life upon upon us. I was I I attended in uh uh Frostburg Intervarsity and one of the first conferences I went to back in the back in the lit the old days. I I came to to to to to the conference and and you know I'm gonna be honest. University was great at Frostburg, but there were a lot of white people. Okay, can I say that here? Yvonne Harris was a short African-American woman from Baltimore. She was in they put me in her small group. I was okay. Good move. She was mature in her faith. She had some authority, but she had a gentleness to her. And it was, and to me, this university world changed for me because I said, okay, we have leaders that are that are African Americans. I didn't know that. I didn't know that as I was learning about university. When I graduated, University actually recruited me to come to Baltimore, and I came to Baltimore to work in Morgan State Where she had been doing some uh volunteer work. And who did I look for when I went to Morgan? I looked for her. Okay, Yvonne, you gotta help me here. I'm new to Baltimore, I'm new in ministry. And uh and I became her supervisor as she was a volunteer. Uh little did I know that all that in the meantime she was in Baltimore, uh uh she was the spiritual mother of a woman named Terry Martin, who you know as Terry Long. Yvonne discipled her and who she became a Christian during her her middle school year. Uh uh junior high school years, that's all we are, okay? Junior high school years. But Yvonne she she sang in our s uh a solo in our wedding. When I was ordained, she sang a solo there in 1991, 1981, 1991 And um Yvonne was she was blessed to she she always had an instinct for to mother and and and the Lord blessed her. She adopted a child named Kwan. As a teen, when Terry was, we were surprised with triplets, Kwam would come over and help Terry in some of those simple child care things. And then in 2000, I was blessed to change churches. I was became the associate pastor at Faith Christian Fellowship, and I became Yvonne's pastor. She was a she was a worshiper there. I became pastor over her and and Kwan and the husband Craig and the kids. So for for twenty years I was her pastor, but as as as Yvonne aged, she experienced the gradual memory loss. Which eventually landed her in a nursing home. And several years ago, it was February of 2021, Terry and I were, we visited her on a Friday afternoon. And we didn't know that we were the last visitors that she would have. She passed early that evening. Um, did her funeral Yvonne Harris, she never married, but she was a widow, quote unquote. She had a great impact for Jesus on many, many people. She was a woman of prayer. She was a servant. She was a gentle but bold evangelist. She had a way of challenging you, but you didn't know you were challenged. It was interesting. Yvonne Harris. God has a special place in his heart for women who are widowed. elderly or needy. And in the in the ancient world, a woman a woman was always under the covenantal covering of a man for protection. Initially her dad, and then it was maybe her husband or a brother or uncle. Otherwise it was assumed that that woman was a loose, immoral woman. The church needs to be alert to the great needs of widows, especially alert to the great potential they have in being a blessing to others. Caring for needy women is a good, godly thing to do when churches need to do it. You may recall that the very first major administrative crisis in the book of Acts in the early church is in Acts chapter 6. There was a crisis of the food distribution for widows in the complex cultural context of Jerusalem. First major problem that was solved. So in 1 Timothy chapter 5 and 6, Paul addresses three categories of people in the congregation. Paul the apostle, talking to Timothy, who he discipled, is now a leader of the church at Ephesus, and he's addressing him. Gives him various things, various matters to to deal with. And in and in these in chapters five and six he addresses three categories of people. Widows, elders, and slaves. And all three are called to serve in various ways. We're going to look at that first category, the widows. Here's where we're going if you take notes. Paul Paul reminds Timothy that the church is a family. The church is a family. And then he's going to get into a particular members of the family, widows. Widows first who are supported by the church. Verses 3 and 8. And then widows who serve for the church. Verses 9 to 16. That's where we're going. Paul is telling Timothy and the entire church that not all widows are the same. In fact, the bulk of this passage is Paul this careful breakdown of the various life circumstances of widows. And we should note that again, widows is It's technically women that have lost the husband through death, but it there are other many women who aren't in that category, who could be technically called widows. They're women who are alone and needy. So, first let's talk about the first couple verses, verses 1 and 2. Do not rebuke an older man, but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters in all purity. Verses 1 and 2 are transitioned for Paul. He goes from elders ministry in chapter 4 and now takes these two verses to remind Timothy as a teaching elder, a pastor, who shepherds the flock. He's always to be pastoral in his relationships. Because pastoring is really about relationships. As you look for a pastor , CPC. Pastoring, yeah, there's a lot of preaching. Preaching is important. But pastoring is really about even more than preaching, relationships. One-on-one, small groups, and to a larger congregation. So Paul gives this young pastor, Timothy, simple advice on how to address the various members of God's family. How he is a young pastor Just to relate with people. The letter to Timothy was not a private letter. It was the letter to Timothy, but it wasn't one that he read in his study. This was to be read to the congregation. Okay? And it's blessed the churches through the ages. It was passed around from house church to house church in that city of Ephesus where the church was thriving. So Paul, he gives us two categories of here in these two verses. Younger and older. Okay? Younger and older. First, Jiminy, here's your posture towards older men. Older men. And this is this is not just elders. These are men in the congregation that are older. He says, approach them as you would approach a father. Now we know from Acts chapter 16, it says this. Timothy was son of a Jewish woman who was a believer. But his father was a Greek. So his father was not a a believer in Jesus Christ. His mother And his grandmother, we find later, were were Jewish believers in the Messiah, in Jesus. So it was a mixed marriage of a believer and unbeliever. His father was a Greek, but apparently was not a Christian because his father was a Greek. But he had a father. He had a father in his life. And what Paul says is simply, don't rebuke. And that's a strong word. Don't rebuke the older man. aggressive word, but encourage, exhort, come alongside. A softer approach. So he's saying approach older men with respect Don't be don't don't be in their face all the time rebuking, and if you need to rebuke, do it as an exhortation. He says Secondly, his posture towards younger men. And Timothy, you're a young man. Treat them as brothers. Treat them as your peers, as brothers. We don't know if Timothy had brothers and sisters, but treat them as brothers was what Paul says And the third category is older women. Treat them as mothers. Verse 2. Treat them as mothers. Now we know from 2 Timothy 1 that Did Timothy's mother and his grandmother, Lois and Eunice, had an impact on his life? 2 Timothy 1. We'll come back to the older women later. In a minute. And then the fourth category is younger women. And the appropriate posture of Timothy towards younger women is treat them as sisters. It's interesting that this is the only one where he sort of adds something. In all purity. Interesting. Timothy, you're a young man, right? Don't look at every woman as. Is she the one? Is she the one? Don't do that, Timothy. Paul's reminding Tuning, a young single man serving as a pastor, he's not to look at every young woman as a potential wife, but as a sister. Wise advice, especially in our day, as we we in many denominations see the headlines of moral failure among clergy. Now notice also that God makes other distinctions in these verses. Again, there's age distinctions, older and younger. And I'm not gonna tell you when you're old or when you're young. That's up to you to decide that. But in every culture there are rites of passage, aren't there? You know They're sort of sort of sloppy in our culture in one sense. You know, when when does a boy become a man? When does a woman a girl become a woman? Is it uh We attended a kindergarten graduation of our grandkid the other week. She's not there yet. I know that. Is it high school graduation? Is it college graduation? Is it marriage? Is it parenthood? Menopause? When w when do you move when do you move from being younger to older? I don't know, but I hope you can figure that out yourself. There's AIDS distinctions. But there's also, and don't lose this, there's gender distinctions that he has here, doesn't he? Male and female. And that's all there is. And who would have ever thought that that would be controversial in our world? But as you know it is. Gender confusion, distorted sexual activity are not new. They go back as far as the Greeks and the Romans of Paul's day, they go back as far as Sodom and Gomorrah of Abraham's day. So an email last week. We live in Pikesville. Baltimore County Library. Their summer gatherings for kids. I said, let me hit the link here. I hit the link. And as I feared, I saw some things I didn't like. Books, movies that pushed and promoted the entire movement of LGBTQ issues for children of all ages Yesterday my travels took me to Baltimore City, um Charles Street, uh middle after early afternoon, and I was trying to not get caught in up in the traffic that was gonna get blocked by the pride parade. Fortunately I did not. But I could see people walking to the parade, and and and and what bothered me dramatically was the number of little children that were with older people going to the Pride Parade. And I say that just I hadn't planned on talking about that, but as I as I watch you talk about the this week's vacation Bible school, that's important. And it's vital that you reach these young people. Because the the culture is reaching them. They are being discipled by the culture. So all you who stood up, God bless you. And if you didn't stand up and you're not a part of it, just pray. Pray for the young people as not just the culture would disciple them, but that the body of Christ would disciple them. Children are being attacked. Um while we need to be compassionate towards people who are confused about their feelings inwardly. due to distorted narratives that are dominating the cultural conversation. The church must be very, very clear and compassionate. Biology rules over philosophical narratives and progressive radical intelligents voices. To put it simply, how a person feels should never override how God made them. Let's say that again. How a person feels should never override how God made them. In a broken world where there are people who are born blind, born lame, born sadly, with all kinds of circumstances. That doesn't change the norm. We're supposedly in we see supposedly intelligent people who cannot define what a woman is in our society We see athletes that were created as males competing against females in competitive sports using the same locker rooms in our society. We're far past, say, at the point where the line must be drawn. We need both compassion and courage as we see what's happening in our world. Scott says this as we summarize these few verses. He says this. The local church has rightly called the church family. in which there are fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, not to mention aunts and uncles, grandparents and children. Leaders should not be insensitive and treat everybody alike. No, they must behave towards their elders with respect, affection, and gentleness. Their own generation with equality, the opposite sex with self-control and purity. And all ages of both sexes with that love that binds together members of the same family. A healthy church takes care of those who are hurting. A healthy family takes care of those that are hurting. And the church is a family. And widows are some who hurt because they've lost a husband and their life's been turned turned upside down. So Paul will now break down for us several types of widows. Evaluate whether or not they merit assistance from the church. And he's calling for wise discernment. All people are created equal, but people don't have equal circumstances. And that's an important principle to understand. And it's true of widows. Now, so there's two categories. The first category is widows who are supported by the church. The church has a list of widows who deserve to be supported and helped and assisted. And again, that's the Acts 6 kind of thing. This is verses 3 to 8. Now in all the scripture there's a focus on people who are needy. For example, in the Old Testament, Psalm 146 verse 9, the Lord watches over the sojourners, he opposes the widow and the fatherless. By the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. People with no land, sojourners, aliens, people with no dad, orphans, fatherless, people with no husband, widows. God cares. From the Old Testament to New Testament, we see verses like that. So yes, there are people who he calls a verse Verse 3, he says, honor widows who are truly widows. These are truly widows who have needs and need to be served by the church. And they should be supported by the church He describes in verse 5, She who is truly a widow, left alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. Describes her, her heart, her character, her deeds. Reminds me of in in the Gospel of Luke, Anna, the prophetess, who was a widow. It says she was worshiping and fasting. Prayer night and day. She began to give thanks to God and speak of him to all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. A godly widow who just had resources that needed to be mad People like Anna, people like Yvonne Harris. He says honor widows. The word honor has a lot of meanings, but but I I believe what he's talking about is financial re remuneration here. The women who had needs. Honor is an interesting word. In the Ten Commandments, we told you honor a mother and father, that your days are going to be long in the land that the Lord your God has given you. In Mark chapter 7, there's a discussion about honoring parents. And it's clear that the discussion there is about helping them financially when they're old. 1 Timothy chapter 5, 17, which is the next passage after our last verse today, is um Paul says that the elders who who labor in doctrine are due double honor. He's talking about money. So there 's an element of giving financially that this word honor is honor widows who are truly widows And yet there's some who he's gonna say they don't they don't qualify for um financial help And in verses 4 and verse 8, they don't qualify because they have responsible families that can take care of them. Look at verse 4, verse 8. If a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. Then he says, as he wraps up that paragraph, if anyone does not provide for his relatives, especially for members of his household, he's denied the faith and it's worse than an unbeliever. So what Paul is reminding Timothy is that just because a widow requests to have help, first you got to make sure that she needs help. Everybody, you know, there's a lot of scammers in the world, right? Make sure that she may have family that could take care of her. But the family might be saying, well, why don't you just let the church do it? And so he's calling for the church to wisely use the money for those who truly need it. And the principle is that the first line of defense is the family, not the church, when it comes to helping the elderly. A very important principle. It's not the government either. Not the government, the subject, the family is the first line of defense. My mom passed away several summers ago, two summers ago. She she was a widow for 14 years. And um she lived alone for most of that time and literally finally got her to move to Richmond with my sister, my oldest sister. And she spent several about a year and a half there I think. And uh but my sister spent a lot of time getting the home ready. I mean, you know, renovations and all that to to to get her home ready, her husband her husband, getting her home ready for my mom who finally came up. And um And then in February of 2020, mom had a stroke in that home, and she spent the next 109 days in hospitals and recovery centers in Richmond, and then finally she went home. To be with my sister and her husband for two weeks, and then she passed. All that energy, all the effort, all the time spent in getting the home ready. And and she was there, she came back to that home and then in two weeks she passed. And uh that was two summers ago. Family, many people can't afford to do that for their for their parents, and we understand that, and God understands that. My sister's a lawyer, her husband was a medical student. a professor. We were blessed that she was able to do that. Now, but we understand that not everybody can do that for parent for parents, particularly women who have those needs. Widows without family to care for them, they qualify for assistance, is what Paul's telling you. But if they have family, family is first, if the family can do it. Another category of people who don't qualify for assistance from the church is in verses 6 to 7. Look at what it says. She who is in self-indulgent is dead even while she lives, command these things as well, so they may be without reproach. He's saying that there's certain people whose women because of the lifestyle, because of their their their hedonistic lifestyle, their pursuit of pleasure only, their lack of pursuit of God, their lack of interest in the things of God, i if that's who they are, they shouldn't become to the church for help. That's what Paul's getting at. Not all younger widows qualify for assistance, what he's saying. Some women are too hedonistically oriented. Often we don't think about that. We think that when it says all have sinned and fallen short of God, we think that only men can be hedonistic. That's not true. It's just not true. Paul urges discernment with the resources of God. So verses 3 to 8, we have seen women who are supported. And the other category is women who serve. We'll get to that in a second. Women who serve. At uh the General Assembly where I was at in Memphis a few weeks ago, we were reminded that we should not call women who serve deacons. Because that implies ordination. And I agree with that. But clearly we see here that there's a list of women who are designated to assist in diaconal matters in the church. Verses 9 through 16. Jesus starts verse 9, let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than 60 years of age. A couple translations. So one translator translated, let her be registered. The NIV says, don't let her be put on a list. New King James, taken into the number. So there's clearly again a list of women who are qualified and endorsed by the church. To be representatives of the church in helping others. Okay? And so what are some of the qualifications? I listed eight things in these couple of verses. The first qualification, not less than 60 years old. So again, I I I kind of joked about not knowing whether you're younger or older. I think Paul's saying, if you're 60, you're old. I don't know I don't know. But it this is not just about spiritual maturity. There's something more than spiritual maturity that's in mind here You can be a very, very mature person in 45, and Paul says, no, you're not ready yet. There's something about having lived a long time and seen a lot of things that qualifies you. Susan Hunt said this. It seems to me that widows have entered into a dimension of dependence on God that prepares them for the ministry of intercessory prayer. The widow's might in the Gospels was recognized and commended by Jesus because she, out of her poverty, put in everything, all she had to live on. Mark 12, 44. Perhaps the widow's might is most mighty when these women band together as helper defenders and intercessory prayer. Older women. who do not have the daily responsibilities of jobs are a powerful source for intercessory prayer. Susan Hunt. Another qualification. It says we're faithful to their husband. Similar to chapter 3, where it talks about fidelity among leaders, elders and deacons. The point of marital fidelity of leaders is vital in our day in particular. The time of in that day there was polygamy that was pretty much normalized. But polygamy, immorality, homosexuality, there's clear guidelines in the scripture. Another qualification, third is she has to have a reputation for good works. Interesting. No scandal about her. She has to have no scandal, a good reputation in the community. Again, similar to chapter three, we've talked about leaders, elders. a good reputation. Next hasn't brought up children, if she's brought up children. It's not mandated, but if she has had children Titus 2, 3 to 5, very important verse about children. If you don't know this verse as women's, as women, you need to know these verses. Titus 2, 3 to 5. Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good and to train young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, and kind. Brought up children. And then he says has shown hospitality. It's interesting how it's the the USB leaks this children in hospitality. We've noticed as we've gotten older and our children have gone, when the when the children were young, they would have friends and they have friends would come over and have sleepovers, they'd be watching video games, all kinds of other. And we have a lot we had a lot of people of kids in our house more than we do now There's something about about children where your hospitality factor uh uh uh uh raises, rises, and that's good. Um so if you're the kind of uh woman or man who don't like people in your house, your children are gonna be frustrated. My mother always said this, I'd rather the the the kids of the community be in my house than my kids be in their house. And I think that's an important principle for Christians to have. Has shown hospitality. You probably have read or know of the book by Rosario Butterfield. uh radically converted. She's her her the name of her book is The Gospel Comes with a House key. She was converted from lesbianism because of the hospitality of a neighbor pastor in her life. She was radically changed The next next qualification is interesting. Wash the feet of the saints. Wash the feet of the saints. Some take that literally. Some take that figurative. I believe it's figurative. And it's pointing to Jesus in the upper room. You remember the story when the disciples were wondering who's the greatest? And it was the night before Jesus was going to die, and he's the one who took off the sandals and washed their feet. That was the task of a slave, of a servant. When you came from the dirty streets, your feet would be dirty. There was no servant in that room apparently. Who's going to wash the feet? Jesus did it. Servant. In that day in the first century there were there were traveling evangelists. They didn't you didn't trust hotels The hotels and ends were pretty body places. So often Christians would offer hospitality to those missionaries and evangelists that were traveling So this is a woman who has who has had hospitality. She's washed the feet of the saints. She's these traveling evangelists and maybe even broader than that. She's a servant. She's not one who says, well, I'm not going to do it. It's just below me. No. She gets her hands dirty. And knowing many having watched it there the often there are some things that women do in serving the guys I don't want to do that. Something there's something about a woman who can do things. I've I've seen I've seen I've seen women who who care for elderly parents and and I guess guys can learn how to do it, but somehow women they figure out they maybe it's instinctive I don't know But she washed the feet of the saints. She's cared for the afflicted. This is the early church. Here's a early church father Tertullian said this about uh about the early church. The registered widows gave themselves to prayer. They nursed the sick. They cared for the orphans. They visited Christians in prison. They evangelized pagan women. They taught female converts in pray preparation for baptism. That the second century, uh, Tertullian. She cared for the afflicted. She devoted herself to good works Now, essentially, he said earlier, had a reputation for good works. You know, you can have a reputation that's not true, right? They can think you're a person of good works, but you know, and your family knows you know. Now this is not only does she have a reputation of being a godly person, she's a godly person. person. I like the fact that he does that. Not just a reputation. It's an earned reputation for godliness. But Paul, in verses 11 and 12, he pivots, because again, not all women are qualified to serve. And so he says, refuse to enroll younger widows when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry Incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith. So this again there's this disqualification. He says, um again, this is age qualification, I believe. Because they still have passions for marriage. They're young, they have passions for marriage. Good passions Again, um the age thing, you know, 60, maybe after 60 you can't have those passions. I don't know. There's some physical things that happen that disqualify you. But also there's a mental, there's a mental emotional shift that I think has to take place. They've embraced a role as an older woman, of a tightest two older women. They've embraced the task of helping the younger women. There's a mental shift that takes place. That qualifies a woman. And then there's there's this there's character qualifications. Idlers, don't be the idlers and busybodies and gossips. Women who rather than being godly, they're kind of into things and they're and and they're they're just they're it's clear that their their character, their attitude, their behaviors doesn't exemplify the godliness that you want in leaders to represent the church, they 're disqualified as well. In our day, of course, we have to be alert to the social media presence. of people as well and the wisdom that that is there. So so younger women are are to be the They continue to be discipled into motherhood and into mature wifedom by godly older women. That's what God's calling them to do. Paul seems to come back to this over and over again in Titus and 1 to 2 Timothy. The last disqualification is interesting, verse 16. Look at it. If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened so that it may care for those who are truly widows. Sometimes you act qualified for help because you make too much money. I mean it seems obvious, doesn't it? In that day there were women who were businesswomen. Think of in the book of Acts, Lydia. She was a rich businesswoman who had church in her house and she was a solar of purples. One of the things that I that I've I've no I've learned is that uh in that day every woman uh every family was given a doubt you paid the dowry and you had money And often when a husband died, and often men did die much earlier, the dowry was there, and sometimes the woman was left with resources. Sometimes it was a lot of resources. So some women had economic power. And so Paul's reminding them, this the church's money to help the needy is for the needy, not for those who have money for themselves. Maybe you know they want to put it away for a rainy day when you know if they have money. Interesting when we think about m resourced women in in the gospels, if you Luke chapter 8, verses 1 and the following. Jesus' ministry was financed by rich women. Have you ever noticed that? Women who were resources helped fund, at least in that in that portion of his ministry, the ministry of Jesus and the Apostles. So that that was another the other disqualification Well, so a couple quick takeaways as we uh as we wind down here. First, um for you who are women, how do you look to yourself, how do you look at yourself as a woman? How do you view yourself as a woman? Because there are a variety of life circumstances that women have, right? Embrace your life stage under God Embrace your life stage. It's God's gift to you. And we know life stages change. Life circumstances change. To men. How do you view women? There's something in the past is here about. How do you view women? How do you view widows? Do you see all widows, oh they're all needy? Well it's not true. We just saw that. Get to know the individual, not just the category, not just the label But for all of us in in here here at the church, how how as a church, and I'm again I'm not on this fashion, I'm not a pastor here, but so I don't know the answer to this, how how was how is Columbia Presbyterian seeking to dignify women? That's really here too. How is CPC showing the distinctions that we see in this passage? That some women need to be served, what others need to serve. And some might be in both situations. The last thing that Jesus did before his death was transfer the spiritual care of his mother Mary to John. Remember that? And in all his pain, the cross, where he died for our sins, he saw Mary. And he saw John. And he said, John, behold your mother. Transferring the authority, the spiritual oversight, the protection, the covenant of protection, to John Caring for women, caring for widows, is a good, godly thing. Any healthy church Takes this very, very, very seriously. Let's pray. No , and it's just interesting that the Apostle Paul talked about brothers and fathers and Sisters, but when he talks about the older women, that's that seems to have been the issue back then. And if we look at our world today, that is an issue still. We need to care for women who have needs to understand their situations and and help the church, help this church to to continue to be that kind of church. that really cares specifically and meets the needs specifically, using the resources that you have given wisely, with discernment. Most of all, Lord, I pray that the ministry to widows, to all people, all the diacular ministries, would have as an end. Loving the unlovely, loving those who need love, and also giving them an opportunity to come to Jesus Christ. who who ultimately meets the ultimate need that we have. Because look, all of us are needy. And all of us need that gospel. So may that may may this message find a home in our hearts today. In Jesus' name.