Well, we're in June now, and I wonder how many of you are still engaged in that uh daily experiment of beholding God. By looking at the glory of God through the gospel and through the faith of Jesus Christ as a way of Beholding is a way of becoming transformed as a person. I'm not going to ask for hands. I don't want to embarrass anybody. That's right, we were supposed to do that till the end of June. But uh tell ya I've been encouraged by a number of people that I've talked to even just this past week that are still doing this, and people that are saying they're benefiting from it. And they're seeing a real value in focusing with our concentration not on my sins and my deficiencies And by the way, also not on other people's sins and other people's deficiencies, but focusing on the Lord and seeing that focusing on his glory is a way of becoming transformed, as we saw in 2 Corinthians 3. 18. That we with unveiled faces behold the glory of the Lord and are being transformed with ever-increasing glory in our own lives. You remember that that's part of a whole series that we've been going through on delighting in God. From Psalm 34, verse 7. Excuse me, Psalm 37, verse 4, which is delight in the Lord, and he will give to you, he will even feed to you the desires of your heart. So um we saw that uh we we looked at uh that idea of beholding uh God as a way of our becoming changed because we tend to become like the person that we admire, whether it's a sports figure, some hero, we tend to become like the people we admire. That's a principle. of human existence. And then as we worship the Lord Jesus, we find that we take on something of his uh passion, his agenda, his interest. And that brings us to June, because in June we're considering what the Lord's passion is. And When we think of what he says in John chapter 10, verse 16, I have other sheep that are not of this sheep ten, those also I must bring. And then he said that uh they would also listen to his voice. That brings us to understand that when we come to know the Lord Jesus then that means that we begin to take on his passion for the loss of the nation for whom he died And at this point, I can read some of your mind. And you're saying, aha, I knew he was going to do this to us. He's been preaching all this delight stuff Talking about all this, delighting in God, so that when he got to June, he's gonna pull the rug out from under us and he's gonna say, now see the real the real agenda is I'm gonna talk about missions And I'm going to talk about how you ought to delight in missions. And if you don't delight in missions, then shame on you. Why aren't you now taking on the passion of Christ? And if that doesn't work, then forget the delight business guys, we're switching to duty, we got a job to do. The nations must be saved. We gotta get out there. and uh want you to either volunteer to go into missions or at least give up something to support a few missionaries, but you gotta get involved in this. And And if the light doesn't work, so be it. Get back to duty. Well, no, no, no. A thousand times no. What I want us to see in the two times I have for the missions conference here this month is to see that when Jesus speaks of missions, He doesn't switch his arguments. He remains in exactly the same mode as all the rest of the things we've been talking about. That to serve him is to be a delight. And so when Jesus begins to talk about missions, he begins to talk about them in terms of delight. And so when we come to this month, I want you to see the connection Between our delighting in God and Him giving us the desires of the heart of our hearts, and the fact that the Great Commission is not simply that it ought to be a delight. You know, if you're really spiritual, it'll be a delight to you But if you simply understand it in its perspective, then the Great Commission is a delight. Participating in it is a delight for us. And the Lord Jesus gives a number of incentives for that. And we're going to look at just two. From Mark chapter 10, verses 17 to 33. We're going to look at one of them this week, and I want to look at the second one next week. Two great incentives for participating in the Great Commission. The first one is the thrill of watching God do the impossible in changing lives. The absolute thrill of watching God do the impossible in transforming lives. Now look how you see that in this passage, if you haven't turned to it, please. Mark chapter 10. Beginning at verse 17 Jesus is traveling through Judea at this point with his disciples, coming down from Galilee. He's going through Judea. And one day as they're going along, the scene is that this fellow pulls up. In a Mercedes-500 SL, jumps out of his car, bows down before Jesus, and says, What do I do to get eternal life? Now that's the impact culturally of what that would have been like. And you gotta understand that that these guys with Jesus are used to traveling around in things like Chevy Novas, no offense to Bob Yerkis, but You know, y you get the picture of of the the total cultural shock of this thing. You know, uh when you're used to that kind of a lifestyle and all of a sudden this guy in this Mercedes 500 SL Matthew says that the guy was young. They all say he was rich. All three of the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, record this. It must have had quite an impact on these guys So here's this guy in this Mercedes, and he jumps out, and he comes to them and bows before their master and says, What is it that I have to do to get eternal life? Now, let's pick up the story there and take a look at it. Mark chapter 10. Begin with verse 17 and see how this affects us in our delighting in God. As Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him, fell on his knees before him. And by the way, Luke says that this fellow was a ruler. So he was not just a man of wealth, he's a man of great influence. And he says, Good teacher. What must I do to inherit eternal life? Why do you call me good? Jesus answered. No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not give false testimony, do not defraud, honor your father and mother. Teacher, he declared, all these I've kept since I was a boy. Jesus looked at him and loved him. One thing you lack, he said. Go. Sell everything that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And then come and follow me. At this the man's face fell. He went away sad, because he had great wealth Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God. The disciples were amazed at his words, but Jesus said again, children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of an eagle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God The disciples were even more amazed and said to each other, Who then can be saved? And Jesus looked at them and said, With man, this is impossible. But not with God. All things are possible with God. Peter said to him, We've left everything to follow you. And Matthew adds it to that. He says, Well what do we get? I tell you the truth, Jesus replied. No one who has left home or brothers or sisters Sisters or mother or father or children or fields for me and the gospel will fail to receive a hundred times as much in this present age, homes, brothers, sisters, mothers, children, and fields, and with them persecutions And in the age to come, eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. Two incentives. And the first that you see there in verses seventeen to twenty-eight Is that the thrill of watching God do the impossible in changing lives? And maybe you say I don't know, I don't see all that much thrill because most of the people I talk to aren't interested in spiritual things or maybe they're antagonized Uh I don't find people running up to me jumping out of their cars and saying, what do I do to get eternal life? What are you talking about? How is this generalized? Well look at the passage more closely, and I think we can see here a number of principles that apply to us directly in this matter. The passage is very realistic and shows us the first point that lost people are helpless and hopeless. Lost people are absolutely helpless And hopeless. You see that in verses 17 to 25. Again, picture the scene. This fellow comes and falls before Jesus And notice the dialogue that happens. Now there's just there's the initial shock value of somebody with this much power, this much wealth, paying attention to them. That was very unusual. It did not happen very much in Jesus' ministry, but Having gotten over the shock that this guy wants to gain eternal life and wants to talk about spiritual things and is talking to Jesus, notice how the conversation goes. The man says, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And notice Jesus' response, verse 18, he says, Well, why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. And of course, some people have used this verse to show that Jesus is not claiming to be God, that he's distancing himself from this Uh and it's a confusing verse to a number of people, but let me suggest to you that's not at all what Jesus is intending in this. What Jesus is saying, actually Jesus is trying to make two points to this fellow Two things that this fellow doesn't realize. Apparently Jesus picked up uh right from the early part, the the first impression, the demeanor, or something about this fellow, that he wasn't a very profound thinker. And so Jesus is trying to help him to think. About what he's saying. And so when the fellow says, good teacher, very glibly, you know, just a kind of a term of respect and honor, good teacher, what do I do to get eternal life? Jesus is saying, Now think about the implications of good. You've called me good, and I am good. But the reason I'm good is that I'm God. Do you understand that no one's good except God? When you call me good, you're saying something very powerful If you really mean that, but you don't understand what you're saying. So he just goes on. He doesn't even pursue the conversation. He just leaves, plants that little thought there for the fellow to think about. Yeah, just call him good. What does that imply? And then he goes on to the commandments. And he named five or six of them. And he's talking about the commandments in terms of how we treat other people. He wants to show this fellow something else You call me good, I am. You think you're good, you're not. And so he gives these commands, and what's the fellow say? Oh, yeah, well I've done all that since my youth. You say, I'm good You're good, I'm good. I'm okay, you're okay. You know, all of you know this is the way the level of the thing's going on. And then Jesus, in order to put him in touch with himself, to really reveal his heart. He's thinking, I'm giving these commands, they ought to pierce your heart. They're not doing that. Not even put a dent in your armor. Okay, let me now put my finger on one area where you are obviously not good. And so Jesus says something to him unique. And you see that there in verse 20 after he says all these things I've kept since I was a boy. Verse 21, Jesus looked at him and he loved him. And then he says lovingly this one thing, the one thing you lack, he says, Go. Sell everything you have and give it to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And then come follow me. Now I submit to you that that is not a general command to any of Jesus' disciples He's giving that command particularly to this man in order to reveal to him his lack of goodness, his materialism, the fact that his life is wrapped around that Mercedes and the rest of the things that he has. And so Jesus says that in order to elicit a response from him. Because if he understands Jesus is good and therefore Lord, and then he himself needs to follow Jesus. Then his response should be, okay, Lord, if you tell me to do that, I will do it. And then it would have been interesting to see how Jesus would have worked that out with him. But he never gets to that point. That was not the answer that this fellow was looking for. And so you see what he says in verse 22. The man's face fell. Can't you picture it? That wasn't the answer I was looking for, Lord. Um conversation's over. There's nothing more to discuss He went away. Sad. Here's a fellow who has said, I believe that you can tell me how to how to have eternal life And when you tell me, I can't receive it. Ever worked with somebody like that? Maybe there's somebody like that here this morning. You're here in church because you want to have eternal life. But when you hear what Jesus says About turning yourself over to him. That you can't have heaven salvation as a fire insurance policy by some simple acknowledgement, believing that Jesus died for your sins signing on some line that says that I have orthodox beliefs, but it's a matter of giving your whole life to Jesus Christ. Then you say, well That's not the answer I'm looking for. I'll tune in another program. I'll get another answer that's more palatable. And there are funny that will be offered to you. But this fellow went away. Sad. Because he had no assurance and he couldn't give up his things. Now the thing that I want for us to observe about this point Is that Jesus Himself lost this man, as it were. And that demonstrates three things about our evangelism that I think we often get confused about. You notice that this man Was lost, and how Jesus comments on that. He doesn't say, Well, we learned from that how to do evangelism better the next time. The next guy that pulls up like that, we're not going to let him go. Jesus lets him go. And then he simply comments how hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God Now, disciples were amazed at this, verse 24, because their teaching has told them that if you were rich, that was a sign of God's favor. That was a sign you probably were in the kingdom because God had blessed you And so they're saying, oh, we mean the rich, they're the ones that probably are in the kingdom. And so Jesus says again, verse 24. Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. Now, this time he leaves out rich. Some manuscripts have it, so it probably because it it's more the more difficult reading to leave that out. That's probably the accurate reading. Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of an eagle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Some people have said that's talking about a gate in Jerusalem that was called the eye of the needle. I don't think that that's what it's talking about. It's talking about literally taking a camel and sticking it hair by hair, bone sliver by bone sliver, through the eye of the needle. If you've ever even tried to thread a needle, I was just doing it. the other day. I had to sew up my pants, it ripped right down the middle, you know. So I had to do some quick sewing and I had to learn and I get this thing together, you know, and just to get a thread through was difficult. Imagine getting a whole camel through that eye of that knee. Jesus said it's easier to do that than for a person's heart to be changed, to enter the kingdom. So they're even more amazed. Even more amazed, verse 26, and they say, Well then Who can be saved? He's saying nobody can enter the kingdom? It's impossible? And Jesus responds, so significant, he says, looks at them and he says With man, this is impossible. But not with God. All things are possible with God. See, logic couldn't convert this fellow. Jesus tries logic. He says, you say good, let me give you the logical implications of that. You're saying that I'm God. Do you understand that? But the logic didn't faze him. He wasn't willing to follow the logical conclusion. You ever talk to some of your friends and neighbors about the kingdom and you talk about spiritual things? It is amazing to me. I mean, it's it's almost worth the exercise. Just for your own faith to talk to many unbelievers about their beliefs. The craziest things that they hold right next to each other that don't make any possible sense You know, just all kinds of beliefs that are totally self-contradictory, and they had no problem holding them whatsoever because I don't think life makes sense anyway So if you think you're going to convert your friends by the sheer force of your logic, give up. Most people today aren't held in their minds by the laws of logic. They don't live by the laws of logic. Logic will not convert. Notice secondly, the law didn't convert him. Jesus takes the law and he applies the law to his heart. The law didn't pierce him. He heard the law and he said, Yeah, I've done all that. You ever talk to somebody about that? And you say, Well, you know You know you're going to heaven? Oh yeah, well why why do you think you're going to heaven? Well, you know, because I think I've done good enough. I'm pretty decent. You can start talking to 'em about what the Bible requires. They think, Yeah, I've done all that stuff. Oh yeah You know, you know your own heart how far far far far short you fall, and you're thinking, and and you I miss something of your life, I know it doesn't back up. But the person isn't pierced by that There's no force to the law in their hearts. And notice the third thing that I think many of us stumble at. You notice that he says that he shows us here set in love. Doesn't convert him. Logic doesn't convert him. The law doesn't convert him. And even love doesn't convert him. You notice one of the few times you ever read this that Jesus actually says that he loves someone But verse 21, Jesus looked at him and he loved him. Now it's interesting that that's talking about his love for an unbeliever. And so there is a sense in which God does have an affection. For the unbelievers. Jesus looked at this fellow. Can you believe that that fellow didn't feel that lost that Jesus showed him when he looked at them tenderly at that moment? How many of you believe, did you have a friend or somebody in your family that you believe if I just love that person enough, we'd become a Christian? If only I could just show them enough love of Christ, then surely they'd respond to the gospel. I used to think that about my mom and others in my family. If only I could show her enough love Until the Lord showed me through passages like this, Jesus himself showed love to this man, not to speak of Judas Iscariot. And you were still walking. I hope all your windows are out. If they're not Well focus on God's word. Question of priorities here, guys. Do you see this? Be freed from thinking that it depends on your logic, your application of the law, your love for that person. Because Jesus says, verse 27, with man this is impossible, but not with God. All things are possible with God. It takes the supernatural work of God to change the sinner. You or me or anyone we're dealing with. But notice the second point, the good news, and that is God is doing the impossible in transforming many people. You notice that he says, the disciples say, who can be saved? Jesus says, with man this is impossible, but not with God. All things are possible with God. And then you see an example of that right here, verse 28. Peter says to him, Well now we have left everything to follow you. You see, get the impact of that. Here's the disciples. They're standing here with Jesus, and you see here 11 out of the 12 examples of hearts that have been transformed. People who have done what that rich fellow could not do Turn his agenda, his things, his life over to Jesus to follow him. But here's eleven who has. And so they're an example of the supernatural work of God. We've left everything. And we followed you. And so it's true that God has been doing at that time and transforming the lives of that rag tag bunch of disciples, and you know, as you read through their lives Uh that they're no better than us. They're as dim witted, slow spiritually, as obtuse, uh as feisty a group as any congregation you could imagine, including you and me. But Jesus transformed them. He got a hold of their hearts. What was impossible with man, God did in their hearts. And so he did this not only at that point through these disciples, he's been doing it through church history, he's been doing it right down to today And the point of all this is, as you look at that, what do you want to invest your life in? Do you want to invest your life in Acquiring some more toys and gaining some more things to amuse you for a few short years? Or to get in on the work that is impossible with man, but is only possible with God. The work of transforming lives. Of seeing people like these disciples moving one way, lost and without hope, and then being turned by the Spirit of God to move the opposite way. Enjoy. What's the joy of a transformed life? Turn from hell to heaven. You saw last week in the bulletin, perhaps You picked up and I hope some of you read these things, glimpses of the church across the ages, and uh there was there the story of Blandina and other martyrs of the early church and how their lives that were so transformed. Uh, giving up their materialism, the things that they had, and people watched and it transformed the Roman Empire as they saw these Christians willing to die for their faith, often under extreme torture. And they said, these people have to have something that we don't have. Their lives have been transformed. And down through the ages it's been ever the same way, through culture after culture and period after period. Just to give you one example because of time. Back a hundred years ago, when God raised up a man in the latter part of the nineteenth century by the name of George Mueller, we've been looking at his life in our concerts of prayer on Thursday mornings. George Miller was a man who determined to be an example to the world of what God could do in showing his provision for someone who walked by faith. In a period of 60 years, George Mueller started a number of orphanages and mission organizations and never once made a single appeal For money. In fact, as you read the lights and the accounts of his work, it's amazing the extremes he went to just to make sure out of conscience sake he never appealed to a human being. Often returned money if he thought that that money was given out of any kind of misperception. Never revealed the status Of what the work was under it, particularly in times when it was short, so that people wouldn't give out of sympathy or simply giving because of some need that they perceived, but always brought it to the Heavenly Father And in the 60 years he raised up, God brought for that work the equivalent today of nearly a hundred million dollars. Can you imagine that? By faith. At the age of 70, he went into missions work And from 70 until the time he died in his 90s, he made 12 world tours in 42 different countries covering over 200,000 miles. Now, such a man who's a giant of the faith, you would say, surely came from a Christian home and good stock and upbringing, and this fellow was solid in the faith. Not so George Miller came from an utterly pagan background. George Mueller, in his youth Was a swindler, a forger, a cheat, a deceiver, a thief. He was immoral, stole from his own father, and was a drunkard. And that was all by the time he was 16 years of age. When he was 20, he had a Christian friend who was going to a Bible study Mueller's reputation was so rotten that when he said he was interested in going to that Bible study with his Christian friend, the Christian friend discouraged him because he would be embarrassed to be seen with Mueller Can you imagine? I'd like to go to the Bible and say, well, I don't really think you this is not the kind of thing you'd enjoy, George. You know, I mean really uh you know, see you later. No, no, I really would like to go to this lab. Nah, George, really. I'm sure you're not going to like it, George. You talk about an eager witness, right? Now there's a guy I can identify with. Well, George went anyway And God sovereignly converted him. And it was a period of years, not just an instantaneous change, but a period of years before his life really turned around. For with man, this is impossible, but not with God. All things are possible with God Do you believe he could do that through your life? Timit is perhaps that witness, but available to him. He's doing it today. I look at my own life. There is nothing humanly that can account for me being here as a pastor. I'm not from a Christian home. My wife's not from a Christian home You look at our homes and the dysfunctionality of it and all the rest of that, and we we were amazed that God's got a hold of our lives and the things that He's done in But there's nothing to account for that in me. God transformed me. He's still in the process of a long way to go, but still, when I look back And I see what I was like 20 years ago, 30 years ago. I'm utterly amazed that God could do a work like that in a person like you. I think of a few years ago somebody called up a Columbia Presbyterian. Say, could they speak to the pastor? And I said, I'm the pastor, what can I do for you? And he said, Well Uh I'd like to get together and and meet with you. And as the story came out, he was basically saying, I'm a desperate man. He'd been an alcoholic for twenty years. Been in the Mormon church. We met together and we started going through a Bible study. We went through Isaiah chapter 53, and God pierced his heart. And he came at that day to give his life to Jesus Christ. And from that day, maybe ten years ago to this, as far as I know, he's moved away now. The last contact I've had with him has not taken a single drink since. Is an eager witness to the Lord Jesus Christ, tremendous zeal for him. Why? Because I said something persuasive? No. Not my logic, not the law. Not my love. Because man, this is impossible, but not with God. All things are possible with God. Do you want to get in on that? You look in our own congregation, things that God's doing. We see that God is working in on this, changing, transforming. And as I thought about sharing this, I thought it'd probably be better for you to hear from somebody God's working in rather than me tell about it. Because a lot of things God's doing, He does, but I can't tell you about it because that'd be sort of betraying a confidence I figure if somebody wants to talk about their own life, that's okay. So I've asked Ken Davenport to come and to share just real briefly a couple of things. Ken used to be a neighbor of mine, Ken and Irene. Our kids uh played together And uh they now live in Ellicus City, but uh I've known Ken for some time. And so uh I've asked him to come just to be able to share with you just a couple of things that God's been doing in his life for you to be able to see that God is doing this today and even through people like us. Hence what God's what's God been doing in your life. Morning Yeah. Um just like Alan and uh just like George, I did not come from a Christian family. Um I lived up my life on my own, trying to make things happen on my own. Lo and behold, I was not very successful. Back in August of nineteen ninety, I admitted Jes admitted Jesus as being my savior. And wanted to follow along with him and walk with him. And that was very short-lived. I I dealt with it, I prayed, but things just weren't happening even then the way I would choose or the way that I would like. And I say that that is pretty much because I didn't give my full intent. I didn't fully confess myself to to God and to Jesus and wanting to their help. A few years have passed and in January of ninety-three uh myself and my wife Irene decided to come to CPC And ever since then I felt continuous growth in my faith and in my beliefs. And We all have turmoil in our lives. I'd like to meet anybody that can say that they don't have some sort of turmoil And approximately six months ago things started seemed to be getting tougher and tougher in my lifestyle. And I got to the point that I felt completely helpless. That no matter what I said, no matter what I would do, or no matter what I would think, I could never change the way things are It's like as if if you were hanging from a rope off a key bridge. And you're tied holding on to this rope And you're waiting for somebody to come and rescue you, but nobody's coming in sight. And you're so tired of holding that you only have to do is to let go. And you're facing the water below. The only thing that you have left in your life is to pray and to bring Jesus and God into your lives and to ask for their help and to give you a safe landing below. Well, I was very fortunate, I feel that I was given that safe landing. So, where did this take me? Took me that I had to fulfill my obligations and my feelings I had to continue praying. I thought I prayed uh enough every day. And I realized that I don't I need to take every minute of my time and to give thanks. I came and joined in to the concert of prayer every Thursday morning at the Potter House at 6. 30. To give group prayer, to feel the strength of not only just my prayers, but the whole group of prayers, of the minds of others besides the minds of my own. I decided that maybe I ought to reach out and touch other Christians, people that relate to Scripture, for I didn't know Scripture. I knew a little bit of this, a little bit of that, but I really don't know scripture. I know more today than I ever have in the past. But I still feel eager. I still feel the desire and the need that I must know more I also took further steps in group prayer and also joined in into the discipleship weekend here at CTC. last last month. They've all been growing experiences in my face. Where does this lead me? What did I end up accomplishing? I definitely strengthened my faith. My faith is stronger than it's ever been, but I know that there is still constant growth there. I know that my job will never be done. Things have taken place in my life that Everybody that goes to work, everybody that has some kind of relationship with the people that they deal with on a day-to-day basis, even the people that you pass on the street. Those relationships that I have with people at my work and my friends have seem to have exploded to where they are just nothing more than a hello, how you doing. as a pass by. But there is delight in the sight of each other. There are smiles and there is enthusiastic conversation that was never there before. People that I never spoke to. People that were nothing more than a hello are now a conversation. I feel much more freely and open to express my beliefs and my faith to a believer as well as a non-believer. I feel that I've been blessed in many ways. I feel that Most importantly, I love my wife very dearly. most important person in this world to me. And what I like to see take place in my further growth is that I learn to love her in new ways. But I learn to appreciate her in better, better ways, and to strengthen our bond and to keep us as one body. Thanks, Ken. In putting all my thoughts together. I was looking through the Bible and looking at scripture to see what what is there That will put all these thoughts together. And one thing came to mind. What does all this mean? Well, it's come to meaning that we get to see it every Sunday when we come here. And like myself, and probably ninety percent of the others here. We don't even recognize it because it's there every Sunday. And it's the scripture that's on the front of the bolt in Ephesians 1, 16, 3 twenty three to know him, to know our hope, and to know his power Thank you. Thanks a lot, buddy. There's so much more Ken can say in detailing that and it's been a thrill to watch as God's been working in him and Irene and seeing the changes that are taking place. Do you want in on that? Is that a way to live, to see God doing those kinds of things? Rather than trying to amuse yourself with various things and agendas? I tell you, there's no better thrill than to see what is impossible with man, impossible with God. So if you're interested in that, you want to be available. Don't have time to go into things God's doing in the world. Maybe we'll talk about that some other time. But take advantage of this month. challenge. Be able to see the the dinner coming up and uh the various activities that you'll have in a brochure that will outline them. Possibilities of seeing God do the impossible in your life in our day. Let's pray Lord, we ask you just briefly now to open our eyes to see the thrill of watching you do the impossible. And people like Ken, people that we see around us that right now maybe we've written off. And then we look at our own lives and we see what you've done. And we're amazed. You are a merciful God. Lord, increase our faith to believe that you can use us As you work in us, so you can work through us. Make us available. In Jesus' name. Amen.