Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, you are in control. And really that's part of what we're looking at from your word today, is the fact that you are in control. And we ask that you would not only work in our circumstances to provide the heat and the humidity, but that you work in our hearts and our minds to provide the focus. That we might be able to consider carefully your word. Lord, we ask for your Spirit to transform us and to give us more of your grace. In your most precious name, Lord Jesus, we pray. Amen. One of the things that I thought I would do this morning as I as I introduced the message would be to ask you what was on your mind as you came into worship this morning. Unfortunately, God decided to to change whatever that might have been and and to have everybody here sweltering and fanning themselves and thinking about this is uncomfortable and I'm hot. But before you got here, before you got here, and before you realized that it was going to be a hot day, what was your focus? What is your day-to-day moment by moment focus in life In 1 Peter 2, we have a passage that tells us that Jesus Christ is the focus of all things. Let me read to you the passage for this morning's message. 1 Peter 2, verses 4 through 10. And in case mine differs from yours, I'm reading from the New King James. Coming to him as to a living stone Rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious. You also, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood. To offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Therefore it is also contained in the Scriptures, behold. I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious. And he who believes on him will by no means be put to shame. Therefore, you, to you who believe, he is precious. But to those who were disobedient, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone, a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. They stumble being disobedient to the word to which they were also appointed. But you are a chosen generation. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Who were once not a people, but are now a people of God, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. One of the things that I think that we need to look at as we look at this passage is the fact that Jesus is the focus. He is the focus for everyone. And he is the focus really of all things. We're going to unpack that a little bit more. But there are three groups that are listed here. There's the Father, God God who chooses and finds Christ precious. There's an onbeliever who tests And finds him wanting. For the term that's used in verse 4 and in verse 7 to reject has a sense of failing the test. They measure Christ. They measure this living stone and they find him unacceptable. And there's the believer. The believer who we are told comes, is coming, and continues to come to the living stone. For you see, Jesus is for us the cornerstone. Jesus is for everybody the cornerstone. But that cornerstone is either the foundation upon which we are built or the rock which crushes us. But I have to admit that as I look at this passage, I think there is much, much more than appears on the surface. Let me turn this. One, it's blowing in my papers, and two, it's blowing in my microphone, and three, it needs to blow on you guys to keep you cooler I've looked at this in the past as a passage that speaks of something fairly simple and easy to get my hands on to, that gives me a feeling of safety. Because what it says is I come as a believer. Or I reject as a non-believer. It's cut and dried at the binary equation, either the power is on or the power is off. It's yes or it's no. For the non-believer part, that's true. It's very true. The non-believer has rejected Christ, and there are consequences to that rejection. The believer has indeed made the decision to be coming to Jesus. But I think that there's much, much more that we're going to look at of Peter's word for us. in this passage. What we're going to do this week is look at what it means to reject Jesus. What we're going to do next week is look at what it means to honor Jesus. And so today as we move forward, we need to look at what does it look like to reject Jesus? Verses 4 and 7, we're told that the non-believer rejects Jesus. in verse four. Coming to him as a living stone, rejected indeed by men. Verse seven. Therefore to you who believe he is precious, but to those who are disobedient, the stone which the builders rejected. Has become the chief cornerstone. I want to describe rejecting Jesus First, you'll notice that the categories that I listed you go from largest to less large, more partial, complete to incomplete rejection. Complete rejection means to completely deny that he exists. If you look at Romans one, you'll see that where it sa what it says there is this, starting in verse eighteen For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Because what may be known of God is manifest in them. For God has been showing it to them. For since the creation of the world, his visible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. Even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse Because although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. That goes very much with the sense of the word woe. What's going on here? Anyone missing something? Sorry about that. The word reject has a sense of to test and find wanting. Now it seems awfully audacious to us that someone would test God and find Him unsatisfactory. But that's exactly what the passage says. And isn't that exactly what Romans speaks of? They know the truth of God. They have seen the power of God, even the Godhead, the fact that there is a designer, and yet they refuse to acknowledge him and even go so far as to positively suppress the truth of his existence. This is not simply to ignore or to overlook, this is to reject. For the nonbeliever there are two reasons that they will reject the existence of Christ. The first and foremost is that they are born Descendants of Adam and Eve sin. They have hearts that are darkened. They have not the ability to acknowledge God. Ezekiel talks about it as having a heart of stone. It doesn't beat, it doesn't move, it's dead. Ephesians 2 talks about it being dead in your trespasses and sin, unable to make a change. And so we look at that and we think that's the reason that a non-believer doesn't acknowledge the existence of Christ. But there's another reason for humans, both believer and non-believer, and that is that we have core values that drive us For an example, a core value for all humanity is to be safe. We want to know we're okay. Acknowledging that core value, we then look at the creation and we see its size. We see its magnitude. We see its power. We look at the sun and realize that it can make us inside this building sweat. We see the beauty. And our response is not to say, wow. Our response is to say, I hope there's not a creator. Because if there's a creator, he's big. And if he's that big and that powerful and that intelligent, I'm at risk. I'm in a dangerous place. My fundamental core value is not to be in a dangerous place and not to be at risk. It is to survive. And so I have the motivation to deny the very existence of God. Unless somehow I can bring my safety to bear with his existence. For the nonbeliever, we see that they are without excuse. Romans 1 says that they completely are without excuse. They are at risk. They face the wrath of God. God's wrath is already being poured out and will be poured out upon them. And so what do they do? Well, they're much like the feeder rat that you buy in a pet store to feed your pet snake. You buy this little or feeder mouse. It has to be a big snake for a rat, but feeder mouse. Small. I don't think you're gonna have a snake big enough to eat a rat. If you do, don't let me know and I won't visit But the feeder mouse is brought home and it's put in the in in a glass enclosure where there's there's a snake and it's got sawdust covering various parts of the of the bottom of the cage until the snake is asleep And the mouse has a reprieve. He's not immediately consumed. But what does he do? He can't jump the walls, he can't dig through the glass And there's no way to get out the bottom. So the mouse decides to bury the snake. What he can't see can't hurt him. But the truth of the matter is that that buried snake will wake up, and the sawdust will not keep him from eating the mouse. For me to look at creation and to long to say there is no creator, there is no design, there is no God, it's understandable, but it's stupid. My safety does not come from what I think, and what I don't see can kill me. For the non-believer, that's true. What they can't see will kill them. But for us, there's issues to look at as well, for it's not simply to deny his existence Denying his identity is rejecting Christ. John is writing a letter that talks about the ways that we know that we're right with God. And one of the tests that he says proves that you are not right with God. Is a rejection of Christ. It's rejecting Jesus, the person, as the Messiah. He says in verse 22: Who is a liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? He is the Antichrist who denies the Father and the Son. Whoever denies the Son does not have the Father either. He who acknowledges the Son has the Father also. So rejecting Christ is not simply denying his existence, denying the existence of the Godhead, but it's also acknowledging that Jesus, the person, exists, but he's not who he says he is. In a sense, we re-identify him. We tell him what he can say. We can tell him who he is. We tell him what he can do. We've subverted the creature, creator, order. God's the boss. The one who creates, the one who makes determines the rules. The one who's created obeys. But in that case, as we define the identity of Christ, we've reverted that order. And now we're in charge because we say who Jesus can be. We deny his authority in rejecting him. This gets a little bit trickier for us And with this, also the last one, number F, we disobey his word. If he has authority, he tells us right and wrong. He says go, we go. He says stay, we stay. He says jump, we say how high. But if we begin in our lives to practice a relationship with him that says he's the boss as long as I agree. We have rejected Christ. There may be areas in your life where you're struggling right now. Areas of tremendous pain. Areas of fear. Areas where Jesus seems to be indicating that he wants you to do something you don't want to do. He wants you not to do something you want to do. You have a choice. Does he have the authority that God possesses by his very nature? Or does he not have the status of God? Will you follow him wherever he leads? Lastly, denying and rejecting Christ is an issue also of denying his work. We've already talked about creation. We've talked about the fact that God is the creator. He's the intelligent designer. He's the one who has made everything. But it's important for us to understand as well his claim to us because he is the creator. He made you. He didn't simply make the universe. He made you. As you are, tall or short. Good eyes or bad eyes, straight hair or curvy hair, temples or non-timples. He made you. You're his. But on top of that, he has redeemed you. He has accomplished complete redemption. One of the areas that I find in myself so difficult not to reject Jesus is in the issue of his work of redemption. Let me unpack that for you. There's really two ways that we can reject his work of redemption. One is to believe that we have to play a role in our redemption. Either by believing that we have come to faith of our own volition, or believing that we do our good deeds in our own strength in order to secure that relationship with God. The other way that we do that is to believe that my behavior now as a believer is irrelevant. I am redeemed. God has done the work completely. There is no concern about my lifestyle. Let me unpack the first. I'm a guy who likes things to work properly. I think there's a lot of guys out there who would say the same thing. It doesn't matter whether it's a computer, it doesn't matter whether it's a car, whether it's an air conditioner in my house or whatever. I want things to work the way they're designed to work Sometimes that transfers over into people, but that's another story. I'm also a guy who has used things. I have a used car And the latest issue that's been really getting under my skin is is is that over on the passenger side the headliner in my car is dropping. And so I've tried to Push it up, didn't stay. I've tried to glue it up, didn't stay. I've tried to do a number of different things, and I thought yesterday I'd done this one thing that would have fixed it So this morning as I'm as I'm parking the car and I'm putting up the the window screen to to keep all the heat out of the car, ha, good luck. I'm thinking, okay, well at least this time when I bring the window screen down, the headliner will still be up. Well God has a sense of humor. And as I put the window screen up, the headliner drops. It's not even going to wait till it gets good and hot and drop. It just drops as soon as I put the window screen up. That's insignificant. Brothers and sisters, that's pointless. Except for this. My heart response. Because as that headliner dropped, I became frustrated. I became a bit angry. Because what was happening was I wanted to be able to fix this thing. If it wasn't working the way that it should, I at least should be able to fix it. It's a stupid piece of fabric How hard can it be to get a piece of fabric to stay where you put it? In this age of adhesives and wonderful ways of fixing things, but it wouldn't stay I began to give a personality to my car. It was not a flattering personality. It's also not a true personality. God wanted to give me a picture of my heart. God wanted to show me that the issue is not that I be in control. The issue is not that I make things work. The issue is not that I am strong enough to take care of myself. The issue is that in small and in large things I have to trust him. And I have the freedom as his child to do so with joy. And satisfaction and peace, whether it's an issue of a conflict between Anne and me, or a stupid piece of fabric hanging from the front of my car It shows me that I'm rejecting Christ to the degree that my well-being is determined by my ability to control my surroundings, whether it be my sin or whether it be my circumstances. Jesus has accomplished complete redemption. I need do nothing more to be right with God. I can rest in Jesus' work. If I don't, I reject him. Now having said that, let me unpack the second, because We flip from one extreme to the other. Either I need to be in control and I can overcome my sin, or my behavior doesn't matter. I'm redeemed. God has done it. What does it matter if I throw myself wildly into sin? Well, it matters, brothers and sisters, because God loves you too much to let you do that. God loves you too much to save you for heaven and leave you alone here and now. God loves you too much, and your behavior now matters because sin is destructive. It is ugly. It drives you from the Father. And it wounds the people around you, including yourself. And so you can't throw yourself into whatever pleases you as sin. You can't deny the authority of Jesus. Does my righteous behavior com add to my salvation? No, not at all. I'm saved. But because I'm saved, God loves me so much that He will deal with my sin. Over the last couple of years, one of the areas that God has been teaching me that is that I'm called to love people. Galatians 5 says, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision. In other words, neither obeying the law nor not obeying the law is anything. But faith expressing itself through love. 1 John says that one of the tests, one of the three tests, that shows me whether I'm walking with the Lord, whether I'm new in Him and have eternal life, is whether or not my life is characterized by love. Brothers and sisters, you're called to love. You're called to give yourself an active love. Your behavior is tremendously important. And you will find that giving yourself in that way to love Does a several things, two of which that are critically important is one, it brings honor to Christ. For the world to see you To recognize love in you, Jesus says this in John 13. A new commandment I give to you. That you love one another as I have loved you. By this all men will know you are my disciples if you have loved one for another. He could have said, Obey my commands. He could have said, if you're a holy person, the world will know you're my disciple. He says this: that if you have love one for another, the world will know not that you have love, but that you belong to me So your love honors Christ. Number two, and I found this profoundly impacting my life When I am willing to accept the fact that God calls me to love in incredible ways. And I recognize the reality that I can't do that. That's not within my power. It's not even within my desire. I don't want to do it. I come to him because his grace is sufficient. My hope isn't in my abilities to obey. My hope isn't in my abilities to present an image of love. My hope isn't in my ability to actually love. My hope is in the grace given to me in the revelation of Jesus Christ and his work in me to give me a life of love. And so as I try to love my wife, my kids, the congregation, my neighbors, my extended family, When they frustrate me or they annoy me, it doesn't give me permission to reject them. God says, love as I have loved. Jesus loved ugly, obnoxious people. How do I know he loved me? He loves me in my obnoxiousness. He loves me in my rebellion. And I'm called to love in the same way. Brothers and sisters, so are you. And as you do commit yourself to loving as Jesus calls you to, you'll either wipe out and burn out and crash Or you'll find a new level of relationship with Jesus. Let me move on. We have to move on quickly. Who is it that rejects Jesus? When I first began reading this passage years ago, It was very clear and easy. The non-believer rejects Jesus and they they they say, No, you don't exist. And the believer comes to him and says you're precious and honorable. But you know what, brothers and sisters? I have trouble with that. The reason I have trouble with that is because I firmly believe I'm in the camp of the believer. But you know what I see when I rigorously examine my heart. I'm frequently over here in my actions, in my attitudes rejecting Jesus. Because I don't believe always that his redemption is enough I don't always believe that I'm going to yield my life to him and give him the honest authority that he already has. I find myself bouncing back and forth. Let's look at Romans 7. Because you know what? Paul says the same thing. Just listen And then what is good, the law, become death for me. Certainly not. But sin that it might appear, sin was producing death in me through what is good. So that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin For what I'm doing I do not understand. For what I will to do, that I do not practice. For what I hate, that I do. If then I do what I will not to do, I agree with the law that it's good. But now it is no longer I who do it, but the sin that dwells in me. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, nothing good dwells. For to will is present with me, but how to perform what is good I do not find. For the good that I will to do I do not do. But the evil that I will not to do, that I practice. Paul recognizes the battle. Paul recognizes the war that is raging in us as believers. What we have here from Peter Is not a statement that a believer honors Christ exclusively and the non-believer rejects Christ. Certainly the non-believer rejects Christ, and he does that completely. He faces the wrath of God. He will face hell. He, she will face hell as a result of their rejection of Christ. But the believer Can't simply look at this passage and focus on the easy issue of complete rejection because we're guilty of partial rejection. And the answer to that is in verse 4. Paul sa Peter says, coming to him as a living stone. That's got the sense of moment by moment coming to Jesus. We have to come to him constantly. He is our hope Earlier in the chapter preceding, Peter says, fix your hope fully on the grace given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's coming to Jesus. It's hoping on the fact that God's word is true, that the redemption that He's given is complete, and now my life is to be lived in that relationship. This is not the freedom to coast. This is not a statement that if you're here, you're dead, and if here, okay, don't worry about it, don't think about it, don't do anything more. It's a call To recognize what God the Father has already declared, that Jesus is precious, that He is your hope. He is the foundation upon which you are built. And have your being. In this passage we read that it's it's the fact that the rock is a rock of offense, it's a stone of stumbling Jesus is the focus. He is the core of creation. And if you reject him, you will break upon him. If you are built upon him, you will never collapse. You will never fall. You will never be ashamed. It says that It says that in verse um seven. No, it doesn't I'll have to come back to you with that. Here we go. Verse six Behold, I lay in Zion, a chief cornerstone, elect precious, and he who believes on him will by no means be put to shame. He who believes on Jesus will by no means be put to shame. For the non-believer, for the one rejecting, there is constant fear There is distance from God and there is ultimate judgment. So what Please hear the call, the hope that you have, coming to Jesus as a living stone. Coming to Him as your foundation, moment by moment, day by day. As you leave today, will Jesus be your foundation? As you go out and face the issues of your marriage relationship, as you face the issues of your children, as you face the issues of your career, as you face the issues of your financial picture, as you face the iss You owe cars that don't work What's your focus? Who is your foundation? Where is your hope? Are you resting on his completed work? Isaiah 30, 15 It's spoken to a group of people in a much worse place than we are. This is spoken to the Jews in the southern kingdom of Judah as the Assyrians are ready to take them over They're about to be killed. Their cities are about to be destroyed. They're about to be taken into slavery. That doesn't face off here God tested them this. For thus says the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, In repentance and rest you shall be saved. In quietness and confidence is your strength. But you would have none of it The Jews chose not to go with repenting and clinging to Jesus, clinging to the Father, clinging to God who had given them their land. The God who had brought them out of Egypt and given them the temple, who had come down in a pillar of fire to dedicate the temple and displayed his power time and time and time again Instead, they went to what they could do. They went to Egypt. And they trusted in Egypt's army to save them. Are you resting in the work of Christ It goes beyond us, brothers and sisters. It's not simply what we do with our own lives, but there is a clear call here because there are people outside of Christ, and we all know them Do you see them as enemies? Do you see them as adversaries? Do you see them as broken people who need hope? God has opened your eyes to see the work of Christ. God has opened your heart to receive that work. These people need Him. That's their only hope. They see that they need a better job. They see that they need a better spouse. They see that they need obedient kids. They need a better house. They have to have a car that works. They need Jesus Can you introduce them to him? Father, if we're honest, we are not a people marked by love We're not marked by an overwhelming love for you. We're not marked by an overwhelming love for our families. We are not marked by an overwhelming love for one another, and certainly, Lord, we are not marked by an overwhelming love for the world. I'm not You do not call us to that standard only to leave us in fear In depression and in guilt. For it's not our work to change our heart. But Lord, you call us to be a people of love. You demand that we be a people of love. And you give us your spirit Father, we need desperately your spirit. We need you to change our hearts. For our hearts are self-focused. Our hearts are sinful. And it's not just the actions that we do, it's us But I pray that you would give us a growing hatred for sin and a growing love for righteousness, a growing love for you, and a growing love for those around us. And Lord, we pray that we will be a people known as your disciples because you give that love to us. And we, Lord, obey and live that love. Hold us close to yourself. Give us a hunger for you, and satisfy that hunger to the full. We pray, Lord Jesus, in your most precious name. Amen.