We need the microphone because upward basketball has begun. And our Flora family Saturdays are Upward basketball. Our first game yesterday was 8 a. m. Our last game was 8 p. m. And I yelled at all three of the games we attended. But less as the day progressed. knowing what I had the privilege of doing this morning. Uh we're gonna uh look at a passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and so I want to invite you to that um That section of the New Testament, Paul's letter to the church in Corinth, and if you just want to hold your place there I want to invite you to pray with me as we enter into this time. Gracious God, we thank you so much, Lord, that you have sustained us to this point that you provide for our every need, things, Lord, that we don't even know how you meet our needs in Christ. We thank you for the uh privilege that we have to worship in a place that is uh out of the elements and um and comfortable, Lord. Uh we thank you for your word that you have preserved for these many years, centuries, and that you have brought us to a point now, an appointment with your spirit and your word. We pray, God, that this would indeed have lasting and eternal effect in our lives. Lord help us. We submit ourselves to you now. In the name that is above all names, Jesus Christ our Lord, we pray. Amen. Amen Well here we are, January the ninth, just a little over a week after Some of us, maybe many of us, have entered into some type of resolve to do something. To do something differently We may have grabbed the opportunity presented by the change of calendar from 2010 to 2011 to set a new course for our lives. to discipline ourselves in such a way, the outcome of which we hope will be positive. Hit a fresh start on living this thing called life. Do you know there's people that pay money to universities to study this kind of thing? People have actually done studies and quote, many people do not have the willpower to make their New Year's resolutions last longer than a week. According to health campaigners Change for Life, that's the number for, not the word for, Change for Life at the University of Hertfordshire, researchers followed 2,000 people Who made a two-week resolution and they found that those who relied solely on their willpower failed even before the halfway stage. A two-week resolution Surprise, surprise. It's a well-documented fact that I've begun more read-through the Bible campaigns than I have completed. You can tell by looking at me that I've started more exercise routines than I have stuck with. I've seen resolutions to write that encouraging note, to pick up the phone and call as God prompts. I've seen those resolutions fall by the wayside as I wander my way through life. Maybe you are in that same boat with me. Regardless, however We still take opportunities presented to us by the change of calendar or change of circumstance to resolve to make a fresh start on things. A lot of change A lot of change in the life of CPC here currently, don't you know? That big uh used to be mud hole down the road on 108 is now a big collection of concrete and steel And there's a a facility enhancement going on, a lot of change happening. Uh you've no doubt seen the advertisement to come to Crossroads Church this coming Saturday. and sit and uh for the meet and greet of a uh team leader pastor candidate. In fact, uh just uh several hours north of here In a state above the Mason-Dixon line, there's a small contingent of CPCers attending a worship service to listen to that team leader, Pastor Candidate, preached this morning. A lot of change. We're bracing ourselves for the departure of Alan and Kathy and for what the Lord would have in store for us in the future. But even with all of this change on the horizon, it still doesn't reflect the real fresh start, the one and only true change that has and can and will and should occur I want to suggest to you today that the one and only true fresh start is the saving work that God accomplishes within each person that he calls to himself. True change. Where God graciously works redemption, where He graciously delivers From the captivity of sin and death and transfers those from the domain of darkness into the kingdom of his glorious light. The real fresh start. Paul refers to the real fresh start, I believe, in this second letter to the church in Corinth. And Eric has led us through the first 15 verses of chapter 5. I want to pick up the reading at verse 16, and we read through the end of this chapter. God's Word for Us. From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to Himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Our ambassadors for Christ. God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. For our sake, He made him to be sin, who knew no sin So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. God's word for us Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old is gone. Behold, the new has come This popular phrase or familiar phrase in Paul's writing, in Christ, brings with it a series of great benefits that are rehearsed for the believer. In Romans chapter 8, verse 1, for those in Christ there is no condemnation From the law. In First Corinthians one and verse thirty, for those in Christ there is true life, wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. In Galatians 3, for those in Christ there is equal standing before God Almighty. Colossians 1 and verse 28. There is hope for actual maturity in the faith for all those in Christ. And in today's text here in 2 Corinthians 5, there is a new way of life for all those in Christ. In Christ the old has gone. Behold , the new has come. In the Greek here, the perfect tense for have come, has come, it refers or indicates for us these new desires, new beliefs, new values. They're a result of a past completed action that has continuing ongoing results. Ongoing effect of a work that is done, completely done in the past. And yet has ever increasing and ever uh continuing effect in the life of those that this act has taken place within. God plants within his beloved new plans, new loves, new desires, new inclinations for his glory. There's a new way of thinking, and that way of thinking then is nurtured In this environment, in the preaching of the word, it's nurtured in the fellowship of the saints around the table of the Lord. It's nurtured when the scriptures are opened. at family time or small group time. Those new things that have come are nurtured and and and grow and and are corrected and and there's weeds that are pulled. All for the purpose of bringing us to completion to the glory of God So I want us to get a handle on the real fresh start, if you're like me, and have had your fill of the false fresh starts. So the real fresh start. I've got five points I want to make today. The real fresh start, I believe, gives us a new perspective on others and a new perspective on God. The real fresh start allows us to address the important issues in life. A real fresh start brings blessings to the believer beyond our wildest dreams. The Real Fresh Start brings blessings to the believer beyond our wildest dreams. The Real Fresh Start provides purpose. When life is confusing and the immediate future is unclear, a real fresh start gives us a sense of urgency when our natural tendency is toward lethargy. And I'll repeat all those, Lord willing, if we have enough time and I get to all five points, so that if you're taking notes on that big blank sheet of paper in the bulletin, you can jot those down So the real fresh start gives us a new perspective. On others, look at what Paul says From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. It's a new perspective This new creation, this new thing that's accomplished in us, in the believer. There's a new perspective on others. Paul says I don't look at the outward appearance any longer. Ethnicity, outward appearances, gender, social status, they were all useful in the past For a quick evaluation and a casting of judgment, but I no longer regard others according to the flesh. Remember James chapter 2 verse 1. Beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. That's the new perspective that the new creation brings. We don't look at one another as a bunch of ethnicities or cliques or cultures to be cordoned off and set aside and kept in your separate little units Paul says, to regard no one according to the flesh is this. I look at all of humanity. And I see this mass of humanity at enmity with God and in need of the reconciling grace of that same God. That's what it means to regard no one according to the flesh. Romans 2 and verse 11, God is no respecter of persons. He does not show partiality. For God so loved the world means that the offer of the gospel is extended to all, regardless of their social and economic status, where they grew up. Their education, and so on and so forth. Ad infinitum. We're pressed to this when we live in Howard County. We are pressed to this position To regard no one according to the flesh. Just come to Sohat Lane, where the flores live. Next door is my neighbor who's a bachelor from New Jersey. I think he's in the mafia, I'm not sure. Coppola. Next door to us on the other side, African American family. Next door to them Anglos. Next door to them, another African American family. Across the street of Asian descent. I think they're Chinese. We haven't met them yet. Next to them, Hispanics Around the corner in the cul-de-sac is the Korean friend of my son Kevin who I think belongs to us now because of the meals that he consumes in our house. We can't really regard anyone according to the flesh any longer. For those in Christ, there's a new perspective, a new perspective on others because of the new perspective on God. You see, Paul says, even though we we regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. What changed in Paul was he no longer looked at this rabbi, this itinerant rabbi from Nazareth as someone who was destroying Judaism and his way of life. He looked at Jesus no longer according to the flesh, he looked at Jesus as the eternal Son of God, the great God and Savior, the I am, the one who came to save. Saul of Tarsus breathed out fiery threats against the church because he regarded Christ as merely in the flesh. But the Lord of Glory encountered that same Saul on the road to Damascus. And as Saul's mind and heart were renewed with the knowledge of who Christ is He says, I no longer regarded Christ according to the flesh. Didn't see him as a man any longer. All that changed when God worked that change within him. I gotta ask you a question. When you think of Jesus, what do you think of? When you think of Jesus Christ, the one that's sung about here, the one that's talked about, the one that's made fun of in uh comedian uh comedy central stand-ups on a regular basis. When you think of Jesus Christ, what do you think about? Who is he? Why is he special? Do you think about him? Does he have exclusive right to your life Does he have sway over your will because of his standing as Lord of glory? Don't buy into the politically correct worldly way of thinking that places Jesus Christ on equal par with Muhammad or Buddha or Mother Nature. Or some self-help guru, because he is not that. He is the one who spoke and brought the world into existence. He is the one true God, all-wise, eternal, without beginning, without end The great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. So when you think of Jesus, what do you think of? Paul says a real fresh start gives us a new perspective on others, and a new perspective on God causes that new perspective on others. The Real Fresh Start also addresses or allows us to address the important issues in life. Five times in three verses, Paul uses the term for reconciliation. When that real fresh start takes place, we are then afforded the opportunity to address head-on the most important issue that any creature on this planet will ever address. How is it that a sinner can be reconciled to a holy being? How is that possible And Paul says the real fresh start allows you to address that important issue. I tell you, I gotta be honest, I s we sit up in the the higher squeaky seats than the lower squeaky seats. And last week as Alan was preaching that message that Uh we heard feedback, had several, you know, kind of squirming, you know, the challenge, the apostolic warnings from the New Testament, from Hebrews chapter 3. I sat in my chair and I rejoiced and praised God that we have a church where we can preach Christ and Him crucified for sinners. Rejoice in that. Because it doesn't happen in many places that claim to be churches. That is a horrible thought. But this is the most important issue that we could ever come across. How is it that me, a sinner, can be restored to a holy God, my Creator? I hope and pray that we continue to provide for that freedom in our midst For the gospel to be preached, the good news of the gospel coupled with the bad news of the gospel, that you are despicably wicked. In and of yourselves, and you need a savior. You need the real fresh start. And so do I. Desperately. We used to pastor down in Georgia and out in the woods in Covington, the first church that I served. They were uh fond of the saying, preach it, brother. Preach it, brother, because sin is black, hell is hot, judgment is sure, but Jesus saves. They love that stuff down there They didn't want this mambi pamby, moral therapeutic deism, whatever. They didn't understand it anyway And you had these big burly carpenters, hands just rough from years of work, outdoor labor, and they would stand to pray and they would weep Because Christ had saved them from their sins and the punishment that was due to them. I called it a realignment with reality. Over the Christmas break we were uh afforded uh opportunity to go see some movies. And you know the great I love movies, I'm a big movie buff. I'll talk movies all day long if you give me a chance. But what movies do, and I found this tendency in me even over the Christmas break, is they take me out of reality. They get me into this place of pretend And make believe. And we need a realignment with reality. And that's what the real fresh start does. It causes us to see that we are a people, a humanity, at enmity with God. Scriptures record for us the conflict of all creation. You and I had one set of first parents, and representing us, they disobeyed God and plunged us into a state of sin and misery. The rescue from which we are incapable of in and of ourselves. Now that is startling news. It sets us back because we want to be able to do something about our situation. R. C. Sprohl has this wonderful quote that I've used many times over. We don't want to have it be all of grace, because if we get to heaven somehow, we don't want to get there on some kind of heavenly welfare system. We want to do something And yet the gospel says you are incapable of doing anything about your condition. Our greatest need is to be rescued from the wrath of God to come, to be reconciled to God on his terms. And his terms, he provides a substitute. This is the glorious news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. What you and I could not accomplish on our own, God accomplished completely in His servant, our Savior Jesus Christ. A substitute is provided. You see there in verse fifteen, Paul says he died for all That those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. And verse twenty 21. For our sake he made him to be sin, who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Sacred Scripture is filled with those signposts pointing to that perfect substitute. As Abraham made what must have been that maddening journey to sacrifice his son Isaac, in response to Isaac's question, Where's the lamb, father? We hear the substitute. God will provide for himself the lamb for my burnt offering, my son. Centuries later, the prophet Isaiah rejoices that he was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Like a lamb led to the slaughter, and like a sheep before his shearers is silent. So he opened not his mouth. By his wounds we have been healed. Fast forward Several more centuries. Again, and hear John the Baptist as he sees Jesus approaching over the hill. Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. A substitute was necessary and a substitute was provided, bearing shame and scoffing rude, in my place condemned he stood. Sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah. Right? What a savior! The the the the the very notion that he would stand in my place, your place, sinner Is unbelievable. And yet, by believing, we have life and that everlasting. Reconciliation is on God's terms, God's way, and His way is to provide a substitute. You see, maybe you're not familiar with the simple gospel message of the evangelical church of the last 2,000 years. God requires perfect obedience to his absolutely high standard of righteousness. And God demands a death penalty for all who disobey him. God requires perfect righteousness, and God demands a penalty of death for all who disobey. That's the message we preach And God made him who knew no sin to be sin for you and for me, believer. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Pleasing and acceptable to him. Incredible. So the real fresh start points us to these things. Can you imagine Can you think with me and imagine if the church meditated on 2 Corinthians 5 21 for just one solid week? Imagine what God could be pleased to do in and through us as we think about the Savior substituting himself for us. Think about the effect that that would have on a believer's discouragement, on a believer's anxiety, on your evangelism in the workplace or your neighborhood. Think about the effect that meditating on Christ as a substitute for you would have on your assurance as a follower of Jesus. Oh, it will challenge us, I guarantee you. Want to try it? Let's try it. For this week, let's just meditate on 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21. You can do other things too Don't stop your devotional life or any of these other things, but take that verse and put it somewhere notable. Read it out loud. Pray it with your family, your spouse. Talk about it with someone and see what God might do. A real fresh start. Why should I gain from his reward? I cannot give an answer But is that our testimony? This I know with all my heart. His blood has paid my ransom. God make it so. A real fresh start gives us a new perspective. It allows us to address the most important issue in life. To be restored to God. And thirdly, it brings blessings to the believer beyond our wildest dreams. Brings a blessing to believers beyond our wildest dreams. What could that possibly be, Tim? Forgiveness full and free. Forgiveness for your sins. You see what Paul says there That God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them. Not counting their trespasses against them. You see, God is omniscient. He knows all things. He knows what you've done, he knows what you think, he knows what the past, the present, the future sins, knows all of those I don't think there's a forgive and forget with God. He knows all, but he counts them not against your He doesn't hold them against you. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. He's taken them and placed them behind his back so that when he looks on you, he sees the righteousness of Christ. He doesn't see your filthy, disgusting habits and sins They've been cleansed. He wants you to see yourself in Christ as well. Not counting Their trespasses against him. Just one note on the use of the word world here. That in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself. I don't want you to leave here under the impression that well it says world, so eventually all, right? That means The universe is going to be saved. So what's the urgency, Tim? Why did I even come here today? I got to get ready for playoff football I suggest respectfully to you that the use of the word world here and in many other passages does not at all reflect a universalism. In fact, quite helpful has been the teaching on this passage and others that say essentially this: Christ did not die for all men without exception. But for all men without distinction, the world, we offer the gospel to everyone, and we trust the Holy Spirit to be at work in God's elect. I'm not supposed to go around identifying sheep and goats because that's going to be worked out in that final day. But I preach Christ and Him crucified, and you do too. Why? Because we've been given the ministry of reconciliation. A real fresh start brings blessings beyond our wildest dreams, forgiveness to not have, to not have our sins held against us. To my shame, I have sinned against my wife Dana in unspeakable ways. Early on in our relationship, I can't even bear to bring those things to memory because they are despicable And I've not forgotten them. And I would submit that Dana has not forgotten them. Have you ever been the recipient of forgiveness when you're aware of your sin? To be embraced with warmth and hospitality and a tenderness. By the offended party, to be received. Whenever Dana says she's proud of me or supports me in something or agrees with a direction that I want to take our family. It overwhelms me that grace. Now listen, with due respect to my wife We're just a couple of pathetic sinners who said I do about twenty-three years ago. How much more the blessing of forgiveness Full and free, the warm embrace of a God who says, You no longer will be not my people, but you shall be called my people, my beloved. A real fresh start brings with it the blessing beyond our wildest imagination. Forgiveness. The real fresh start also provides us purpose. Listen, provides purpose when life is confusing and the immediate future is unclear. Does that strike a chord with you? Strikes a chord with me when I don't know what the next years hold. I can go back to this purpose statement here in Paul's letter and know one thing I can get on board with. I've been given the ministry of reconciliation. That gives me purpose. Because you and I are going to encounter people today, probably in our discussions after the benediction. People today, people this afternoon, people this week, people in our neighborhood, people in our family. Who need the reconciling grace of the Lord Jesus Christ? You want purpose in life? Then get on board with that purpose The word used here, the ministry of reconciliation, it's got the same root that we get the word deacon from, diacrone. Humble service. It's a humble service that He's called us to to share with gentleness and with respect the hope that we have within us. Sinners like us, given the privilege to speak for him. In fact, not just the privilege to speak for him, but to represent him as what he calls ambassadors Ambassadors for Christ. Therefore, wherever we go, Christ is there. Christ goes there. Is that the example that we are taking with us when we go? Now listen, it's a flawed analogy But yesterday in those upward games, I must admit my heart grew, you know, like the grants to grow a couple of sizes too small and bust out the little window thing in your heart thing As I watched flora kids, flora kids on the court representing representing what? Are they great three-point shooters from the outside? No But they're my kids. And you see, in this passage, Paul says God delivers us, brings us to himself, and wants to grow us to the point where we believe Adopted in his family? Ambassadors for him? Representing him? I don't know what my children think when they go out in the world with the last name Flora and represent the Floras. But I have a great sense of what that is when I look here for you and me, believer, when we go out into the world claiming the name Christian. It's an awesome responsibility and a wonderful privilege. How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. Paul asked the Romans, How are they to call on the one in whom they have not believed? How are they to believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? Don't mistake me here. I do believe we need to live our lives for Christ before a watching world, but we need to preach Christ to a world in desperate need of reconciling grace We should probably step up to it and speak for Jesus and represent him as ambassadors for Christ. And so the real fresh start and conclusion gives us a sense of urgency when our tendency is toward lethargy. Gives us a sense of urgency when our natural tendency is toward lethargy. You see this all throughout the New Testament too. Arise, you sleeper, awake! Paul says, we implore you on behalf of Christ. Be reconciled to God. He's speaking to the church in Corinth. Work out your salvation with fear and with trembling. Do you not know that it is God who is at work within you? We implore you. And then in verse chapter 6 and verse 1 and 2, working together with him, together with God, who is on board with this whole reconciliation program. Working together with him, we appeal to you. Do not receive the grace of God in vain, for he says, In a favorable time I listen to you. In the day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. For me, for you, renew that again today, afresh When you think of Jesus Christ, who do you think of? Is He Savior, Lord, Redeemer, Friend? I implore you Be reconciled to God in Christ on his terms. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, I ask that you would be at work now in us, in me. Lord, we want to be genuine followers of you. We want the realignment with reality to take place even as we pray this prayer. That your spirit would be at work to cause us to see the only real fresh start that we have is something that you initiate and accomplish on our behalf. Lord, draw us close then. Change our lives. Give us new desires, new inclinations, new loves, new plans New beliefs, new ideas. And we'll trust you with the results of the answers to this prayer as we pray it all in Jesus' name for your sake, God. Amen