As every year, this Sunday before Thanksgiving, we take a break from our regular preaching. To begin the holiday series of sermons. This morning we look at Thanksgiving And then after that, as always, we will look at for three weeks this year the messianic prophecies of the Old Testament. And this year we will conclude the Old Testament. Don't clap yet, we haven't done it yet. But I understand it's an exciting thing for you to think about It is for me. It's been 33 years working through the Old Testament. And then we'll have a couple messages on Christmas and then New Year's. Now, I have found one of the most intriguing passages of the Bible on Thanksgiving to be Colossians chapter 3, verses 15 to 17. It's because it speaks of three gifts of Christ in three verses, and each verse mentions either thanks or thanksgiving. It points us to the biblical root of Thanksgiving and then specifies three roots of Thanksgiving and three fruits of Thanksgiving. Because while Thanksgiving is not a biblical holiday, it certainly is a distinctively Christian holiday. And this passage points out the distinctive gospel focus of Thanksgiving. Generally, when you and I are asked, so what are you thankful for this year? We will think about circumstances. Thankful for my family , as you get older, thankful for your health. uh thankful for our home, um thankful for my toys, thankful for my iPad, my smartphone, you know And then you start thinking about Thanksgiving reminds me that I shouldn't covet, covet the person that has more bedrooms in their house than we do or a bigger SUV or a purebred dog, uh, you know, just more stuff, LL bean clothes, you know, I mean just all these things. And you think, no, I want to be thankful for what I have. But if Thanksgiving was focused on circumstances, we would never have the hymn Now thank we all our God, one of the most popular Thanksgiving hymns that we will sing later on. Have you ever heard the circumstances under which that hymn was written? It was written by a pastor, Martin Rinkert. During the Thirty Years' War in Eilenberg, Germany. Rinkert was the only pastor in that city. And during the year that spanned 1636 to 1637, Grinkert buried 5,000 people. That's an average of fourteen funerals a day, including his own wife, from war, plague, and famine. It was a terrible time. When he wrote, and Guide Us When Perplexed He was not saying, because this Thanksgiving day won't be perfect. It was a grim time, and yet as he meditated on the gospel He was profoundly thankful that it was not his circumstances, but his hope in Christ that gave him joy and peace and a thankful heart. So you see that in your bulletin. It's there for you to take, so you can use it this week. Now thank we all our God with heart and hands and voices. Who wondrous things has done, in whom this world rejoices, who from our mother's arms has blessed us on our way with countless gifts of love. And still is ours today. Fourteen funerals a day. Thank you, Lord. It's a dramatic example of what Tim's been preaching to us from James chapter 1, isn't it? Give thanks in the midst of trials and difficulties. Count up joy. In those circumstances. And Colossians 3, 15 to 17 tells us how we are able to do that. It tells you how the gospel distinctively is the foundation for your thanksgiving. The immediate context of these verses is the new life that you and I have in Christ. He talks about How we have died with Christ, we have risen with Christ, we have been seated in the heavenlies with Christ. It's a parallel book to Ephesians. And then after that he begins to talk about, just as Ephesians 4 does, how you and I are to put off the old nature and to put on the new nature. So for instance Chapter 3, verse 5, put to death therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature. Verse 8, but you must also rid yourselves of all such things as these. And he goes on and lists them. Then he says, now put on this new life, new nature. Verse 12, therefore as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves, put on compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience, these things. And then in verses 15 to 17, he mentions three things, three specific things in connection with thanksgiving That are the gifts we have in Christ. Notice what they are. Verse 15 Let the peace of Christ rule in your heart since as members of one body you were called to peace and be thankful Verse 16, Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom, and as you sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with gratitude, with thanksgiving in your hearts to God. Then verse 17. Whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through him. So, three blessings, three thanksgivings, but particularly notice how he focuses on the root. of Thanksgiving. He talks about both the root and the fruit. But the root of Thanksgiving I've said this a number of times before, some of you may remember. The root of the word thanksgiving is our word grace, carus. The root of the biblical word thanksgiving is grace, chorus. And it through that highlights exactly what thanksgiving means. It means grace, that is, you're getting better than you deserve. Thanksgiving is saying, what I have received is better than I deserve, and I acknowledge that. So a person who is ungrateful, is complaining, is saying they have a hard lot, is saying, I deserve better than I've gotten. A thankful person is saying, I have gotten better than I deserve. That's the root of it. So why does Paul specifically say, you and I have gotten better than we deserve, and therefore three times he says, be thankful. Will you look at the three gospel gifts here that every Christian, every one of you, no matter what your circumstances If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, every one of you have received these three gifts Look at them. Verse 15 again. Let the peace of Christ rule in your heart, since as members of one body you are called to peace and be thankful. You have the peace of Christ because the Lord forgave you. Back in verse 13. Paul says there that you and I are to forgive one another, bear with each other, forgive whatever grievances you have against one another, forgive as the Lord forgave you. So that peace is an objective peace. It's a peace that has been established between you and God, despite your sin, because God laid all that sin upon Jesus Christ. He bore that sin, was cursed in your place, and therefore you have peace with him. But it's not simply the objective peace that he's talking about when he says the peace of Christ. He's talking about that peace, therefore, that rules your heart. It's the peace that is in you Because knowing that God is not your enemy, knowing that you are not afraid to approach him, whatever your difficulty, whatever you've done, whatever you've messed up You come to him and you know that he does not hold that against you because of Jesus. Therefore you have peace. You know that the one who rules all things is for you That he has your good in mind, that you are precious to him. So he says, let this peace Rule you. Let it rule your heart. This is a peace that Jesus promised. My peace, he says, John 14, 27, at the night when He was about to be betrayed, and the disciples were terrified, not knowing what was to happen. And he says, Peace I give you. My peace I give to you, not as the world gives. Do I give to you? Let not your heart be troubled, neither be terrified. The peace of Christ. Be thankful, therefore, for that peace. It's better than you deserve. It's better than I deserve. I don't deserve that peace. Paul says you've received it as a gift. Acknowledge it. It's grace. It's better than you deserve. The second root of banksgiving is in verse 16. The second gift is the Word of Christ Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom, and as you sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with gratitude in your heart to the Lord The word of Christ is replacing your foolishness, my foolishness. I don't know how to live. I do stupid stuff. I do things that mess up relationships I don't know how to live skillfully, but I've received the word of Christ that comes to me and says, forgive, as you've been forgiven. It tells me how I can live in line with the way God has made me to function and the way He has made relationships. To be good. And so I have wisdom in my interactions. You notice what he says is uh you admonish one another with wisdom and sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs to each other and to the Lord. Wisdom is to recognize how to get along with others Wisdom is to recognize God's supreme worth. I did nothing to deserve that wisdom. It's simply something God has given through His Word. I I receive it. The Word of Christ is to dwell in me as I take that word and I take advantage of it and I study it and I meditate on it, I memorize it. And it exchanges my foolishness for wisdom. I don't deserve that. And so he says Sing with gratitude. Literally, the Greek is singing with grace in your hearts. It's that same word, kaius. So you sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Then notice the third gift. I have the name of Christ. Whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through him. That is, the name of Christ is set upon you, and it sanctifies everything in your life. Whatever you say, whatever you think, whatever you do, do it as a dead alive person. whose real life is seated in the heavenlies with Christ, and therefore your focus is upon Him. It is not that self-protecting, self-grabbing, self-gratifying Life that is all wrapped up in myself. I do everything for his name because that name has been given to me. It's upon me. That name is forever the name which sanctifies me, sets me apart to him. I'm precious and special to him. And so I realized that everything I do, I represent Jesus Christ. Do it all in his name. You represent him. People see you and you're identified with him, and so you either bring disgrace upon the name or you bring honor to that name by how you live How often do you think about that? Is there anything you would have done differently this past week? If you had been conscious of the fact that I bear the name of Jesus, and therefore I want to do everything in this conversation when I want to brag about myself and protect myself and put a spin on something, no. I want to do it in the name of Jesus. I have that name upon me. I belong to Him. I represent Him. And so Paul says that you do that giving thanks because you don't deserve that name. You don't deserve that privilege. I don't deserve that privilege. But I've been given his name, the identification with him, his child belonging to him. And because I realize I don't deserve it, I give thanks. It's better than I deserve. But these verses speak not only of the root Seeing these things that I don't deserve, and therefore I recognize it by grace, and I acknowledge that acknowledging grace is giving thanks. Simply, that's what it means But it also talks about the fruits of Thanksgiving. You look closely and you find that each of these verses speaks not only of the root of Thanksgiving, but it also speaks of what Thanksgiving produces. The blessings, the fruits of thanksgiving. Look again at verse 15. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. Since as members of one body you were called to peace and be thankful. In other words, that peace that is in your heart, that subjective peace That rules your heart also rules your relationships. That peace works out in having peace with those that you were called to have peace with in the body. In fact, you look at that connection, he says uh right down there a couple of verses in verse 19 talks to husbands. And says, husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them. The word is literally do not be bitter against them. You have the peace of Christ, and therefore that peace controls your interactions. You say, I don't deserve for God to forgive me. I don't deserve what He has done after the way I treated him. And therefore, when somebody treats me shabbily, I'm not out for revenge. I'm not saying I've got to get my peace back at them. I've got to take it out on them But because I recognize I don't I haven't gotten what I deserved from God, but rather He's forgiven me. I have peace, therefore I can forgive this person. I can I can live bearing and forbearing. And that's the fruit of thanksgiving, you see. It's the fruit of the peace of Christ working through a thankful heart in relationships with other people. So whether or not you're thankful is going to control what kind of week you're going to have, and especially what kind of day you'll have on Thanksgiving when things may get a little tense or you got some relatives around that you're not used to trying to get along with and everybody's kind of scrapping and you know, forty percent chance of rain, well, you know, be all inside, uh, who knows But you're going to get along because you're saying, I have peace. I don't deserve that peace. So I'm not going to take it out on you. Reflect to your Christ's peace Notice in verse sixteen. This I find very interesting. Verse sixteen, the fruit of Thanksgiving In this wisdom has to do with how we counsel one another. He says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Alright, so here's that word, the gift. I'm going to let it dwell in me. I'm going to meditate , gonna memorize as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom. And as you're singing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs in your gratitude and your hearts to the Lord. So he combines counseling with singing. Now I would suggest to you there's a little insight there. When you look for counseling, make sure you get counseling from a joyful Christian. Don't look for counseling from somebody who is intense, focused on simply principles, and critical. Sometimes we will go to counseling for to critical people because they agree with us in their criticisms. Won't work. Go to counseling from someone whose heart is singing and thankful and joyful Because he says here that as you let the Word of Christ dwell in you and you are thankful, you are singing with grace in your heart. then the counsel you give to other people will be wise counsel. It will simply be reflected in your conversation. Somebody asks you, what do you think about and there's a heart that is singing with gratitude because the word of Christ is filling me and the words that will come out, you may not know how to handle the situation, may not have it all figured out But something helpful's going to come out in that conversation. Then finally, verse 17. The fruit of thanksgiving in everything that you do. Whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. That's not saying that whatever you do just be a superficial praise the Lord, whatever, you know, and just go around trying to sound like you've just got this superficial happy heart. But you are Doing whatever you're doing, recognizing I am getting better than I am deserving in life. Martin Rinkert was saying, I have gotten from Jesus Christ better than I deserve. And therefore, in all that I do, I am freed up to focus on him and not myself. I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father. My focus is not how does it reflect on me? What is my image from this? How do I protect myself? But it is simply how do I honor his name? How do I show people that I've gotten better than I deserve because our God is a gracious God? How do I reflect that? And the fruit is a light heart The fruit is a heart that is not self-preoccupied, and therefore it's a light heart. It's not self-absorbed and grasping, but it is grace-filled giving. So, in conclusion, this week, two things. Number one, focus on gospel -based Thanksgiving, not just circumstantial. Nothing wrong with being thankful for all the blessings you got. I'm thankful for mine. Don't be ashamed. Don't say, you know, like my home. Oh, no, I'm supposed to say that. We're supposed to just talk about spiritual things. No. But The root of Thanksgiving is grace. The root of Thanksgiving is gospel-based. I am getting better than I deserve. The peace of Christ, the word of Christ, the name of Christ upon me. You're getting better than you deserve. So therefore, focus on that. Remember, now thank we all our God was written during war, plague, and famine. If you lost what is most precious to you, would you still be thankful? So think about gospel-based Thanksgiving. I'm reminded of Gary, our appliance repair man. I've known Gary for about 13 years. We have developed quite a relationship because our appliances keep breaking. So over the past 13 years, we've seen Gary about every year or so. One to two years we can count on a visit from Gary. The first visit we had from him about thirteen years ago, a couple years after we moved in. we got into um rather intense discussion about the gospel. And um Gary was not a believer. He was not especially interested in becoming a believer, but he did acknowledge I probably should think about that sometime. So I made a few suggestions. And then over the next few years, I would see Gary every one or two years. One occasion he came and he had gotten cancer and he almost died. He was in recovery at that point. And I said, Gary, has God gotten your attention yet on this thing? Something to think about. Yeah, yeah, no, yeah, really. I should think about that. You're right But didn't follow through. Next time I saw him, he had been in an accident and almost killed. Gary, has God gotten your attention yet? No, you know, it's just I you know, it's something I should think about, but I got a lot of questions. I don't understand that stuff and just wasn't motivated to move forward The last couple of times I've seen him, it was even less interesting. It was kind of like, uh, I don't even think he wants to talk about this now. So, a couple of weeks ago he came back, our dishwasher died And uh Gary's sitting on the floor there and I says, So Gary, how about you and the Lord? You know it's gonna come up, you know. And he says, Well actually I'm going to church now. I said, really That's great. What prompted that? He said last Christmas Eve my son shot himself. Alcohol problem He said the next month my wife started going to church. He says, my wife's become a Christian. She reads your Bible, she's in a Bible study, but he says, seems like it's really helped her. He says, I need something. So he says, I've started going to church. So it blew me away the first time. And this band and those boards up on the screen and everybody getting up and sitting down there raising their hands. That blew me away. But he says I keep going. And then he ended with this. We had two hour conversation. He ended with this. He said, I think the Lord's drawing me to himself. You know, we want to put Christ at a distance because we think all the other things in life, those are the blessings that will make me happy You know, Oprah had this week her favorite things show. And uh my wife saw that and said It it just brings tears to your eyes to see people hyperventilating with joy, you know? 14 gifts they got, diamond watches and cruises and all this kind of stuff And then people are they're rolling around on the floor, they're jumping up and down, they're screaming, they're embracing because they're saying, this is grace, I didn't deserve this, look at all I got What is that? Trinkets compared to the peace of Christ, the word of Christ. The name of Christ upon your life. And Gary is saying, all this other stuff meant so much. But he says when you go through that, you know there's nothing worse that can happen, and you need God So the second thing I would say is to apply this to your worship this week. Engage your heart in it. Not just cognitively, I have the peace of Christ, I have the word of Christ, I have the name of Christ, but to let your mind and your heart be engaged with that's better than I deserve I worship you. I acknowledge. Use a hymn. Take this hymn. Now thank we all our God. Get other hymns. Take them and sing them. Talk about it in your conversations with other people. Speak gospel thanksgiving. Speak about the specific ways that you have so much better than you deserve. For the heart of thanksgiving is to realize grace. One last illustration. Christy Eastman lives in Bangladesh. The winters, she says, there are not anything like Maryland, but they are chilly, and many of the children do not have warm clothes So Christy decided to give away some of her son's outgrown warm clothes to people who needed them. So she threw a bunch of them in her car, and when she would drive into the city She would occasionally stop and she would take out some clothes and she said people, crowd would gather around, and hands would all reach up eagerly and aggressively to get something from her One day a woman with a near naked child, small child, came up to her and demanded a handout. So Christy opened her trunk and she gave her a warm sweatshirt for the baby. The woman stuffed it in her arm and demanded money. Give me bakish. And she said, looking at her, implying, You rich American. Christy said, My heart turned to anger I got in my car and I drove off. How dare she not be grateful for what I gave her and simply demand more? She was saying, I deserve more than you're giving me. And then Christie said, and I was reminded of how I treat God. How many times has he given me so much more than I deserve? And I keep demanding more. But I want this, or I won't be happy. God, if you really love me, you'll give me that. And it's a denial of grace. May the Lord fill your heart this week. With a profound realization that you and I have gotten so much more than we deserve. And that's through the gospel. Whatever the circumstances, thanksgiving is to simply acknowledge that. And see what happens. Let's pray. And so, our Heavenly Father, we want to acknowledge to you right now You have given to us so much more than we deserve. And our hearts so many times are ungrateful. Every time we complain and grumble, we're saying, I deserve more than I've gotten Lord, we want to give thanks to you this morning, and by that say, we have received so much better than we deserve in Christ. We have his peace. You do not hold anything against us We have the assurance that whatever each person here in this room is going through, that if they belong to you, they have a heavenly Father. Who knows all things, is in control of all things, and intends good. We have your word to exchange our foolishness for wisdom. To give and to receive counsel from thankful hearts that are light and therefore wise. That we have your name set upon us for all eternity. We belong to you. We are representing you. Lord, give us hearts that then in light, the lightness that comes from grace and gratitude, focus not on ourselves But on simply thinking, how do we make your name great this week? For we have received so much better than we deserve.