Let me tell you about a mother, a particular mother, by the name of Christine Haggy. Christine Haggy, from the time that she was a teenager, was renowned as one of America's foremost contemporary female pop singers. Her maiden name was Barker. She sang before hundreds and thousands, had a very glamorous and interesting career ahead of her. Christine committed her life to Jesus Christ. And she gave up the glamour in order to marry a Baptist preacher. Now don't uh take it that I'm necessarily juxtaposing all possible glamour with being a Baptist preacher. I'm not being a Baptist preacher, I wouldn't know how their preachering is, but nevertheless this guy didn't even have a church. But she loved him. And she married this fellow. She continued to sing publicly and God blessed her ministry. Five years later, God gave them a little son, John. John was a perfectly healthy boy, except for one thing. The doctor who delivered John was a renowned doctor of a very good reputation. But it so happened that he was dead drunk the night that he delivered John. He was going through some grief of his own that he was not able to cope with And in his drunkenness, the doctor broke several of John's bones, pulling him out of the womb. In fact, due to several other tragic abuses, John's brain hemorrhaged, and a number of other things happened to him, so that eight doctors said that he was not expected to survive. The delivering doctor eventually committed suicide. But his parents were left to raise him. And in this case, that particularly fell to Christine. She had to feed him every three hours with a brex feeder, which involved a half hour preparation before and a half hour cleanup afterwards. During the first three years, she never got outside the house once for any fun or diversion. She never got more than two hours of sleep uninterrupted. Constant care for John. Her voice which had been used to sing before hundreds and thousands now is heard only by John singing lullabies, and by her God in the world. Praise. For Christine knew the Lord in an intimate way, and she was a content mother. Content in a supernatural way. That's not uh to make those of you who are out there mother saying, boy. about feel guilty. I'm complaining about what I have, and here's this woman, you know. I mean, this was a supernatural gift of contentment that God gave her. John lived over twenty years before he Finally died. People said they never heard Christine complain once about her lot in life, that she retained the sparkle and the charm and the radiance of a high school cheerleader. This is what we're looking at now as we I've got a worm crawling along my line. Here we go. Wondering what this was. Somebody's trying to signal me. You know, as you're talking you sort of feel this thing crawling up your hand. What are they all down in there? We're looking at what the Spirit of God can do in our lives. In Acts chapter 2, verses 37 to 39. See, this is of the Spirit of God. And the Spirit of God who made Christine supernaturally content as a mom. The same Spirit who is able to make you and me. Content and victorious in our own circumstances, whatever pain, whatever challenge that may be for you this morning. Let's pick up again Peter's message, the first Christian sermon, as I mentioned before, in Acts 2, verse 29. And then see again what we understand of the Holy Spirit in these three messages ending next week with the Pentecost, the celebration of the Spirit coming to the church. Acts chapter 2, verse 29, Peter continues, Brothers, I can tell you confidently that the patriarch David died and was buried, and his tomb is here to this day. But he was a prophet and knew that God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on the throne. Seeing what was ahead, he spoke of the resurrection of Christ, that he was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay. God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of that fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and fear. For David did not ascend to heaven. And yet he said, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. When the people heard this, they were cut to the heart. And they said to Peter and the other apostles, brothers, what shall we do? Peter replied, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The promises for you and your children, and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. We've seen last week the first fact of these three that we're looking at here, these three weeks, is that the Holy Spirit is a change agent. Some of us may wonder if we're ever going to change. We feel locked into patterns, locked into things from our own parents, our backgrounds. Whatever it may be, and we wonder, can I change? Or am I always going to be the mess that I am now? And the Bible tells us that you and I cannot change. Change ourselves. But that Jesus Christ can change us radically by his Spirit. Here's a group of people that just a few days before, some of them were yelling, Crucify Him! about the Son of God. Others were passively, apathetically going along with this bloody scene before them of Jesus' crucifixion. But here now are people who are arrested. They are stopped to consider who this Jesus really was. And who he is as the risen Lord. And as they think about that, they are cut to the heart, verse 37 says. And the Bible tells us that when they accepted this message in verse 41. And they were baptized about 3,000. They were utterly, radically changed. Look what kind of people they became in verse 42. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. into the fellowship, into the breaking of bread, into prayer. And everyone was filled with awe, and many wonders and miraculous signs were done by the apostles. And all the believers were together and had everything in common. They were sharing what they had, selling their possessions and goods they gave to anyone as he had need. And every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes. They ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. The Lord added to their number. Here's a people who had been utterly devoid of a love for Jesus Christ, and they're now transformed by him. It would seem like their whole personalities, their very nature is transformed. That spirit is the same spirit, brothers and sisters, who is here today, available in Jesus. Christ. And what I want you to notice this morning is that that Spirit, who is the ultimate change agent, able to change every one of us here in this room, whatever our background, past, and struggles. That Spirit is given as a free gift. Notice again verse 38. Peter replies to them when they say, What should we do? He says, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. For the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The word gift there is the word that is used in Romans chapter 3 in verse 24 when it says we are justified freely By the grace of Jesus Christ, justified freely. The word freely is the same root word as the word gift here. He is a free gift. Given as nothing to be merited or earned by anything that you or I do. He is a gift given with Jesus Christ And in a day when many parts of the church are saying that the Spirit is given by to those after conversion who are particularly committed or who seek for his baptism in a particular way, or whatever it may be, that there's a certain, there's a group of Christians, you know There's this general set of Christians, and then there's a special subset of Christians who are baptized in the Spirit, who are given the Spirit based on something of a more earnest seeking on their part. Acts 2 flies directly in the face of that because Luke is trying to persuade you and for me to see that he is given as a gift to every Christian upon conversion. And that while some of us are more aware of his presence than others, he is available to every one of us. Whatever your need, he's available today for you. Now I want you to see that by pointing out two things in verse 38. I want you to notice the verbs, and I want you to notice the connections. So look at the first thing there: the verbs. The verbs. That's divided into two parts. First of all, what you do. Now by the way, lest you think I really get hung up and intimidated by these These little comments about my messages that they're always alliterative and always three points. You notice we had another two point. That's just the way it fell out. I I really didn't try to prove a point in that And it's not even alliterative, so you've really got to pay attention today if we're going to understand this all. But first of all, the birds, what you do is A, and then B is what you receive. Peter says there's something for you to do, and then there's something that you receive as a consequence. Notice what it is that you and I are called to do Two things, what are they in verse 38? Repent and be baptized. Those are two things. Simple as that. Repent and be baptized. What is it that you do? What is repenting? Repenting is a change of mind. It's seeing that you and I have ignored Jesus. That we've seen the religious compartment of our lives as something to be kept into a corner, something which is to be hauled out on Sundays or religious holidays. Something in crises, that we have in fact run our own lives and not cared for Jesus Christ to be the center. Peter says, repent, change your mind. And express that change by being baptized. Being baptized, taking on the mark of Jesus Christ upon your life. Seeing that in fact you desperately need Jesus Christ. So the repentance is expressed by the baptism And then he says, as a result of this, you receive two things. Now the verb, of course, refers to the receiving, not to the things that you receive, because what you receive is forgiveness. And the gift of the Spirit. See there in verse 38? Peter said, Do two things. Repent and be baptized, every one of you. In the name of Jesus Christ. What do you receive? You receive forgiveness of your sins and you receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. And those two things go together You notice that what you do to repent and to be baptized, you do of your initiative. What you receive is passive. The receiving of forgiveness, you don't forgive yourself. You receive the forgiveness of Jesus Christ. It's very important in a day when we're being counseled in many cases. when we're dealing with baggage of the past, to learn to forgive ourselves. Peter says you receive forgiveness. And when you and I by faith receive the forgiveness of the God whom we've offended Then forgiving ourselves is a non-issue because at that point to understand the reception of being reconciled to that God becomes a far greater matter to us And any opinion we might have of ourselves. But he says, be baptized. Excuse me, you receive forgiveness, and then you receive also the gift of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. And that gift is something that you don't earn. You receive it. The forgiveness takes care of your and my greatest problem in life. Mentioned before some time that uh hell is becoming a greater concern in our culture. U. S. News and World Report devoted a cover article to that. Some weeks back. And in a poll that they quoted, they said that in nineteen eighty-one, fifty-three percent of Americans said they believed in hell, a literal hell. In nineteen ninety that was up to sixty percent. An increase of 7% in 9 years of Americans saying they believe in hell. More people believe in hell now than they did in 1981. What's even more, I think, significant is in the age range of 18 to 29, 71% of Americans say they believe in a literal L. I think it may have something to do with the kind of world we're living in. It's easier to believe in hell. We see the kinds of uh brokenness in our world about us. We begin to think that hell is not so difficult for us to believe. And there is a deep reservoir of a need of forgiveness in our lives. Peter says, change your mind about trying to deal with that yourself, trying to forgive yourself and Cleanse yourself and do all these things yourself. Simply change your mind. Turn to Jesus. Look to him and identify with him in baptism. He will give to you a forgiveness that will take away any concern of hell, of alienation from God, of a guilty conscience, of any of those things in your life. Can have that this morning. Then he says, you'll receive with that the gift of the Spirit. That's the greatest provision that God can give you for living life. in whatever circumstances you have. Now I want you to notice in this not only then the verbs, but the connections. Notice the connections in this. That's uh part two there First of all, notice the connection between repentance and water baptism. Very important, I think, that we grasp this in order to see what we have as Christians. Notice there's a connection between repentance and water baptism. That's very obvious. Repent and be baptized. The interesting thing to me is that while that is so obvious in this verse, it is so unobvious to Christians in the 1990s. article recently in Christianity Today about the privatization of Christian faith. But the fact that many people today say that I can repent and I can trust Jesus and I can believe I'm going to heaven without any need to ever be baptized in the context of the covenant community and identify with the local body That's just not New Testament Christianity. Look what it says. Peter says in verse 38, repent and be baptized. That's part of the gospel Now that's not saying that if you're not baptized with a water baptism that you can't go to heaven. Some Christians say that. I don't believe at all that the Bible's talking about that. There's too much evidence against that. Thief on the cross was never baptized and Jesus said today you'll be with me in paradise. There's many other reasons to believe that. It's by grace we're saved through the finished work of Christ, not what we do. But Peter so joins the expression of repentance to being expressed by water baptism in the covenant community, that look what verse 41 says. After he has continued this message, the Bible says that those who accepted his message were baptized. About 3,000 were added to their number that day. Those were the Christians. Who were the Christians? How did they know who the believers were? It was those who were baptized and added to their number. There weren't private Christians. There weren't those that said, well, I've repented, but you know, well, this baptism part, well, that, you know, that's that's kind of an institutional concern. The Bible doesn't look at it that way. The Bible defines Christians as those who are the baptized ones who have trusted in Jesus by repentance and faith. Connection is very obvious. And for some of us who may be saying today that we don't need that connection, I think we need to look back at Scripture rather than to simply contemporary church practice Where the idea by associating with a body is being uh so downplayed that we have many Christians who say, Well, I'll go to the morning service at this church and I'll go to the evening service at that church, because you know they got a better evening service. And this one's got a better youth program, so we'll get involved in that youth program. And they got Bever Bible Studies and Church D over here, so I'll get involved in their Bible studies. And you know, it's kind of a consumer orientation to church There's no association with a body of believers. But that's not what you see here in Acts chapter 2. The repentance was expressed through a physical baptism that associated them with those believers. That's an obvious connection. Look at the second obvious connection. The next obvious connection is between forgiveness and spirit baptism. Now this one I think we also need to see and really understand its implications. Peter says, when you are forgiven, you receive the gift of the Spirit. Important that we understand that that gift of the Spirit is the baptism of the Spirit. This cannot be separated. For instance, if you look at chapter 1, in verses 4 and 5. But when Jesus left the disciples, he said, do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift that my father promised. What is the gift? Well the The gift, of course, is the Holy Spirit, which you've heard me speak about. For John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. So the gift of the Spirit is the baptism of the Spirit. And the baptism of the Spirit that came upon those disciples that enabled them to speak in languages that they had never learned is precisely the same gift that Peter's talking about to these people who received him in response to the gospel. It's not saying that those people all spoke in languages they had never heard, but it is saying that the same Spirit came in the same fullness upon them. That gift that he promises is the gift that you receive upon forgiveness. Do you see what this is saying? Do you realize that in the New Testament, after Pentecost, The New Testament never tells any group of Christians to wait further for something to happen in order for the Holy Spirit to come upon them. Never anywhere else in the New Testament are you ever told to wait subsequent to Christian conversion to get the baptism of the Spirit. Never. Not a single verse about that. The period of waiting is over. That's what Acts 2 is about. The Spirit has come and he comes upon believers. He comes upon forgiveness. He comes upon the expression of repentance. When, as we should be doing today, a person says they trust Jesus, they should immediately be baptized. Not go six months later or decide, you know. after a couple of years that they've sort of settled in on a particular church. We believe that so strongly. If you become a Christian in this body and you say, I'm moving in two weeks to California, we'll say fine, we'll baptize you and we'll transfer you. Don't just say, well, you know, I might as well wait till I settle down. Some people never settle down, especially if you're in the service, right? Somebody called me up recently and said, we're going to be moving to Columbia. We'd like to look at your church. By the way, we've been married 14 months. This is our fourth move. Fine, we'll wave to you as you go through, you know. Fact is, however, that where we are in God has placed us, we need to identify with that body. But the forgiveness that we express in that baptism, in that identification with the body, is synonymous with the reception of the gift of the Holy Spirit in our lives, in his fullness. Do you see, since Pentecost for every believer, conversion is their Pentecost. When does this happen then? At conversion. Your Pentecost is your conversion. That's what Peter's doing. He's saying now you see the Spirit has come and he's explaining what's what is happened here in this effusion of the spirit to these people and they're cut to the heart and they come and he says now as you express your repentance and as you receive the forgiveness of Jesus, verse 38, you will receive the gift of the Spirit. No exceptions. It wasn't twenty five hundred of them received the baptism of the Spirit. The other five hundred hadn't really come through yet. They got the forgiveness, but they didn't get the baptism. Nothing about that. The two are going together in the Bible and you cannot separate them. You see that? I hope you're convinced of that. That's very important. Some Christians struggle and they think Well, I have Jesus, but I really don't have the fullness of spirit, so I really am not able to change and have victory over sin because I don't have what it takes. You do All you have to do is to appropriate the Spirit and His fullness in your life. Nothing more you need to do to get Him. He is a gift given with the forgiveness you received in Jesus Christ. Amen. I hope that means you believe it. Notice the third connection. Now these two connections were the horizontal, the vertical ones. Now don't turn over in the back. We're still on the front. Still there under A. Want to go down now? There's a connection here between repentance and forgiveness. So you put a little line from repentance down to forgiveness. That's also a connection. Now you see, that one's also fairly obvious, because when you repent, you repent and God forgives you. We don't need to develop that one very much, you know. Repent, be baptized, for forgiveness. But the other side is just as closely related, and you may not be as aware of that. Now look at, you see, the water baptism is related to the spirit baptism or the gift of the spirit. Repent and be baptized every morning in the name of Jesus for the forgiveness of your sins, and you'll receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Those are joined together. Your baptism initiating you into the Christian life, and the gift of the Spirit filling you with equipping you to live the Christian life. You are not ever expected to live the Christian life in your own resources. You can't do it. I can't do it. It's hopeless for us, as we said last week, to try to discipline the flesh harder when we find out those things. That we're guilty of and not measuring up. Only the Holy Spirit in us is can enable us to love and to obey Jesus This is more obvious than Ezekiel 36 you heard before, so turn to that for a minute. I want you to see there these connections. Now you can turn to the back. Ezekiel chapter 36. To see more precisely the connection of water and spirit baptism. In Ezekiel chapter 36, you heard Steve read that before, there are three connections I want you to notice in verses 25 to 28. First of all, there is the connection between water cleansing and heart cleansing. Notice that in verses 25 and 26. The Lord says, I will sprinkle clean water on you and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you. I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. You see the connection there between water cleansing, I'm going to cleanse you, God says, and I'm going to give you a new heart. Water cleansing, heart cleansing. Water baptism then is a sign and a seal of an inner cleansing by God's Spirit in our hearts. God says that I'm going to take clear spring mountain waters and I'm going to sprinkle and bathe you and I'm going to wash you. Your body, and I'm going to wash your spirit, and I'm going to wash your heart, and I'm going to wash your conscience, as Hebrew says, so that you and I can feel really clean for the first time. Time in our lives. Do you this morning long for a heart cleansing? Long to feel like for the first time in your life you can really enjoy things because you have a clear. conscience because God has washed you because all the dirt and the pollution and all the crud that is associated and clung to you to the little decisions that you've made through the years, so that now you're full of shame and humiliation and despair that you could ever be straight, you could be ever straightened out and live with a clear conscience. Be able to look to the Lord and not cast down your gaze. Be able to look at him in the eye and say, Lord, I can look at you with a clean heart. says he'll do that. Jesus says he can cleanse your heart. I will sprink you with clean water. And I'll take away that stony hard heart that's resistant to me. And I'm going to give you a heart of flesh. And those two things you see are joined. together. So every time you see somebody up here who's being baptized as an adult when they profess Jesus, then God is saying, I am giving to you a picture of what I'm doing in that person's spirit. Here is clean water coming Upon that person, and I'm washing their heart so they can stand before me without shame. They can delight in my presence. Now, if you're still struggling to do that on your own, you'll never Never achieve it. And I call upon you today, rest in Jesus. For he has done all that is necessary. All you do is to change your mind about being able to do it yourself. And you receive His forgiveness, and you receive the gift of the Spirit that enables you to enjoy that cleansing There's a second connection here, and that's the connection between a new heart and a new spirit. You notice he goes on in verse 26, there in Ezekiel 36. He goes on to say, I will give you a new heart and I'll put a new spirit in you. I will remove from you your heart of stone, give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit in you. And move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. How is it that you and I can ever please God How is it that we can ever love to do what the Bible tells us to do? How is it we can ever change our thinking from just coping on our own to submitting to God to with open hands giving to Him our lives and trusting Him to take us? Where he leads us, to really trust him with our time, with our money. It's by his spirit. It's the gift of the The Spirit. You and I can't do that. You see? But He changes our hearts and He gives His Spirit. And that's what enables us to do what we could not do of ourselves. Charles Alcott was a 41-year-old businessman, the CEO of a $5 billion corporation. And one day, his corporation was owned by a parent corporation. The board of that parent corporation instructed him to present a financial report to some investment bankers and lawyers. Who were prepared for a defense of a takeover. And he was to present this report, this financial report, in a boardroom in Manhattan. There was just one problem. The financial report that he was to present, he knew, bore no resemblance to reality. They were paper figures in order to manipulate and to accomplish the purpose. That the board had in mind. Two years before that, Alcott had committed his life to Jesus Christ. The Spirit had come in to work in him. What would you do in that situation? He demurred. He said, gentlemen, this is not right. I can't present this report. It's fraudulous. It's a lie. They said, if you don't present this report, from this day on, you are fired. Now what would you do in that situation? Well let's rethink this here for a moment. Maybe I was a little hasty about that. Well maybe there's some resemblance. You know, I mean if you look at it from this way, you can sort of see how yeah, I I sort of see you guys' point. You know, maybe maybe we could negotiate. Really tempting, isn't it? In our flesh, who of us would ever stand against such problems pressure. Alcott was only a Christian for two years at that point. He looked him in the eye and he said, I can't do it. It's wrong. I'm a Christian. I cannot present this. And they followed through on their side. He lost his job that very day, out on the street, from CEO of a five billion dollar corporation. To zero. And they fired him with a vengeance. What did God do? Alcott looks back on that now and he says, I never regret That decision a single day. God has taken care of us. He's now the managing partner of a business consulting firm. God took care of it. But as a result of that, Leighton Ford heard about that, and he was so intrigued with a man of such convictions, he cultivated a friendship with Alcott, and Alcott now serves on the board Of Leighton Ford Ministries. God opened up whole new opportunities for ministry in the kingdom of God because of an impossible decision he could not make in the flesh. I certainly couldn't myself. His wife said, Charles used to be the product of his environment. Now he's the product of his transformation. Are you the product of your environment this morning? Or are you the product of the transformation of the Spirit of God in your life? Giving you a new heart, so that right is right and wrong is wrong. And by the grace of God you do not compromise And you're able to see the Spirit work in you in power that you could not imagine. Why? Because you're a super saint? Because you're some special religious fanatic? No. Because the Spirit of God has simply worked in you. The gift of the Spirit has transformed you. You see finally the last thing he says. Connection between a new spirit and a new relationship Verses 27 and 28, Ezekiel says, I will put my spirit in you And I will move in you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws, and you will live in the land I gave your forefathers, and you will be my people, and I will be your God. Do you see that that spirit is described in verse 27 as his spirit? He says that in verse 28, you are my people. And I am your God. And the New Testament tells us that the Spirit who's given us the gift and acts is the Spirit of sonship. The Spirit who makes you and me sons and daughters of the living God, so that God says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. I will be with you through this, whatever it is. I will stand beside you in my presence with you. Will be your comfort. You and I, whatever we're facing, can call upon God and say, Lord, it's not what I do. You've given me your spirit as a gift Now I ask you to give that Spirit in his full measure, because I need him for what's coming up this week. The decisions to be made. The crises to face, the relationships to seek to work out, the love to be expressed, the faith it is going to take to trust God in the weakness. That you have ahead of you. Where is it that you need to trust that the Spirit is available to you this morning? Let's pray. Lord our God, we need to see what you have promised for us in our need. For each one of us, Lord, whether it is for the first time, forgiveness of sins, or whether it's for a particular relationship or some impossible thing that we're called upon, To do, to stand against compromise, to trust you in a decision. Whatever it is, Lord, we pray this morning you'll help us to see. Your spirit has been given as a gift with Jesus. That Spirit is the one who raised him from the dead, and so we have all power at our disposal. Lord, help us to believe that. Even in this moment for our need In Jesus name. Amen.