This summer I was uh reading a book by Rick Warren called The Purpose-Driven Church. Very stimulating book in which he uh observes that most churches ask the question, how can we make our church grow? And Warren says that's the wrong question to ask, because a healthy church will grow, even under persecution. A healthy church will grow. So he says the real question that we need to ask is what is keeping our church from growing? And that is exactly the question that our elders asked as we met for our January retreat. Not that Columbia Presbyterian Church isn't growing, we are in fact growing. But we would expect to see God bringing more people to faith. We would expect to see him doing things more than we are right now seeing him do. We thirst and long for that. We were asking, what is keeping us from seeing that? And that led to a number of thoughts, a lot of interaction, real vigorous time we had. It was a very encouraging time at that retreat. Now here we are, eight months later, we've spent those eight months crafting a vision statement. First draft presented, then Flash it around, discussion more and more, and uh it has been probably the most jointly owned vision statement we've had in our 21 years as a congregation. A lot of interaction on the email. Rebisity has been through, I think, eight printed revisions, and that was presented to you during the middle hour In fact, um I guess it's a sign of how our church is growing. We don't have any left. So if you didn't get one in the middle hour, uh we're gonna have to print some more of these and particularly if you come to the discoverers Discovering CPC class, we'll hand them out there. But that's a very important document to see where we are going in the next five years as a congregation. However, in that whole discussion, we never spent one minute debating or discussing our purpose as a church. The vision is seen by the eyes of faith beyond the horizon of experience, which changes as we move toward a horizon, another horizon appears, and so that will continue to evolve. The purpose statement, why we exist as a church, does not change. That's from Scripture. We actually adopted that 21 years ago this month. Our first service was twenty-one years ago, this week, uh, this next week, and um since that time we have held to that purpose based on Ephesians chapter 1 Verses 17, Ephesians 1, 17 to 23. We believe it's very important for you to realize that our Vision statement is based on and flows out of the purpose statement. It's how we experience what God has for us uh as his purpose in Ephesians chapter one. So we're going to look at that this morning So that you connect what we talked about in the middle hour with what God's purpose is for us as his body. Remember that Ephesians is God's manual for church growth And so this particular passage is Paul's prayer for you, for me, for Columbia Presbyterian. And we also need to go over it because we haven't had a message on Ephesians for a couple of months now. And we're doing this other series on biblical prophecy until the end of the year and a new millennium. So just so those of you who were feeling uh deprived because you haven't heard from Ephesians, uh, here we go. This is the one message of the fall. uh from the book of Ephesians. Okay, those of you who have been around for a while can appreciate that. Those of you who are new have no idea what I'm talking about. But let's hear God's word, Paul's prayer for us as a church and as believers. From Ephesians chapter 1 and begin at verse 16. This is God's word. Paul says, I have not stopped praying, I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I ask, keep asking. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know Him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which He has called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance for the saints. In the saints, for the saints, either one. And his incomparably great power for us who believed That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms far above all rule and authority Power and dominion. And every night title that can be given not only in the present age but also in the one to come God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. The three purposes then that God has given to us from this passage, let's affirm them together, not just mumbling what uh the right answer is, but confessing that this is God's purpose for us. First of all, it is to know him. Good. To know our You don't like that one as much. They're a little more enthusiastic about knowing him than they were about knowing our hope. Listen, that's what this whole series been doing on prophets in the back, getting centered. Second purpose as individuals as a church is that we will know our Hope. Great. And then thirdly, that we will know his power, three H's, to know him, to know our hope, to know his power, not ours. Great. Okay. Well, cut that down a little bit. Um that word no that is used there is a word which refers to understanding and experiencing. Not simply cognitive intellectual knowledge. It's talking about understanding and experiencing personal in fullness Himself, our hope, and his power. First of all then, let's look at these again this morning as the foundation for our vision statement. First of all, to know Him. That's the first one CPC is all about him. It's about him, not about us. And when we say him, who are we referring to? The hymn, as we've looked at in past years, probably preached on this passage more than any other passage in the Bible. So there's a lot of things we've looked at in the past. the times in the past, we've seen that the hymn refers to God the Father as He is revealed in and through Jesus Christ. You have all three persons of the Trinity in verse 17. You notice it's uh he prays that the that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, so the whole Godhead involved Specifically, the glorious Father gives you the Spirit, Holy Spirit, of wisdom and revelation. But it's so that we might know God as He's revealed, particularly in the person of Jesus Christ. Now, that is a reminder to you and to me that as a church, we're here not to run programs, but to know a person. Uh that's what CPC is about. It's very easy to kind of lose that and you just get into the programs Particularly since I find that today in Christianity there is so much emphasis in books and ministries. on the blessings and the experience of the Christian life to such an extent that I find it is not at all unusual to talk to Christians who have a very distant relationship with the person of Jesus Christ. Somehow Christianity has become depersonalized in our world. We think about the blessings, we think about how to live the Christian life, but the idea of drawing close to Jesus The idea of thinking about how many times this last week have you thought about the person of Jesus How many times did he come to mind? Not not Christianity, not principles, not God, I need you, help me through this, help me get this, cope with that. But an awareness of Jesus, who he is, and that he's with you. How many times have you drawn close to him? This week. How many times have you expressed your affection for him as a person? I believe that for you and for me And many of us are distant from him because you are afraid to draw close to Jesus. Why do I say that? Because I think many of you are afraid of what he's going to ask you to do if you get close to him. What burden is he going to lay on you rather than release you from? Isn't that amazing? Paul says to us here, my prayer is that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, He's your Father May give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. And we draw back. Lord, if I get too close to you You're going to show me more things about my heart than I can stand to see. You're going to show me more deficiencies, more things that I ought to be doing if I was really committed, if I really wanted to follow, on on and on and on. And so what do we do? We don't want to know him better. We draw back. I want to know you, but I want to preserve a little bit of distance so that I still have some control That leads us to the second point there. We know him as father, not as judge. He's the glorious Father. Many of us think of him still as a judge, even as Christians. We believe that Jesus Christ's death has covered our sins. That he will bring us to heaven. But we live like moralists. A moralist is a person who looks at the work of Christ And says, here's how much I can do in keeping God's law. Here's how much good I am able to do, but I fall short of the glory of God. So there's a gap between what I can do and God's standard of perfection. Jesus Christ death is to cover that gap between what I can do and God 's full standard. And so you see the moralist is always trying to up the standard. Here's how much I can do, and here's the gap I need, and I'm ashamed of that gap. I wish that gap was close And it was less of a gap, you see. As a Christian, I ought to be growing to where I see that gap narrowing. God really convicted me of that in my own life this summer. My own moralistic tendency. That I was missing the fact that that's not the gospel. You see, the gospel says my whole reason for trying to keep the standard was distorted and self-centered and self-righteous. It's not just that I couldn't do it enough My whole heart, my whole reason for trying to do it was twisted and self-centered. And you see, once I accept the fact that the gospel covers not simply my deficiencies, but my whole heart, my whole life Once I begin to realize that God Himself desires a relationship with me. In all of that corruption and distortion, my bentness and twistedness, he desires a relationship with me That Jesus Christ's death has covered all of the twistedness of my life, all of my sin, the radical evil of my nature. That He wants to grow in intimacy with me. That the gospel becomes a wonder of grace. And when we see that, then you are able to draw close to Jesus. And say, if that means to reveal more of my spiritual bankruptcy, of the fact that my heart doesn't even want to move in the direction of His holiness Then the wonder of his grace becomes even clearer, more wonderful, more magnificent. He loved me and gave his life for me. Do you feel that, Christian? See, that's what Paul's saying. You see, this summer when I was when God was dealing with me about that in this particular place where I was praying Happen to be a Cape Cod, but that doesn't matter. Out in the salt marsh I was praying. And all of a sudden I began to realize so much of my life, you know, I struggle for a sense of God's presence You have notice of times when you wish you knew God's presence closer, more real to you. And God showed me pride drives away the sense of his presence. It is that humble broken heart that he draws close to and reveals himself to. Some of you are being kept from knowing him better because of the pride of your own hearts. You want to maintain a certain amount of independence and control and a degree of your own self-righteousness that is tested whenever you're criticized. I invite you out of the experience of the sweetness of Jesus' presence in my own life. Humble yourself before him. It's worth it. Shed the pride, the desire to maintain your own record, and know him better He wants to reveal himself to you in his fullness the wonder of the gospel of grace through Jesus Christ. That's what Paul's talking about. That you might know him better. Humbled before him. And having established that, if you thirst for that and long for that, along with me wanting more of that To experience more of that this fall and this year. And then see that the next two purposes flow from and build on that. Notice that the next two, by the way, your bulletin outline is wrong. It says verse 17 and 18. Should say verse 18 and 19. Sorry about that. But notice that verse eighteen and nineteen are linked together by the prayer at the beginning of verse eighteen, where Paul says, I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. In other words, I'm praying that God will open the eyes of your heart to see spiritual reality that you will never see unless He does that. This is not something physical The physical is real, but it is not as real as the spiritual, which is more enduring. The physical, as we saw last week, will be burned up when Jesus comes and utterly consumed. to make way for the new heavens and the new earth. Paul wants you and for me to see enduring spiritual reality that are linked together. Number one, verse 18, his inheritance for you. That's your hope in him. Those are the two blanks. His inheritance for you, your hope in him. That's the gospel in us and for us. Verse 18 I pray the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which He has called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance. The Greek could be either in you or for you, in the saints, for the Saints. The second is in verse 19 and following, which is his power for you. That is his strength in us. First has to do with your hope in him, the second verse 19 following. has to do with his strength in you. That's the gospel through us to the world. And, you see, and I pray also, the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you will know his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power which is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him. In the heavenlies far above all, rule, authority, power, and dominion. Every name that can be named. Now let's look at this a little more closely. Verse 18. What does it mean to know the hope? Our hope. That's the next blank. To know our hope. That hope, as I said, is the inheritance that He has for you. That's your hope. And that's, you see, something that runs through the Bible. You remember back in Exodus chapter 6 when God called Israel out of Egypt? God said to those slaves who owned nothing, who were bankrupt, utterly dependent on the secular power of Egypt. And God says what is basically simply parallel to Ephesians 1. It's the Old Testament Ephesians 1 there, you see, verse 7 of Exodus 6. He says, I will take you as my own people. And I will be your God, and then you will know that I, the Lord, your God, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians You will know me. You'll know me better. You'll know me experientially. You see, in the process of my doing this, like you could never know me in Egypt. I want to reveal myself to you. Then verse 8 flows from that, he says, and I will bring you to the land that I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. I will give it to you as a possession or as an inheritance. I am Yahweh. And so God has promised The land to his people, which Romans 11, 4. 11 tells us was simply a picture of the earth. What God was promising, he says, really was a new earth. And we saw that in 2 Peter 3 verse 13 last week, that what this really is, you see, Canaan was simply the hors d'oeuvre. It was to just whet Israel's appetite for the city whose builder and maker is God. And so when God says, I'm going to establish that new heavens and that new earth, that's the inheritance that I have for you. That's the hope of glory. And that's that's what you see is our purpose as a church, that we enter into that hope. And the first fruits of that hope by the Holy Spirit transforming and changing us now. That's what he wants you to experience, you see. And from that, now get the connection, you see, he says, and his power which is at work for you That power which is at work in you, the resurrection power. You see, as you and I look at that hope, and that's what this whole series on prophecy is about, that that will bring into greater focus your and my hope of the inheritance that we have. But then we have to live in this world. And so we're not people who live just with a a denial, you know. This world, this life sucks, so we'll just kind of hope that things will get better in heaven, and we can hold that hope in isolation from reality That's not what Paul is saying. He says, now I want you in holding that hope to know that that power that is going to bring Christ back in the new heavens and the new earth That power which raised him from the dead, that power is already at work and available to you who believe. Remember back this summer By the way, if you're interested in the blanks on that, number three is to know his power, of course, and then that is your strength. So he's talking here about knowing your God, your hope, and your strength. Back in the summer, we looked at Daniel chapter 7, you remember, where we saw that this one, the Son of Man, who is promised, comes with the clouds of heaven. Daniel 7, verse 13. One like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven, he approached the ancient of days, that's the eternal God, was led into his presence, and he was given authority, glory, sovereign power So that all peoples, nations, men of every language worshiped him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away. And his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. And we saw how that when Jesus, after his resurrection, gave the Great Commission in Matthew chapter 28, it's Daniel 7 that he refers to. That's the language of Matthew 28. All authority has been given to me in heaven and earth. That's exactly what Daniel says here. So therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations, so that all the nations come to worship me Now what I want you to see is that what Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1, 17-23, is simply the outflow of Daniel 7 and Matthew 28. It's a mistake for us to see his that you might know his power for you who believe that power is like that raised Jesus. from the dead and ascended him into heaven and exist to find you a parking space next Tuesday when you can't find it or so that your television won't go in the blink and the microwave will serve for another six months. You know, all the power that we see has to do with solving our problems in our immediate situation His power is for us in our need. But the way to experience and know that power, primarily, he is saying, is by bringing the presence of the sovereign Christ into your world. into your workplace, among your neighbors, into your family of those who don't know him, so that Jesus, whose authority is absolute, that's what he says The one who is absolute will come to show you his power in subduing your enemies and his enemies under his rule. You see, the amazing thing is that Jesus is absolute authority. And when he comes back, if it's this week From that moment on, his authority will never again be challenged or questioned. But for his own purpose between his first and second coming, he allows, he permits his authority to both be challenged and ignored. Your friends, your neighbors can ignore the authority of Jesus Christ. Now you and I continually challenge it when we read something and we say, Lord, I just don't have the faith to do that, I don't want to do that. He permits us to cast off that bit of his authority. But what he longs for you and for me to experience is we experience knowing him better, therefore trusting him more, loving him more, knowing the hope that he has set forth. the glorious inheritance ahead is that we then experience his power at work changing our lives and bringing his presence His sovereign loving presence into our world. Let me give you an example of that. This week Um my wife Kathy, who's now a student teacher over at Oakland Mills Middle School, uh was um talking with her mentor. And uh this woman gave her uh an article to read for teachers from this week's Washington Post. I don't know if any of you saw this, but the article entitled, I Never Dreamed There Was So Much I Couldn't Do, is written by a teacher who taught in this area Uh 1998 -99, that school year. That was her first year of teaching. She was in law school and uh decided that it was more important to become a teacher. And so she became a teacher, taught for one year, and she quit. She says, I never plan to teach again. Now let me tell you why. Well you teachers, look Really, it's a very moving article. She says, Explaining why I left isn't easy. I had been I had seen teaching as a way of liberating the students' minds so that they believed that they could be or do whatever they wanted. During my short tenure, there were moments when I accomplished this, but more often I was frustrated and unable to help my students because their problems were so vast and the school's resources so inadequate. One day stands out. The day five of my students were suspended. It started when a boy called a girl an obscene name. She then asked four boys to beat him up for her. So they held him down outside and punched and kicked him while the other students simply looked on. Finally, this was broken up. The kids got three days' suspensions, two in school and one out. And she says, I'm ashamed to admit that I was relieved. Uh partly because I feel like they had gotten what they deserved, but also because, at least for a short while, teaching was a lot easier There was more peace in the classroom. Kids could learn better. Things were more tranquil. And then the kids um were after the suspension allowed back in after that third day. She says, one of the days shortly after that, something happened that squeezed my heart a little. I saw one of the suspended students. He started crying in the cafeteria. And he couldn't stop. Maybe because some of the others were teasing him, maybe because he was ashamed of what he had done Maybe because he felt ostracized. Maybe because he thought he had disappointed me. Maybe he didn't think at all. But he seemed to know that he no longer belonged. And she talks about how one after another the students she saw becoming belligerent. Don't look at me, don't touch me, in the days that they came back. And she said, We haven't served these kids. I have no resources for what to do for them. They may be headed for prison, and I have nothing that I can do to stop them. One kid she says was very bright but obsessed with violent video games. In his writing notebook, I found an entry about how much he hated his parents and wished they were dead. But his mother was concerned about how it might look if he was sent to a counselor, and the counselor thought it was a matter for the parents to solve. And so nobody dealt with the problem. And so she says, I quit. I'm out of it. No resources, nothing to offer. This was given by a teacher who's teaching at Oakland Mills Middle School saying, that's the system we're in. Now when you read that or hear that and think, what a high school was this? Or what middle school? Know what it was? Second grade She teaches second grade. All these things happen to second graders. You see why this article is begging for the gospel? I mean, this article is saying our schools have nothing to offer. When we pastors met with Michael Hickey, superintendent of Howard County Schools, we said, what can we bring? As those who represent Jesus Christ in this country, in our county, and our churches, what can we bring to help you in your job? And he said, You guys are our only hope. He said, the families of this county are deteriorating to such an extent that we can no longer teach And if that doesn't turn around, we've lost it. Now do you see what Paul's saying in Ephesians 1? That you might know Him, refreshed, basked in your own soul to the gospel, that you might know the hope which is set before you, that this life, this world is going to be changed. There'll be a new heavens and earth wherein his righteousness But right now, the resurrection power of Jesus Christ is available for you, not only for the solving of your problems, but also that you may bring that presence into this community. That's what our vision statement's about. How do we go about doing that? So that we might see the power of Jesus Christ demonstrated here and now in glorifying Him through changed lives. Amen. See, that's what it's about. So who is this power available for? He says, For you who believe. Believe what? Believe in Jesus as Savior and Lord. That's what he's talked about in the previous verses. Verse 7. Believe in him for redemption. Verse 15, believe in Jesus Christ as Savior. But also for those of you who believe by acting on that Day by day, Lord, I want to know more of this power. Let me tell you, this verse has meant a lot to me this week. I'm involved in a situation with people that I care deeply for, that if this verse wasn't true, I would be in despair. But I believe that his power is available for me, for you, far beyond anything that you and I can do in our own pathetic strength. He wants you and me to know that power. Do you want to know it? Is that something that you're hungering for? Are you willing to humble yourself before him? confessing your own spiritual bankruptcy. See, I believe that Jesus Christ intends that this be experienced by us both individually and corporately That as you may be discouraged this morning, saying, Where is that power? As I have been discouraged in my own life, Lord, where is your power? But we can look at the body of Christ, the Columbia Presbyterian, and God's doing things in our body, and we can say, but God is doing this, and that's why we have more and more These days at our Lord's Supper services, testimonies of God's work in transforming lives within our body to build your faith, you see. So that corporately uh that individually we are being fed and encouraged by the corporate faith of the body. And also that corporately as a body we're moving forward as we hear what God is doing in individuals. But it begins with your availability to Jesus Christ. It begins by your not being afraid to draw close to him out of your pride. And your self-righteousness. It begins by your setting your mind on the hope that is set before you. For you have died with Christ, and you're now seated with him And when he appears, you shall also appear with him in glory. And that hope burns in your heart. And you're ready for him to do a new work in your life, showing his power in your weakness. As you bring Christ into your situation. Let's pray. Oh, Lord our God Lord, humble us as a people. That we would not be afraid to draw close to you and See what our hearts are really like, and not pretend that they're something different. Lord, that you'd strip us of our pride And of our self-righteousness, that the gospel would become again a wonder to us That you desire an intimate relationship with each person in this room. And you have provided Jesus Christ to do everything necessary for that. So you bid us to draw close. You hold out for us a hope of glory that outweighs every disappointment in what this world could never deliver on in its promises. And your resurrection power is available to each one of us In whatever overwhelming circumstances we may be involved in. Lord, turn our hearts to believe you, to trust you. Teach us as a church to follow you, to step out on faith, to believe you, to do the things that we cannot do ourselves. Plans and ideas that are doomed to failure unless you're in them. That we might experience the fulfillment of these purposes in our lives In my life, in each one of us, to the glory of Jesus Christ. Amen.