Well it is Palm Sunday today, the beginning of Holy Week, when we particularly meditate on the trial, the death, and the resurrection of our Lord Jesus, usually from a gospel This year, however, I want to look at a text about the cross and the love of God. We hear much today about God 's love. And often it's presented in ways that are seeming to me more sentimental, superficial, and even indulgent, kind of like a symbol to help us to feel that we are loved. But the Bible brings the love of God into the closest possible connection with the most terrible deed in human history, the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. What happened on Good Friday. In fact, the Bible would clearly indicate to you and to me That the measure of God's love to you is revealed not by how this week went, not by the minimization of your problems. Or conflicts, or disappointments. Rather, the measure of the love of God is something totally outside of you. And objective. It's in what he did at the cross. And if you've had a rough week Mine hasn't been the easiest, and I know some of you are in a lot of pain over various things. Then, brothers and sisters, I want to direct our attention to the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, that we might see there the measure of God's love for us. As Paul says, a number of texts could be used to illustrate this, but in Romans chapter 5, verse 8, God demonstrates his own love for us in this. Not your lack of problems, not your ease. In this , while we were still sinners Christ died for us. It's interesting to me that the context of that is precisely problems It's not that it's an escape from problems, it's in problems and frustrations and discouragement Look what he says at the beginning. Therefore, he says in verse 1, Since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand. And we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Sounds pretty good. But then verse three, not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings. Because we know that suffering produces perseverance. Perseverance, character. And character, hope. And hope does not disappoint us because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom he has given us. You see, at just the right time, when we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man. Though for a good man, someone might possibly dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love for us in this While we were still sinners, Christ died for us Let's pause for a moment and ask God to impress us with the truth of this. Lord, I feel at this point particularly a great sense of inadequacy In portraying the meaning of this text to us. Lord, for those in whom your spirit dwells, we need your spirit to come and to open this up that we might see Jesus. For those of us who are here in whom your spirit does not dwell, because we've never given our lives to you, we pray that your spirit would come and open up the truth of this. That we might see and find our rest in Jesus. Speak to each one of us in the way we need to hear now. The gospel. Amen. Three points I want to make from this. Number one Who he loved. Notice who it is that verse says, verse 8 says God loved. Who is it? Sinners While we were demonstrate, God demonstrates his love for us in this, that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. He didn't love us because we were able to make ourselves lovable. We try so hard to do that, don't we? But this passage is absolutely clear. We are unable. You are unable to make yourself lovable to God. Look how one described verse six. He says, Well, we are still powerless You see, powerless to please him, powerless to keep his commandments. It goes on to say that we were ungodly. That's how you're described. Ungodly and powerless to change it. You notice in verse 7, there's a contrast between verse 7 and verse 8. See, verse 8 begins with but And verse 7 talks about who might be died for. Rarely will anyone die for a righteous man Maybe for a good person, but you see, in contrast to that, you and I are neither. We're neither righteous nor good. We're sinners And then verse 10 is the climax of all of it. For in verse 10, it says that we were God's enemies. If when we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to Him through the death of His Son. I may ask you, who would you be willing to die for Who would you be willing to give your life for? Perhaps you hear stories of that and you wonder, would I be willing to do that? Verse 7 says, Very rarely will someone give their life for a righteous person. That is just because they are a good person. Now he says, perhaps, sometimes verse seven there Uh for a good person someone might possibly dare to die. What's the distinction? Well I think the distinction Is that a righteous person, righteous in God's sight, you know, they're a person whose life seems to warrant a sacrifice That's not enough for you and me. But someone who is good to us, that is, we value that person. There's a relationship. There is something about them that they are good to us. You think of that classic Charles Dickens, The Tale of Two City. And do you remember how Carton Finally, trades places with the prisoner condemned to die, Darna. So that Darna will be free to go and spend the rest of his life with the woman that they both love, Lucy. And Carton, who has not been a very Sterling kind of character is willing to do this because of her goodness to him. She's precious to him. And so he wants to sacrifice his life. to save the person that she loves. You recall back in January of nineteen eighty-two, those of us who lived in this area back then, probably a number of you have moved here since then, but January of nineteen eighty-two is a particularly frigid month in DC. And uh January and January of nineteen eighty-two Uh there was Air Florida Flight 90 that flew out of National Airport, you remember, headed for Tampa. Too much ice on the wings, probably sucked up too much slush into the jet engines, wasn't able to take off. And crashed into the Potomac River. Immediately rescue operations began. Do you remember the story at that time? of the fact that clinging to the tail section were five survivors. And of those five survivors, one A man in his fifties with they said a large mustache was hanging on there, and every time they let down the lifeline and the ring, he'd pass it to someone else and let them get on. And finally, by the time they were able to come back after the other four were gone to get him, he could no longer hold on, and he sank into the icy waters of the Potomac and drowned. And people were struck by that. Why would this man give his life for strangers? Why would he do this? Rare, rare sacrifice. But you need to understand that what Romans 5. 8 is saying is that we are not simply strangers, that you feel like Well God thought that these people have something in their lives that's that's worth saving. They're people who are probably good people, and it's worth making a sacrifice for them. But the Bible portrays you and me more like Michael Johnson and Andrew Golden in Jonesboro, Arkansas. Who shot fifteen people and killed five? And the relationship is more like God is one of the fathers of one of the daughters that you just killed You're his enemy. You're not neutral toward him. If you're outside of Jesus Christ this morning It is not a matter of that's okay, God can run his world his way, just let me live my life my way. You're assaulting his majesty. If you had your way, he'd be dethroned as God. Because you and I want to live our lives centered around ourselves. And that is an assault upon the essential deity of God Himself. Were his enemies. And as one who's been so personally assaulted, think of a father Whose daughter is lying there in that pool of blood? God's wrath is against you and me for our sin. And it's an absolutely just wrath. We don't like to look at our hearts and think that we're like those kids. People have written all this week about What made them do it and why them and you know southern culture and everything else and guns and all the rest of this. But little sense that we share in common hearts that are evil That there is a base, you and I are more like them than different from them. We may be socially restrained. But our hearts are just as evil. You know, recently there have been a number of papers written by anthropologists on early primitive prehistoric civilizations that have been found. 1970, an anthropologist presented a paper in which he dared to say that most of the societies that had been discovered prehistoric were cannibalistic. It was met with absolute ridicule and severe criticism. Now nearly 30 years later, 15,000 skeletons later that have been discovered, the evidence is overwhelming. Primitive prehistoric societies are almost without exception cannibalistic. Lack of restraint, the human heart manifests itself. Because we have this veneer of civilization that is so so thin We think that we're good people. But the Bible says, you and I, no matter how good we appear on the outside, in our hearts, we are God's enemies. And yet this verse says that God did not withdraw Himself and simply allow us to be consumed By the rottenness of our sin to destroy each other or be to be destroyed by him. But rather, see what it says And remark at the surprise of this verse. God demonstrates his love for us in this that while we were still sinners, his enemies, Christ died for us. How does he demonstrate this love? He died for us. Christ died for us. Love you see can be measured by what it's willing to sacrifice for the beloved. Whenever I set limits on what I'm willing to do for Kathy, my wife, I realize that those limits show me the limit of my love for her. If I think, why should I do this? Why should I have to do that? Why should I need to serve you in this way? That comes right back to me. That's a limit of your love. And I'm ashamed at times of the limits of my love. I would sacrifice very little for a stranger. For some of my friends, I'd sacrifice more. For those that I'm very close to, I would probably sacrifice a fair amount For family, I don't know the limits to which I'm willing to go. None of us does until that time comes. Charlene McConan sacrificed her kidney in order to save the wife of her husband, Hilut, from Ethiopia. I recall a moving letter from another missionary in our church from Ethiopia. This person, Mary Alphenar. was writing shortly after she had arrived in Ethiopia. She says, a couple of weeks ago, after my arrival, a pregnant woman came into the hospital with anemia and in need of a blood transfusion. None of her family were able to donate, and because my blood type was the same as hers, I was glad to give. A week later, a young man, about 18 years old, was admitted also with severe anemia His condition was very serious. It was likely that he would die without a transfusion. His uncle, who had brought him in, was not willing to give blood for even or even to look for a family member or friend to donate. He expected that somebody from our hospital staff would donate. That's our job. An appeal was made to the staff, but no one volunteered to give. I was puzzled by the reluctance of the staff I asked my friend Elsa, one of the staff about it. Is the boy a Muslim? she asked. Yes he is, I answered. She shook her head. I cannot explain it in English. And so I found Ragat, another staff member whose English is better than Elsa, to help explain. So many Muslims come here, she said. They have many, many family and friends. But none will give blood. Even a husband will let his wife die. Or a mother will let her child die. But they will not give their blood They always want us to give. We have all given two or three times. If we give always for them, we may not be able to give for our own family or friends when they need blood. A little while later, Elsa went to see the boy who needed the blood. She saw herself how serious his condition was. She told me she was afraid for him, and so she gave her blood. The next day the boy's condition was much improved. He seemed to be out of danger of death. Dr. Stonehouse requested that one of the staff explained Explained to the boy and his uncle in their language that Elsa had given some of her blood to save the life of the boy because Jesus Christ had given his blood and his life to save the life of Elsa. The uncle was not impressed. He knew another bag of blood would make the boy stronger still, and so he told the staff he wanted one of them to give another bag of blood The ingratitude of this man was indeed a shame, but it served to remind me of how often I am ungrateful for the blood that Christ shed for me. And how many times I demand more from the one who has already given his life to save mine. Don't misunderstand, my point in sharing that illustration is not to say that Muslims are heartless. It's a particular situation in a particular locale. But it describes the human heart. Love is measured by the sacrifice that it's willing to make for the beloved. Do remember that day that Abraham, proud father of his son Isaac, growing to be a teenager , Was told by a God with whom he had conversed, the God who had shared his secrets and his plans. And that God came to Abraham and he said, Abraham, take your son Your only son, whom you love, and sacrifice him as a burnt offering for me Can you imagine Abraham's thoughts and feelings in hearing that? God God wait a minute. That's beneath heathen practices. God, that that is not that that is not by your nature. You're not a God to require human sacrifice. And and God, Isaac's the son of the promise And it's bad enough for a father to see his son killed, but for me to plunge the knife into my son's breast Can you imagine God asking you to take your 12 or 13 or 14-year-old and say, take that son or that daughter, bring it to a mountain and sacrifice him or her as a burnt offering to me to show how much you love me. What would that do to your relationship with God? But the Bible tells us in Genesis 22 that the very next morning, early in the morning, Abraham trusting God. Packed up Isaac, a few servants, some provisions, and went three days into the desert toward Moriah. Can you imagine that trip? The heart of that old man, well over a hundred, who had waited twenty-five years after the promise for the birth of this son And Isaac is oblivious and he's joking and he's observing things and to him it's you know it's kind of a backpack, it's a picnic, and so he's just moving on, but he notices his dad never takes his eyes off of him. He notices his dad seems rather heavy-hearted, and sometimes it seems like there's a tear in old Abraham's eyes. What's wrong, Dad? Something bothering you? No, my son. Everything's okay. And on they go, toward Mariah. The third day they arrived in that region of Moriah, Jerusalem, where the temple would someday be built. And God says to Abraham, that's the place. Take your son up there and sacrifice him to me. And Abraham takes Isaac, and on they go up to that mountain. And Abraham builds the altar, gathers the wood, and then he binds his own son. Ties him. And Isaac trustingly submits. Why, Dad? And he ties his arms And he lays him down on that altar of wood. And he lifts the knife about to plunge it into the breast of his own son. And God intervenes. God says, Stop, Abraham, stop I remember reading one time of a father who was leaving for work, got into his car in the driveway. His four-year-old son was playing behind the car, and he never saw him. He backed up over his son. He heard the screams. He dashed out of the car just in time to gather up his four-year-old son. And heard only, Oh Daddy, and he died in his arms That image would never leave that man as long as he lived And Abraham with the knife wielded. He is stopped by God. And God provides the ram That's a substitute. But eighteen hundred years later, just within viewing distance of that hill God 's own son would be bound by nails to a cross Willingly having submitted to the Father, who at some time in ages past had said, My son, for these creatures Who shake their fists at us and are so determined to live their life in their own way, and are so self-destructive. I send you to keep my law in their place, and then to die the death that they deserve. And Jesus, not ignorantly, but with full understanding, says, Yes, Father, I will go for them. And when God comes to that point at Calvary where he raises the knife of his judgment and his wrath to plunge it into the heart of his own son There is no one above God to stay his hand. There is no one to intervene. There is no provision that is made to save the Father's heart from being broken. But he loves you, and he loves me enough that he continues and goes through with it For it is the only way that you can be saved. And Jesus is the shield between the Father's wrath And you and me in all that we deserve. Jesus dies Dies under the full curse of the Father. God demonstrates his own love for us in this that while we were still sinners, Christ Died for us. No earthly comparison can begin to describe to us The measure of the Father's love. For we did nothing to deserve it. And what value can you place upon the life of the eternal Son of God? Before whom the entire universe is superfluous To save the life of his son, God could have simply said, I will simply destroy that universe and will make another universe and start over. But he wouldn't do that Because God demonstrated his love for you, and you and you and me And sending his own son to die for us. Do not think That there could be any other way for you to be saved. And so my third point is why he had to die. There was no other way to save us. God demonstrates his own love for us in this: that while we were still sinners, Christ died. For us. Can you imagine some other way for the Creator judge of all the earth? To justify you, verse 9, since we've now been justified, declared innocent, acquitted From God's law and the judgment of that law? Another way for us to be acquitted? Can you imagine another way that God would save us from his wrath? The end of verse 9 How much more should we be saved from God's wrath through him? Can you imagine another way that God could reconcile us who were his enemies? Verse ten. If we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to him. You notice in all three of those cases we are reconciled by his blood. We are saved from his wrath. Through him we are reconciled through the death of his son. If there was some other way, any other way No matter what the exception, if there is another way for a person to be reconciled to God, acquitted, saved from his wrath, brought to heaven, rescued And then God allowed, in fact, participated in, was the prime agent in the suffering and death of his own son. The scourging, the mocking, the crown of thorns, the beating, the carrying of the cross, the nailing to the cross, the cursing, the alienation, the bitter agony. If God did that. He's not a god of love. He is a monster. For he did that to his own son when he didn't have to. And yet, how often do we think, well, maybe there's some other way Maybe you think that for yourself. We live in a day where we read tale after tale of after death experiences. And we see it's you know it's just this tunnel that moves toward light and there's welcoming and everything's good. No problem. Maybe there's some other way The missionaries in Japan who see multitudes walk into Tokyo, hundreds and thousands and millions of people with no interest in Jesus Christ, and you ask yourself, can all of these people be going to hell? Is there some other way? Is there that tunnel of blissful light that somehow will envelop sin? I don't know if you ever read this, but there's a cartoon. You know, I continue to maintain some of our better philosophy today, comes from cartoons. Cartoon that's uh in the post in a lot of papers, non sequitur. Non sequitur is an interesting cartoon because it's postmodern New Age cartoon, absolutely. Wiley Miller has no interest, is no friend of Christianity. This past Sunday. He did a little cartoon. There was a play on that. I don't know if any of you saw it. There's a police walking across the street about to be hit by a Mac truck So he's his body's spread all over, and he's going up there into the stars. Whoops, you know, that's it, and all of a sudden, after his death, you see point point, ah, angel wings, cool He's got wings. And then he's talking to himself. Ha! Despite a career built on lying and cheating my way to the top, I still got here I almost feel sorry for all those suckers who wasted their time thinking decency was their ticket to paradise. Well now all I have to do is follow the light to my final reward Last panel. Here's Satan reading the obituary column. The light at the end of the tunnel is a bug zapper. Now it may seem silly, but in today's philosophy How do you know that the light at the end of the tunnel isn't a bug zapper instead of a friendly Jesus? Unless you have a guide, unless there is a Bible that is God's Word to tell you This is your problem. This is my solution. And this is how to be right with me. I sent my son to die. And there is no other way. You will perish as that fool, and it'll be too late. But if Jesus is all that he has said, and his life is that provision for you. And God did demonstrate his love for you in that while you are a sinner, Christ has died to take that sin. Then you can trust him to meet that promise this morning. And if you've already trusted him Then you can trust him with every area of your life. The areas that make sense and the areas that don't make sense Because if he gave his own son to die for you, what would he possibly withhold? If you're wondering about this and concerned about your own relationship with Jesus, This morning I want to take the opportunity, and at 10 o'clock, when we come back here to hear Kevin speak about youth ministry , Uh if any of you would like to talk about this, I'll be back there in what's called the prayer room. It's a little room right off of the back of this room here, right back there with the sign. And if any of you want to talk about this. How to be sure, questions that you have. I'll be back there to talk. Let's pray. Lord, we want to just at this moment before we enter in more thoughtfully in a few moments to pray , to simply ask you to speak to our hearts. That we would understand something of your love, a measure of that love not revealed ultimately to us in the variableness of our circumstances. But in that definitive once-for-all sacrifice of your own Son, in judgment for our sin. Oh God, whatever our situation, to trust Him for the first time and be freed from the burden of us, that sin and the guilty conscience For Lord, to be able to rest in every area. Those areas we're holding back and we we're afraid of you. We don't trust you. We don't trust your goodness. Open our eyes to see the love of the Father and of the Son demonstrated at the cross. That we would rest in you. Amen