Now, if you uh know what text we are in, let me also preface this sermon by saying there's no truth to the rumor that Dan specially requested that this text be preached. immediately following the announcement of his engagement. There's also no truth to the rumor, all although the Flora family is leaving on vacation this week, that we have our van uh idling in the parking lot. So that I can jump in there and head to the head to the mountains. There is, however, truth To be had in this text. God's word is timeless truth, it's eternal truth. It reveals the very best for his people. In fact, all of creation And so there is truth here for us. It can transform our hearts, it can renew our minds, and it is to be read and studied and received So we do have truth today. I want to read from 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. This is God's word for us today. Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands So that even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. Do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of clothing, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart. With the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, by submitting to their husbands. As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. And you are her children, if you do good, and do not fear anything that is frightening. God 's word for us. Praise be to God. Let me pray for us in this. Father in heaven, we thank you for preserving the Word these many centuries, for protecting it, for providing it to us, even for this appointment in this very moment. And God, we humbly submit ourselves to your leadership now, to the way that your spirit would I'm always amazed, Lord. Take the study of a frail human and the reception of other frail humans and apply this powerful word to our hearts to make us into the image of God. Jesus Christ. Lord, we ask for that now in the name that is above all names, even Jesus our Lord. Amen. Amen. Well if you've been around for the last couple of weeks, you you know that we're in the middle of a small series here that Peter has taken his reader through and here two thousand years. Later we're going through. Maybe you've been away, maybe you've picked up the recordings online. You know that three weeks ago we looked at submission as it relates to society, to the civil magistrate, and then several weeks ago Submission as it relates to the us in the workplace, whether we be uh slaves or masters, and masters those good, the bad, and the ugly. And this week and next, we're going to look at submission as it relates to another government that God has instituted, and that is the family. So this week we look at wives and next week we look at husbands. And maybe you already have noted this that the wives get six verses and the husband gets one. Maybe Peter knows how dull the husbands are. And maybe he knows that This package of verses, this presentation of truth, has got so much richness to it that he did not want to give it a short shrift. You see, it's all connected to submission because Peter's use of the word likewise, some of your translations may say, in the same way or in the same manner. And it connects all those passages from Verse 13 on through, actually through 8 and 9 of chapter 3, and all the way through verse 13. And we're going to look at that on Labor Day weekend. The church and our submission to one another. But Peter says, likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands. And so I'm going to try this here. Marriage Marriage is what brings us here together today Marriage, that blessed arrangement, that dweam within a dream Okay, I didn't suddenly just, you know, lose it, but maybe I did. I'll hear about it later. You may or may not be familiar with the Princess Bride and the forced Marriage between Prince Humperdinck and the Princess Buttercup. It's just one of a thousand ways That marriage, the traditional, biblical, scriptural, beautiful Partnership, lifelong partnership of one man and one woman is being systematically dismantled before our very eyes. Now, the Princess Bride is doing it through humor, you know. There's an inept, some religious figure, priest with a hat that's way too tall for his head, making fun of the dweam within a dweem But we see other attacks on marriage that are heinous and destructive and openly so Attacking what God has said is right and good. Remember, the first negative pronouncement was made about man And it was not good for man to be alone. Now that's before sin ever entered the world. In the garden, before the fall of man, God said, It is not good for man to be alone. And so he formed Eve from Adam and for Adam. He said, for this reason, a man will leave. his father and his mother, a woman will leave her home, and the two, that man and that woman, will become one And it's a picture, Paul told the Ephesians. It's a picture, this mystery I speak of, it's Christ and the church. And to see, there's a design there to marriage that reflects God's glory, and we dare not mess with it. Peter knows we need to hear this word. So marriage. I can't hardly say it right now. Marriage is in view. God 's view of marriage. You may be a married person here today. Maybe you're a single person here today. Maybe you are single again for whatever reason. Maybe you're not of marrying age. Flora daughters, pay attention. But maybe you're not even a female This word has truth for each of us. It points us to qualities characteristic of a transformed heart. And the admonition, albeit directed toward our sisters in Christ who happen to be spouses as well, the principle of submission here is for each of us to pay close attention to and to find out how we might have those new priorities of a transformed heart Peter does write to wives, though, and he says, Wives be subject to your own husbands. The idea he's bringing forth again is what we've seen in verse 13, what we see in verse 18. Well we see again here in verse one of chapter three the uh the word hupataso this this concept of willingly, voluntarily placing ourselves under the leadership of another For those in the civil uh society, it's to place themselves under and honor the emperor Good emperor, bad emperor, corrupt emperor. It's for the slave, the servant, the household servant, to subject himself willingly to the master. A good and gentle master, yes, but also a crooked and perverse master, we looked at. And for the wife here Peter says, subject yourself, willingly, voluntarily, place yourself in a subordinate role to the one that God has ordained as the head of the home. Good and great husband? Yeah, please. Right? Amen. From the female voices and But Peter knows that in that time there probably were many who came to faith and didn't have a believing husband. And so he speaks to them and he says, listen, there is power in the way you live. That power Comes because the same power that raised Christ from the grave is the power that is at work in you. That's why he knows there's power And so Peter says, wise be subject to your own husband. Now I want to say this for everybody so that you kind of know where Tim is, okay? And where the scriptures teach. Note, this is not a command for all women everywhere to be subject to all men everywhere in every setting they find themselves, male and female. Can we get an amen from that? Where God has spoken clearly and explicitly with regard to leadership and subordinate roles Family, the church. We need to pay careful attention and we need to heed it and be obedient to the word. We dare not tamper with God's word. But there are things that we read in the scriptures, we see Esther, the queen, we see Deborah, we see others, Lydia, the Proverbs 31 woman who was a businesswoman. And yet also a wife. So can we kind of, can I move on from that? Okay, everybody? Got that? It's not because you are male, sir, that you get to run the world and all these who are the underprivileged females have to go and get your coffee for you. Not at all. In fact, that's not the way it is in marriage either. And I hope to draw that out unless I keep talking about this point. I also want to get it out in full view before we get too far into this message. The ideas of headship and submission I believe are biblical. But I believe and I have seen the devastation and the destruction of how headship and submission, those concepts have been corrupted and twisted by the fall, how people have misused and misunderstood them And many who have experienced the hurt of that misunderstanding or that abuse of those concepts have taken the option To say, well, it's got to not be that. It just can't be this that God's talking about. And there I pull in 2 Corinthians 4 again. We dare not tamper with God's word. Let's pay attention closer attention to what God says, as opposed to closing the book and coming up with our own ideas. I know that many have been hurt by the abuse of these concepts, but we forget that headship and submission were in place by the all-wise God before sin In the garden before the fall of man, there was a head of the home, and there was a gracious Submissive partner. That's the picture that Paul wants to bring the reader, I mean that Peter wants to bring the reader's attention to. Paul does too, by the way. You see the reference there in Ephesians. Paul parallels these concepts to his readers in Colossi and Ephesus, because these are important for us to grasp. It's because these concepts have been distorted that we need to pay careful attention to what's going on here. So see here, Peter assumes that believing husbands should be obeying the word. And he doesn't even reference believing husbands and their faithfulness to obey the word. He references those who are Not obeying the word, even if some do not obey the word. Now I talked with a couple of pastor friends of mine. I did some word studies. The root word here is not what we normally see with believer, the pestuo, the faith, those who have faith. And it's not those who are the unbelievers either. So I'm not gonna go out on a really fragile limb here, but I will say that I think what's in view here is a husband who is not obeying the word. Believer or non believer A husband who's not obeying the word. And I don't think that we're messing with years of marriage retreats and conferences where this passage has exclusively been used to talk about a wife with an unbelieving husband. I believe what Peter's saying is when the husband's not obeying the word Be he a believer or a non-believer, wife, you've got a wonderful opportunity. That God Himself throws his weight behind. God is in this with you Peter says that the husband can be directed to God or won over without a word by the conduct, by living out of a genuine, humble, grace-reliance faith of his wife. Godly conduct, do we know this already? I know we do. Godly conduct is a powerful thing. It's our testimony. Earlier in the letter, Peter says in verse Verse 9 of chapter 2, he reminds the readers that we who believe in Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord are those who are a people for his own possession. He purchased us with his blood, a people for his own possession, that what we Live out is that we may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light. That's our purpose, to proclaim the excellencies of him who called us out of darkness. We no longer live like the world. We live like children of the King. We have different priorities. We have a new perspective. Our hearts are different. And I asked myself a question as I prepared this, and I want to put the question to you. Are our lives the kind of lives which proclaim Christ's excellencies? Is your life the kind of life that proclaims the excellencies of Christ? I wanted to suggest respectfully that that question should be always before us from the moment that we yield our heart to Christ as Savior and Lord. to the time when he gloriously brings us into his physical presence. Does my life proclaim Christ's excellencies? Last week I ripped on the famous Saint Francis of Assisi quote. You know, the uh the quote where he says, uh preach the gospel and if necessary, use words. And I use the J. D. Greer uh quotation And he said , it's just that's like saying, give me your phone number, and if necessary, use digits, you know, because there is a gospel message that the God who created took on flesh and died in the place of the sinners that rebelled against him. Peter, in fact, just Spoke of this in chapter two. He himself bore our sins in the tree. It bore our sins in his body on the tree so that we might Died a sin and lived to righteousness, proclaiming the excellencies of Christ. And Peter's not calling Christian wives to a different kind of evangelism, a no-word evangelism. That's the same Peter that tells us in chapter one and verse twenty-three that this uh this Word by which we've been born again is not perishable seed, but imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. There's a message that we proclaim. And that message, when it is received by faith, changes our lives. They're supposed to go together. Right? Please remind me of that when you see me not living out consistently. A life that should proclaim the excellencies of Christ Speak more on why I don't believe Peter's talking about a no-word evangelism for wives a little bit later, but let's move on. So, godly conduct is a powerful thing. Think about this for a moment. This thought hit me, and I just had to share it with you. We have powerful pictures of Christ. All caught up in our hearts. Powerful pictures of Christ that are present in our heart and just waiting to burst forth In technicolor to all those around us. Responding with not reviling when we're reviled. Responding with forgiveness. Extending mercy and grace Loving the unlovely. That's Christ. And it's all there because Christ dwells in us. His Spirit has conquered our hearts. That powerful picture of Jesus Christ is right there waiting to burst forth. Peter says, Dear wife, let it come forward. Verse 2 also points to the fact that this is not a an inferiority posture here, but that this is a Simply a division of labor, not, like I said in the bullet and outline, not supposed to be a laborious, divisive thing The head of the home and those who submit to the head. Just because someone is subordinate does not equal or does not mean that that person is inferior. You don't believe me? Just take a glimpse at the Trinity. We believe that the scriptures teach that there is one God And that one God exists in three persons. And those three persons are co-eternal, consubstantial, of the same substance, and co -equal. That's what the scriptures teach. They each of the persons in the Godhead are fully God. But they willingly The Son willingly submits himself to the will of the Father. And the Holy Spirit, who proceeds from the Father and the Son, willingly submits and glorifies the Father and the Son. Nobody can call them inferior. Because they're not. Peter points us to the wisdom and the reality of God's design. We've already talked about in the garden. And Paul confirms that this this isn't inferiority when he wrote to the church in Galatia And he said, Listen, now for those who are in Christ, there's neither male nor female, there's neither slave nor free, there's neither Jew nor Greek. He didn't say that we we throw all those things out. He says, in Christ Everyone is everyone is in Christ Jesus died for the husband and the wife. So can we get away from this silly and stupid idea that subordination means inferiority? It doesn't. A superior officer in the military is not necessarily superior in character to those under his command, but without the structure, there can be no proper functioning of the unit that they serve. So verse two is a reminder that when they see your godly conduct, you might win that husband over. But you're to be subject to your own husband. And then Peter stresses the reality that our good deeds, our godly conduct, our exterior. can only spring forth from a heart that has been transformed by the grace of the living God. Look at verse 3 and 4. So then, do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of your hair, the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing that you wear, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart. With the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. So, just so we're clear again, this is not a command to ugliness. All right Read the Song of Psalms and you'll see the beauty being described. You know, Peter, you remember Peter, he's always like, you know, blunt and putting his foot in and stuff Ladies, do you catch this? So he picks on hair, clothing, and jewelry. The big three He didn't include shoes, but it's I think assumed under clothing He's saying, don't let your beauty be merely that, the exterior. We have four daughters in the Flora House, and I think they're beautiful. Mostly because I think they take after my wife. They braid each other's hair. They wear a little bit of makeup We give jewelry as gifts at Christmas and birthday. When they turn thirteen, they can get their ears pierced. Hang in there, Cala, it's coming. She's the only one that hadn't got holes in her ears yet. But I strongly desire for my daughters and the daughters that I get to interact with from your family as well, that their beauty be not merely the external adornments, the big three. Hair, clothing, jewelry. But that it be this that Peter describes, this, look at, he says, the hidden person of the heart. Peter uses the Greek word anthropos there. It's the this is the hidden man, the hidden person, that which Christ has made. That's who Christ is making you to be And so let that hidden person of the heart be the beautiful. Let that be the beauty that shines forth And he says, you can't go wrong with that kind of beauty. That's the kind of beauty that is what? Very precious to God in God's sight. That's what God gets drawn to Because that is what reveals Jesus Christ in you, beloved. Have you ever seen one of those Hollywood stars from yesteryear in modern times? Remember they were so glamorous, so beautiful, so polished, so put together. Then you see them in their sixties and seventies. We realize when we see that picture, we realize the truth of the scripture, right? That the outer man is wasting away. Come on, we get this. The outer man is wasting away, but Paul told the Corinthians that the inner man is being renewed day by day. The inner man, that one trusting in Christ, is being renewed day by day. In 1 Timothy 4, Paul said to the young pastor who shepherded the church in Ephesus Bodily training is of some value. Physical training is good. Take care of yourself. Godliness is of value in every way. Physical training, good, but godliness, spiritual training, is of value in every way. Why? Because it holds forth the promise for this present life and also, Paul says, for the life to come. And that's what Peter's getting at. This is a beauty, this inner beauty, this adorning of the inner man. the inner person of the heart, that adorning is the one that is imperishable. It's unfading. Can't be spoiled. Peter has used this descriptor already twice. In chapter 1 and verse 4, he uses imperishable for the inheritance that we receive. And in chapter 1 and verse 23, he uses imperishable for the Word of God, the living and abiding word that changes our hearts. And, dear sister, that's the beauty he's calling your heart to. Have that kind of unfading, unspoiling beauty that's adorned from the inside out. Because it's reflective, after all, of the beauty of our Savior. You remember this weird passage that we sometimes stumble across I did in my early Christian walk, I stumbled across Isaiah. Uh I mean I stumbled when I read it. I didn't stumble across it. It was in a Bible study. But He had no stately form that we would be drawn to him. Because I used to picture Jesus the way he was always pictured in the you know the posters at the Sunday school teacher would Hold up. He was always the most handsome guy in the crowd. Whenever you watch the Hollywood presentation, they got the best-looking actor to play Jesus But Isaiah says that he had no stately form that we would be drawn to him. We weren't drawn to Christ because of an outward appearance. He wasn't, he didn't have that twinkle in his eye. Maybe he did, maybe he didn't. The scriptures are silent. We were drawn because he came bringing grace. We were drawn because when he spoke, he revealed to us the living God who loved us enough to crush his only Son, so that we wouldn't have to spend eternity suffering the punishment. That our sins deserved. That's beautiful. That's a lasting beauty. And we should encourage the imperishable beauty in our sisters. Can I Just jump on a soapbox for a little bit about compliments and encouragement. I believe the scriptures call us to affirm and encourage one another. Let me just say a quick word about compliments. We're designed the way we're built and created. We're designed to respond to encouragement. If my wife says that I look good in a blue shirt, guess what I'm going to choose if I have an opportunity for the choice. It's blue, by the way, in case you're listening to this as a recording. God's word calls us to encourage one another, to affirm one another. I think the problem we face is the depth of our encouragement. The depth of our encouragement is often too shallow. It's skin deep. The danger with shallow compliments is that it produces shallow beauty. And encouraging shallow beauty produces vain pursuits. The danger with shallow compliments is that it produces shallow beauty, and encouraging shallow beauty produces vain pursuits. And so it's not wrong to say, you look nice today. Oh, I I like your hair that way. Oh, did you get your hair cut? That looks great. Whatever. There's nothing wrong with that. But please, can we commit to one another that we won't stay there You know, when we were in cell group last week, when we were in home fellowship group last week, and you encouraged that teenager with her prayer life, that was beautiful. That was that was I saw her eyes like she just responded to you. That was really great. You know, when I when I saw you at the Sandtown Habitat for Humanity House And I knew the schedule that you had that week, and I saw you still committing yourself to service. That was beautiful. When no one else showed up for that meeting and you were there with your notepad ready and willing to serve My heart was encouraged. That was really beautiful. Do you see that? I mean, I you know I think that we need to commit ourselves to encouraging the beauty of the inner person. The hidden heart. In this present age, listen, it's a risky thing, because we're bombarded with all these body image things, right? Every every place you look, here's the perfection. You know, you see these you you you take a look at the beauty contest, they're mostly exterior, except for like, you know, the question about world peace and stuff. Which doesn't reveal that much either. But our our young sisters, our young women, they're I think maybe at risk. So are our young men. We're all at risk Body image benchmarks usually determined by people that want to sell us product or to the surface. We risk feeding into that if we focus our attention on the exterior and not the inner person of the heart. And so I've seen this happen You know, she she'll drop a couple of pounds and everybody will attract to that. Wow, you are you losing weight? You look really good. And we're we're wired that way. We're designed for encouragement and so I want to hear that affirmation again And so I'll do what I can to get that that encouragement again. Where is it again? Here it is. And now lose some more pounds or whatever. You know, it's the it's this kind of weird thing that happens, and we see it all the time now Because of the bombardment of the exterior. And I want to commit, and I want you to commit with me that this congregation, that this local community of Christ people Would be a community where we join with God in what he's doing to produce beautiful women. Beautiful women But beauty that's being adorned on that inner person of the heart. Amen. Let's look at what that beauty looks like. Here, I'm moving quickly now. Sorry. The inner beauty is from this. We see Christ in these words. This is what Peter says. This is from a gentle and quiet spirit. That's what the imperishable beauty looks like. It's of a gentle and quiet spirit. Gentle. The word occurs only three other times in the New Testament. And guess what? They're all spoken of. Christ is the reference point. In Matthew 11, 29, Jesus invites all those who are weary and heavy laden to come for him to come to him for rest. Because he says he is gentle and lowly of heart. See, Jesus is there, right? That's what Peter's calling these wives to to have a beauty that is Jesus' beauty. And then in Matthew 21, verse 5, we looked at this around Easter time. This is the gentle king who comes entering into Jerusalem, awaiting the cross before him. gentle and lowly and riding on a colt, the foal of a donkey. And then in Matthew 5, can it get any more powerful than this when Jesus is laying out the characteristics of those in his kingdom, he says, the meek or the gentle same word used by Peter here, the meek will do what? They will inherit the earth. This is not weakness. This is not Casper milk toast. This is not some Caricature of submission. This is where Jesus Christ shines brilliantly because nobody does this naturally. Nobody. Nobody lives this stuff out naturally. Jesus, gentle, and Jesus quiet. Gentle and quiet. That's why I don't think this quiet word here is synonymous with silence. I I I believe that on the authority of God's word, and I believe it because I live with Dana Flora. And I've seen other very strong, just godly women who speak their mind Who put forth an opinion and who graciously submit to the one that God has placed as head in that household to make the decision They offer their input, they prayerfully consider, they rebuke when necessary, they do what they're supposed to do because they belong to the same Christ. But this word quiet, Peter says in verse 1, that the husbands may be one without a word, that's not silence He didn't mean that the godly wife never speaks out against evil nor ever speaks the truth in love or seeks to correct wrong because Peter would negate the rest of Scripture. He didn't do that. So it's the the quiet. It's not like the admonition I saw on Facebook this week. I read this quote: Ladies, if a man says he will fix it, he will. There's no need to remind him every six months about it. I think a man probably wrote that. In fact if he could trace my computer, I probably wrote it. I wouldn't have put six months I probably would have put a year It's the same kind of quiet that's depicted in 1 Thessalonians 4 11. It's reflected of the uh reflective of the diligent, hard-working one who says, Listen, you don't need to worry about me. I've got this covered. I'm going to do what my responsibility is. That's 1 Thessalonians 4. 11. It's the same kind of quiet word that's used in 1 Timothy 2. That all are called to. We are all called to what? Lead the peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. Now listen, this is where it expands to all of us. Paul said to Timothy, Lead the peaceful and quiet life, because this is good and it's pleasing in the sight of God our Savior. See how we're all called to the same quality, the same characteristics? And Peter says in the last part, it says, Let the scriptures be your guide. You remember Pinocchio's conscience, Jiminy Cricket? Take the straight and narrow path and if you start to slide, give a little whistle. Give a little whistle And always let your conscience be your guide, right? Always let your conscience be your guide. Thank you, Jiminy. I have no problem letting your conscience be your guide, but we need to make sure of what and who is guiding our conscience. And Peter knows that tendency is in his readers. The tendency is here in 20th century or 21st century America. The tendency is here to say, listen, I think I know what's best for me. I think I'll do that. And Peter says, no, no, no. Look at the women of old. Look at the examples that have been laid down in sacred scripture. Look at the ones who God tells us were pleasing to him. That's who you emulate. That's who you follow. Look at Sarah. You know, he could have mentioned Esther, he could have mentioned Ruth, he could have mentioned several. But he goes to Sarah because Abraham was the father of many nations. He was the father of this movement, and Sarah was his wife. And so Peter says, if you are like her submitting to the head, in fact even calling him Lord, that that doesn't mean that wives need to call husband's Lord. It means that what Sarah was saying is, Abraham, God's placed you in charge, then we'll follow you. Now maybe you know Abraham and Sarah's story. And we can't spend a lot of time on it here, but go back and read Genesis 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19. See the story unfold. But this is the same Sarah Peter is highlighting Sarah, the wife of Abraham. This is the same Sarah who stood behind the tent door when the word of the Lord came to Abraham and said he was going to have a baby, and she laughed Oh God, what are you? We're not gonna have a baby. I'm way past childbearing years. That's the same Sarah that's you're told to emulate What's the emulation there? Make fun of your husband? No. Follow your husband, even though he's sometimes, and look at Abraham's life Really screws up. Abraham offered his wife a sister, and she had trouble come her way. Abraham said, I'll take care of God's promise a different way. But eventually What's going on there is Sarah says, Abraham, I'm following you because you're following God. And she held him to that standard. I think that's what Peter's calling us to. Sarah held him to that standard, and Peter says, Wives, that is what God wants for you. Oh my Lord. It's not with fear. Two words for fear are used here. The first word for fear is found in verse 2. It's that respectful, reverent fear that Peter used earlier in the chapter two and verse seventeen, fear God. But the second word for fear means to be terrified and to be paralyzed and to not move forward. And Peter says, that's not what you're called to. Dear sister, you're called to not have that kind of fear. It's like the Psalm 27, 1. The Lord is my light, my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? There's no reason to fear. There's no reason to fear, although I know it's a fearful thing. It's a fearful thing to submit to someone who you might not respect at that moment. It's a fearful thing to submit to someone who you see they're still in need of some maturing That's a fearful thing. But what Peter calls all of us who are in submission to others to is to not be afraid I 'll just close with this. I'm a living testimony of 1 Peter 3, 1 through 6. Because I can't begin to tell you the way that I've sinned against my wife Dana. We've known each other since nineteen seventy-nine. There's a lot of inconsideration and just outright crassness in those years. But when Dana got to the point where by God's grace she entrusted herself to the one who judges justly. And sought to please God more than please her husband. She started holding me in that security that comes with the robe of righteousness. Of Christ. She started holding me to a standard that pointed me to Jesus like I can't even begin to tell you. And the impact and the power of that godly example Is why I'm who I am today. Now both of us realize, and she's gonna get on me, but both of us re we are nowhere close to anywhere where we want to be But I've seen this text lived out, and it is a beautiful, powerful thing. I want to encourage you with that. I don't want to hold ourselves up to something because we're a work in progress and we've got a long way to go. But by God's grace, it's a reminder for me to pray for you. To pray for you specifically, sister. Because I know your husbands. But the Lord calls you to this. Let's pray together. Father, help us please. We pray that you would, by your powerful Spirit, be at work in us. Your perfect love capable of driving out fear. And we ask that that would be our Experience here today. I pray that as we come to the table now where you show us what it means, For someone to serve another by laying down his life, that that would be impressed upon each of us, and we would be drawn closer to God. We ask for these things in the name of Jesus. Amen.