At a recent conference uh a speaker asked the crowd, what person in the Old Testament or New Testament would you look forward to meeting? What's one person you would look forward to meeting and spending time with when you get to heaven. Then after people thought about that for a couple of minutes, he said, Well, you know, in my experience of asking that question, about one in two hundred people will say Jesus Now is that because Christians don't want to meet and spend time with Jesus? No, it's because probably we don't tend to look at Jesus as a person in the Old Testament or the New Testament. We think of him as a different category. And I wonder if that's not partly why we find it difficult to make a priority of spending time with him because we don't see him as a person to relate to. I think that uh in the Christian life you can map a kind of uh typical pattern of development among Christians when a person first becomes a Christian The thing we want to do more than anything else is get to know Jesus, right? He we don't know him and he has saved us and changed us and forgiveness, given us new life, and we just want to know we can't know m too much about him. And then after a while we begin We begin to study theology and we begin to study the rules of the community that we live in, and in a subtle way, Jesus can become more removed and distant. And then often what happens is a person then comes to rediscover the principles of the gospel in a new and a fresh way to live out of that, but it can still be principles And then at some point by God's grace, often what will happen is that we realize we've gotten out of touch with Jesus as a person. And we need to rediscover them. We need to fall in love with them again. And I've had something of that experience uh recently in my life where I've realized without recognizing and knowing it That Jesus had become a bit fuzzy and distant to me, and uh that I needed to once again appreciate and realize that He is a person And to see how he related to people, to persons in his world. Because I believe that the Bible intends for you to study the scriptures in part so that we see how Jesus related to people in his world and learn from that how he related to the world. Relates to you and to me , people especially who mess up and disappoint him, as you and I do so often Now uh that's why, in part, I suggested last week that uh some of you think about going back to the Gospels, or for some people perhaps you've never read the Gospels. and you would want to just read through the Gospels for the next four weeks. So I uh invite you again. There were a group of people that met and by the way, that study is not in my office. Uh it's been switched to a little larger room. Uh back here, the prayer room, right straight back there, those double doors, very convenient. And uh they had such a good time in Matthew this week, they decided they're gonna continue in Matthew one more week So if you didn't get in on that, then I encourage you, you can still get in on that and read Matthew this week and join that discussion. To discover Jesus as a person Now you remember last week, uh kind of the first week of Easter, you know, we uh looked at the um Evidence to encourage our faith that the witnesses are reliable concerning the resurrection That Jesus in fact did rise from the dead. Now uh forgot to mention this to the first service, but uh our office uh particular Gina Chandler was very kind and took my old notes from years ago and actually typed these up. So if anybody is interested in a um paper on the harmonized order of the events of the resurrection, putting all the four gospels together and how It um my at least my understanding, you know, I'm not saying this is uh wouldn't bet your salvation on it, but you know, it's uh I think this is what makes sense to me. Uh there are two piles of them, one straight back that table, and one in the corner table to be able to see uh the evidence of how you can put together the appearances uh the events of uh Jesus uh and how he appeared to his disciples. I said at that time there was going to be a part two that this week we would look at this Jesus as a person. What does the resurrection Jesus How does he act? What's his heart like? How does he relate to his disciples? And so that's what I want to do with you and for you this morning. Uh to do that, what I want to do is to look with you at three incidents in John 20 and 21. Three incidents which give you insight to Jesus as a person, particularly to see the resurrected Christ as a person and uh to get some glimpse into his heart. The first one, I want to focus on really just one word and notice that he uses that in the first appearance to the first human being after his resurrection. not one of the disciples, nobody of particular consequence or importance or influence, but to a woman Mary of Magdala, who had been demon-possessed, out of which he cast seven demons. A woman who had been healed by Jesus and who was so broken hearted and crushed by his death that she is weeping her heart out at the tomb, which while it's empty, she assumes somebody has taken the body. And because the precious body of her Lord is gone, that just deepens her grief even more. Jesus, you remember, appears to her, and she doesn't recognize him at first until he makes himself known to her through one word. Mary speaking her name as only Jesus could speak it I can imagine with kind of a shriek, she leaps up, she recognizes him, and she grabs him, and I picture John chapter 20, verse 17, that Jesus says this not soberly, not as a rebuke. But more like the picture that you see of Aslan and C. S. Lewis Lion Witch in the Wardrobe, where with laughter He says something like, Do not hold on to me, for I've not yet returned to the Father. Go instead to my brothers and tell them I am returning to my father and your father, to my God, and your God. Now, what I want you to notice as he says this is a this difficult verse. Um, but just a couple of observations. Some people are troubled by this. I'm returning to my father and your father, to my God and your God. I think Jesus is very careful in his language there. He's pointing out that uh number of times in his life referred to God as his father, uh, but he's he is the only begotten son. We are adopted sons and daughters. And so he is saying to my father, uniquely, distinctly, and you you also have him as a father. He is my God, he is fully human And so he bows before the Father. He is dependent on the Father, but not in the same way you and I are, because as sinful creatures We do not have divine nature. And so he is his God, but he's also our God. And so he's making both the connection as well as the distinction. But particularly what I want for us to notice Is there he says, go instead to my brothers? Now I want to suggest to you that that is a precious and significant designation of the disciples. First point in your outline. First of three B 's, the eleven disciples are greeted as brothers. They're greeted as brothers. Why does he say that? Well I think in part he could be teaching that he's still related to them in his humanity. He is saying, I'm not now shedding my humanity. You are still my brothers. The kind of way that Hebrews chapter 2 talks about, you know, in Hebrews chapter 2, in verse 11, we read, Both the one who makes men holy and those who are made holy are of the same family, so Jesus is not ashamed to call them brothers. He says, I'll declare your name to my brothers. And then down verse 14, Since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity. so that by his death he might destroy him who holds the power of death, that is the devil, and free those who all their lives were held in slavery by their fear of death. For surely it's not angels he helps, but Abraham's descendants. For this reason, he had to be made like his brothers in every way. in order that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God, and that he might make atonement for the sins of the people. Because he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted, like you and me. All this I think is included in that word brothers, but I think there's more to it Think of who he is calling brothers and how they have acted and treated him in the last couple of days. They abandoned him and they denied him. Three nights ago they all swore that they were willing to go to prison or go to death with him, whatever it took. They're not going to abandon him if he's in trouble. You can count on us, Lord. And then in a few hours the soldiers arrested Jesus and they all took off. They all fled. In fact one guy, the Bible says, took off so quick he left his clothes there. Took off naked. Uh that's one desperate guy They all hide, except Peter and John, who come skulking back to see what's going on And you remember that Peter three times denied that he even knew Jesus. What's interesting to me too is when you think of how they treated his body Has it ever occurred to you that when Jesus was crucified, the disciples never even claimed his body? Who was it that arranged for Jesus' burial? It was a Sadducee, Joseph of Arimathea, and a Pharisee, Nicodemus, and a pagan Roman governor, Pilate. They arranged for his burial, not his disciples. And so now here he is. He's come back from the dead, just as he said And he calls them brothers. Now, you gotta stop and ask yourself if you had been Jesus at that point, just to be able to somehow imagine How you would have felt. How would you have? What would you have called them and how would you have felt towards them? I think for myself I might have inclined towards something like, oh yeah, I I'd forgive them. Um, you know, they were under a lot of stress Uh I just don't want to be near them right now. I feel kind of distant from them. Yeah. Um actually I don't trust them Because um in my real need, they let me down. So, you know, that's okay. I'm I'm not angry, but I just need a little space, okay? Uh Jesus says to Mary, hey, tell my brothers I'm coming. I can't wait to see them. That's what his heart's like. That's so different. From your heart and from my heart I can tell you it's very different from how my heart would be. Um He goes on to say when he sees them that evening, peace be with you. And you remember last year I pointed out that there's no rebuke in that They say, peace be with you. Ah, well, hmm. Told you I was going to rise. You know, you didn't believe me, did you? Well, you know, why wouldn't you believe me? You know, he just he's glad to see them And he rejoices in being with him. Well, you know, you talk about amazing grace. Isn't that amazing? But do you believe that he's ready to call you, brother, sister, this morning? No matter how shamefully you've treated him, even this past week, in all that you know about him That his heart is tender toward you. If you're trusting him and you're looking to him as your Savior and Lord, his heart is tender toward you. Why would you hold back from giving yourself to such a Savior that you need so much? It amazes me that there are some of you who come week after week and continue to hold back from giving yourself fully to this Jesus. In all his tenderness and his compassion. Another thing that I thought of when I was meditating on this Is it people that my heart is cold toward? People that I say, I just want to keep distance You know how we do it as Christians. We just say, I I just don't want to let them hurt me anymore. You know, I'm not bitter. And we're just really denying our hearts. We are bitter. And we want to punish them. We just don't want to admit it. You know, you will never forgive that person and want to draw near to them tenderly by reading the scripture that says you ought to do it. The only way you do it is by seeing Jesus' heart toward you. We are changed from one degree of glory to another as we behold Him. Only as you look at how you've treated Jesus and his tender heart toward you, does your heart and my heart become tender toward those who have failed us. And let you down. What a savior. But it doesn't stop there. Look, he goes on. Secondly, notice Thomas is satisfied as a believer. The eleven are greeted as brothers, and Thomas in particular is satisfied as a believer. Special tenders toward one who is particularly needy. Now, uh you remember that when he came that first Easter evening, uh there were ten there, Judas dead. Thomas gone. We pick that up then in verse 24. Now Thomas, called Didymus, the twin, one of the twelve, was not with the disciples when Jesus came So the other disciples told him, We've seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see the nail marks in his hands and put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe it. A week later, that's today, the week, the Sunday after Easter, a week later his disciples were in the house again. And Thomas was with them. Though the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you, saying greeting. Then he said to Thomas , Put your finger here in my hands. Reach out your hand and put it in my sight. Stop doubting and believe. Thomas said to him, My Lord and my God. And then Jesus told him, Because you have seen me, you have believed Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Imagine for a moment that you were Thomas. You've lived with Jesus for about three years, and you've heard him on a number of occasions prophesy and promise, I will be killed and I will rise from the dead. This was not just once or twice. Matthew has that three times in a space of four chapters. It was something Jesus repeated again and again. You've heard that. And yet, when he was crucified, it never occurred to you that he actually would do it. In fact, you'd heard the women come that first Easter morning and they've said, We've seen the Lord, He's alive. And you said, I don't believe it. I'm not going to be disappointed again. We hate to be disappointed. We hate even more to allow ourselves to hope and have those hopes dashed again You've isolated yourselves from the ten. You're not with them that Easter evening. Where are you? Um perhaps you're hiding, perhaps you're feeling self-pity, you just need to isolate yourself and be alone and uh um who knows, could be out of fear, w whatever the reasons. But you haven't utterly abandoned the disciples, and you saw them sort shortly after that. And they've run up to you and they said, We've seen the Lord in Thomas. It's really true. We've seen it with our own eyes. And what did you do? He dashed cold water in all their exuberance. Yeah, right. Well unless I put my fingers in the prints of the nails and my hand in the side, I'm not going to believe You wouldn't enter to their joy. They refused. And now here it is a week later and you're with them You haven't abandoned them. You're with them. There's something in your heart that's longing and wanting to dare to hope. And all of a sudden, lock doors, and here's Jesus standing right in the midst. He says the same thing. Peace be with you. And then he addresses you personally. And he says, come on, Thomas, put your hand in my put your finger in my nail prints. My hands, my feet. Go ahead, put your hand in my side. And the first thing you're thinking is, oh my gosh, he heard me. He heard what I said. And he is inviting me to touch him. And he just falls at his feet and says, Oh, my Lord and my God. It's interesting that the Bible gives no other reason for that visit Than to satisfy Thomas. The only thing Jesus does is that he draws from that a lesson for you and for me. Thomas Because you see me, you believe. But blessed are those who do not see, and yet believe. Do you think that he loved Thomas more than you? Do you think that he doesn't care about the doubts and the difficulties that you go through? Some of you right now are going through a difficult time of doubt You feel abandoned by the Lord. Things don't make sense in your life, and you can't square them with the promises of Scripture. You say, God, where are you? I hear these things on Sunday and I want to believe. Yet I look in my life and I say, where is the power in the presence of God? You know, it's we so frequently focus on Jesus appearing to Thomas to satisfy his doubts Then it's easy to forget that there were ten days of darkness between the crucifixion and that appearance. Ten lonely, dark, difficult days for Thomas. Can you believe that Jesus intends to satisfy the longings of your heart in his time and in his way? And that you have the opportunity during these days of darkness and doubt and difficulty to honor him by believing him in spite Of the feelings and the circumstances. Can you believe that He intends to, that He desires to show Himself to you and in some unique and distinct way He will meet you. But that you are determined to trust his word. You have not seen, but he says, Blessed are you if you believe And then John goes on and he says, Jesus did many other miraculous signs in the presence of his disciples, which you're not recording this book. A lot of things Jesus did we don't have a record of. But these are written that you, the reader, may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. If you have never come to that place of believing that Jesus is the Messiah, your only hope by his finished work on the cross to take your sin and his resurrection, to defeat death and to give you new life. By believing this morning you can have life in his name. Again, I ask you, why would you hold yourself back From such a tender Savior. That's the second incident. But then notice the third, finally. Peter is restored as the beloved. Peter is restored as beloved. He's tender toward those who deserted him, toward those who doubted him. And even toward him who denied him. You remember Peter, after his great boast repeated Lord, all the rest of them would deny it, not me. I'm the rock. I'll stay with you. Prison, death, whatever it is, Lord, I'll never leave you And within a space of a couple short hours, the rock acted like the feather, symbol of cowardice, in denying Jesus Not once, not twice, but three times Have you ever felt such shame that you wish that the earth could simply swallow you up? That's how Peter must have felt after that third denial. He hears the rooster crow and he looks across the courtyard and catches the eyes of Jesus And he goes out and he weeps bitterly. But his tears of shame are not like the tears of despair of Judas. Judah's tears were of remorse. Remorse is ultimately self-centered, because remorse says, I've let myself down. Repentance is God-centered. It says, I've offended, I've dishonored, I have shamed him And that's what causes my heart to break. And Jesus meets Peter. Jesus, I believe, Scripture is one verse that indicates he met with Peter that first day before he met with the other disciples. You'll see that in the harmonized accounts if you go through them. But now he meets with him again, and I believe on this occasion that uh where it says uh after the breakfast there uh in verse fifteen, I think that uh probably Jesus got alone with Peter, maybe one off along the shore, a little distance from the others. And he asked him three times, Do you love me? Why three times? I think at least in part because it allows Peter, who denied him three times, to affirm his love for him three times and to be reinstated three times. To be commissioned three times. He recommissions Peter now to shepherd his sheep. Now that Peter has been chastened and humbled, he's less arrogant. And uh some scholars point out that uh in the Greek there are two different words that are used here. Jesus says, Peter, do you love me using the word agape, which is A word that wasn't very commonly used back then, Christians made it popular. The New Testament really made it popular Uh but it's a word of such overpowering, unconditional love, that when Jesus asks Peter, Do you love me, using that word agape, Peter responds with the more common term Philet, yeah Lord, I I'm very fond of you. You're very dear to me. Again Jesus asked, Do you love me? Agape, Peter, Lord, you know I'm really fond of you. I'm I'm you're very dear to me. Philetho The third time Jesus says , Do you love me? Phil, are you really fond of my dear to you? Peter breaks and says, Lord, you know all things. You know my heart. You know that you're very dear to me. You see, in that process, Peter is demonstrating the qualifications of a shepherd. It's only the person who understands the weakness of his heart, his own vacillating, cold, unreliable nature That is then qualified to point others to Jesus. As I said to you a couple of weeks ago, if I begin to rely on my own strength, I will charge you with obedience When I recognize my own ill inability, I point you to Jesus. So Peter is reinstated, and then you remember Jesus gives to him one last sober warning and prophetic statement. Speaking, John says, of the kind of death he would die, stretching his hands out, and uniform church tradition has it that Peter died by being crucified upside down, upside down by his own choice. For he considered it too great an honor to be crucified in the same way as his Lord. But he calls him to follow him. And just like Peter, he offers to you, follow me, be with me , serve me, point people to me. What amazing, amazing grace. What tenderness. Why do we hesitate to want to know him more fully I think partly because when we read the scriptures and we see how different we are from them, what we begin to do is to think, how I need to do better to be like him. I'm reminded of uh an article by Susan Machinick a couple of years ago, actually nineteen ninety-seven. She wrote these words. She said, I suspect that though we know the verses that say otherwise A lot of us still like to think of ourselves as good people. We're driven by the desire to do the right thing, and we've been mostly successful. We're nice to people We're diligent employees. We do our share at church and in the community. We stay away from the big sins, or at least what society considers the big sins So if we gossip a little or critical of others or ignore that prompting to mow the elderly neighbor's lawn, it's really not that big a deal, is it? Most of our confessions are limited to a kind of quick, Lord, please forgive me for snapping at the kids type of prayer before we rush on to our petitions. Taking time to reflect on our pride, our selfishness, and our lack of faith would threaten that image that we like to hold of ourselves. I'm seeing now, she goes on to say. That holding on to my good person's self-image has squeezed a lot of life out of my relationship with Jesus. It meant struggling to achieve my own righteousness instead of resting gratefully and joyfully in the fact that Jesus' death ended that struggle forever. I want to invite you this morning to look to Jesus, not simply so that you see how different you are from Him. Yes, we need to see that. Not simply so that you see how you need to repent of your sin. Yes, we need to do that. But I want you to see his heart. And I want you to see that that heart which was for his disciples and for those that he interacted with after the resurrection is the same heart that he has today for you and for me. A heart of tenderness and compassion beyond what you and I are able to imagine. Come to him. Come to him now. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, we want to come and we want to confess to you that we are the kind of people who desert you. They're the kind of people who doubt you. They're the kind of people who deny you, sometimes subtly, sometimes obviously. And we think that you should have nothing to do with us We're ashamed of ourselves. What must you think? And yet we come here this morning daring to believe based on your word, not what we would like to feel not some fairy tale, not some power of positive thinking, but seeing the inspired record of history saying this is how you related to sinful disciples after your resurrection. Who didn't even have the decency to claim your body, to bury it, who didn't even believe, after all the evidence, that you really had risen. who had denied you shamefully. You forgive. And you drew new near to them. You had them on your heart. And Lord, there is nothing to believe that you would love the least of your disciples here any less. Even in this, you call those who are not your disciples to yourself that they might believe and have life in your name. We pray, Lord, that you would speak to the heart of any who still holds back and says, I will continue to run my own life. Thank you very much. That they would see why would I hold back from a Savior that I need so much, who is so tender? And so in this moment, Lord, we we rush to you. We want to come and we want to confess our doubts, our darkness, our denials. Our unbelief, and we want to come to you and trust you. Lord, open the eyes of each person right now to see Jesus. Lord, we think we know you, and yet we bring such demeaning impressions and images to read into your character. You are so far beyond what we know or understand. Lord Jesus, we worship you now because you are so far beyond our wildest imagination. in grace and love and tenderness and compassion. How good it is to know you. Lord, we want to know you more. Open our eyes to see and understand you in the gospels. Lord, draw some here. that would really benefit from reading Matthew this week and discovering you more and coming to discuss that. Lord uh Do whatever it need whatever we need to bring us to that place where we're falling in love with you more deeply. And trusting you more fully. Because that honors you. We ask that in the name of Jesus who's come for us. Amen. Experts.