The contrast between Isaiah fifty-two, thirteen, and verse fourteen could not be greater. Remember last week we looked at uh verse 13. See? See how my servant will perform brilliantly He will act wisely and succeed phenomenally. We said that's the that's the essence of that idea there that the NIV translates act wisely He will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted, exalted to the highest place above all else. And then, without so much as a but, after that exalted statement, you simply have verse 14, just as there were many who were appalled at him. Wait, how does that follow? Here he is lifted to the highest place, and just as they're appalled at him It it simply doesn't seem to follow, does it? It's it's almost as if verse fourteen and fifteen are talking about a different person. How could that be talking about the same person? As you have in verse 13. They're appalled at him. His appearance is so disfigured beyond that of any man, and his form marred beyond human likeness. So will he sprinkle many nations, and kings will shut their mouths because of him, for what they were not told they will see, and what they have not heard they will understand Now, let me just say if if you weren't here last week, that uh I just uh refer you to the top of your sermon outline so you can see kind of where we are in the context of all of this. And if you need more help or want to get the tape from last week, they're available in the back. But Suffice it to say that of the five stanza song of the servant in Isaiah, beginning chapter fifty-two, verse thirteen, going through chapter fifty-three Now this first stanza, verses 13 to 15, is the prologue. It's kind of the introduction to it, and it gives both his exaltation and his humiliation, saying that this one Messiah is at the highest place and he is also at the very lowest place. Now, verses 14 and 15 are among the most difficult to translate in all of the book of Isaiah, and in some ways some of the most difficult verses to translate. all the Old Testament, particularly because they are such significant verses. So every word counts. And I spent a fair amount of time looking at different commentators and Trying to examine with what little knowledge of Hebrew I have, uh what I thought this was saying, and you see in your box there, in your bulletin outline My attempt at its meaning. That's not this is not a literal translation, but it's to capture the sense of what I think verses 14 and 15 are saying. So if you have your Bible, I hope it's open so that you can see your translation, and then notice what I'm trying to say to make sense out of these two verses. Perhaps you wonder why you spend all this effort. Well, again, if we believe that this is God's word to us, then every word matters. And so it's it's not a light thing to say, well it could say this, it could say that, you know, who cares? Uh it's more how it makes me feel. Now we really want to understand. So as as people who come here to hear God speak to you on Sunday morning, my job is to help you to hear accurately what it is in fact he has to say to you. So work with me for a couple minutes here as we try to understand what is the sense of these two verses. The big problem, the biggest problem is that the first part begins with a just as, and that sort of implies there's going to be a so then or so. And people all differ and disagree on where the so should come. I think in this case the NIV is incorrect. In fact, the only person I found that I think comes the closest to making sense out of it and having the least number of problems was the Hebrew scholar E. J. Young, who has a three-volume commentary on the book of Isaiah. And if you were going to just buy one commentary on the book of Isaiah, that's the one I'd recommend, E. J. Young's three volumes on Isaiah. Now, what does it say? I would propose that what Isaiah is saying here, after this statement of exaltation that he says Just as many were astonished at, now here we got a problem, but just get it out of the way here for a minute. Astonished at, and the Hebrew says, you And nobody deals with that you very well. If you have a new American standard, they kind of say, well, maybe it's you, my people, Israel, but that doesn't fit. So I can't explain it. Everybody says it really is referring to him. We don't know why it says you. It's probably not going to be the first question I'll ask the Lord when I get to heaven, but I do wonder why it says you there, because it doesn't make sense. But let's say that it says him, which is what the rest of the context indicates Just as many were astonished at him, now, for two reasons. First, because of his disfigurement that made him appear inhuman. That's the sense of the rest of verse 14. Then the second reason why many were astonished at him is because by this he will sprinkle many nations Then the so kings shall shut their mouths at or because of him, when they see and understand what they have never heard or anticipated, namely the good news of the new thing that God has done for sinners. And we'll look a little bit later at why I say that, because that's exactly the way Romans 15, 21 uses it. Notice then that the contrast, the just as so is at the beginning of verse 14 and then the second line of verse 15 about the kings. So the many are contrasted with the kings or compared with the kings actually Just as many were astonished, so kings will shut their mouths. That's the comparison, okay? Now If you have an NIV, that's the one I'm working with here, and you wanted to just say, Well, how can I make sense of that when I read my Bible? I would just say that uh After when it says, just as there were many who were appalled at him, write in the little word because, so that it says, because his appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man, and his form marred beyond human likeness. then write another instead of the so I've crossed out the so and written because he think that's the idea of it. Because his appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man and his form marred beyond human likeness. Because he We'll sprinkle many nations, then cross out the and and write so. Now you say, you're not allowed to change your Bible Well it's a translation, for goodness sake. You know we this the the translation is an attempt at understanding the infallible word of God. So different translations read differently. So I I don't particularly uh think that there's there's something sacrilegious about crossing out something and trying to improve the translation. So kings will shut their mouths because of them. Okay. Now, you got that sense. Notice that I've changed the appalled to astonished, that could be translated either way, but I think the word astonished fits better because they're astonished the many at two things. First of all, how he suffered, and then secondly, what was the result of that suffering. Then the so kings shall shut their mouths at him. Now Okay, having said that, I want you to notice four amazing things that come out of this. Four amazing things. First of all, notice the amazing contrast Verses 13 and 14 that I alluded to. Now, again, don't miss this. Who else in history could be described in terms of both verse 13 and verse 14? Let me think about that. Can you think of one candidate that you could apply verse thirteen and fourteen to? One single person? Just to help to make that point, think of a couple of contemporary examples. Think of John McCain Now here's a man who was a soldier serving in Vietnam, was a prisoner of war, was treated like an animal. for a lengthy period of time in the prison camp, Hotel Hanoi, and then after that terrible treatment, that humiliation, that degradation, He was exalted to the office of United States Senator and was actually a presidential candidate for a period of time. But then think of the contrast. He's not particularly disfigured, and uh he didn't get to be president of the United States, let alone highest in the world. So he was low and he was high. That kind of contrast. Or think of another example. Nelson Mandela. Now here's perhaps even a more striking contrast. The son of a of a South African chief, Nelson Mandela, studied law and then for several years in the late 50s, early 60s, protested apartheid. In 1962, he was tried and imprisoned for conspiracy to overthrow the government. He was given a life sentence He was put into prison and served from 1962 to 1990 in prison, 28 years languishing in prison. 1990 he was released and four years later he was made the first black president of South Africa. Served as president from 1994 to 1999. He's in his 80s now You see him now, he's still fairly good looking. Not disfigured. President of South Africa, but not president of the world, you see. So you get the idea. Think of anybody you can and think how low they went and how high they went, and then look at verses 13 and 14. It doesn't match up. This is something absolutely unique in all of history. Now secondly, notice just how low he went. Notice the amazing suffering. The NIV says, just as many were appalled or astonished at him, his appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man. The Hebrew is literally the disfigurement away from a man. In other words, and here by the way, sorry, I left out an E in my outline, it made, not mad, made him look inhuman. That's the idea of it. Now again, think about this, brothers and sisters, for a couple minutes. Think of all the paintings you've ever seen. of Jesus at his trial, carrying the cross, on the cross. I think of all the paintings and the drawings and the etchings, the sculptures, anything I've ever seen. I've seen countless of them And let me be absolutely honest with you. One of the impressions I have when I look at those paintings is He hadn't looked that bad. Now I mean you'd think, oh, that's terrible. Look at there he is hanging on the cross. But he certainly doesn't look like verse 14 Well, I don't know about you, but I have never seen a painting or a drawing in which I saw a Jesus that looked inhuman. He looks sorrowful. He sometimes there some are a little gorier than others, but it raises the question, is this an overstatement I mean really be honest. When you read verse 14, do you read that and you say, Man, that's just the impression I have of Jesus and his suffering and his death? Or do you read that and you say, Come on, Isaiah, that's a little strong. I think you went a little far on that, a little hyperbole here. So think again of what in fact Jesus suffered. Do you remember that after he was arrested, he was taken into custody and the Jews blindfolded him? And then some thought they had a pretty clever idea. If he says he's a prophet, let's see if he can prophesy. They blindfold him and they start beating him in the face with their fists. And they say, Come on, Messiah, who hit you that time? Prophesy. They hit him again and again and again. And when he doesn't grovel or plead for mercy to stop, they get enraged And likely they start hitting them harder. And if you've ever seen or been part of any kind of a scene I once was with an animal, but where a group of guys get together and they start beating on something helpless. There's kind of something that kicks in, kind of a mob rage. Not only were these guys not getting the satisfaction they wanted, Out of a Jesus who is pleading and screaming, but they were demonically inspired to do this. What was the rage of hell in the beating of their fists against Jesus' face? And then you remember At a point during the trial, Pilate says something very unusual. He says, uh, I don't see any cause for death for him, so I'm going to punish him. I'm going to have him scourged, and then release him. What was scourging? Scourging was called the halfway death. It was invented by the Romans who were masters at exquisite torture. Scourging was not limited to thirty-nine lashes. The scourging was done by a number of leather thongs in They were tied in knots at the end, and in those knots were embedded pieces of bone or chain or uh jagged metal And uh the lictor was a trained uh person to know how to inflict the greatest torment. Now these were guys whose idea of sport was watching gladiators hack each other to pieces. And scourging was a sport. It was not limited to the back. You could scourge somebody anywhere. It was not limited to numbers. All it was limited to was to stop just short of death. When the victim was finally gasping to the point where you thought that the person might die, you said, okay, enough. In fact, Roman law forbade that a person could be both scourged and have any other punishment. Even the Romans thought to combine scourging with any other punishment. was inhuman. Which may account for one of the reasons why Pilate said, I will have him scourged and then released, because it will be against the law to kill him. After that, the soldiers took a crown of thorns And you remember how they jammed it down on his head so that the blood ran into the eyes that had looked with compassion and love. On lepers, lame people, prostitutes, perverted. And then they take a rod and they beat him on the head And they say, Hail, King of the Jews, and the blood runs down his face. And he's increasingly disfigured. Then they put his clothes back on And all the muscles that have been ripped open, the skin hanging in ribbons, when they take them to the cross and the clothes are ripped off again. It rips off the skin and the muscles. Do you remember that they made him carry his cross to the place of execution? Can you imagine the exhaustion? The screaming of people all through the cacophony of mocking and crying and scoffing To unnerve him, and as they bring him to the place of crucifixion, he he rejects the the drugs to dull the pain which was also given just by human decency. And so after they take off his clothes and they hammer nails through his hands, and then they take his feet and put one on top of the other and hammer a large spike through both feet. So that they're bent backwards into the uprising of the cross. They take that cross and they jam it down into the ground so that every joint seems like it's going to be wrenched out of its sockets. And then the work is to breathe. And the only way you can breathe is to rise up on those feet that are spiked into the upright. And to lift his diaphragm on the nails through his hands. But the worst thing of all what is that point? Not only had he been abandoned By every human friend. He was abandoned by his father. His father that he had known and fellowshipped with in the greatest intimacy from all eternity. Can you imagine? Imagine the contortion Of his face, bloodied, bruised, scarred, broken As he realizes he is utterly alone in the universe, and he no longer can call out to his father in fellowship And cries, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Do you see why no actor in all the world could ever portray Jesus dying on the cross? Why every painting and sculpture and illustration must fall so far short of capturing the disfigurement Of Jesus at that moment. And now don't miss this supernatural point. For 2,000 years we have had the gospel accounts that describe in some detail what Jesus suffered. And painters and sculptors and illustrators have had those texts to meditate on, to read and to understand and to research, and then to draw, to paint, to sculpt. What Jesus looked like. And in my judgment, none have come close. But here, 750 years before the event, Isaiah describes it in these graphic terms. That cause our imaginations to recoil. Just as there were many who were astonished at him For his disfigurement was inhuman. He appeared inhuman His form was more beyond any human likeness, the contortion, the physical, emotional, spiritual anguish and suffering. And Isaiah goes on, and so by this he will sprinkle many nations. Boy, I mean I I hope you take some time this week to meditate on this text, to go back and to think of what Isaiah is saying to you. So the second thing that the people are astonished at is this which looked like the utter abandonment of God. is the means by which this one, the servant, is going to sprinkle many nations. So this is the third point, the amazing results. You see, the second reason why the many are astonished at him, and that's why I would say astonished is better than appalled, because this is a reason for astonishment Is because he's going to sprinkle nations through. Now, what does that mean? Sprinkling was the means of atonement in Old Testament sacrificial law. You atoned for people by sprinkling blood. If you look, for instance, at Exodus chapter 29. In verse nineteen, Aaron was told, Take the other ram, and Aaron and his son shall lay their hands on his head. Slaughter the ram, take some of its blood, and put it on the lobes of the right ears of Aaron and his sons, and on the thumbs of their right hands. and on the big toes of their right feet. Then sprinkle blood against the altar and on all sides And take some of the blood on the altar and some of the anointing oil and sprinkle it on Aaron and his garments, and on his sons, and on their garments. What's the result of the sprinkling? Then he and his sons and their garments will be consecrated. It will cleanse them, purify them, set them apart from common, unclean sinners to those who are fit for the presence and the service of a holy God. This one, the servant, by his disfigurement, bearing your sin and my sin, will sprinkle with his blood People from every tribe and tongue and nation in all the world. It's interesting how precise Isaiah's words are Shedding of blood had a Godward reference. That was to appease God's wrath against sinners. Sprinkling of blood has a man word reference. It has to do with the consecrating and the cleansing of sinners to make them eligible. Able to come into the presence of a holy God. For instance, in Hebrews chapter 10 You have that idea used where Hebrews calls us because of the veil rent and because of that perfect priest. He says that we now have confidence To draw near to God with sincere heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience And having our bodies washed with pure water. Is your conscience sprinkled this morning? With the blood of the servant who suffered such anguish, so that you could be clean through his blood. And whatever you've done, whatever vile and shameful things you've done, you've done them in and through and by your body. And it is your body that Hebrews says has been cleansed by the sprinkling. Peter says in his opening words to those who are scattered among the nations Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, Bithynia, who had been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God, the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and Sprinkling by his blood. Isaiah says Through his suffering and disfigurement, this one is going to sprinkle people from every nation. You know, let me again right here offer to you the invitation to come to the Lord's Supper tonight, because at the Lord's Supper tonight Glenn Mitzel is going to help us to enter into some of these Old Testament sacrifices and explore further what it means, what was done at the tabernacle, and how that is a picture of the perfect sacrifice of Jesus Christ. It's uh he's done a lot of research on this. Don't miss that opportunity as we come and and take the bread and the cup of the blood sprinkled. And you drink that and recognize that by his blood you are clean, consecrated, holy. Your body is washed. Because of what he has done. That leads us to the fourth amazing thing, the amazing gospel that we have here. Finally you get to the so, you see. Because he will do this, because he will be disfigured, so that he appears inhuman, and so because he is going to sprinkle the many nations, so kings will shut their mouths because of him. For what they were not told they will see, and what they have not heard, they will understand. This is something new, this is something that's unheard of. And this is exactly the way Romans chapter 15 uses that. In Romans chapter 15, Paul quotes from Isaiah 52. 15. And he says in verse 20 It has always been my ambition to preach the gospel where Christ was not known, so that I would not be building on someone else's foundation. Rather, as it is written, those who are not told about him will see, and those who have not heard will understand. That's Isaiah 52, 15. So Paul is saying that refers to the preaching of the gospel to those who have never heard it. And that even kings, royalty, will shut their mouths in humility An amazement before this astounding event, this astounding good news. You remember last year, on Christmas Eve, we looked at the very first fruits of that, the Magi. Who came as the first fruits of the fulfillment of this prophecy, Babylonian wise men, who had heard something from Daniel about this. but never guessed at the implications of the gospel and that God Himself was going to come in the flesh to be disfigured. As the arch covenant breaker of all history, so that you and I in our shame and failure and sin would be made perfect and consecrated and cleansed. To appear before him. Amen. Down through the ages, kings have shut their mouths At the gospel that has come to their nation. And I had the privilege, when Kathy and I were in Ireland, to stand at a place Where a Celtic king had been baptized in hearing the gospel and saw in his own local area as well as the whole countryside Transformed from warring bloody tribes to a culture that was radically transformed by the gospel Kings who would sacrifice their sons to the swamp god in order to appease his anger, asking for more and more and insatiable And Saint Patrick came and told them the true God was a God who had sent his own son and sacrificed him to be disfigured and cursed. So that you and I would be accepted by that God. And all of Ireland said, no one's ever heard a message like this. No one could have ever thought up the gospel. The gospel is supernaturally revealed, isn't it? Who could have ever conjured up A message of the Creator, infinite, personal God, becoming human to be disfigured for sinners. To be cleansed and made perfect and glorified and righteous And Ireland was transformed by that message, so transformed from their warlike ways to peaceful ways that when they were invaded they had forgotten how to fight and they were conquered. And so it is today. The Lord Jesus continues to sprinkle the nations, kings And others continue to shut their mouths and say, Who's ever heard a message like this? Let me ask you Do you see how astounding this message is in your own heart? Do you see the astounding contrast Of this unique person that fulfills both verse 13 and 14 and 15, who comes close to Jesus? In his magnificence and uniqueness. Have you thought of the cost of your sprinkling? What Jesus suffered for you? To be here this morning with your conscience cleansed and your body washed by the blood of Christ. Do you want to come tonight to meet with him, to hold those elements, and to say, Lord Jesus, this is your pledge that by your sacrifice I have been cleansed? That you are with me, as my friend, my father, my savior, my spirit who comes to empower me. Do you want to spend the first 20 minutes of this holiday each day thinking about Jesus, using Isaiah 53 to meditate on him, to get to know him? to cherish him, to adore him, to give your life, and to share that message with your friends, with your co-workers, for those that have never heard, to come and to say, may you be among those who would say, We've never been told this. And now we see the good news of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, open our eyes that we might see how unique and precious and exalted and abased and disfigured and glorified you are. And that you have sprinkled everyone here who believes, not in our own works and efforts, but in the finished work of Jesus. The precious gospel. Make us available, Lord, to share that message this week and this season with our family, with our friends. Because our hearts are so full of it. Because we come each morning to meditate on you, to know you, to love you, to bask in your presence. Fill our hearts, that we this season might learn to love and adore you more deeply and long for your coming with greater ardor and longing. We give our souls to you, who died for us. Amen.