Our scripture this morning is found in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. 2 Corinthians chapter 1. This is often Regarded as the forgotten epistle of Paul. You ask for variation sundry things of the writings of the Apostle, and highlights are picked out of Romans, usually destroyed. And then you think of Ephesians and Galatians and so forth. Or Philippians. The second epistle of Paul to the church at Corinth is one of the most profoundly autobiographical. An epistle that reveals the heart of Paul the pastor. The concept of Paul as a pastor is generally not recognized. We think of him as a missionary, a theologian, a church planter, a great uh developer of of the ethics of the Christian faith. But Paul, the pastor, when I gave an assignment, On this at seminary, I wanted the men to work off a five page paper on Paul the Pastor. And I said, Fellows, you don't need to bother looking in the library for a book. There's nothing written on Paul the Pastor. our library. Well of course all of them went and looked. And uh uh they came back and said, you know you were right, there's nothing there. I said, that's right. Now you write a five page paper, read what he wrote, and then tell me what you think of Paul as a pastor. And it's that heart that we see revealed for us here in this beautiful epistle as he touches on the various issues that have come to his life as he has related it to God's people. Now let me read for our comfort and for our instruction the entire first seven verses of this first chapter. Hear now God's word. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, unto the church of God which is at Quarry, with all the Saints which are in all Achaea. Grace be to you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our tribulation that we may be able to comfort them which are in Any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. aboundeth by Christ. And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer. Or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. And our hope of you is steadfast, knowing that as you are partakers of the suffering, So shall you be also of the consolation. Blessed be the Lord who has given to us this his word of comfort. That is Seek a space in prayer. Gracious, sovereign God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. To thee we come this morning, rejoicing in who thou art. Rejoicing thou art our God and our Our Savior, rejoicing that in thee we live and move and have our being. We are not our own. We have been bought with a price. Blessed Lord, bless us now. Sovereign God, reveal to us thy salvation and the redemptive plan in Christ Jesus. And if there isn't one here, This morning, whose heart is achy, grant to that one of the ball of Gilead that the work of the Holy Spirit shall Bring peace to that one, that they may cast their cares upon him who feels with us in all of our infirmities. Come, O Lord. Lord and bless us. Not because we're worthy, but because we're needy, and because we come to be the God of all comfort. For Christ's sake we ask. Amen. In the bulletin this morning, your church secretary has very faithfully reproduced for us a little chart. that I had drawn up. I found this to be a very useful teaching device even before I went to do some work at seminary. I used to teach the young people this. The foundational doctrine of the Christian faith is the doctrine of God. You can get nothing more basic than that. And everything else draws out of that. You get off that This point as a fork in the road, you're off all the way down the road. But if we can get this point straight, if we can get this place in order, then is our Christian understanding and Our Christian walk directed. The doctrine of God, absolutely foundational, the bottom truth of all of Scripture. When we speak in this passage of the fourth verse, which is our text, who comforts us in our tribulation? Blessed be the God who comforts us. We could have started. doubt speaking about the nature of comfort. But that would not be right. We must understand the God who is the source of comfort. If I am going to understand the comfort that comes from him. I must have a clear understanding of my God. And so we begin with a look at the first point, namely the source of all comfort. Verse 3 makes it very clear, a praise, a doxology. Blessed be God, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. Now under feet in front of you, you'll see that we have listed as our first point the source of all comfort, the God of all comfort. God subsisting as Father, as son, and as Holy Spirit. In this third verse, you have very clearly set forth the Father and the Son. The Spirit of Truth is not mentioned specifically in this particular verse. But we know elsewhere. From Scripture that the Holy Spirit also is a member of the Triune Godhead. Now, as we concern ourselves with God subsisting as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, we must understand. Understand that before Jesus Christ came in the language of John 4, God is spirit, and he has not a body like men. God is spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit. He subsists as Father, as Son, and as Holy Spirit. Now let me look at the families here. Your children. Okay? If I can't make doctrine clear to children that I'm not making it clear to children. adults. In your family, you have a mommy and a daddy, and however many children. You have a family. And that family subsists. That's what that big word means. It's Subsists as mommy and daddy in you. You're part of the family. God is the Godhead. The term is used. The Godhead. God is in that sense we may regard him as family, Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Now what kind of God do we have, this God of all comfort? Our catechism, and oh how I wish I had learned it when I was a child, but I was brought up in another denomination which didn't have such benefits. I came to learn this when I was at the seminary studying. my own ministry. Lord is spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. And then let's go down the side in his being, his wisdom, power, Holiness, justice, goodness, which consists of four things, his grace, his love, his mercy, and his providence, and then his truth. Now you have seven down the side. And you have three across. Alright? Now, even I don't know how it would be in no math, but in the old-fashioned math, when we used to take our shoes off and count, you remember? Seven times three is how many times? children, how many? Nobody knows. What is he teaching you in Maryland? How many? Twenty-one. God may be thought of in terms of twenty-one combinations. At watch. God is all the time, everything, all at watch. I don't understand that. But I believe it. I don't understand. it and so I have to take it in little pieces to begin to try to enter into it. We speak of the being of God and we say that he is everywhere all the time. God is so big I cannot understand him. He is infinite, children. And so on, never had a start. You had a start a long time ago. And and some of you have reached the old tottering age of eight or nine or ten or and in my case sixty-three and and not holy. But uh the the point is God never had a time to start. You know that? Even as old as your daddy is, he had a start. Your grandmother, your grandfather. God never had a start. He always was. I don't understand that either. But I believe it because the Bible tells me that. Now this God never changes at any time. He's always the same. This God who is everywhere never changes. I the Lord change not. Well, going down with column we have God is all wise. That's what omniscience means. He is all wise. He knows everything. He knows it all at once. He never forgets anything. He's always had all wisdom. Do you know? The very hairs of your head are numbered. And I can tell you, every day the Lord changes my numbers. Every day. But the very hairs of our heads are not. Our head are numbers of children. Your days and my days, however many there are, the Lord knows that. He knows everything. He knows the beautiful mountains of Colorado where my wife and I spent four fourteen years in our ministry. Gorgeous mountains. High and rugged. But then have you ever seen a drop of water that you're going to drink and look at it under a microscope? Have you always that's an exciting experience to see all things flo floating around in that drop of water you're gonna drink. God made those little drops of water and those little things that swim in the water. And He made those mighty mountains. Yes, the mighty power of God and the wisdom of God. And the whole of the of God. Now you see, God is all the time, all 21 of these elements. All the time, all 21. And we come down to the next to the last one, the goodness. of God. Grace and love and mercy and providence. This is our God. This is the God of our redemption. This is the God of our salvation. But you know, we don't just speak of the of the love of God. Because you see, the love of God only is is just that one row across there. And and he's also at the same time all wisdom. He isn't just love. is also justice, is also holiness. It's all these things. I must understand, you see, the grace of my God, the comfort of my God. In terms of his justice, in terms of his holiness, in terms of his grace. I must understand that. Children. If your daddy ever paddled you just before supper and then you sat down and you ate your supper, it was kinda hard to talk to him, wasn't it? If he just got done paddling you and then you had to sit down beside him, And maybe even hold his hand when you pray and and then eat the supper that he provided you. That was kind of difficult, wasn't it? Oh, I remember that. That was my experience many times. Many times. But my father with his monstrous hand would hold my growing hand. And then I would remember my father's hand which could paddle me and paddle me good and did, was also the hand that provided the food that was on the table. in front of me. And my father loves me. The Bible says, whom the Lord loves, he paddles. That's my translation. But that's what it means. Whom the Lord loves, he corrects. He scourges every son whom he receives. That love, you see, must be understood in terms of his justice. Did my father ever punish me for something I didn't deserve? No. Did he always text me? Me and when he should have no, he didn't. But he was always fair and he was just. My God is even more just than my father. My God's love and mercy must be understood in truth. terms of who he is. I just don't go I don't just go to God and and and ask for just his love and his grace without realizing that he's also a God of comfort. who comforts me with correction. One of the most comforting aspects of a father-child relationship is when the parent tells the child you're wrong. Isn't that true? You're wrong. Heavenly Father cares enough for you and for me, beloved, to tell us when we're wrong. And this is the work of the Spirit of God. Who convicts us of our sins, and that is one of the most comforting aspects of the work of our God in our hearts. He comforts us by conviction of sin. Why? That I might understand his holiness, that I might understand that that holiness is answered by his grace and his mercy and his love. And so I go to my heavenly father and I plead that justice that I am. holiness, but I plead also his love and his forgiveness. You see, justice and forgiveness are part of the same picture. It's part of the justice of our God dealing with forgiveness. When he blots out all our sins and washes all our iniquities away. Well, we look at this and we think that when we're talking about the God of all comfort, I must understand that the God of all comfort is If all the time everything all at once. That covers prayer too, you know. We ask and we receive none, because we ask amiss that we may consume it upon. our lust. But we ask for something that's perfectly legitimate and right and we think we'll honor the Lord. And he answers us, only he answers us, but it's sometimes with a no. That's an answer. You see, God in his wisdom decrees not to give that which his power can grant. God in his wisdom decrees to give that which his power can grant. or not together. It's not a question of his power. It's a element of his wisdom, relating to his love as well. I was speaking just the other day with one of our residents and she said said in response to the fact that her her little boy had died when he was about uh two and a half or three from a tonsolectomy. And she said, I g I guess God knew what he was doing Because her husband died very shortly after that. And it permitted her to be free to make her own way of life. Well, she saw it in that light. It would be a difficult thing, wouldn't it? I personally They have buried nine babies. There are a lot of statistics ministers don't want to keep but can't forget. And when you stand beside the casket of a precious little child, well believe me, it's so hard. Hard, it's so hard. Where is the God of comfort in such an hour as that? The God of comfort is there. He's the omnipresent one, you see. He's with you. Jesus said, I will never leave you. I will never forsake you. I will come to you. It's an interesting passage of scripture that shows how these all are brought together. And the Lord passed by before Moses and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful, gracious, long-suffering, abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving in the iniquity and transgression and sin that by no means will clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the children's children, unto the third and fourth generation. And Moses made haste And bowed his head toward the earth and he worshiped. From the book of Exodus, chapter 34, verses 6 and 7. God is all of these things all at once. So that when I come to the subject. Of what was the comfort? What is the nature of God's comfort? I must understand that it overflows, it issues forth from this God of all comfort. the infinity of eternity and of immutability. Infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. In all of these things, this is our God. What is the nature of the comfort? The word indeed is paracallelo. It is called alongside of the same word given to the Holy Spirit. You will ask. And our Father will send another comforter, even the Spirit of Truth. Now, this word comfort is used in this passage of Scripture four times in the fourth verse. I prefer the King James translation of this particular. verse because the last use of it, we ourselves are comforted of God. Not simply we have received something from God, but that we are comforted of God. That word is used four times in the Greek root. God called alongside. What this suggests to me is the word that I could perhaps best relate it to you young people, to you children. God is our companion. Alright? He's our companion. Do you know what a companion is? I watched the two little boys the other day. I don't know what they do. were doing, where they were coming from or where they were going, but I watched them and it was fun to watch them. Two little kids having their grand time together. Or two little girls giggling as only little girls can giggle. Isn't that right, Boyce? Two little girls just giggling over who knows what and why. But companionship. Do you remember in your life when you had a companion and maybe lost? This is the great grief of death that we see out at the home. So many of those have passed through that valley and they've lost their lads. They're companions with years. We observed two today, one with sixty-two years and and one fifty-nine years together. That's a long time. And they companion that way. Companionship. Jesus said, I will never leave you. I am with you always. You see, the first element of the comfort. Of our God is his companioning with us. My God is with me through the valleys of the shadows. Whatever the valleys are, I go before you. I lead you. I put you forth. Book of Hebrews has a beautiful, beautiful passage. We have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but he was in all points tempted or tried like as we, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and we may find grace to help in time of need. Mercy and grace. And we have that you see on the little grid that I gave you. Mercy and grace are part of the aspects of the goodness of God. Let us come boldly. And this is what the apostle. Paul has in mind when he goes on and he speaks in verse 5 of the sufferings of Christ abounding in us. The sufferings of Christ that are abounding in us are that those sufferings where he is able to understand your problems and my problems and your heartache and mine. Will he pour my sin in his own body on the tree? Though he himself was sinless, he was made to be sin, that in that body he might take away the sin of his people. In his humiliation he was cut off. From the land of the was life sweet to Christ? Of course it was. He was the author of perfect human life. And he must lay that down. We don't often think of that the sweetness of life itself he was called to lay down. He is with us in our heartaches. What is the heartache of a child? child of God with which Jesus Christ does not communicate, does not companion. I know of none. Even when I am grieved for my sin. Even when my heart should ache within me because of my iniquity, my Lord is companioning with me because that's why he ate. That he might take in his own body my sin upon. on the tree. I am comforted, you see, by the God of all comfort, as the nature of my God flows out to me. When there is an injustice Done in my life, my God of justice is aware of that injustice. When I am not loved as I wish to be loved, He is aware of that as well. For he was not loved as he ought to have been loved. In my loneliness, my lord, companions with me. meedy, for he was lonely. The birds had their nests, and the foxes had their holes, but the Son of Man had nowhere to lay his head. Is he then unmindful of my material need? None at all. He fed the multitude. Is he aware of my terrors when I am confronted with things that I simply don't know how to handle? And did he not say to the troubless of sea? Peace be still. The Lord of heaven and earth, the Lord of all nature, is also the God of my redemption. He knows me because he is my mighty God. When I speak then of the God of all comfort and the comfort that comes from my God, I must understand it in terms of the nature of God as he reaches out to me. In whatever is my distress, whatever is my heartache, whatever is my weakness, my Lord knows that situation. companions with me. No, never alone, alone, no, never alone. He promised never to leave me. Never to leave me alone. Satan said. Now if God is the source of all comfort, as it re as it is reflected in the nature of that comfort because of who He is. What is the value or the use of this comfort? Well, the first use is within ourselves at intra, but he comforts us in all our tribulations. He comforts us in all our tribulations. Beloved, that's an inclusive statement. There is no tribulation that comes to us. That is beyond the comforting companioning of our Lord Jesus Christ. Children, I don't care what that is, whether it's a broken bicycle, whether it's a flat tire and you miss going swimming. Or whether it's a snag in your hose, ladies, and it's the only one you have. Or a flat tire and you're on your way to an appointment and you don't have time for that flat tire. The Lord is a of these things, or more graphically when death's dark angel comes into the window of our home and takes away the dearest and nearest to us. us in all our tribulation, I simply must understand how to take that sorrow to Him, how to relate that sorrow to the greatness of my God. I must take this existential situation and see it in terms of who is my God. Always and always I must take the decision. I must take the issues of life, the experiences of life, together with the heartaches, the questions, the wonderments of it all, and take them to the doctrine of God and find therein. In that deep, unfathomable well, I must take my cup of salvation and dip down into the well of the greatness of my God and taste and See that the Lord is precious. Blessed are all those that put their trust in him. Yes, the first use of this comfort is for me. It is that in trying. But now the second use is to use the language of the scriptures that we may be able to comfort them. There is an external use. But with what am I to comfort them? Am I going to comfort someone by simply telling them the greatness of my experience? Not at all. I'm sure Dan remembers in our instruction at uh a hospital ministry. You don't go there to the hospital, uh, do you, and uh tell them all the griefs and the pains that you heard about. I remember the uh this little thing that we read at the introduction of class, this this uh lady was visiting someone and and and uh uh uh heard about the the trials and tribulations of the of this particular person and and she said, Oh oh yes, yes. I remember uh my father had that experience and so the patient wanted to know, Well what happened to your father and uh Well he died. That's not exactly comfort, dear friends. You don't comfort them with the bundle of your experiences. Your experiences are not going to provide comfort. The scriptures say that our comfort that we bring to others Is the comfort that God brought to us, which simply means that we comfort others by bringing them to the doctrine of God. We bring to them the scriptures of hope, of peace, of peace. Of the presence of God. We are light bearers. We are to now make known the Christ who has comforted us. Then do you remember we said on the board we are to redesign God. We are to represent God. We use the word represent so often we don't take it apart. Take it apart, friends. I am to represent God. That's the comfort that I can bring. Turn their eyes. eyes upon Christ by the power of the Spirit of God. That's the comfort that we bring to others. Yes, we stand beside them, yes we companion with them, but I can't get into the skin. I can't do that. No, I must bring to them the word of my God and the work and the person of my God, and He will do that. Where is then the value add extra? cup of cold water that we give in the Savior's name, that is given to us in the Savior's name. In the Savior's name is the key to that. I must make known who it is. In whose name I am minister. One of our functions where we are living and working. And Tom made this very clear to us when we were interviewed. It took him three times. times he was afraid, he he really was, took him three times before he decided that uh we might be fit and proper. Uh but he made it very clear that one of the reasons we're coming there is to get these folks ready to die. And this is true. We have that call quite often there, naturally. And we'll have it increasingly. A week or two ago we were working with one of the women. I say we because my wife was more involved in this than I. Our prayer for her had been when we first met her and found that uh last February found that she had terminal and And she seemed to be quite aloof, quite indifferent, quite hard. Our prayer was the Lord, use us in her life, use us. us in her life that she may know you before she dies. Well, she wasn't interested in talking, she wasn't interested in hearing, but as her cancer increases worsened, we also observed she became increasingly receptive. And I made bowl at the hospital to ask her would be alright to have a word of prayer. Yes, yes, just a short one. Just a short one. And so we had just a short one. But that prayer at the hospital was the beginning of other prayers, increasingly, until finally she asked us if we would. have prayer. My wife or myself, if we would pray. And she wasn't fond of reading scripture, and this disturbs me even now. But we would quote scripture or we would speak scripture. You don't have to read it always, you know. You can quote it or you can speak it. And so we did this. And then as her cancer increasingly worsened, she increasingly needed physical. help. And this was where my wife was more, certainly more involved than I and others at the home, doing the little things that are necessary to be done. Always in the Savior's name. Betty knew where all of these actions were coming from, and she knew. The last day of her life, my wife had talked with her again. The question came up, is it too late? No, it wasn't too late. The thief on the cross. It wasn't too late. About the last thing she said concerning spiritual matters was, My Lord and my God. The Spirit of God was pleased to take the cups of cold water, the companioning, the sharing of who is Jesus Christ, the hope of eternal life, and was pleased. to use those in that dear soul's dying experience. And we're thankful for that. Beloved, in this congregation you have suffered a lot of loss. Some of you have lost the little ones. Prenatal you have lost. Some of you have lost after birth. Some of you have lost your jobs. Some of you have lost some directions. Dear friends, you and I have been given the priceless gift of the cup of salvation. And we take that water. Trembling, yes, trembling, but we take that cup of cold water, which is the Savior's name, we take him to others. This little congregation, and I thank God. For your diversity in age and in race. I think it's beautiful. There's a dynamism here that is attractive and exciting. But we need to understand what it means to take the cup of cold. water in the Savior's name and call on those in distress not to parade your own experiences but rather to represent. God in his glorious force to that person in that need at that time. That they may not so much see you as they see the Savior. That you bring to them. And so we see the source of our comfort is the greatness of our God. We see the nature of our comfort, is the companioning and the outflow. Knowing of the nature of that great God and the use of comfort is first for my soul that I know with whom I am united in saving faith, that I may then communicate him to those in death. Desperate times of need, the God of all comfort, comfort for today. Let us pray. Eternal God our heavenly Father, blessed be thy sovereign name. Blessed be thy work within our hearts and within our minds. Look, O Lord, upon this people. Lift up the light of thy countenance upon them and grant them thy peace. We pray for continuously. Development of comfort in the ministry of this church, that the beauty of the Lord Jesus may be seen. Thank you, O gracious God, for this thy word. In Christ's name, Amen