Pleasure to stand before you this morning as we bring a close to Missions Month two thousand and four. A year ago at this time as we brought Missions Month two thousand and three to an end, um I was asked to bring that month to a a sense of closure uh by preaching the word of God to you um at that time Since then I have had this this burning thought that I've been wanting to share in light of Missions Month. And so I was really hoping and praying that the uh World Missions Task Force would ask me again to bring a close to Missions Month for this year. So I was very, very thankful when they did because now I can finally get this haunting thought out of my system. I can kind of just let it all out So that's what I'm going to do today is just kind of let it out, a thought that has been in my mind uh really in the past year, but uh uh the but the uh the concept you could say has been with me for for such a very, very long time. The month of missions for 2004 had a number of very pointed and important messages that were shared before us. There's a spider on this podium. I'm gonna stand right here a bit, so It began first, of course, with our beloved Alan Harris, who shared with us the the heavenly treasure principle, the idea of applying the Word of God. uh and investing our lives into people, for that's in fact what we find in the eternal kingdom of God. We moved on from there to uh the uh message from Clive Calverse who helped us to understand the temptations of being not church and the obstacles that stand before us as we attempt to fulfill the great commission, the the charter of the church given to us by our Lord Jesus Himself. From there, we moved on to Sam Fulta, who shared with us the principles of head, shoulders, knees, and toes. I I say for you in Korean as Sam did, but my Korean is not that good. And uh truth be told I I don't quite remember the the Korean words. for the for head, shoulders and knees. I I could say for you in Hebrew if you really wanted, but I couldn't say it in Korean. So uh as ironic as that might sound Uh after Sam and he sh uh we had our own very own Craig Colburn come and share with us his mission work in Japan and the zeal that he has to protect the glory of God, not to be shared with others. And then this this morning, and I'm I do I do hope you all had an opportunity to be here this morning, we had uh Christy Scott share with us her mission's work in Uganda. And I have to say, the work in Uganda I've only read about on paper. and heard the presentation today, but I feel so connected to it and I'll tell you the reason why is Pastor Dave Hawkins was a classmate of mine from Westminster Seminary from uh years back. And to hear now uh a a classmate And a friend in Uganda engaged in real uh uh missions work uh is just uh i it just gave me a sense of connectedness you could say to a group uh engaged in kingdom activity that um that for a while just seemed somewhat distant. You can only hear about it and pray about them, but now it's a friend. someone that is very dear to me. And so uh to hear about that was really was very, very exciting. But now that the uh month of missions has uh come to a close, that of course does not mean uh the work of missions has come to a close. In fact you could say that the work of missions now must truly continue. Not even begin, continue. Um the work that the Holy Spirit is doing through the hearts of his people worldwide, you could say, must now continue. And the question before all of us, perhaps is going to be how we're going to now apply Missions Month in our lives. And what I'd like to do with you today is really give you essentially a two-part uh message. One is going to be uh ways to encourage you to apply how you can apply Missions Month and then to give to you a principle that has been again kind of in my heart for the last year or so as a way to wrap up the entire month of missions. So what are some ways that we can apply missions month Uh there are two different ways, I think. One you could say it is locally in what we can call local missions, and then secondly, uh you could say a little more overseas in missions worldwide, global missions And there are a number of things that we can consider doing in light of the messages that you have heard in the in the last month, ways that we can apply the gospel to share the gospel, you could say, to our own community. Um, these are just some ideas that I have come up with on my own. This is not meant, of course, to be exhaustive in any way. And so I'd encourage you to also think about this perhaps as a Lord's Day way of meditating um on the uh on the Word of God to to pray about this and to see in fact if there are ways for you to apply Missions Month that is not on this list. Some things perhaps perhaps for you to consider In light of the um the Passion of the Christ movie that has been uh that opened up this past week, there is of course enormous amounts of discussion now upon the crucifi the crucifixion of Christ, the cross of Christ. the pain that he had uh endured. And because of this, we have there have been some discussion groups that have been formed So for example, at the Howard County Library, the Central Library, right by the uh the Columbia Mall, right across the street from Toby's Dinner Theater. On March the 2nd and March the 11th, two Thursdays, that is this Thursday and I believe the Thursday after that, from seven to nine o'clock, there is going to be a community discussion uh to uh uh an open invitation to all those around if they wish to to talk about what they have seen in this movie. This is an opportunity folks for you perhaps to attend for you to bring those friends and neighbors and family members that may have seen it who do not know the Lord to give you an opportunity to share with them what the passion of the Christ means for you and what in fact it can now mean for them. An opportunity is before us, a way for us to share the gospel with those nearby. There of course is The Passion of Jesus Christ, the book by John Piper that we had shared with you last week. There are still stacks of it in the back table even today. And I do uh encourage you And I appreciate the the the reservedness perhaps that a lot of you exercised in not taking too many books, but we have plenty of copies And in fact I should say, and although it will be said later, I do so appreciate the the the way that you have stepped forward after the appeal made last week to offer your monies to buy more copies of the book. You as a people of God. really came forward and and I am so thankful for that. And so now the opportunities are before us. There are a number of books. I hope you had a chance to read through it in the past week to kind of skim at it And to see if in fact there are a few selected chapters, in fact, or maybe the entire book as a whole, that you can share with people around you who can come now to understand why Jesus had to die. What is it that his death accomplished? For whose glory was he trying to exalt and lift up? For you to uh use this book as a way to to really help people come in tune with the sacrifice. of the Christ. And so that is before you as well. Of course there's our uh youth ministry and their plans uh to go to West Virginia this summer. That opportunity is before us Uh our presbytery also of course has a a a ministry to in the local prisons to share the gospel with inmates, men whose souls you could say are essentially devastated and softened for that reason, hearts that are really a flesh as the Bible describes, that are now uh open to the gospel truth, to hear the great message that Christ died for sins. That is before you as well to engage in in that type of opportunities to in local missions. Also, of course, to pray and to talk about this within yourselves and small group communities There are people I'm sure that you can lift up and and and pray for uh that they will come to know the Lord through these times. So these are just a few local opportunities that are before you, ways for you to apply Missions Month. But of course as well there is the overseas needs that are so apparent and clear for us. All of the presentations that we heard over the last month, you could say, is was focused on that, and the needs are plentiful The needs and the opportunities are huge. And one thing that you may want to consider, in fact, if it is indeed the Spirit's stirring in your heart and your conviction to do so, is to go overseas yourself. as a full-time dedicated missions worker for the kingdom of God. It has been years, I know, since our church has had an opportunity to send someone overseas as a full-time missionary. It may be in fact the spirit's working in your heart for you to really pray about it, to be stirring in your heart and to give your lives to that type of kingdom opportunity. We had a number of uh presenters come and share with us opportunities to even teach English. in in in China, in North Korea, uh opportunities to share the gospel in those areas as well. We also have our World Mission Passports, and perhaps some of you are wanting to know be a mobilizer within our community to send missionaries. If you are interested in joining that group, I'd encourage you to talk to George Woolgrove, talk to uh uh Jack Schaefer, talk to any of you the members within our World Missions Task Force and see if in fact there is something that you can do uh to contribute to that ministry. And of course there is our concert of prayer, our our weekly gatherings Thursday morning, six thirty in the morning to seven thirty. just for an hour where we can engage and pull our voices together, our hearts together, to pray for the needs of the church worldwide. That the gospel will in fact impact those communities as it is impacting our lives as well. And that the gospel will not be limited just to us but that this precious good news will be shared truly to the ends of the earth. Opportunities are before us all over But as I thought about that question of how to apply missions month, and as I struggled with that question of how, another question came into my mind was what would oppose us? What is going to keep us from doing the in fact the work of of mission? What in fact will cause us as what will stand in our way as a stumbling block to keep us from being engaged in kingdom activity of this nature. If you really think about it, in the light of spiritual warfare, you could say that missions month and the application of missions months is something that the evil one doesn't want you to think about. And indeed, I'll tell you, not even apply And you could and as I thought about how he could uh uh uh stret strategically uh keep us from doing that work, and really I came up with quite a long list You know, we are very vulnerable people. We are we are frail. We are weak. We are in desperate need of the king of of God Himself, of the Spirit of God to keep our hearts focused on the task that is before us, to to be his witnesses to the ends of the earth, to go and make disciples of all men, of all tongues, of all tribes. It's very, very easy for us to be distracted. And so as I thought about it How would in fact the enemy keep us from doing our mission's work? There probably are a number of different ways, in fact, that he would do so. But one thing that I would like to share with you today as one strategy that the evil one may try to use to keep us from doing missions work. One task that he, one focus point that he may in fact focus on, it is to divide the body of Christ. It is to divide our body. To cause factions, you could say, uh division Things that will keep us fighting in-house, that will keep us so focused on that that we forget about the greater needs of the community around us. And in fact, even causing that Internal squabble, you could say, is hurting the witness that we as a community can offer to the world in which we live. It reminds me of a phrase that uh Ruth Calver had shared in her mission presentation during our middle hour time. She used at the end of her mission's presentation the term, I think it was this term, the worldwide body of Christ. The worldwide body of Christ. Because you see our focus of the body of Christ at times is focused to such a small perspective And we forget that the body of Christ is global. It is universal. It is, in fact, worldwide. As I think about the the need for us to no longer be divided, to be knit together as a community, I think about a very special passage up uh in Scripture, and that passage is in John chapter 17. So turn with me now to the Gospel of John seventeen, starting on verse twenty, and I'm going to read uh just a few verses into to verse uh twenty-three John chapter 17, verse 20. Chapter 17, verse 20 to verse 23. Now the background to John chapter 17, this is referred to as the great high priestly prayer of Christ. Jesus only has in this time just a few hours of earthly freedom left. He is about to be betrayed by man. He is about to be sent to the trials and the courts of man ultimately the climax to his crucifixion on the cross. And as he meditates in the shadow of the cross now looming upon him As he breathes his last few breaths of freedom, what in fact would he pray? Jesus' final prayer, you could say, is in fact John 17. And what he does here in verses 1 to 5, first he prays for himself, that he may in fact glorify the Father in the task of the cross that is in fact before him. He then prays for his disciples, those who now carry out his message, and he prays that they may in fact be one. And then he does something in verse twenty to twenty-three, and here is his prayer as he prays. My prayer is not for them alone, meaning the disciples. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I in you. May they also be in us, that the world may believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one. I in them and you in me May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me. Jesus prays for himself, he prays for his disciples, and then starting on verse 20, he prays not only for them, but I also pray for those who will believe in me through their message. The message of the disciples is the gospel message, the message that you are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. The gospel message that gives to us eternal life that fuels the power that we need to live our life. That is the message that the disciples preach And Jesus is praying for all those who come to believe in him through their message. In other words, folks, Jesus is praying for you. He is praying for me. He is praying for all of us who are believers in the gospel message of Christ. He is praying for that underground church in China. He is praying for our dear brothers and sisters in Uganda. He is praying for those believers worldwide, and what he prays for to me is what is so amazing. He prays Let them be one as we are one. Verse 21, he says, let them that they may be one, he says. In verse 23, that they may be perfected in unity, that they may be brought to a complete unity. To use it perhaps in terminology that we are more familiar with here in our church, what Jesus is praying for here is that we will have intimate community. One of the first principles within our sound ministry that we will have an intimate community, a oneness so to speak. A openness of community that where we are expressing the love of Jesus Christ to each other and being brought together in a perfect harmony. But Jesus doesn't stop there alone. He says that this oneness, this community, this unity of believers serves a purpose, a goal. And that goal you could say is a harvest mentality. One of the other principles within our cell ministry. Verse twenty-one, that they may be one so that the world may believe that you sent me. Verse 23, so that the world may know that you have sent me. You see what Jesus is saying here is that they need to be one as an intimate community. They need to be one as we are one. So that the world may know the gospel. That the world may know the gospel truth in the love that we express to each other. Now I don't know if you people have ever thought about it that way, but intimate community or oneness With an outreach mentality, a harvest mentality, you could say are opposite sides of the same coin. And in fact, when you read the uh Matthew chapter twelve, verse twenty five to twenty-seven, there Jesus is being vilified because he is casting demons out. And his critics are saying he must in fact be the prince of demons. That is the only way he is able to cast out demons. And Jesus says, think about the logic of what you are saying. That makes absolutely no sense at all. A kingdom, he says, that is divided amongst itself, he says, this type of kingdom is in ruins. This kingdom is laid to waste. It makes no sense for it to fight amongst itself. That is just bad strategy. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6, you have Paul's great prohibition of Christians taking other believers into court for a civil lawsuit. And he says one reason why we are not to do that in verse 7 is because if in fact we do He says that we are completely defeated already. You see, he has taken a situation that is civil, legal, and he throws into that mix a term of spiritual warfare. that we are completely defeated already. What is the logic and the rationale behind this? Because you can see folks, it doesn't make it won't do us of any good It won't do us any good to share the gospel with the people around us when we bring them into our community and they do not experience the love of Christ. You could say that lost people are not attracted to dead things. Lost people are attracted to life. You can knock on every door in your neighborhood You can knock on and go before every single person and say, We can win him to Jesus. We can bring him into our churches. But if they don't find light there in the church, it will not do us a bit of good The lost, you could say, are attracted to where there is life. As one Southern Baptist preacher once said, where the glory of Jesus is lifted up. Yesterday was the last day of upwards basketball, and I had an opportunity to see a little bit of this uh these principles in play um on this last day. The level one boys uh group teams, I I think it's about anywhere between six to seven may six to seven year olds And uh there is one very special little boy to me uh who is playing in this league and he has a a very hard time uh shooting the ball. And in fact when he shoots it at times he doesn't quite make it to the rim. And that's the way in Lestrade to say all season long for this for this little precious little boy He um the the coaches though realized that he hadn't quite scored a basket and so they made it the team's goal that he get the ball to shoot, hopefully to score. And every time he had the ball yesterday and he would go up for a shot, you could all I could see the father's heart just start to get nervous and just kinda quake. Just not certain what exactly is going to happen. You know, it's not easy for a dad to to see things like this. Um but what this father noticed and that was so special to me to him excuse me was to see That not only was he eager to see the boy shoot and score, not only were the coaches eager to shoot him, see him shoot and score Not only were uh his other teammates wanting to do it, but the parents of his teammates were wanting him to do it as well. And every shot he made or every t a shot that he attempted You could see for a split second a moment of silence everyone gasping and holding their breath, hoping in fact he would score. Not only him, but in fact you could say the parents on the opposing team wanted that. And you could see even the other kids on the other team wanted that You see, as competitive and as adversarial and as uh heated as the competition as it can get within these sports settings, it did this father's heart so good to see a community come together to support this little boy. And as I thought about it, I thought, what if that father was a not uh a a believer What if that father was not a Christian? What a testimony this is for him to see a body of believers, majority of them believers Come together to root this one boy on to to to make a basket. And I so wish I could tell you that he scored a basket, but he didn't. But you know something? I would say to you that a greater witness would proclaim Playing the body of Christ sharing the love of God with each other, focused and channeled into one little boy It did so good to see that community come together like that. We are called, you could say, to be one, so that the world may know that God has sent his one and only Son. Jesus Christ. And of course that's not an easy thing, folks. I mean look at us. We squaw we we squabble, we fight, we have our own personal views and rights that we defend as if that is the most precious thing as opposed to the glory of God. Left on our own, we cannot accomplish this. So how in fact are we supposed to be of one body? Verse 22, the glory which I have giv that you have given to me, I have given to them that they may be one, just as we are one. The glory of Jesus Christ, he says, the glory that I have, I now give to them. Now, this glory throughout the entire Bible, you could say, is a manifestation of the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God is the glory of God that filled the tabernacle, that filled the temple, that filled Jesus at his baptism. This is a glory that Jesus is giving to us. You could say that we are able to be one and the the type of oneness is not just any type of community, it's one as the Father and the Son are one But we indeed can accomplish that because of the Spirit of God that dwells in our hearts, that allows for us to know how forgiven we are by God. that we may now forgive each other and now be together to knitted, you could say, in perfect harmony. When we are able to do that, the nature of our unity is no longer something of this world. That You could say for that reason this is a supernatural unity Something that is not a product of this world, that is a product truly of heaven. The reflection of our unity again is the reflection of the glory of God. I in them, Jesus says, and you, O Father, in me. A connectedness, you could say, that we have in our oneness together that relies on the oneness of the God and Father and the Son relationship. The source of our unity again, the Spirit of God. This is something, O people, that that everybody wants. This is something that you will hear preach in every community that you go to You know, Judaism preaches the uh the need for oneness. Islam will preach the need for oneness. You will hear this preached in in the Boy Scouts of America. You will hear this talked about even amongst the Baltimore Ravens. They all need a sense of unity. What makes our body, you could say, distinct is not just merely the merely the fact that we are the body of Christ It is because we in fact are the body of Christ. We are knit together by our allegiance and our love and our loyalties and our faith to Him. We've been encouraged in the past to invest and live for the line as opposed to the dot. But that line is not just a horizontal relationship between us as the people You could say this line first begins because of a vertical line between our God and us. I and them. You and me. The nature of our unity is truly for that reason supernatural, and the extent of our unity, you could say for that reason, is beyond just global We are not just talking about a unity of the glorious body of Christ that transcends continents. The believers, you could say, all over the world, and we being united together because of the crucifixion of Christ, the cross of Christ that gives us a common bond. It is not the suffering that bonds us If you could say if suffering is a point of unity, then the Muslims in this country after nine eleven have more in common than the Christian believers in persecuted places of the world. It is not pain that unites us. It is our faith in the risen and glorious Christ. It is the cross of Christ that bonds us together. A supernatural thing. But this unity is not just, you could say, continental. It is transcendent. It is eternal. For the God who died for you and me. The God who died for the Christians, meeting at this very moment all over the world, is the same God who gave his life for Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For Moses, for David, for the Apostle Paul, for Saint Augustine, perhaps the most influential theologian of the Western world, to the great John Calvin himself. This is the glorious body of Christ. I long to see it, folks, to see this glorious body bonded together, not by might Nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. A body of Christ, you could say, that can proclaim Proclaim the glory of the Lord. Let every tongue confess that He indeed reigns. The invisible reign of Christ in the visible body of believers. Let the worldwide body of Christ let them declare their voices, join together as one, that He is in fact the Messiah, our Savior, our King. Let the glorious body of Christ lift his name up on high in a sound of singing. To lift his name in all of the earth, that he is in fact Jesus, the everlasting King, that he may accept tribute. That we, in fact, we, the people of God, can bring, that he will accept the well-deserved renown. And that in fact he may wear our praises, ours, the glorious people of God, as in fact his crown. Let's pray together. And as you bow in prayer, I'd like to just give you a minute or two As we bring now a closure to our month of missions, and as you have heard the many words that were shared and the many opportunities that are before you, I'd like to just give you a moment to bow in prayer, to meditate. How in fact can you put Missions Month in action in your lives? To whom can you talk to and share the goodness of Christ? What in fact can you do for the glory of God? I'd like to just give you a moment to pray and to meditate on that. So let's bow and prayer. Father, thank you for Jesus Christ, our Savior, our King. And thank you, O Lord, for his great work on the cross. For it accomplished, Lord, our salvation and gave to us eternal life. All of us, O Lord, all those who come to you in faith. Thank you, O Lord, that you did not hold our sins against us, and that we can now rejoice eternal with you. And as we do so, Lord, we know that we are joined together by brethren all over the world. And I pray, Father, that we, as truly the glorious body of Christ, may exalt and lift your name on high, for yours is the only name worthy to be praised. Father, give in the hearts of your people an undying love for each other that is based first and foremost on your undying love for us. May that, O Lord, be what inspires us, that causes us, O Lord, to work. Our love and our dedication to you. And so, O Lord, hear our prayers, for we pray these things all in Jesus' name. Amen.