It's my pleasure to introduce Brian and Dorothy Wingard, a missionary couple with the OPC serving in Asmara, Eritrea. In a few moments, Brian will be sharing God's word with us from the pulpit. He earned his undergraduate degree at Reformed Theological Seminary And a Master's of Theology and Apologetics at Westminster Theological Seminary. During his studies for his doctorate He joined as a staff person for an OP church in Glenside, Pennsylvania, where he met Dorothy. The foreign missions, uh the Committee on Foreign Missions called Brian to be a missionary teacher at Reformed Theological College of East Africa in Kenya in 1993. For three and a half years. And after a furlough, he went to Westminster Theological College in Uganda again as a missionary teacher. He is now working to establish a theological school in Maharita Jesus Evangelical Presbyterian Church. Dorothy is uh conducting a children's program at the uh at the church school too. Brian It is a privilege and a joy to be here this morning at Columbia Presbyterian Church. One of the One of the joys of missionary service is not only the opportunity to see parts of the world Which we would ordinarily never have an opportunity to see, but see to see also on furlough so many different parts of our own country. And especially to be able to see the faces of God's people who are praying for us in our work. And I want to thank you for your prayers and ask that they please continue. It's a privilege also to be able to open God's Word with you this morning. And I call in those verses that were read Your special attention to verses 22 through 24. Which serve as the special focus of the message. And with your permission, I will read them once again. What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience? vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory. Even us whom he is called not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles. Let us look to the Lord in prayer. Our gracious God and our Heavenly Father, we thank and praise you, Father, for your word. And we ask you now that the Holy Spirit might come among us. That the one who wrote this word ultimately Will also illumine our hearts and mind to understand His truth. May He seal it as was already prayed in our hearts. And make us willing and obedient to the message of it. For this we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, I believe there is a crisis in missions today. Particularly, I believe, there is the crisis of knowing what exactly lies at the heart of missions What is its source? What is its purpose? What is its motivating power? Now, if I were to go to some missionaries and ask them, what is the heart of missions? Some calling themselves missionaries would say, the heart of missions is to reach down to those who live in grinding poverty and oppression and raise them up to a higher standard of living and to experience more of the good things of this life. Others with a greater respect for the Word of God would answer the question this way. At the heart of missions is the need to proclaim the gospel to lost sinners in order that they might be saved through Jesus Christ. Now, I trust, as I mentioned that last statement, that our hearts resonated to that As a true need that is in the world. But brothers and sisters, I want to suggest to you this morning That as great as that need is, and as important as that is in the missionary enterprise, even that statement. Does not lie at the heart of missions. For at the heart of missions, brothers and sisters, lies the glory of God. Sometimes people who read the ninth chapter of Romans read it as if it were a theological textbook. particularly designed to set before us in abstract terms the doctrine of election And I would not for one moment deny that the doctrine of election is set forth in this chapter. But I want to remind you that the heart of the man humanly who wrote these words was the heart of a missionary. the greatest missionary that the Church of Jesus Christ has ever known. So concerned was he for the loss of his own people, Israel, that even though he was commissioned to be the apostle of the Gentiles, He says that he could wish that he were accursed for the sake of his brethren among the Jews. Who had turned their back on their own Messiah? Words, there are no words to make his concern for the lost. any more powerful than it was than the words he uses here. But brothers and sisters, there was one thing that was closer to Paul's heart Than the needs of his lost brethren. And that was the glory of God. And that's what he sets forth in this chapter, the glory of God. In the calling of the lost to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to notice three things this morning. First, the glory of God as it is seen in his sovereign choice of a people called by his name to be His own. Secondly, coming close to the verses at the end of the text. The glory of God, as it is seen in his patience with those who Paul calls the vessels of wrath. Prepared for destruction. And finally, the glory of God in the mercy that he pours out upon the ones who are vessels of mercy prepared beforehand for glory We come first then to see the fact that God's glory is seen in his sovereign choice. of a people who will be his own. There are words in this chapter that many Christians Find difficult when they read them. For Paul quotes God speaking to Moses And saying, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. And sometimes we read those words and we think, does this speak of a God who is arbitrary? Who keeps from the eternal kingdom of salvation people who would otherwise uh be flocking into that kingdom. And sometimes people have this problem because they don't really understand what the condition of the world is. The world is not fulfilled with people who would love to become Christians. If only God would allow them to be Christians. The world is filled with sinners. Who love their sin. It is filled with rebels who shake their fist. In the face of God, and say, We will break his chains from us and cast his cords asunder. It is filled with people who hate the God who made them. Because they want to live their lives for themselves. And God says that He has created them for Himself. And for his glory. Paul gives us an example here. The example of Jacob and Esau Now again, we may have problems with that quotation. Jacob have I loved, and Esau have I hated. But this example, if you read the narrative of their lives in the Old Testament was not an example of two boys who equally desired to love and serve the Lord It's an example of two boys who came into the world as rebels and sinners. Jacob was a deceiver. He stole his brother's birthright. By buying it with a ball of cottage. He stole the blessing That would have normally belonged to his brother. But Esau was no better. He was a man who despised the birthright. Thought satisfying his hunger was more important than the birthright that he had. Who despised the commands of the Lord to not to intermarry. With pagan people. These weren't two boys who wanted to be believers, but God kept one of them away. Because, brothers and sisters, the question is not, why does God not save Anybody or everybody, the question is, why does he save anyone? Why did he call me from all eternity? When I deserve wrath and curse, why did he call you? How is God glorified in this sovereign choice? God is glorified in the first place because it shows that He is free That he is not a great celestial servant of mankind Whose duty is to make sure that everyone in the world is happy and satisfied God is the creator, and he does as he wills, and he acts as he pleases. Because he is God. But in the second place it shows his glory. in his mercy and grace, and it shows that he was not willing for Satan, the enemy of the souls of man, to have his will. Because Satan's will is that everyone should be with him in the hell of fire. He came to Adam and Eve to destroy the whole race. Of mankind. But God was not willing that Satan should have his way and had from all eternity chosen a multitude which no man can number, as many as the sand that is on the seashore, or the stars in the heavens. Of those who would be redeemed through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ to the praise of the glory of his grace. God is glorified because he defeats the plans and purposes of the evil one. But coming now close to our text, we see in the second place that God is glorified. in his patience with those who Paul calls the vessels of wrath that are fit for destruction. We must read the words carefully because Paul is not talking here of the judgment that comes on the vessels of wrath. But at God's patience with the vessels of brass And here in the previous verses, we have also a great example of this principle. For Paul speaks of Pharaoh. And God saying to Pharaoh, For this purpose I have raised you up, that my name might be glorified through you What do we know of the history of Pharaoh and Moses? Moses came to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, when Israel was in slavery in Egypt. And Moses said to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, let my people go that they might serve me. And how does Pharaoh respond? I do not know your God, and I will not let the people go. What, I ask you, did Pharaoh deserve at that moment? Pharaoh deserved the immediate destruction Of Almighty God. He had blasphemed the name of the creator of the ends of the earth. But brothers and sisters, Pharaoh was not destroyed. God continued To be patient and bear with that wicked king. Yes, he sent Restricted judgments upon Pharaoh and Egypt, but he did not wipe them out immediately as they deserved Now, how was God glorified in this? God was glorified because the redemption that came to Israel was much more glorious. than it would have been otherwise. What is the end of that account? Of God's dealing with Pharaoh. It is Moses standing at the far side of the Red Sea and lifting up his voice to sing to the Lord, I will sing unto the Lord. For he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and the rider are cast into the sea. But, brothers and sisters, there is a better example than the example of Moses and Pharaoh. There is the example of the Lord Jesus Christ. What happened when our Lord Jesus Christ came into the world? John puts it this way in the first chapter of his gospel. He came unto his own, and his own did not receive him. What happened to our Lord Jesus Christ, the King of Kings, when he walked this earth? He was reviled. He was Persecuted, he was put to death. What did people rece What did Caipus deserve when he had the audacity to condemn The Messiah to death. He deserved the immediate destruction of God But once again, God was patient. He didn't bring destruction. And the Lord Jesus Christ went to the cross, bearing the sins of his people, and was raised on the third day. And became the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and was lifted to the highest heaven of heaven. God was patient with vessels of wrath, and because he was patient with vessels of wrath We have salvation through the Lord Jesus Christ and through his blood. God was glorified as Jesus Christ came forth from the grave And God was glorified as he raised his son to the eternal throne of heaven. And why is God patient with those vessels of wrath? And so his mercy can be extended to those who are vessels of mercy. That's the movement of the text. God is patient, Paul says. with vessels of wrath prepared for destruction in order to make known the riches of his glory Upon vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for glory What does God desire above all things? God desires that his name might be glorified by the people that he has created for himself. Why does Paul say that the wrath of God came upon the unbelieving world in the first chapter of this epistle? He says it came because even though they knew him, they did not glorify him in God, neither were they thankful. And so God's wrath was poured out. What does he desire? He desires that we do glorify him as God. And we do offer eternal thanksgiving to him as our creator and our redeemer. And we should have before our eyes that great picture of the last day. When all the redeemed through Jesus Christ will stand around the throne of God and praise his name forever and ever. And those redeemed come from every crime and every tongue and every nation. to be a praise to the glory of his name. That is at the heart of what the church does in missions. Why do I say these things? I say them partly because We need to know that unless the glory of God is at the center Of our missionary enterprise is the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. then the gospel that we try to proclaim to the peoples will not truly be the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. When we don't have God's glory As the heart of what we do, the gospel is altered It becomes another gospel, a gospel of a God who wrings his hands over a creation run wild. And doesn't know how to handle it. Or a gospel of a God who runs after sinful man And pleads that they do a favor for him and believe in his Son But the gospel of the Scriptures is the gospel of the glorious God. Who for his own glory sent his son into the world, enduring the shame that was heaped upon him. So that his Father might be glorified by the people he redeemed. Brothers and sisters, this is the heart of true religion. The heart of true religion is not having God For what God can do for me. And we hear that gospel proclaimed in many places But the heart of true religion is having God for God's own sake We were made for him, and the gospel is the way that God has to return us. To that purpose, that we might be to the praise and the glory of His grace. That's why we go out into the world, whether it be the world that surrounds this building, nearly. Or the nations like Eritrea that are across the waters And we proclaim a God who is glorified in his Son And bringing his people to himself. This is why I went to Eritrea This is why the church has been commissioned to go into the world That God might be glorified, that his name might be praised, that honor for all eternity might come to him. Do you know this God this morning Have you been redeemed by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ? If this is not the case with you, may God work in your heart in such a way that you look to the one. who came to seek and to save that which was lost, and to give his life a ransom for many. But if you are a believer this day, what is at the heart of your Christian life? What is it, the heart of your Christian walk? Is it the glory of God or is it something else? May God grant that for all of us what lies at our hearts is the glory of God. And the desire that his name might be glorified in the nations May God bless you, and may God bless his word. Amen