Often we restrict ourselves to reading only the gospel accounts of the resurrection at Easter, I believe. In contrast to the Christmas story, where there are only two references to the birth of Christ outside of the Gospel accounts, there are 160 verses outside of the Gospel accounts that refer to the resurrection of Christ. In fact, the resurrection is referred to by Paul the Apostle alone twenty-two times outside of the Gospel accounts. One of the most intriguing references I find in Colossians 1. 18. Colossians 1. 18 refers to Jesus as the first bower from among the dead. A very curious phrase to use. He's called in verse 15 the firstborn over all creation. And then in verse 18, he's called the firstborn from among the dead. Paul is getting at something here, which is very important for us to appreciate When we come to understand what the resurrection means, and so I have my force to give our attention to Colossians chapter 1. Focusing particularly on verse 18, but let's see that in the context of his letter as he writes to the Colossians, beginning then reading God's word from Colossians chapter 1 W beginning with verse 1. Colossians chapter 1, verse 1. This is God's own word. Let's give our attention Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God and Timothy our brother, to the holy and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae. Grace and peace to you from God our Father. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, the faith and love that springs from the hope that's stored up for you in heaven. And that you have already heard about in the word of truth, the gospel that has come to you. All over the world this gospel is producing fruit and growing, just as it has been doing among you since the day you heard it and understood God's grace in all its truth. He learned it from Epathris, our dear fellow servant, who is faithful minister of Christ on our behalf. And he also told us of your love and the spirit. For this reason, since the day we heard about you, we have not stopped praying for you and asking God to fill you with the knowledge of His will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding. And he prayed this in order that you may live a life worthy of the Lord, and may please him in every way, bearing fruit in every good work, dwelling in the knowledge of God. Being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might, so that you may have great endurance and patience, and durafully giving thanks to the Father. He has qualified we to share in the inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of light. For he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the Son He loves, will we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins? He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created, in from heaven and on earth. Visible and invisible, but its loans of powers and rulers are authorities, all things were created by him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning and the firstborn from among the dead. So that in everything he might have the supremacy. I want for us to notice from God's Word there two things about this phrase, firstborn from among the dead. It shows us first of all that Jesus is unique among the dead And then it shows us secondly, you see on the back of the bulletin outline, that he is united with the dead. First of all, then notice that this verse teaches us that Jesus is unique among the dead. It uses the term firstborn. He is the firstborn from among the dead. And what does that mean that he's firstborn from among the dead? Well, perhaps the most obvious thing that comes to mind is it means he's the first one who rose from the dead It's sort of like that face that we looked at back in 1980 when we looked at 1 Corinthians 15, that he was the first fruit from among the dead. He's the first one who knows. But it means much more than that. Because the term firstborn in first century culture had a very special meaning to people at that time. It was a word that referred to unique status and favor. The first word was the beginning of the strength of the body. That was a phrase that was used. The firstborn in a family was the one of highest rank. It was the one who had the authority in the family when Dad was away. Maybe some of you kids uh would like to still practice that kind of custom. Uh, because when dad was away in these times, then the firstborn knew the rest of the brothers and the sisters It's the firstborn who told everybody what to do and the family. Because the firstborn had the highest status outside of the father. The first girl inherited twice as much as all the other kids. So it uh paid to be the first one in the family The firstborn was the one who succeeded, who ruled, who was a king. The firstborn had special status. The first brother was also seen as the one who had a special privilege, a special preciousness. You see, back in those days, people didn't think of just in terms of one or two kids in past. You know, you sort of started and you got a good Early start, you hope Chukanagaon maybe have five, ten, maybe twelve kids in your fabric. And so the firstborn was the head of the pack. You know, we have uh firstborn and in China now it's pretty hard to have two kids, you know, you're only supposed to have one. E But you have to get out of that kind of thinking to a culture that put a great premium on a large number of kids. And the firstborn had the highest status, the greatest privilege, the first one was the one that is generally the most precious to the parents because of all that would be given to them. Now with that in mind, look at what he says in verse 15. He says that Jesus is the image of the invisible God and the firstborn over all creation. Now maybe that verse has troubled you, as has troubled many people, because there's a lot of people who will take that verse and they'll tell you that that means that Jesus isn't really fully God. That means that Jesus was the first thing made in creation. He's the firstborn of all the things made in creation. And therefore he can't be equal with God. Because he's the firstborn of creation. He's part of creation, therefore. But you see, that's not what that word means. The word does not mean that he's part of the creation. To give you an example of that, take a look at Exodus chapter 4. In Exodus chapter 3, we have the same word used. And it's used in a way that obviously doesn't mean literally that The people talked about are the first buildings. God is speaking here in Exodus chapter 4, and he's telling Moses what he's to say to Pharaoh. And so he says that he used to tell Pharaoh to let God's people go. He says in verse 22, Exodus 4. 22, then God says, say to Pharaoh, this is what the Lord says. Israel is my firstborn son. He's talking about a couple million people here. But he calls them his firstborn son. God. Because he's saying these people are precious to me. These people are most special to me of all the people on the earth. Israel is my firstborn son, and I told you, let my son go. So they worship me, but you refuse to let him go. So I'm going to kill your firstborn son. You won't let my firstborn the one who's precious to me, so I am going to bring about my judgment on literally your firstborn son who's precious to you. Well look at Psalm 89. Psalm 89 in verse 27, we have this with reference to David. Psalm 89 is talking about how David is precious to God. We see in verse 20 that God says, I have found David my servant with my sacred I anointed him. God says, I called out this one man. This fellow was a shepherd born, had no special status. He was the last born in that family. But no special status whatsoever. He was the kid Ela was forgot to bring when Samuel asked for all the family. And God says, he's the one who I took, who I chose. He says in verse 25, I'm going to set his hand over all the seas, and his right hand over the rivers. This man is going to be king and he's going to have an unlimited dominion. And he's talking about David's exalted privilege. And then he says in verse 27, I will also appoint him my firstborn. Now you obviously doesn't mean that God had a bunch of children and David was the firstborn of Galilee, and he's part of that creation He's talking about status. That's what this Greek word means. It's a word in which the idea of literal being born the first has receded so far into the background that you can use it as a figure of speech To say the one who has the special status, the special authority, the special rule. And so he's saying, David is my firstborn, the most exalted of the kings of the earth. That's what it means. He's most exalted. Hey, come back to Colossians 1 and we go back to verse 15, we see, be then Jesus is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. And it's clear that what God's talking about here is not the fact that Jesus is part of creation. But in fact, he's exalted over the creation. That's quite clear by the verses that follow. Just in case you might think that he was part of creation, Paul makes it clear by their own store, by him all things were created. So he's not part of the creation. He's the creator. Things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, everything. Frones of powers again, you see the emphasis on authority. Rulers or authorities, all things were created by him and for him. Not only did he make them, but he sustains them. He's before all things. But in all the things altogether. So he's the one who is in the absolute authority, the Lord of creation. Now, with that background, he gives a parallel thought in verse 18. Notice what he says now. And now, he talks about the realm of creation. Now he moves in on the church, God's people, and he says, and he's the head of the body. Not only is he a head of all creation, but in a particular way, he's the head of his people. The head of the body. What's the body? That's the church. That's what he says. The head of the body of the church. He's the beginning and the firstborn, same word again, from among the dead. So now you've got within creation, a group of people, a group of people who are the church, who were dead, who are held in bondage to death. And Jesus, as he made creation, also made resurrection. Just as he made all things, so he made a new world. A realm of resurrection, a realm of life from the dead, a realm of life from judgment. And Jesus now is the ruler and the authority over this realm. over the realm of his people. He's the first ruler from among the dead. He's the one who rules all those who are alive from the dead Second Corinthians 5, 14 and 15 as well as that. The love of Christ constrains us, compels us. Why? Because we judged the dead by us for all, and he died for all because we're all dead. For what reason? And so He died for all that we who live, who are dead, may no longer live to ourselves, but unto him who died and rose again. And so that's why Paul says at the end of that verse, he's the firstborn from among the dead for what purpose? So that in everything He might have the supremacy. What's the purpose of the resurrection? To give you and me life, new life in Jesus Christ. But that's not all. Paul says here that a primary purpose of the resurrection. was so that Jesus would have a new supremacy that he never had before. He had all the authority of all creation But now there's a new realm that he has created. It's a realm of people who, under the judgment of a just God, have been raised from the dead in this one who's the first one. The firstborn from the dead. And as he's the firstborn from the dead, he's the ruler over all those who are alive from the dead. You see the other terms that point that out? He's the head of the body. That word means that he's the one who has authority. He's the ruler. He's the beginning. See that in verse 18? He's the beginning And we're beginning it's an interesting word. We don't have any counterpart to that in English. Maybe you saw the uh series George Washington a couple weeks ago And you remember there's George Washington going across the Delaware. You know, there is standing up in the boat, they're ready to attack the Hessians in Trenton. And nobody believes this thing's going to come off. So what's George got to do? George Washington's gotta lead that boat and he's gotta be the one to break through to show that it can be done. And so he's in the beginning boat. He's the one who takes them through and he leads the charge and makes the way for those who follow him. Well maybe if you didn't see George Washington, a more contemporary example would be something like Star Wars. And you know, whenever you see those kind of battles, there's always the one guy who's got the blaster, you know, and you've got to go through to the enemy. And everybody's behind him, but he's got to break the way through. And as he comes against Genning and he cuts him down and they're all blasting the smithereen going over the walls and everything, and all these rays are going all over. But he comes through, but everybody else behind it knows it's safe. Because he cut down the enemy. That's exactly what that word means. It means the inaugurator, the one who blasts his way through, so that the rest can follow behind in safety. It's the word that means the one who cuts the way through, the pioneer who cuts through something. And so if we come behind Jesus as the first word from among the dead, we follow in his train and under his authority. So that he will have the supremacy. That's the reason. Revelation 1:5 tells us that Jesus is the firstborn from among the dead, the ruler of the kings of the earth. You see it? Jesus has cut through a new kingdom so that he and I would have a new life and a life that would be under his rulership. You see then why it is such foolishness, why it is even blasphemy, the people that come on Easter And to give a nod to God and say, we will celebrate the fact that Jesus has risen from the dead. And it's nice to carve out a little place for him in my life, that little religious area, sort of poetic sort of like a stained glass corner of my life, in which I look at Jesus and it's nice to know that I have the peace of knowing that Jesus has risen from the dead and I don't have to fear death. You see, to give a corner to God is to miss the whole point of the resurrection. Jesus is the first born from among the dead, in order that he might have supremacy, a new supremacy. by which he frees us from our sins to become his slaves, so that he can rule our lives. He can free us from the bondage of sin. That's the whole point of the resurrection. It's the freedom to a new life under Jesus Christ's authority. Now the other thing to see in this is not only is he unique among the dead, but he's also united with the dead. Notice that verse 15 says that he's the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over creation. That speaks of his being separate from the creation. But notice the second first glance. Verse 18. He's the beginning, the firstborn, some among the dead. It didn't burn, it's used there. That tells us that he is joined to those people. That's very important. Because Jesus isn't the ruler over creation because he's part of creation. He's ruler over creation because he made creation, not so the resurrection Jesus is ruler of those raised from the dead because he was joined with them with their death. Hey, think about that for a minute. It automates goose bumps go up and down your spine. When you realize that the Creator, in order to free us, To a new kingdom under which he could place us under his authority and the freedom that he wanted to give us, had to die. The Creator died in order to rise again. Here and I were in a tomb. And in that tomb, there's a lock. And that lock will not let us out. We're sealed in that tomb of death. And the Creator himself had to enter into that tomb because the only way that he can unlock that unlock with the key is to get on the inside of the tomb. And so Jesus, out of his great love for us, comes into that tomb with us. And he takes the key. And the key is his own perfect sacrifice of himself, a life-lived in absolute conformity to all that God requires. The absolute requirements that you and I have missed so often again and again and again in our lives. And Jesus Christ met every one of those requirements on our behalf. So we can walk out of the tomb. But we're still sealed in the tomb. And so that's not all he did. Jesus laid down his life as a sacrifice in our place. So that the Creator died, the death of judgment and cursing from his father. And with that sacrifice, he unlocks the law. On that key and that lock to the tomb. And on unlocking that lock with the key of the sacrifice of himself, he opens the door And you and I go out after him, because he's the first born from among the dead. You see that? Jesus, because he died, was able to release you and me from death. To what purpose? So that he would have supremacy. In everything. Supremacy, because he's the firstborn over creation, and therefore everything in creation ought to bow to him, owe our existence to him But this will when you and I come, and we recognize not only do we owe our existence to him, and therefore he should be our Lord. But we also are a people who are under the sentence of death, and there is nothing that we can do to get out of that sentence. And Jesus came and he joined us in that death. And he died so that he was among the dead, and then Jesus was freed because his sacrifice was accepted by the Father. And he's the first born from among the dead. And so we're twice his. The best illustration I can think of of this is one that I shared with you some years ago, and so some of you may remember. There's a story I heard many, many years ago about a little boy. Little boy who made a sailboat. He carved it out of wood. It was a sailboat that uh was the test of all of his powers. He had gotten this little kit and some plans and he moved this little thing. And after spending hours and hours of work on this, he had gotten the sailboat so that it would be a sea laden Put a little sail on it and took it to the city pond in order to sail it. He put it in the pond, but a stronger dust of wind came up than he had counted on. The sailboats uh proved to be a little swifter and more seaworthy than he thought, and it blew out into the lake, too deep for him to be able to go get it, and away it went. And the little boy was heartbroken. He had lost his sailboat. Imagine his surprise when a week later, Billy Boy was walking downtown and he saw on a toy store window his very samples. Bureau office. Somebody had gotten that sailboat and they had put it in the shop. And so he went into the shop to the shopkeeper. He ran up and he said, That's my boat in the window. Give it to me. And the fellow said, Well, it might have been your gate before, but it's my boat now. He said, No, no, I made that boat, it's mine He said, But it's my boat now. You have to pay ten dollars to get that boat back if you want it. And The little boy was heartbroken. He didn't have ten dollars. And so he went home and he had to save and he had to do chores and errands and all kinds of stuff to get a few quarters here and a dollar bill or two there. And finally he saved up. He got enough money. He went down to the shopkeeper again. And he put down the ten dollars and he said, Now give me my selection. The bell took it out of the shop window and he gave it to him. As the little boy walked out of the store, he was holding the boat and he was heard to say, Now you're twice mine. I made you and I bought you. You and I come this morning twice, Jesus. Because he made us. And he's the firstborn over all creation. And he also bought us. Because he died, and he's the firstborn from the dead, for he's risen again And the purpose of that is so that he might have supremacy. First place in all things. That's God saying, so that he might be the first thing in your life. That is, you put Jesus first and then everything else comes after it, but it's for you to decide what to do with it. The word the man is constructed there in the Greek means that he is the first of every area, of everything, of every compartment, of every department of your life. That means that Jesus is the first birth and event so that he might have authority over how you run your home Jesus is the firstborn from among the dead, so he might have rulership over your career, over your job, and over your career plans. Is he the first born of your career? Jesus is the first born from among the dead so that he might have supremacy in your priorities. In how you spend your time. In what you buy, in what you save for, in what you value, in everything. But how can you and I this morning show you that we understand that by taking some area in which he does not have supremacy And thinking about that area and offering it to him now as a gift. Light was the firstborn For you, because he's risen to set you free. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, how foolish and ludicrous for us to think That you could rise from the dead and that we could in some grip way clothe from you a salvation that left areas of our life untouched It's not for us to decide what we want to do. It's if we have a quiet peace about the fact that isn't it nice to know that you have given to us life. Lord, the whole purpose of your resurrection was to set free a people who were dead, and to make us a people who are dead and alive unto you. Alive in your new kingdom in which you have absolute supremacy and authority. And if we're part of that kingdom, then Lord, we are under your authority. Let me pray this morning for any year who might not be part of that kingdom. Might not be part of it because they have never recognized your authority and your supremacy. They're still running their own lives. And it's nice to think that there is life in some religious experience with Jesus. But they have never known the freedom that you can give. The freedom from guilt, the freedom from bondage, the freedom from drudgery and purposelessness. We pray, Lord, that you would make that freedom known by the authority that you have to set us free through the death on the cross and the resurrection from that empty tomb. We pray, Lord, that you have spoken to us about areas of our life under which we have denied your supremacy. He could help us as we celebrate the resurrection this day. To celebrate it by recognizing the very purpose is for you to have supremacy over every area of our lives. And to set us free from the toys and the things that we clutch to ourselves with closed fists, thinking that we are happier running our own lives in that area. Give us, Lord, the liberty to release our hands and to hold them up to you, that you might have supremacy in that area that we've been hiding from you. And we might know that your resurrection means that you can set us free in that area. That you have the power and the authority to do it. And nothing can stop you except our closed vest. Glory unto you with joy and rejoicing. Because we're a dead alive people. And you have first place with us. May it be so. In Jesus' name.