You have your Bibles with you this morning. Please turn with me to the book of Micah, chapter five. Micah chapter five contains one of the more well known prophesied prophecies of the coming of Jesus Christ, even though it's not one of the most well-known books. I'll give you a moment to turn there Micah chapter five. I'll be reading for us verses one through five A. If you're wondering, what did he say A for? Sometimes we read through the first part of a verse, and that means just A. If we read B, that means it breaks into three parts and we're omitting C, but in any event. Ask your Sunday school teacher. I will read, and I hope it's clear why through 5a in a moment. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for its truth and its beauty. Lord, may we never tire of recognizing your word as true and beautiful. And Lord, we pray that as your word intersects with us this morning, As a church family, as individuals, Lord, we pray that we would see something of your glory and that we would be drawn to you through what you have done, Lord, in creation. And in saving people like us. We ask these blessings on your word and the preaching that follows in Christ's name. Amen. Micah chapter 5, beginning with verse 1, the word of God. Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops. Siege is laid against us. With a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. But you, O Bethlehem Ephratha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, From you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth. Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great. to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. This ends the reading of God's Word. Last week I mentioned that the prophecies in the Bible concerning Christmas begin with Genesis 3. 15, and I've never once seen a Christmas card that has a a serpent on it. I got one this week. Mike and Niskoli did an amazing job. It was a home production, but it was epic. I will never be able to use that sermon illustration again. Out of the thousand plus Christmas cards I've received in 56 years, well, I don't think I received any as a toddler, but let's say out of the last 46 years of life I have received countless Christmas cards that have the word peace on the front cover. Because peace we do associate very much with Christmas. And in fact, the holidays in general, if you were to ask people, what are you really hoping for for Thanksgiving? they are hoping desperately that politics does not come up because they want peace. They're hoping that crazy Uncle Bob doesn't pull any weird shenanigans and that it's peaceful. Please don't ask Paul and Marr if that's how it went down. We're hoping desperately for peace. When we live our lives, whenever we are in angst or fury or fear or dread, any bad word you want to pick that describes how you are, it can be rightly said that you are lacking peace. Because when you have peace, you're not angry. When you are in a state of peace, you're not afraid. When you are at peace You aren't covetous or jealous. When you have peace, you have contentment in who you are in the light of the God who made you. And that is a beautiful thing. And it's something, ironically , that we forfeited through sin thinking we would arrive at a better position. We thought we would know more and be better prepared to live our lives in this universe by becoming like God. And the upshot of what we read in Genesis 3 last week is that and eating from that tree, our first parents condemned us as their posterity to a life of interpersonal contest. even with our spouses, husbands and wives at odds, but especially with evil, with an enmity set between ourselves and all of the offspring of Satan himself. Peace is what we forfeited. And yet peace is what Jesus offers in a very particular and exclusive way. When Jesus' birth is heralded by the angelic host over the fields of Bethlehem, it is a host. Remember, it is an army of God declaring God's glory and the fact that peace Is now available on earth to those upon whom God's favor rests. Peace is what Jesus leaves his disciples, as Dick Stum mentioned earlier in the worship. Peace. Is something central to Jesus. In the book of Isaiah, he is Prince of Peace, the first in a long list of titles that are accolades. But what is about this peace? Well, the book of Micah in this prophecy of the child who will be born in Bethlehem points us to this child who will be our peace. And this particular prophecy about Christmas. focuses us on a couple of attributes concerning that piece that help us know what to look for and how to find it in our lives today. Now, the first thing I want to say about this, and the first thing I think that this text brings to our attention, is the fact that the peace of Christmas comes to people in desperate times. Desperate times. I want you to consider this word now Now is the word that begins, chapter 5, verse 1. And now is not a good time in the life of Israel's congregation being addressed by Micah. Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops. Fascinating statement. If you look at ten commentaries, you'll probably get a mixture of five different understandings of exactly what that means. It is uh pointing to the fact that Israel has had to that point of Micah, one of the prophets, right before the captivity uh by the Babylonians, is Looking at the fact that there's been a very militant culture, very much a dependence upon feats of arms and international treaties that has gripped Both Israel in the north and Judah in the south. There has been a reduced dependence upon God to give them peace, and an increased dependence upon themselves and their human allies. To find their own peace. And so the Prophet is saying, now, muster your troops, O daughter of troops. Siege has been laid against us. We are now surrounded. We are now cut off. We have made our bed. Now we have to sleep in it. And with a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. That is a picture of what I describe in your sermon outline of utter incompetence when it comes to defending yourself. Some of us remember from reading the texts of chivalry like uh the the late uh late chivalrous Southern American literature like a Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court. specifically and intentionally echoing that notion of medieval chivalry. The idea of striking someone in the cheek with a glove was the height of all offenses In the medieval world, it was a challenge to a duel to the death. Well, it was not that far different if you go back 3,000 years into the ancient Middle East To strike someone in the face was to give the highest offense. And if you were powerless to do anything to prevent it or to respond to it, That was in a sense the height of shame, much like uh having your clothes rent, or in that ancient culture having your beard shaved, or being paraded naked as a slave with nothing but a loincloth. This is a picture in which the now, and which the promise of peace is declared, is one in which do everything you possibly can to rescue yourselves, you're gonna fail. So we're not talking about a desperate situation and the fact that, oh my goodness, I've got a 1 in a thousand percent chance of surviving this The desperation described in Micah chapter 5, verse 1, is a situation in which you have a 0 and 1,000% chance of coming out on top. Now, you who've tried to live your life based upon your own wisdom, your own resources, what capital you can bring to the table, your own skill, whatever it is, your own goodness, the fact that you're Better than your neighbors. You who have tried to acquire or generate to make peace for yourself on your terms through your methods, give it your best shot. So you're about to get hit in the face, and there's not a thing you can do about it. Not one single thing. What a sermon Micah preached that day. to people who were busy desperately trying to send delegations up to Ashdod, down to Cairo, to figure out anything possible. How can we create either Egyptian allies or or let's even talk to the Philistines for goodness sake? Do your best. Because at the end of the day, all of the things you're trying to do to secure peace will fail. Because you can't. You yourself aren't at peace. If you don't have peace, how can you make it Instead, you have to allow the Word of God to direct your attention to a very unexpected place, Bethlehem. But you, O Bethlehem Ephratha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, From you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. Bethlehem. Now if I were to ask you to name the towns and cities of Judah, you would probably say Jerusalem. And Bethlehem. And then some of you would say Nazareth and be totally wrong. Nazareth is way far north. These are perhaps the two best-known towns or cities of Judah. That was not the case before. If you have your Bibles with you today. I know I don't often ask you to turn to other places, but if you have your Bible, take a minute and turn to Joshua chapter 15. I'm listening for pages turning and instead all I see are people looking at me. If you have your Bible. Anybody have their Bible? A lot of you have oh there we go. People are holding up their phones. Well, y you're gonna miss the whole effect here because you can only see a little bit on your screen. I wanted you to notice that in Okay, in Joshua chapter fifteen, okay, we're talking about a total of sixty Three verses which enumerate for us the allotment for Judah. One hundred and fifteen towns and cities are listed. Bethlehem doesn't make the list. Instead, we find stuff like this. Um there were cities uh Lahab, Laboth, Shilohem, Ain, and Rimmon in all twenty-nine cities with their villages. Bethlehem is one of the communities that falls under this category with their villages. Not to be counted in the clans, in the mustering of the tribe of Judah in military terms. Bethlehem wasn't even big enough to to provide a company of its own by the military terms of those days. They had to get lumped in with a bigger unit. Bethlehem is too small. By the standards of the ancient world, it was insignificant. It it just didn't matter. And in a day and an age where the place you came from was very significant , In ancient texts, whether they come from an ancient Assyrian or Babylonian or even an ancient Greek source, you find people are described as name and where they're from. From Bethlehem? Who comes from Bethlehem? Well, David came from Bethlehem. David, the youngest of seven sons, the least likely, from one of the smallest clans in all of Judah. But then David had been called and after, as the boys from the Man Mr. Manley heard in a wonderful talk, uh, uh after waiting for twenty-seven years, he became the king in Jerusalem. And after that the royal family lived high on the hill. So why would it not be from that high hill, from that advanced estate? from the point of having arrived, that the king did not come. Well, God is rolling his people back to the very beginning of that messianic promise of the king that we find in 2 Samuel chapter 7. That king like David who would sit on the throne forever, God is going all the way back to those ignominious, basic, mere, country hick, unnoted and uncelebrated origins. And he is going to bring from nothing, as it were, something. And he is going to go to the deepest, darkest, most obscure corner of the tribe of Judah and revisit the very foundations. Of the kingship of Israel. And that Messiah would be mighty. People today are looking for peace everywhere. They're looking for peace in the self-help section of Barnes and Noble, they're looking for peace in their newspapers, and instead being confronted with The Wall Street Journal just last week ran an article that Germany is preparing for World War Three. How happy did that make you feel? Anybody? And it could be hyperbole, I have no idea. It's hard to know anything about what's going on for sure today And we think about our own networks, our own extended families, and we think of the absence of peace, and it is so easy to lay hold of anything. You know, and this is a test I hope no one ever runs because it would be pure evil. If you were in the middle of the ocean and someone threw you an anvil, you'd probably grab hold of it. That's human nature. When we're drowning, we'll grab hold of anything, even if it proves destructive. That's why it is that when we're discouraged and upset, we'll turn to things like drugs, or pornography, or other people. In ways that are unhealthy and ungodly. We will turn anywhere but to the smallest, most insignificant pieces of real estate. Consider 2 Kings chapter 5. There's the story of a man who was a general in Syria, another troubling spot in the news of late. And his name was Naaman. And he has a little servant girl, a captured girl from Israel. who 's a slave, insignificant, without rights, who sees her master struggling with a disease, dreadful disease called leprosy And she says, there's a prophet in Judah that can heal you. Pardon me, in Israel. His name was Elisha. And Naaman had a choice. Do I listen to this nobody? Or do I stay with all the powerful people and medical advisors and soothsayers and wizards and magicians in Syria? He listens to nobody to go to a place we might consider from his perspective nowhere. And then he is offended by being told to dip himself seven times in the Jordan River, which he likens to a muddy brook. compared to the mighty Tigris and Euphrates. And if you look at it on a map, it's nothing compared to those rivers. And he is urged by a faithful servant, do it, even though it seems from the perspective of your humanity to be an utter waste of time because it's an insignificant place, an insignificant river. You were directed to do this by an insignificant person. Naaman does it and is healed. I cannot tell you how many people hear the gospel today and they think about Jesus and think he is an insignificant place, he is an insignificant river, he is an insignificant person. No thanks. I'll tune into my TV talk shows and my self-help columns in the newspaper And that's tragic because on Christmas we're told that God is going to raise up in the middle of dreadfully desperate times from out of nowhere in the middle of the night, as it were. A child who is born to be king, and what a king he will be. There's two things this text points us to about the kingship of the Messiah who will be born in Bethlehem. First, it says that he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord. He will stand and shepherd. If you read the prophecy of Micah, you'll realize that Micah is really a prophecy about how God's people had not been shepherded. The leadership had been utterly corrupt. It had utterly taken advantage of people financially. It had taken advantage of people spiritually. It had repressed them. It had neglected them. It did not care how they were doing. This king will be different. The first thing we're told about him, he will stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord and the majesty of the name of the Lord his God for the first time in the history of God's people. They would have a shepherd that was everything David, the man after God's own heart, could have been and would have been had he been free from sin. Even David failed. This king will not He will shepherd flawlessly, always considering the good and the health and the well-being of his flock. He will exist to stand between you and the lion, you and the bear, you and Satan himself. He will be armed not simply with a sling or a staff. He will have behind him the full resources of the divine Son of the living God, who he has been from eternity. And he is the one who is introduced in the Gospel of Mark simply as the stronger one. Stronger than who? Fill in the blank to your heart's content, and you still have only a fraction of the story. Your Jesus is able. That king who was born for you, that Messiah born to deliver you from a hopeless conflict, that one is Abel. And he is mighty, isn't he? He is mighty to save. Look at this picture of him being our peace I didn't read the remainder of verse 5 or verse 6, but I'm going to read them now when we read that he, this king, will be our peace. He will be the one. who stands up after we have uh gathered all our troops together and done everything we can and lost every fight in all those senses that matter most. We've given it our best shot. We have utterly failed. We are helpless. In fact, we are, as the old poets might say, hapless. We never had a chance. It's not that we had a chance and failed. We had zero chance, zero chance of winning the spiritual conflicts that would give us peace. But this one comes. And he will be our peace. And when the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men. They shall shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword and the land of Nimrod at its entrances. He shall deliver us from the Assyrian when he comes into our land and treads within our border. This whole picture is one about this Jesus who will come and be our king and will lead us. He will lead us not just personally by himself, but by those shepherds he raises up. He will never forsake us. And he is able to secure all that he offers. What a thought for Christmas. I know some of us, like me, I look at the news once a day, much to my chagrin. I might be healthier mentally and spiritually if I didn't. But I do. I look every day. I figure I gotta know what's going on in the world. C. S. Lewis said pastors had to have the newspaper in one hand and the Bible in their other, so I I do what I can And the news is dreadful. And it would be easy to lose heart and think, oh my goodness, we really ought to live in a in a context of fear here. And that that should be w you know, we should we should tread very carefully and Maybe be, let's not call it cowardly, but let's call it smart. And then I read a text like this that reminds me that my King is Jesus and he was born for me. And we were told very clearly that he was going to enable me to dwell secure, verse 4. Because he's going to be great, and he is going to draw people from the ends of the earth, that he is going to bring in the rest of his brothers. Understood by the ancient rabbis as a great conversion, a great returning of people to the God who made them and offers them salvation through Christ. Christmas. This is the offer of Christmas. A king was born in Bethlehem. Unexpected place during a dreadful time of oppression. And he was born to offer you perfect freedom and an abundant life, even in the midst of the contexts of what would otherwise be a dreadful now. Jesus offers you security, not just for a day, but for eternity. And Jesus says to anyone who would listen, quoting from John chapter 6, I will by no means turn away any that come to me. And he who is the Prince of Peace is able to utterly save those who come to him with faith and repentance. So I would encourage all of us this Christmas to think about this faithful shepherd who is a victorious king. He can handle Assyria and Babylon. He can handle whatever you're dealing with. You cannot, and you know it. And so for those of you who know that like Pastor Bob, you are in over your heads. You're like me tonight at 6 p. m. singing the handles Messiah with one vocal cord. It is not happening, folks, but come and observe the train wreck to your immense joy and satisfaction Even though we know we cannot, we are assured that Jesus can. And Jesus is at work in us and through us. Jesus is able to give us the peace we can't manufacture. Jesus shepherds us in ways that no one else can. And Jesus wins our battles. This Christmas. Read that story again. And however remote you think However distant you think, however long the odds might be, know that it's even worse than that However, Jesus came. Jesus was born. And with God all things are possible. And he offers you his peace. And this Christmas it is my prayer as your pastor that you would have peace. Not from one another, not from Washington, D. C. or the UN. Not from the Harrow County Police Department, not from a therapist or a counselor. But that you would have a peace that transcends all of that. That yes, God would work in and through those agencies. But God offers you Himself in Christ. And it is your blessed privilege hearing the gospel of Jesus Christ to come to Him with faith and repentance and to directly have a relationship with the God who loves you. who came in Christ and was born in Bethlehem in a very dark hour, in a very insignificant place, to become your peace. Almighty God, we thank you for Christmas. We thank you that there was a day when you came and visited your people. And Lord, I'm reminded of the prophecy that Jacob declared in his blessing over his son Judah, that the scepter would not depart from Judah until he came to whom it belonged. And how long that prophecy rested dormant over the heads and hearts of the descendants of Judah until this one, Jesus, was born to the Virgin Mary, the one to whom the scepter truly belonged. The one to whom the shepherd's staff was a rightful possession, and the one who came to rule and to keep, to guard. To protect in every way. Father, it is our prayer this morning that we would all know the peace that comes through a personal relationship with Jesus, the King who was born for us in Bethlehem. We pray in Christ's name, Amen