Things in the world today. I was just reading uh this past week alone, I read that uh Peru, for example, the evangelical church in Peru has been growing At an annual rate of seven percent. And that's pretty good in an area like that. where evangelicals have not been always very welcome. But in 1994, the church grew by 30%. 3,000 churches were planted in Peru in the last year. Baptists, Southern Baptists, have baptized in Brazil. Over 69 ,000 people in the last year, over 300,000 in their missions worldwide. In Nigeria, the assemblies of God churches have seen over four forty, excuse me, over four hundred thousand conversions. Over four hundred thousand conversions. just since 1990 in Nigeria alone. God's doing some exciting and amazing things in our day that we need to be aware of so that we can be part of it, that we might be able to see as our vision statement describes Us as part of what God is doing, participating in what He's doing throughout the world. But What I want for us to see this morning is there is something that moves us even more than the mighty things that God is doing throughout the world in order to get us out of our small worlds. In order to get our vision off of ourselves excuse me our own jobs, our own survival, paying the bills, these things Something that expands our minds even more than great stories of God's exploits to the world. And that is his name. The wonderful, mighty name of our God. We've seen that that has been what has inspired the church through 2,000 years, down through the ages, and right down to today. We've been looking at this in the book of 3 John, a book that not many of us look at very much. And so from 3 John, we have seen last week and continue and wrap up this week. That verse 7 that speaks of that. And in order to put it in context, let me this morning read the first eight verses, which is over half the book, of 3 John , to see the context of what John's saying here. The elder, that's John. To my dear friend Gaius, whom I love in the truth, dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well. It gave me great joy to have some brothers come and tell about your faithfulness to the truth and how you continue to walk in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Dear friend, you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers, even though they are strangers to you. They have told the church about your love. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner worthy of God. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. We ought therefore to show hospitality to such men so that we may work together for the truth. And there you see it again, verse 7. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, more than the likelihood of success or the lostness of the people. It was the sake of the name that motivated them to set aside their comforts and all the things that they could have been doing. Their own agendas. But to go out for the sake of the name. What is that name? We saw last week, of course, that name primarily is Jesus, but Jesus As he has revealed the sacred name Yahweh, Jehovah, Lord, as you say it in your Bibles. And where is that name defined? That where is that name defined? Oh you have it in your no your outline there, so why why ask you? Somebody 'll just read it. But remember, whenever you're wondering, you see that name, Lord, capital L, small capital O R D, and you think, what does that mean again? Look up Exodus chapter 6, verses 6 to 8. Those three verses are the definition of that name. They begin and end with, I am Yahweh. And then remember that statement that's worth memorizing. I wish I had something that was a little, you know, rhymed or was alliterative or something, but I've not been able to figure out anything that would sacrifice, that wouldn't sacrifice the accuracy of what that name is other than he redeems us into a relationship with inheritance. Let's say that together, at least that'll reinforce it so that we had that name fixed in our mind Together. He redeems us into a relationship with an inheritance. One more time. Let's get it all together here. He redeems us into a relationship with an inheritance. Great. Now you see, whenever you understand that, you're saying that's the name of God. That's what his name means every time you read the thousands of times that appears in Scripture, Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah. And the and what we were trying to show last week is that they went out for the sake of that name, and what that means is that the more you and I are in touch with those three needs that that name addresses our bondage, our alienation, our poverty, then we see what He has redeemed us from, out of bondage, to sin and to its power and its guilt. He has redeemed us out of our alienation, into a fellowship with himself and with one another, as sons of God, and he has given to us an eternal inheritance of heaven. when we deserved hell. And when you and I are in touch with that, we praise His name. The more you and I realize our need, the more we see what Jesus has done and we praise His name because His name reveals what He's done for us. And the more we praise His name, the more we want to proclaim His name. You can't separate those. When you and I praise the wonderful name of Jesus, Then we realize that that name is not being honored among the nations. That name is not being recognized. That name is not being worshipped. People don't realize what he has come to do, and they're living in their bondage, their alienation, and their spiritual poverty. And so you and I come to praise that name, and that the flow of that means that we go out to proclaim that name The praise compels us. For the sake of the name, they went out, John says. We reveal his name so that he will receive more glory. Now, I'm suggesting to you that that is not a peripheral idea in Scripture. In fact, my thesis this morning that I want to demonstrate to you, this is point three now. How is this unfolded in Scripture? I want to establish that concern for the honor of God's name among the nations is central to the message of the Bible. Absolutely central. Now maybe it wasn't in your heart this week, you know. And you and I say, well, you know, this past week, the biggest thing on my agenda was not that the name of God would be exalted among the nations. Now that really was kind of a peripheral concern. But what I want for us to do is not to sit here and simply lament the fact that our perspective is so small and confined. But rather that we would see God's good intention to expand our horizons in order that we might understand more of why the name of our God is so worthy. both to praise and to proclaim, and to see that is the drift and the very passion of the pages of Scripture as we go through them So, what I want to do this morning is have you put on your mental jogging shoes, and we're going to go from Genesis to Revelation in one quick swoop One of those overviews, okay? So you you can decide whether you're going to turn to any of these scriptures, whether you're going to say, I man, I can't even turn quick I can't turn as quick as that guy's talking. So I'm just gonna listen to it and look them up later. If you go through the meditations this week They'll take you through those scriptures so that you can meditate on the things that I'm talking about. I hope you use that this week. But let's look at this in seven stages. How the central focus One of the very central uh foci, if you say that correctly, I guess, of of Scripture is this concern for God's name to be lifted up among the nations. First of all, you see it in the Patriarch, seven stages. Patriarchs. First reference to the name of God, his name being worshipped, is in Genesis chapter 4. The context is after The curse has been declared upon Cain. You have this arrogant, belligerent fellow, Lamuk, who says, well, Cain's going to be avenged seven times. Somebody does me any harm. I'll avenge them 77 times And it's in contrast to Lamech that the last verse of Genesis 4 says that out of another line, the line of Seth now, who replaces Abel, godly Abel, who was murdered by his brother, God says he raises up a people, and in verse 28 you read that that time men began to call on the name of Yahweh, the name of the Lord. At that time, people began to recognize, here is salvation. And so there's this line of people now who begin to do that. Now that's in contrast a few chapters later to what happens at Babel. And you remember when they construct the Tower of Babel, what's the purpose of that? That we might make a name for ourselves. Don't miss that contrast. Man is now making a name for himself in his autonomy and his arrogance. Our name is to be great. And so what does God do? He doesn't level the tower with lightning or an earthquake of all kinds of dramatic things he could do. But in his inscrutable majesty, God simply confuses their tongues. So that they can't understand each other. Boy, I'll tell you, we felt the pain of that when we were in Japan. Can't understand people all around you, so frustrating. To this day What a curse that's been. All the different languages of the earth. It divided them and it humbled them, that their name would not be lifted up. In contrast to that, don't miss the connection, very next chapter, Genesis chapter 12. God calls an unknown, a man who has no names, no particular acknowledgement of this fellow Abraham. And God says to him, Leave your country, your people, your father's household, and go to the land that I will show you. I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you. I will make your name great. And you will be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you. Whoever curses you, I will curse, and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. Now, what's Abraham's response to that? Verse 8. He goes out, he builds an altar, and he calls on the name of the Lord. Now there's a lot of things that Abraham screwed up on. A lot of things that that guy was unfaithful and messed up in many ways. But what Abram did, and don't miss this, it's his major contribution in Scripture. He establishes a beachhead in Canaan for the land for the name of God. He goes out to fight against those who had kidnapped his family. And the king of Sodom says to him, Well now, uh let's divide the spoils. You know, you can uh take uh this and that and I'll you know, you can take the goods and just give me some of the the give me the people. What does Abraham say? He says, no, no, no, no. I will not be held in tutelage to you. I will not establish any kind of a bond between me and an unbeliever. And so he says, because I will call on the name El Elion, my God, the possessor of heaven and earth, is the one that's going to provide for me. In Genesis chapter 22, God says, take your son, the only son that you love, the son of the promise. Take him up to the mountain. He goes up unto Mount Moriah, which is Jerusalem, in future years. To sacrifice Isaac there. And when God delivers through the ram, what does Abram say? He calls on the name Yahweh Yirah. The Lord will provide He's establishing among the nations that there is a God who is the possessor of heaven and earth, that there is a God who provides salvation for his people. And so you move on to Exodus, the second stage. And these people who are now in bondage under Egypt see the meaning of this name. We looked at that last week in Exodus chapter 6. God says, I'm the one who redeemed you into a relationship with myself and to give you an inheritance. And then he begins to pour out the plagues upon Egypt. Ten plagues. Now don't you know, we look at those plagues, you know, the gnats and the hail and the darkness and the blood and all that kind of stuff, we say, you know, boy, that's all you know, kind of real disgusting and you know, uh I'm sure glad I wasn't there and all this. But don't miss the significance of those plagues. Every one of those ten plagues was addressed against a god of Egypt or something that they worshipped. They worship the sun as God. What does God do? He brings darkness. They worship the Nile as a God. What does God do? He turns the Nile into blood. They worship gods to protect them against infestations. What does God do? He brings all the lice and the hail and everything. So that everything that they trusted in, everything that they worshipped, God says, my name is to be lifted up. And he declares in Exodus chapter 9 In verse seven , fifteen and sixteen, that this is precisely his purpose. Look what he says, or listen at least. In Exodus chapter 9, verse 15, God says, By now I could have stretched out my hand and struck you and your people with a plague that would have wiped you off the face of the earth. Man, I don't think that I'm just toying around here. That you know I couldn't really pull it off altogether. I could have destroyed you and and obliterated Egypt. Why haven't I done that? Verse 16 But I have raised you up for this very purpose, that I might show you my power and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. God says, what is more of more importance than the fate of Egypt or of Israel is that God's name is lifted up among the nations. Paul says that is so significant that in Romans chapter 9, in verse, I think it's 16, verse 16 or 17, verse 17, Paul says that this was the purpose for the Exodus. That God would demonstrate that He sovereignly has mercy on whom He has mercy, He hardens who He hardens, that His name would be made great among the nations. And so it happened. Do you remember when they went into the land of Canaan? The spies go in, and the first person that they meet, they find refuge with, is Rahab. Now when you go home, read what Rahab says. This is 40 years later. Rahab says, we have heard of the name of your God and how he delivered you and parted the sea in Egypt, and our hearts melted with fear when we heard that. The nations have heard the name of God. They stand in awe and in fear of that mighty name as He's demonstrated himself as victorious over all the gods of Egypt. And all the nations are in fear of the name of God. And so God takes his people in. And you remember just during that time in Leviticus chapter 24. You have a fellow who blasphemes the name of God. And what's the punishment? How severe a crime is that? God says: anyone who blasphemes my name, he should be stoned to death. Capital punishment. You say, well, it seems pretty severe. You and I don't understand how sacred is the name of God. We don't understand what an awesome, terrible thing it is when you hear someone say, Jesus Christ. In some flippant, careless, derogatory way. You and I should always wince when we hear something like that, and be compelled if God gives to us an opportunity to be able to say something. Because that is the name of God, and all that is precious and sacred in that name. God says in Isaiah, the nations are as a drop in the bucket, but my name will be exalted among the heavens and in the earth. And so is capital punishment for that. And then you move into the conquest of the land and you find out that uh the issue here He 's of trust in the one and of idolatry. In Numbers 14, the people go up to take the land. They don't trust God that He is in fact able to vindicate His name among all of His enemies. And so they say, Oh, would that we had died in Egypt? Let's raise up a new leader and go back. And God says that he is going to judge those people. He is going to destroy Israel. He says to Moses, start off with a new nation. Start off with you. Wipe these people out. They don't trust me. Again and again I've shown myself to be faithful to them. And what is it that Moses pleads? He says, Lord, it really doesn't matter what happens to us. Don't want to matter what happens here, but Lord, there's one thing I want to remind you of. Your name is going to be blasphemed if you don't bring us in If you don't bring us in, the nations are going to say, well, you know, he started it, but he couldn't finish it. He brought these people out, but he wasn't able to fulfill his promise and bring them in. And God says, You've understood it, Moses. And so God reverses what he has said, what he intended to do all along. And he says there's going to be 40 years so that this nation dies out And then I'll bring you into the land. And during those forty years he continues to teach them. He says, when you go into the land, don't worship the idols. Don't worship the gods of the nations. For that's bondage and destruction to you. And I cannot, I am jealous for my name, I cannot allow that to happen. So you see that in Deuteronomy 7. You see it again and again through the book of Deuteronomy. Now you and I look at idolatry perhaps as some nasty primitive habit that God seems a little overwrought about. But when you understand what idolatry was and what it meant in those days, It involved child sacrifice. It involved ritualized prostitution. Idolatry always leads to bondage. It always involves bondage. And we see in our own culture today, to the extent that we leave scripture and biblical principles and the worship of the true God, our nation is pulled further and further back into bondage. We've come to the point now Where the idolatry is getting explicit. San Jose, California, in the public park where the city fathers removed the nativity scene until there was so much protest. That they would not allow Christianity to be displayed in a public place because of the separation of church and state. What did they do? They spent a half a million dollars to erect a statue to the Aztec god, Quetzalkutel. And the mayor supported this, he defended it with this statement. He said, because the Aztec religion contains those elements that seek to elevate human consciousness to a higher plane. It's California, right? Aztec religion elevates human consciousness to a higher plane as James Dobson commented as he reported on this, the Aztec religion had the priest ripping out the hearts of their victims while they were still alive in order to sacrifice them to the God to appease them. This is human consciousness on a higher level Idolatry always leads to bondage. And when you and I separate from God's name and His the worship of Him is sacred in our own eyes, we immediately begin to be drawn back into bondage. Because God's name can never be compromised. He vindicates it among his people, he will defend it among the nations. His concern is that name is lifted up and seen as sacred as it really is. So then you come to the temple. In Deuteronomy 12, God says, destroy the idols. Don't worship where they worship. Only worship at the place where I will set what? My name. It's the place where I will set my name. That's what does he mean? He means the place where he's going to reveal himself, the ark, the ark of the covenant, which contained the law and the mercy seat. The law as the indication of God's righteousness and his standard, the mercy seat covering the law indicating that there was mercy. to cover our transgression. God says, I'm going to reveal myself there through that temple and all of the sacrifices and the rituals that surround it. And so when Solomon prays at the dedication of the temple, what does he say? God, here you've set your name. And basically what he's saying there is, now Lord, we want everybody to know this is not your mailing address. This is not where you live. What we mean when we say that God has set his name here is that he has revealed himself here. His name is here. Remember, God's name is God as he's revealed himself. So that the nations might know, Solomon says, that you are God in all the earth. And so what happens? A couple chapters later, the Queen of Sheba comes. And she says, We've heard all the nations are talking about the wisdom and the wealth and the riches of Solomon and Israel. Tell me about it. And so she goes and she surveys it, and a few verses later she says the half of it wasn't told me. The wisdom here is so great, she says, happy are those that just listen to your words, because God's wisdom is being displayed here. And God is ruling here, and so the nation is enjoying peace and prosperity. And God is lifting up his name among the nations. But it's Solomon himself who tragically leads the people into idolatry through the marriages, the political marriages with his 700 wives and 300 concubines. Solomon leads the people down the path of compromising the name of God. And Solomon, if there is anyone who ever showed that a human Messiah of human origin Without God's intervention through a new race established in a Messiah, virgin birth, could never deliver us. Solomon was the apex of wisdom and of right worship. And it was Solomon who led the people into sin. And so you come to the period of the exile. The period that John read about earlier from Ezekiel. And you wonder why it is that Israel was carried away and dispersed among the nations and Judah was brought into captivity. Ezekiel, John read from 36, Ezekiel 20 is another passage that is very clear on this. Ezekiel says, they rebelled against me and would not listen to me. They did not get rid of the vile images that they had set their eyes on, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. So I said I would pour out my wrath on them and spend my anger against them in Egypt. For the sake of my name I did what I would to keep it from being profaned in the eyes of the nations that they lived among. And hidden whose sight I had revealed myself to the Israelites by bringing them out of Egypt. I had concern for my name that was being profaned When Israel is delivered out of exile , what is it that Nehemiah pleads in the restoration of Israel? What is his hope? Nehemiah prays in Nehemiah 1. God, you said you'd set your name here. And so Lord, for those who revere your name as he goes on Nehemiah 1 and 9 to 11, all through there Twice he pleads the name of God. That that's his hope. That God will lift himself up in their midst. You come into the New Testament to Jesus. And what does Jesus, when his disciples say, Lord, teach us to pray? What does Jesus teach? The very first concern in the prayer that Jesus taught us was what? Hallowed be your name. That's to shape and to direct all of our praying. That's the controlling idea. Our Father, the new covenant name of God Who is in heaven, exalted, hallowed, holy, set apart, sacred be your name. Jesus modeled this in John 17, in his most definitive high priestly prayer. Again and again he says, I've glorified your name, and I will glorify it again. My concern is to glorify your name, to honor your name. And that's to shape your desires and my desires as people who are the people of the name, the people who are controlled by that name, because we realize that that name is our salvation. In our bondage, our alienation, and our poverty. He's our Redeemer, He's our Father, and He is the one who has given to us heaven. And so His Commission to us at the very end is that salvation and forgiveness shall be preached in the name Jesus. That's in Luke 24. To all the nations, salvation and forgiveness in the name of Jesus. That means in the description of the revelation, the gospel. The Great Commission in Matthew 28. Make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them into the name One singular name as we saw last week because it's the Trinitarian display of Yahweh, Father, Son, and Spirit Commanding them to do all the things that I've taught you. What does that mean for us when Paul comes to describe his ministry Perhaps one of the most definitive statements of it is in the beginning of Romans. In Romans chapter 1, after he's declared the person and the work of Jesus in verse 5. He then says it was for the sake of the name that we were called and that we've been commissioned. The heartbeat of Paul was he says in Romans chapter 15, 20, my long he says is to go where Christ has not been named. I want to go to the unreached peoples, those who have never named the name of Jesus, that his name will be lifted up among the nations. That's why when you come to 3 John 7, it ought to see in the context of Scripture simply be the most natural thing in the world rather than a surprise to us that you read that these missionaries went out for the sake of the name. It was for the sake of the name that they went out. They understood the flow of history, the pattern of redemption, and what God's concern was. Their worship of Him. had enabled them to enter in to the majesty of his being, the wonder of the gospel, as they were in touch with their own bondage, alienation, and their own poverty. And they said the name. is our salvation. And that name is the salvation of the nations. And as we reveal that name to the nations, the nations come and they bring more glory to Jesus. Until you see In that last day, as Philippians 2 describes it, that one day every knee shall bow at the name of Jesus, declaring that He is King of kings and Lord of lords, as Revelation 19 says, He's given the name. King of kings and Lord of Lords. Now what does that mean for you and for me? You can take off your jogging shoes now, do a little cooldown, like try to wrap this thing up. First of all, I would suggest that what this means for you and for me is in terms of missions, it deepens our motive for world evangelism. You see, it's not the results. It's not so much the likelihood of success or the lostness of the nations that motivates us. But it's rather a passion for the name. And what that means is that whenever you, in the weakness of your own timidity are in a situation where either you hear that name blasphemed and you raise a protest, or you hear of a need and you share something about Jesus And what he has done in your life, and that he is the redeemer into a relationship with an inheritance. And however you describe that, to be able to declare his name, whether or not that person believes. You've declared his name and brought glory to him. And so that that realization that you and I can bring glory to his name and accomplish the deepest purpose of our existence. That our praise would flow into proclamation this week in a readiness, a love for Jesus, and an honor for him that says, Lord, I'm available. Monday morning, Tuesday afternoon, whenever it is, Lord, when there's an opportunity to bring honor to your name, I want to be available to do that. That's not something that you see worth giving your life to. What is there more important on earth? Everything else Is a deception to us if it is not to lift up the name of our God in our midst and among the nations. Everything else will perish. This is something worth giving our lives to, brothers and sisters, wherever it is and however it is. Amen? Amen. The second thing that this does to us is that it builds our confidence for success. Now I just said that it doesn't rest on the likelihood of success, but in fact , the simple fact of Scripture is that it builds our confidence for success. What do I mean by that? I mean that God has promised He will lift up His name among the nations. That is guaranteed. And so when you and I are involved in this project, then we're involved in something that we know ultimately cannot fail. This Thursday, we're calling together a group of pastors from all over the state of Maryland, from as far west as Gathersburg and Frederick, from Baltimore, from DC. And a number from central Maryland, the Howard County region, for six hours of prayer together, concentrated prayer for renewal and revival in the state of Maryland. Now, why are we doing that? Because we believe that God is indicating Dennis Day he intends by showing the absolute bankruptcy. of our culture and of the church, in our own desires, of our busyness to be able to accomplish spiritual things. To come back again to the basics and say we lift up the name of our God. We confess, we humble ourselves, to come before Him. Now what will happen? When a group of pastors begin to do that, and those pastors are forming local fellowships, as we have here in Howard County, to regularly, on a regular basis, be praying that God will lift up his name. In Columbia, in Ellicate City, in Baltimore, in DC. What's going to happen? Do we believe that our God is able to lift up his name? That that's his concern, that's his desire, and that could very well be his intention in this generation. Do we believe that? If we do, we'll gather together. We'll come to our concerts of prayer, the lowly meetings that we have of prayer. Every Thursday morning, not just praying for our local immediate personal needs, but for God to lift up his name in our congregation and in this community. It builds our confidence because God has promised that He will lift up His name. Finally, it integrates both local and worldwide evangelism. It integrates, it breaks down this dichotomy between local evangelism and worldwide evangelism, or kind of usual evangelism versus missions, or whatever other kinds of dichotomies. The issue is not whether or not you're a missionary. Bill Hall, that some of us have been going to for training in discipleship, says that He decided that uh when one of his churches he would tell all the people in the congregation to build trenches around their uh houses. Fill them with water, put a couple of alligators in there. So he said, then you put a little bridge across it, and every morning when you walk out to go to work, you say you've crossed some water. You're a missionary now You know, whatever it takes for us to build into our mindset, it's not where we are, but it's the concern for the name of our God to be lifted up among the nations when we start in a simple obedience Coming to the middle hour to find out what is it that God is saying to us as a congregation? What is the vision that we have that some of us in our congregation have dreamed about and put together and said this is where we see God using Columbia Presbyterians. to lift up the name of God among the nations. And here's how we participate that. This is what we envision happening by the year 2000. To get very concrete. Then as you and I own that, as we receive that, as we pray over that, as we participate in that Then we're involved in missions, wherever and however we do it. And as we're involved in that, we recognize that we're involved in the most glorious enterprise on earth The lifting up of the name of our God. Is that worth giving your life to? Let's pray. Lord our God, we pray that you would lift up your name before us. Lord, you know I am not able in my own weakness to sufficiently with any kind of adequacy Lift up the name of Jesus as it ought to be lifted up here. That you, Lord Jesus, are the one who has come to meet every need in this room. No matter how profound or convoluted or hopeless, you are the one who redeems us, buys us out of our bondage. into a relationship as sons with an inheritance of heaven. And your concern is that your name be lifted up among the nations. Lord, we have not proclaimed you as we ought because we haven't praised you as we ought. And we haven't praised you as we ought because we're not in touch with our own bondage, alienation, and poverty. Lord, we pray that this day, this week, that you would show us in a deeper way just how helpless and hopeless we are without you. But that you would show us how gloriously rich, secure, and free we are with you. And that our praise would flow over, out of praise to you, to a proclamation in every opportunity that you would give us Because of our concern for the name. May we be like those first century missionaries that John spoke of, Lord, that we would go out from this room for the sake of the name. into wherever and however you want to use us, even this week. We pray it in Jesus' name. That name which is above every name. Before whom every knee shall bow and confess that you are Lord. Amen.