Please be seated. Good morning, CPC. I'm Pastor Bob and it's wonderful to see you all here this morning. as we celebrate uh what our God has done for us. It is a good God that we serve. Amen. And I do want to put in a plug For the class tonight that I teach, many Presbyterians don't quite know what to make of the Holy Spirit. You ever notice that? We're going to be talking about the Holy Spirit, the person and the work of the Holy Spirit tonight down the community room from 6 to 7. 30. I work hard to start on time and and end on time, but if you can be there, it'd be wonderful to see you there. Now, if you have your Bibles with you, please turn with me to Luke chapter 9. We're going to begin with verse 57. Heavenly Father, we ask that you bless the reading of your word to us. Lord, we thank you for the Bibles that we have. Lord, we thank you. that you are the God who has spoken and revealed yourself, not only in creation through nature, and what we see of the stars and the galaxies and the blades of grass and the drops of rain, but Lord, you have given us words You have spoken, you've given us propositional truth, you have given us examples, you've given us narratives and poems. Lord, you have communicated to us that we might truly know you, not just as a creator. who is wise and good and powerful, but as a redeemer who is loving and patient and forgiving. Father, bless the reading of your word to us. And in the preaching that follows, and as much as it is faithful to who you are, we ask that you add your blessing to that as well. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 9, beginning with verse 57, the Word of God. As they were going along the road, someone said to him, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. To another he said, Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead. But as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God. Yet another said, I will follow you, Lord, but let me first say farewell to those at my home. Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. This ends the reading of God's Word. How many of you have two hands? Go ahead and raise them up so the people that can see can see them. How many of you have two eyes? But doesn't the Bible say if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off, and if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out? We should all have like is the technical appropriate word subs? And we should all be blinder than me You see, what when we read the scriptures, especially in their first century Israelite, Jewish, Aramaic context, we realize that Jesus stands in a long tradition of teachers. prophets, priests, who use hyperbole to make very particular points. Hyperbole is the way that we say something in Huge, all-encompassing terms like if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. To help us understand this truth. If something is causing you to sin, remove it from your life at all costs. But we don't literally go and cut our hands off. You see, that's hyperbole. And this is a rhetorical device or a heuristic or a teaching tool that Jesus uses quite a bit If you have one of those handy books that has a title like The Hard Sayings of Jesus, this text I just read for us is almost certainly in it. What does Jesus mean when he says, you can't follow me if you want to go bury your dad before you get on the road with me? Or Remember, Elisha asked Elijah in the Old Testament, yes, I'll follow you, but first let me go say goodbye and kiss my parents. Elijah let him. Why doesn't Jesus? You might say, well, Jesus tells this one guy that, you know, you want to follow me, great, but hey, you're not going to have anywhere to live. But yet, Peter's mom had a house. Many of the disciples in the book of Acts were actually quite wealthy. They had fields, plural, and sometimes they'd sell one of them. And Christians today, a lot of us, how many of you have a place to lay your head? How many of you are going to sleep in a bed tonight? So what do we make of this? I did see that hand. Thank you. One good uh non-Presbyan. What do we make of that? Well, when I was a teenager, I became enamored of the book of Proverbs. And I realized that, you know, if if I were to live my life by the wisdom in the book of Proverbs, I would have a better life than if I didn't. There was one proverb in particular that struck me. Many of them did. And I used to write the ones out that I really liked and wanted to try to apply to my life. I'd write them out on little little little Parts of uh back in the day you didn't have options of different size index cards. You just had one index card, and I'd cut it to fit in the picture slots in my wallet, and I'd write down a proverb. One of them was 2427. Proverbs 2427. First prepare your fields, then build your house. And that proverb really struck me because it spoke to me about the fact that I had to have priorities in my life. I had to understand that some things had to happen before other things. And at that time in my life it was, well, if I want to be a great saxophone player. The first thing I have to do is listen to a lot of great saxophone players. So I'd go home from high school and I'd put on my Stanley Tarantine or my John Coltrane or my Tom Scott. And I would listen to those records until my mother told me to stop. Sometimes I'd play with them. I'd get out my saxophone and I'd do everything I could till I could do exactly what Stanley Tarantine was doing. And only after that would I go to lesser priorities like homework. Priorities are important. St. Augustine said that the key to a life well lived is to well order your affections. Understand what things should be loved before what other things. And in teaching that, he was following a long tradition, not only of Hellenistic thought, Plato said similar things, so did Aristotle, but even Jesus. What is the great commandment? Love the Lord your God with your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second is like it: love your neighbor as yourself. First love God, then love your neighbor. You get that in the wrong order, and all sorts of mischief is going to begin to happen in your life. And that's true of all of the different loves in our life. You start loving your kids more than you love your spouse. Good morning, heartache. You start loving your job more than you love your family? Goodbye, peace. You start loving your yard More than you love people and the kids that sometimes cause the grass to die You 're going to have problems. When Jesus gives these instructions to his disciples He's not simply telling them that discipleship has a cost. He's saying something of the priority of it. And I want us to explore that thought as we look at it this morning. And I did change the title of the sermon. If you notice in the bulletin where it says sermon, it says the cost of following Jesus. And in the sermon outline that I provide you, it says the priority of following Jesus, because as I studied it, I realized that that I think is more to do with it. And I don't like the language of cost because I don't want you to think that there's something you can pay and follow Jesus well. But there is a priority you must have if you would follow Jesus well. And the first one concerns comforts and luxury. This fellow comes up to Jesus, and Jesus and his disciples are traveling. He set his face toward Jerusalem. He has already, for those of you who have been following along the series of Luke, he's already established who he is. He's already established what his mission is. and his goal to go and to suffer and to be rejected and to die and be raised. He's already established that. It hasn't been understood, but he's established it. And now he's on his way to Jerusalem, and someone comes up to him and says, I would follow you wherever you go. And Jesus, as the Gospels tell us, knows the hearts of all men. And we don't know what happened to this guy who came, or girl, could have been a woman, who comes to Jesus and says, I'll follow you wherever you go. Jesus says. Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. We don't know how that was received by the person to whom he spoke, but we can tell what Jesus was saying. He was saying, in a sense, do you love me more than a house? Do you love me more than a place to rest? You said you'd follow me wherever I go. Would you follow me into poverty? Would you follow me into discomfort or distress or exposure or illness? Will you follow me wherever I go? And Jesus is teasing out for this one anonymous would-be disciple. That when we say we will follow Jesus, we can't condition that. We can't say, well, Jesus, I will follow you. Be my Lord and Savior. But I'm going to be like one of those people on the TikTok and say, yes, I'll marry you, but you have to have a seven-digit income and we have to live east of the Mississippi. If you're going to follow Jesus, you're going to follow Jesus because that is the highest, the truest, and the best goal. And he will fill Any kind of lifestyle you have under his providential loving care with meaning and purpose. Whether you're living in a cave or a palace. Whether you have perfect health or are nothing but a pile of broken bones and germs. Jesus will come first, before all comfort, before all creaturely conveniences. Asaph is a figure from the Old Testament that I've always been drawn to. He was the chief of the worship leaders. of the priests, the Levites during the days of King David. And he wrote a collection of the Psalms beginning with Psalm 73. And in Psalm 73 he's reflecting on the fact that he was Experiencing great misery. Every day he suffered. We don't know exactly what he suffered from, and I like that fact because it invites us to slot in our own sufferings. And ASAP says after he kind of comes to an aha moment where he realizes that when I consider my life in my experience experiences from the perspective of the throne room of God and recognize that despite all of my woes and tribulations, which are great and many God loves me. I'm going to be with him forever. And that moves this ASAP to say these words. Words that you could write on an index card and put in your wallet, friends. Whom have I in heaven but you, and earth has nothing I desire besides? My flesh and my heart may fail But you are the strength of my heart and my portion forever. You see, knowing God through Jesus Christ is the one highest, greatest, supreme good that makes everything else conditioned and trivial. And I do mean that. I want you to think about the reality of the throne room of God and all that is promised by the one who sits on that throne. And the one who says Serve me, love me, overcome in my name, and you will reign with me. That's his message in Revelation 2 and 3 And that reign, that rule, that co-regency, that exalted state of the believer in heaven for eternity lasts forever. Consider what the Apostle Paul said when he wrote to the Corinthians. He said, Your light and momentary troubles are earning for you a glory that is eternal and far outweighs them. Do you dare to consider that to use the picture described here in the foxes and the birds Do you dare to consider your homelessness, whatever that means for you, as light and momentary, because of the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ? And are you able to follow him despite whatever loss or setback or pain or trauma you're experiencing? Because you know Christ. And however difficult the story of your personal narrative is right now, it's not over yet, and you know how it's going to end. It's going to end with year after year after century after millennia of glorious Golden hours sent with the God of the universe who loves you. To follow Jesus. Means that wherever you go, whatever cesspool or whatever park place you habituate Is second to Jesus and is acceptable because you know Christ Jesus is trying to teach his disciples and those who would follow him that he is their all-in-all. And as Paul also writes to the Corinthians, in Christ all of God's promises are yes and amen. And if you have Christ, you have everything. Even if you can't exercise all of those things right now, because you have fellowship with the living God through peace with Him, purchased by Christ. And you have heaven. Something we think on far too often far too infrequently. All of your comforts pale in significance to following Christ. So do your responsibilities. So Jesus tells this one would-be disciple. about foxes and birds and how they have no place to call home. How they they have a place to call home, but he doesn't. The Son of Man does not. So follow me, and you may have you may be homeless. And another person comes up. Oh, he says to another person who's nearby, follow me. But that person says to him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead, but as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God. And there not only do we see that following Jesus means in word and in deed to proclaim the kingdom of God, to live as ambassadors of that heavenly reality that's even now breaking into our lives, into our marriages, into our families. into our careers, our neighborhoods. But we also see here this guy who's saying, listen, I 'd love to do that, but first let me go do this. And Jesus is not just saying that you can't be involved in burying your parents All four of my parents are here. My my par dad and mom are here somewhere and my in laws are here somewhere. I plan on being a part of burying all of them because I'd hate to put them through having to bury me. So don't think that I'm just gonna l leave you be dads and moms. But what does this mean? Isn't this a little harsh? Why would Jesus not say, oh, sure, yeah, go take care of that. That's important. In the Jewish world of the first century, in which Jesus ministered, to bury one's father was considered in the Megala, which is one of the books that the rabbis produced that described their greatest responsibilities to bury your parents was the greatest responsibility that you had. In fact, in the biblical worldview of the disciples of Jesus Christ, there were only two things that exempted you from having to bury your parents. The first one we read in Numbers chapter 6. This is the Nazarite vow. So if you were an ancient Israelite and you wanted to make a vow to serve the Lord and to follow him for a period of time exclusively, You had to make a vow that involved this condition. All the days that the Nazarite separates himself to the Lord, he shall not go near a dead body. Not even for his father or for his mother If they die, shall he make himself unclean, because his separation to God is on his head. All the days of his separation, he is holy to the Lord. The Nazarite had to abstain from burying a parent if they'd made a vow to follow God. Because of the uncleanness of death. There is another case in the Old Testament where you could not participate in the burial of a parent. In Leviticus chapter 21, verse 10, we have the job description or part of it for the chief priest, the high priest of the ancient Israelites. The priest who is chief among his brothers, on whose head the anointing oil is poured, and who has been consecrated to wear the garments, shall not let the hair of his head hang loose or tear his clothes He shall not go into any dead bodies, nor make himself unclean, even for his father or for his mother. To be the high priest, like being an Azurite, was a time-constrained commitment. You served as the high priest for one year. You served as a Nazirite for a contained defined period of time. And during those times in the experience of the people of God in the Old Testament, They were to abstain from touching anything that was unclean at all, and that include even dad and mom if they passed away. Now consider that background to someone who says, Yes, Lord, I will follow you, Jesus, but first let me do this. And it begins to look a little different, doesn't it? Jesus is saying two things. He's saying in the first place, dear friend , Know that to follow me and be my disciple is a more sanctified, holy calling than to be a chief priest or be a Nazirite. This is not something to be lightly taken, flippantly decided. And he's also saying That he is holier and bestows more grace than promises or anointing oil That chiefest and highest of responsibilities can become an impediment to following Jesus. How much more so some of your other responsibilities? To follow Jesus, you are called to declare the kingdom in your lifestyle. To quote Francis Assisi , Preach always, use words if you have to. Your life should be touched by your fellowship with Jesus of Nazareth. Your words should be flavored with his truth and beauty. And sometimes we let our responsibilities as we perceive them on this side of heaven crowd out that high and holy calling of being a disciple of Christ, which is so far superior and glorious and important. in comparison to any worldly responsibility. That's the point Jesus is making. You can't say I will follow Jesus, but you have to understand first, I'm a jazz musician. That would be not to follow Jesus at all. But to rather follow Coltrane or Stanley Tarantine. You can't say, well, Jesus, I will follow you, but first you have to understand that I am a an engineer. Got any engineers here? Or first I'm a teacher. You can't be first anything other than Christian if you would follow Jesus He will not be just one volume on the bookshelf of your life full of its varied interests. He would be the entire bookcase into which everything else slots under your great Uncompromising love for and fidelity to Jesus Following Jesus is more important than all your responsibilities. Well Yet another says to Jesus, I will follow you, Lord. He's probably thinking, Well, both my parents are alive. I don't have to deal with that particular saying. But but let let me go and say goodbye to him. Let me kiss those at home. And Jesus says, no one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. Again, a hard saying. I mentioned earlier that when Elijah calls Elisha to be his disciple, that's in 1 Kings chapter 21 , Elisha says, first let me kiss my parents. And Elijah says, okay, I'll just kind of wait here. You go take care of that and then come. Why does Jesus not give his would-be disciple the same opportunity? Again, these are not stories that would have been unfamiliar to those who were following and listening to the great teacher of Nazareth from Galilee. Jesus. To follow Jesus is a higher calling than to follow Elijah. To follow Jesus, you put him first. And it's not that you'll never see your parents and never kiss them and never say goodbye to your family again. But if you feel the call to follow Jesus, do that right now. Don't wait on him. Don't say, well, Jesus, I hear the invitation and you know I'd sure like to follow you, but I I've got I've got stuff I need to figure out first. I was talking to two brothers that I coached back in California, lacrosse players, very fine young men. And they have been uh drawn to Christ over the years. They're probably getting close to thirty now. And I talked to one of them on the phone just a c just maybe four or five months ago. And I said Let's call him. Let's call him Bill. That's not his name. And I said, Bill, are you are you walking with Christ yet? And he understands the truth claim of Christ, and he understands the offer of the gospel, and he assents to it. But he said, coach, you know, first I want to get my career going, and first I'd like to get married, and first I'd like to, you know, get I want to first do all these things and then do that And how often are we like that? Well, first I'll follow you, but Lord, before I apply what you say and follow you in this area of my life, I need to square up these sorts or types of relationships. First, I think I need to take care of these responsibilities. First, I have to be sure that I can have this kind of lifestyle that I want to have as I serve you. First, I'm going to do these things, and then I'll step foot on that pilgrim road, Jesus, and I'm all yours. If that's our attitude to Jesus, we will never be all his. Jesus says, follow me. Knowing me, learning from me, to become like me, is more important than any comfort this world offers. It's more important than any responsibility this world can impose upon you. And it's more important than any relationship you have or would like. If you have to sell everything to get that one pearl of great price, do it. Jim Elliott famously said, as he gave his life to follow Jesus, sacrificing relationships , Forgoing all secular American responsibilities to go to a dangerous mission field, giving up comfort and ultimately giving up his life. And people thought, you're crazy to follow Jesus if you're going to end up being homeless, unable to handle responsibilities. What are you going to do for retirement? You've got to take care of yourself. And what about all your friends and family back in America? And Jim Elliott's response was That man is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain that which he cannot lose. Jesus offers you comfort. Purpose and responsibility, and relationship that are eternal and utterly holy. That can never be taken away from you. And everything that you would choose to delay closing with Christ is so very temporary. The Lord Jesus Christ calls us to follow him. Do you hear his call He calls you to follow him. Even if that means forsaking comfort, relegating true responsibilities To a lower spot on the totem pole. And to recognize that all of your relationships, even with parents, even with spouse, even with kids, come second to Jesus And he will give you back those relationships and responsibilities and comforts differently, sanctified But he would be first. He must be first. He is worthy of being first. Won't you make him first? What comforts and responsibilities or relationships are keeping you from following Jesus, dear friend? As we approach Thanksgiving week, be thankful for all the things he's blessed you with. Celebrate the goodness of God. I know I sure do. But see all of them as a distant second, third, fourth, or eightieth to the fact that you know Christ and He invited you to walk with Him. And then receive and rejoice in all of those things for which you give thanks. And I would very seriously and earnestly ask each one of you who are here today. Will you follow Jesus? I imagine that there may be some of us here today who Maybe they don't know if they're a Christian, or maybe they know that they're not a Christian. You are exactly the kind of person the gospel exists for. Whosoever believes in this Jesus, this Son of God, given because the Father so loved the world. Whosoever, that means you. believes on Christ, shall never perish, but have everlasting life. All of the things that you believe give you meaning and purpose Your comforts, your possessions, your responsibilities, the gifts that you use to attain them, your relationships. All of them are temporary. But Jesus is eternal and offers you life eternal. And to turn to Him and determine to follow Him can be done as quickly as I say this prayer. Please join me. Lord Jesus Christ, you bid people to follow you. And Lord, I confess that I'm a sinner I have misarranged my priorities. I've disordered my affections. I have loved so many things more than you. I have refused to obey you or honor you with huge areas of my life. But you invite people like me to join you on the pilgrim road. Lord, forgive me for my sins. Be my Lord and my Savior. I will follow you. I will follow you today. Thank you for loving me. Help me to serve you well and bless those that you've given me as comforts, as responsibilities, and as dear relationships. We pray this in Jesus' name. And all God's people said, please rise as you're able. This Jesus we follow.