Good morning. You may be thinking, is this the part where they have the ruling elders talk? Um But as Dick has already noted, Bob is away this weekend. And we are in the middle of, well, this is the second sermon, in this series for the summer on the doctrines of the church. So we'll be covering a lot of different topics over the next number of weeks. This morning we're going to talk about what it means for us to be the body of Christ. Before we do that, I think I should probably pray, and then we'll dig into God's Word. Father in heaven, a thousand generations have opened up your word, unrolled a scroll, simply recited it from memory to speak truth to your people. And Father, this morning we would ask that you would once again use a crooked stick and point straight to your son. We ask this as we open up your book this morning. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's read together. I'm going to read from Paul's letter, his first letter. If you're a Bible nerd, you know it's probably really his second letter, but we won't get into that. From 1 Corinthians chapter 12, beginning at verse 12, and then we're going to talk about a number of things as we go into what it means for us to be the body of Christ. For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body, Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and all were made to drink of one spirit. For the body does not consist of one member, but of many. If the foot should say, because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body, that would not make it any less a part of the body. And if the ear should say, because I'm not an I, I do not belong to the body, that would not make it less, any less a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell? But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them, as he chose. If all were a single member, where would the body be? As it is, there are many parts, yet one body. The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. And on those parts of the body that we think less honorable We bestow the greater honor, and our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty, which our more presentable parts do not require But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it, that there may be no division in the body But that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffer together. If one is honored, all rejoice together. Now, you are the body of Christ, and individually members of it. And God has appointed in the church first apostles. Second, prophets, third, teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? But earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way. This ends the reading of God's Word. One of the things that can happen when you spend a lot of time in church is that you can come to see it as something rather ordinary. Just something you do. I I grew up uh in a small town, uh in a small church, and the people Who were part of my church community were the same people that I would see at school or out in town at the pool, at the store. Church was a great blessing to me as a young person, but as a child I did not understand how special it was. Because for me it was just all part of one community. There were lengthy sermons, there were endless meetings, uh vacation Bible school, Sunday mornings, Sunday evenings, Wednesday evenings, potlucks, hymn sings, revival. We were in church. A lot. You're there a lot. Are you ready for church yet? Or often the more horrified, why aren't you ready for church yet? We were just there, it was part of the makeup of our lives. The Christian life is like that. It's a lot of everyday sort of small things that we do. They're quiet, repetitive. They seem mundane. Things like prayer is something we just do. When someone is sick, we pray. That is for us normal and ordinary. Taking care of kids in the nursery. Making a meal for the potluck, cutting about a thousand paper crosses for VBS, right? And in the midst of all these small, ordinary things, we might tend to lose sight of the reality of what it is we're doing what this really is. Because church is not a set time on Sunday mornings. It's not a place. It's not a building. And it is. Very, very far from ordinary. The church is a people Bought, redeemed, brought together by Christ as part of his work to bring redemption and reconciliation to the entire creation. The church is a people set apart to be partakers in Christ's glory and in this mission to repair the world and then to live with God. and continuing the calling that he gave to the first humans that he made to worship, to work, to love. And we do so, Paul says, as one united body, with Jesus Christ as its head So, uh this morning, uh what I'm hoping for, what I've been praying for as I've been preparing uh this sermon, is that you would leave here today with a vision of the church. That is not just a Sunday habit or a human institution, but rather the glorious, unified, servant-hearted body of Christ in the world. And in order to talk about how glorious the church actually is, first we have to start by talking about God's glory and And uh Dick has done some of that uh work already this morning in the verses that he read and the and the um the things that we've uh sung together. We're already talking about that. So let me tell you a little story from the Old Testament before we leap into the new. When Solomon dedicated the temple. The scriptures tell us that he prayed, and when he finished praying, fire descended from heaven. And it consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices that were there on the altar and the glory of the Lord. The kabbod of the Lord filled the temple. And it filled the temple to the degree that the priests were not able, they couldn't enter. They couldn't go in. It's unclear. Physically unable? Yes, physically unable. It has so much presence that they they are just not able to go in. And the writer of Chronicles doesn't describe quite what that's like, what it was like to see that. But what we do know is that when the Israelites saw the fire descend, And the glory of the Lord filled the temple. They all bowed down with their faces on the pavement and they began to worship and praise the Lord. They didn't have to think about that. They did not have a committee meeting about it. They did not issue a denominational statement about it, so they're clearly not Presbyterian. The glory of the Lord was just that weighty. It's overwhelming. It's significant. So they just fall on their faces immediately. In its most basic meaning, that's what kabod is. It means weighty. It's significant. It has unavoidable impact and meaning. As Dick mentioned earlier, glory is a little difficult to wrap a definition around because in that sense it is something like beauty or some other intangible as attribute. I could describe a basketball, as you said, right? And if I described what it was, then when you saw one, even if you'd never seen one, you would know. I could say it's round, it's about this big, it's usually orange, but sometimes other colors, and it has these seams. And if then you saw a basketball, you say, you know, I think, I'm pretty sure. Based on what he said, I'm pretty sure that's a basketball. But glory, like beauty, is something different. It is harder to get our heads around. But we could describe it. as God's making the ultimate reality of who He is visible for us to see It's summing up all his attributes in one radiant display, the infinite beauty and the worth of his character, his grace, his truth, his love, his justice revealed in his creation. revealed in redemption and revealed ultimately and supremely in his Son Jesus Christ. So when we glorify God, then it means that we are living in joyful recognition of his ultimate significance. And that's beautiful. And it's serious. And it's weighty and more magnificent, I think, than we can quite wrap our minds around. When Moses descends from the mountain after speaking with God, the scriptures tell us the skin of his face was shining with God's glory. And the Israelites could not bear to look at him. He would tell them what God had said, and then he would have to veil his face. Because the glory of God was too much for them to bear. Every time he spoke with God, his face would shine He'd tell them what he had to tell them, and then he'd cover it again. God's glory is magnificent and it carries weight. Jonathan Edwards called God's glory the outshining or the outflowing of his divine nature. I like that word, outshining. His internal glory is expressed, Edward said, within the view of his creation, and his creation then rejoices to see it. He's more glorified when we see his glory and delight in it, because in part his glory is a means of communication So that we can better understand who he is and what he's like. So that Israel could understand the God who was speaking through Moses. His glory shown to them. So that the priests could understand whose temple they would be serving in. His glory filled it. And they fell down. The people then could understand this God that they were going to worship. God's glory communicates to both insiders and to outsiders. It shines It's magnificent. It has weight. So why why tell you all this in a sermon on the body? It's because I think in our modern culture we're we're always in danger of understanding the church, and by that I mean God's people, as merely one more institution. or a club or an extracurricular activity and a stack of extracurricular activities that we take part in, but it is not those things. The church is the living body of Jesus Christ in the world today. And as the body of Christ, the church then is not just a witness to God's glory. You are not only a witness. to God's glory, but you are a participant in it. The church is the magnificent body of Christ, so it is metaphysical, it is transformative, and it is very, very far from mundane. And I don't ever want us to fall into the trap of thinking that what we do here is just ordinary. It's not ordinary It's not boring, it's not mundane. The body of Christ is glorious, and it's created to reflect God's glory, to share in it, and to express it to the world. This, I think, is where Paul's analogy of the body really becomes valuable for us. The church participates in God's glory through its union with Christ. And it's life together as his body. So in his letters to the Ephesians and the Colossians, Paul makes it clear. He says, Christ is the head of the church, which is his body. We are united to Christ. The body of Christ is united to Christ as firmly and as organically as your head is united to your shoulders. You can go ahead and roll your head around if you want to, right? You can feel you can do it. It's okay. You roll it around. You can feel that connection when you do, right? You feel the muscles. and the tendons that unite your head to your body. Some of us may feel that more than others this morning. The church's connection to Christ, its head, is that real. It is that secure. And because of that, we are caught up in his glory with him. Jesus describes it when he speaks about these things. He uses a different metaphor. He talks about it. as the organic connection between a vine and its branches, like a grapevine. The church receives its life from Christ, and the church as his body then becomes his instrument through which his glory is made visible in the world. That's what Jesus prays for in his high priestly prayer in the garden before his crucifixion. He says, the glory that you've given me, I have given them. His people. I have given them that they may be one even as we are one. Why would he delegate that to the church? It's for our unity, our union with Him, our union with each other, so that the world will see it. He says, we'll see our unity shining as a manifestation of his glory, and know that the Father sent the Son, and then believe. I want you to hold on to that thought. I want to talk about Corinth for a minute and then come back to it. Paul is writing to Christians in a very prosperous cosmopolitan trading center within the Roman Empire. He's writing to the church at Corinth. Corinth is founded by Julius Caesar, and it is populated by the veterans from his legions. So also Roman tradespeople from all over the empire. Freed people, Roman citizens, slaves, and then non-Romans from across the Mediterranean and probably farther. They had a vibrant business culture They had a Games that was second only to the Olympic Games themselves. A culture of loyalty to the empire competition. Patronage, consumerism, and then people experiencing different layers of success from the very wealthy to the very poor. And in the midst of this place, is a community of God's people. They are members of the Jewish diaspora, and then all the other people that I just described, wealthy Romans, slaves, tradesmen. Greeks, they exist together in a culture in which ethnicity and class distinctions are the key identities by which people understand themselves They're trying to learn the ways of Jesus and understand a new way of relating to one another in Christ. And, you know, based on the letter, frankly, they they appear to be doing a kind of a miserable job of it. They're letting wealth and class and ethnicity get in the way of their love and their care for one another. And it's into this mix of believers, that Paul drops this bombshell of an analogy. You should treat each other like members of one body. Paul's instructing them they're connected to each other in Christ with spiritual bonds in a way that they clearly don't understand, and they are not living out. It's organic, it's deep, it's real, and it doesn't comport with their culture at all. It's very foreign. To what they have grown up with and what is happening around them. Because what's happening around them is highly competitive and success-oriented and segmented by ethnicity and class. So the church there speaks many different languages. They speak Latin and Greek and Aramaic and Hebrew. But Paul says, you are one unified body in Christ. They had differences in theology and in religious practice. The Jews kept the dietary laws, the Gentiles did not. Paul says, you are one unified body of Christ. They certainly had different social statuses. We get that from the letter. Some are wealthy, some are slaves. Some worked with their hands and would be filthy every day. Some of them were bathed by servants every day. They are one unified body in Christ. And they likely, we can imagine, had very different political opinions about the Roman Empire. Paul says, one unified body in Christ. The church, as C. S. Lewis puts it in one of his letters, is not a human society of people united by their natural affinities But the body of Christ, in which all members, however different, must share the common life, complimenting and helping and receiving one another precisely by their differences. And he notes that the God who made this diverse and motley creation rejoices in our differences as human beings. He's not trying to erase them. Paul instructs the Corinthians to live as one unified body in Christ, but he doesn't tell them that they all have to adopt a single culture. You should all act like Greeks now, or you should all act like Romans. You should all speak one language. He doesn't say those things to them. Those aren't the things that make them one body. It's Christ. It's Christ alone that unifies his body. There are a few implications to that. The first being equality, because we are part of one body with Christ as its head, baptized into one spirit, drinking from the same communal cup. We all stand on the same footing as members of Christ's glorious body. For the believers in Corinth, That meant that Jew or Greek, rich or poor, all have the same standing place in Christ. And for us in America. In the West, here, right here in Howard County, that might mean rich or poor. It might mean conservative or progressive, immigrant, native-born, disabled, fully abled. Boomer, millennial, Gen X, don't leave us out, please. We're all standing on the same footing as members of Christ's body. No one gets to claim the spiritual high ground, Paul says. Secondly, also important for us as Westerners, you cannot be the body of Christ by yourself. Your new identity in Christ is not a personal one. It is a corporate one. And I know as American Christians this can be a stumbling block for us. I did grow up west of the Mississippi, right? Our culture highly values independence and individualism. It's deeply ingrained in us. So deeply ingrained that we may not even recognize it at times. We love the image of the hero on his own. Fighting the elements, cutting his way through the wilderness. That's been part of American culture since our ancestors started exploring out there west of the Mississippi. John Wayne and the Man Who Shot Liberty Violence said, Out here, a man settles his own problems. But Paul's not calling us to a personal, individualized identity. He's calling us to a corporate identity, all of us. Together as a body in Christ. To belong to Christ is to belong to his people. This is where I find the analogy of the body to be really helpful. We go a little deeper into the body, the muscles and tendons. And bone of the arm are all pushing and pulling at the same time. And they're creating tension, right, that articulates that movement with within the arm and it's all one arm. Right? But they're all doing different things. If we could observe their motion, we'd see each one doing its work in coordination with the others, but they are operating corporately, even while each piece retains its function The muscles, the tendon, the bone, the blood, the nerves, all working in coordination, but all very different. That's what it's like. That's what it's supposed to be like for you. The push, the pull of work in the body means that you will have differences in how you're gifted, what your functions are, but also in your ideas, in your opinions. But we are to work corporately together as one body. So to find your identity in Christ is to be part of the body, part of a community of believers, wherever you happen to be. And you might think it would be easier if everyone just associated with the people they felt more comfortable with, and it probably would. That's not what Paul describes. He is describing the harder work of communal life Because that's the church that Christ has built. He has not built a church entirely of feet or hands or eyes. He's built for himself a body that's inclusive of every tribe, tongue, and nation. When the visible church Here on earth reflects that unified diversity of the body, displays the equality of your standing in Christ, it offers the world no other explanation than that Jesus must be the Son of God. That's what he prays for. The third implication of this unity, to be unified as one body in Christ. Means that there is no suffering, no joy that you have to experience alone. Pain or suffering in one part of the body means that the whole body suffers. Early theologian John Prostam put it this way: He said, if you have a thorn in your foot, your whole body knows it. Your whole body feels it and cares about that. When you're injured, you treat that part with extra care. You give it rest. You let it recover from the injury. You're gentle with it. Maybe you go to physical therapy. You help it regain its strength, its mobility, and the whole body participates in that recovery. And in the same way, the whole body participates in joy. Right Have you ever tried to celebrate with one arm like this, but not your face? Right? It won't it won't work. Or in the same way, if you jump for joy, your whole body leaps, not just your feet. When one member suffers, the whole body mobilizes a response to that suffering. When one member celebrates, the whole body is elated. And this sharing in both joys and suffering requires the utmost sympathy and sensitivity between us. Because at any given moment, even right now, in this room, there are those who are celebrating and those who are suffering. As a body, we have to learn to experience both the joy and the sorrow together with each other, because that's what compassion is. It's the sympathetic consciousness of what another person is experiencing, whether it's joy or suffering. And we're called to live that way for one another because the body has compassion. on itself. The body cares about its own well-being. Now the unity of the church is not something that we achieve It's something that we receive through the Spirit. But it is up to us to nurture it, to protect it, to embody it. Because in our unity, the world does see the beauty of the gospel. The power of grace and the glory of God. One more thing. The church is one body, it is unified in Christ It's knit together by the Spirit, radiant with the glory of God. It is the light of the world. Jesus tells his disciples in the Sermon on the Mount, you don't take that light and then hide it away. You let it shine before others so that they see it and then glorify God. Because the body of Christ is created not just to glow, but to give, to serve. We exist out of an abundance of God's love, and he means for us to reflect his character by doing the same, by serving one another. And by serving the world. That's not an option for us. It's built into the DNA of the church. Paul also tells the Corinthian church. A little earlier in this letter, to each of you is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. So the gifts that you've been given aren't for you, they're for everyone around you. You've been filled by God's Spirit. You've been gifted by grace, not for your self-fulfillment, but for the good of your community. So I want everyone to understand you are needed. Your gifts are needed here. Your contributions matter. You may not always feel particularly talented or spiritual or wise. I know I don't always feel that way. But what Paul tells us is in that God's kingdom every member, every part No matter how small, no matter how insignificant it may seem or feel, is indispensable. The rest of the body suffers when you don't bring your gifts to the community. The flip side of that is we need each other. We're not meant, we're not built to be self-sufficient. The people around you have gifts that will build you up. This is one thing about being a follower of Jesus. We have to learn the humility of opening ourselves up to being served by others as well as serving others. And we have to learn the humility of serving in the way that Jesus did. Jesus scandalized his disciples. He stripped off his outer garments and he got down Kneeled on the floor and washed their feet. He takes on the role of a servant, the lowliest role in the household, and he does it with joy That's the posture I want you to take note of. That's what's important here. The posture of the people of God towards each other and towards the world is one of kneeling love. This is the work for which God created us. Paul tells the Ephesians, we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. I hope you hear the corporate language there. We are his workmanship. We are created. We should walk in them. Those good works are the light that Jesus tells us to let shine so others will see it. We're not entitled to keep that to ourselves. The church is not a bunker where we hide from the city, it's a base of operations. From which we work to bless the city, to labor for its good. We seek its peace, its welfare. The church The body of Christ is created and shaped to do beautiful things in the world and to show his glory. So Are you ready for church? That's the question. Over time, perhaps church has come to mean a routine, a place you go, a thing you do. But it is not ordinary. And I would submit to you that it is actually holy ground I'll pose this idea here. Every time we gather, every time we pray for one another, whether it's here or somewhere else, doesn't matter. It's not a place. Every time we hold each other's joys and sorrows or serve our community, we are standing in a place that is as sacred and as solid as the temple when Solomon dedicated it. Even in our most awkward attempts at loving one another, in the ordinary acts of service, that you might do. The weight of God's glory is shining through you, even if we can't yet see it fully. This is the mystery and the miracle of the church. In Christ, these ordinary bodies that we inhabit We are his very body, the place where his glory dwells, where his love kneels to serve, and where his light breaks through in the darkness. And I don't want you to miss it. I certainly don't want you to dismiss it. Do not underestimate what God is doing through you. Right here, right now, in his body, through your presence, your prayers, your gifts, this is the body of Christ. Glorious, unified, sent to serve. And when we live this way, loving the city, serving the poor, bringing the outsider in, creating beauty, speaking truth, offering hospitality, and doing it together in unity as a body. People begin to see Jesus. They see his glory manifested in how we live and how we serve. And they believe. Father in heaven, we would ask that you prepare this people, this place, to be your body in the world Hands of service, feet of peace, hearts of courage joined in love, rooted in grace, bearing the weight of the glory that you have placed within us. We ask this for the glory of your name and of your beautiful Son. We pray in the strong and tender name of Jesus Christ. Amen.