Last Sunday we began a two-week series on Christ's second coming. The title of the sermon last Sunday was The Last Judgment. And today we're going to be considering the new heavens and the new earth. Last week we saw how at the end of the present age Christ will return. When he returns, he will return as a judge. He will sit on that great white throne we saw pictured in Revelation chapter 20. And from that throne he will judge all the peoples of the earth. Each one of us will stand before him to be judged. We'll be judged on the basis of what we have done. And we saw last week how that each of us stands guilty before God. Each of us has sinned, has broken God's law. And for all those who have broken God's law, the judgment, the punishment, is that lake of burning fire. Hell. We saw last week though. That not all men and women, boys and girls, were cast into that lake of fire, but that many of them escaped. Many of them were pardoned because their names were written in that book of life, in the Lamb's Book of Life. You see, there's a connection between the words we read last week from Revelation 20 and the ones we read this morning from Revelation 21. Notice the last verse of each chapter refers to this book of life. The book of life in which the names of those people who have trusted Christ. As their Savior and Lord are written. And so this week now, we want to look at Revelation chapter 21 and 22 and see what it is then that happens to those who are pardoned, to those people who were not cast into that lake of fire. But escaped it because they were in Christ, that their righteousness was Christ's righteousness. We see in chapter 21 that the dwelling place of these saved souls is called the New heaven and new earth. They will dwell in that new heaven and new earth forever. You'll notice in the bulletin that in the order of worship, the title of the sermon is given is the new heaven and the new earth. If you turn the page and look at the outline, you'll see it's titled The New Earth. There's a reason for that. The reason for that is as I began to prepare this in more detail this week, I realized that in fact there's only one place. Only one place. And we'll try to see that as we go along this morning that heaven and earth will not be separated then as they are now. They will be merged in one place. And so what I want to do this morning is really focus our attention on the new earth. The four points I want to cover are, first of all, the importance of this doctrine. Many of you may think that to talk about Christ's second coming is not of as much consequence as talking about evangelism or talking about the act of We're talking about five times, we're talking about scripture memory. But I would like to convince you that indeed it's important how we think about the biblical doctrine of the New Earth. Then we'll take some time and look at the description of the New Earth, Revelation chapter twenty-one. And then go on to talk about the description of the Holy City. And then last of all, we're all still here after describing all of these great things, we'll talk about two particular applications I would like to make of this new. This morning. So, first of all, why is it important to understand the biblical doctrine of the New Earth? There are three reasons I would like to suggest. The first is that it's important to understand the New Earth In order to understand the light to come. What do you think of when you think of heaven? Do you think of a bunch of people like us dressed in white robes, carrying golden harps, sitting on clouds, drumming? those hearts, maybe flipping from cloud to cloud to see who's sitting on the next cloud and what they're singing and can you join in with them. Is that what you think of when you think of heaven? Well, I think for many of us, yeah, that's what we think of. It may be the first thought that prosperes online when we think of heaven. I would like to suggest that the Bible doesn't teach us that. The Bible teaches us that we will be living on the new earth when Christ returns and after the judgment has occurred. We'll be living on a place where God will be. dwell on the new earth. And since the place where God dwells is called heaven, heaven will be on earth. So when we sing that song, heaven came down, we're talking about God coming down. And so I'd like to be able to convince you before We're done this morning that indeed the new earth will be the place where heaven will be, because God will be there. Heaven and earth will not be separated like they are now. So then to understand the new earth is to understand the life to come after this present age of the year. It's over. Second, I think it's important to understand the biblical doctrine of the new earth, because in doing that we'll understand the full dimensions of God's redemptive plan. When you think of the redemption of Christ, what do you think of it? First, you probably think of the redemption of your own soul. You think of Christ dying to reconcile you to God, and you say, He redeemed me when he came and lived and died and was raised again for me. That's true. But if you look at these passages, particularly in Colossians and Ephesians, where Christ's redemptive work is spoken of, there are indications there that Christ's work was to redeem all of creation. All of creation suffered from the fall. All of creation labors under that curse. Paul speaks in Romans 8 of creation laboring and groaning under this curse, waiting to be freed from it. And so I'd like to have us understand then that to understand the new earth. is to understand something of the cosmic effect of Christ's redemptive work. It's not just his people who will be redeemed, it's all of creation who will be redeemed from the curse of sin. Third, I think it's important to Understand the uh biblical doctrine of the New Earth in order to understand and appreciate Old Testament prophecy in a more clear way. In the Old Testament, many prophecies are given which are sometimes ascribed to heaven, sometimes ascribed to the male. millennium, then I think perhaps it would be better to ascribe them to the New Earth. And I think as we look at the doctrine of the New Earth as we develop it out of Revelation twenty-one and twenty-two, that you may see that that will give a a new richness. to our understanding of the prophecies in, say, Isaiah that describe the new earth. And so for these three reasons, I believe it's important to have some kind of an understanding of what the new earth is all about, what it will be like. In Revelation 21, we see two descriptions. We see a description in the first four verses of the new earth. And then we see in the remaining verses of that chapter, in the first five of chapter 22, a description of the Holy City. They're distinguished. And we'll see in a minute perhaps why that's so. But first of all, I'd like to have us look at those first four verses of chapter 21 and see something of what this new earth will be like. First of all, we read the words. John wrote down, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. He saw something new. The words heaven and earth are often used in scripture to refer to all of the universe. Recall the description of all things as those things above the earth, on the earth, and under the earth. It's a description of the universe. What John is saying here. is he sees a new universe. He sees a new heavens and a new earth. Will the old earth be annihilated annihilated? Big one word. Many people believe that the old earth The old heaven will be totally wiped out, replaced by a new one. Some evidence for that is in 2 Peter 3, 12, where we read, The heavens will be kindled and dissolved, and the elements will melt with fire. That's a severe judgment on the world. When Christ comes, indeed, the earth will be judged. But I believe that the idea that the old earth, the old heaven, will be destroyed utterly to be replaced by a new heaven and a new earth. New in creation. New in origin, new in time, is not the biblical teaching. I believe the biblical teaching is that the new heaven and the new earth will be a renewed heaven and a renewed earth. There are four reasons I'd like to suggest for that. spend more time on this than on some of the other points because I believe this is a critical one. First of all, in 2 Peter 313 in Revelation 21. 1, which we've just looked at, the Greek word used for new there is not the word that would have been used if we were talking about something new in origin or time. This is not something brand new. A different word would have been used. Rather, the word that's used there is the word used for something new in nature or quality. The word used here is the word you would use about, say, an old antique chair you found for five dollars in some old house somewhere in Western Howard County. You brought it home, this beat up old chair, you refurbished it, you stripped it down, you refinished it, and someone would come into your home and look at that chair and say, Boy, that' Yes, a new chair. And in fact, it's new, but it's new in quality. It's new in nature. You have refurbished it. You have renewed it. That is the word that's used in Revelation 21. The new era of Is not new in origin, new in time, but it's new in nature and quality. Second, in Romans 8, verses 20 and 21, Paul refers to creation longing to be liberated from sin. He doesn't speak of a creation that's longing to be liberated. to be wiped out so that it wouldn't have to suffer sin anymore. He's talking about a creation which seems to expect that one day it will be free. It will be free from the curse of sin and will continue on in freedom. It will not be wiped out, it will be removed. Third, there's an analogy, I believe, between the new heaven and the new earth and the old earth and old heaven and our resurrection body and our old body. You know, our resurrection body is going to be a new body. It's going to be a glorified body. But it's going to have a continuity with our old body. When Scripture speaks of the resurrection of the body, it does not speak of us being destroyed and annihilated. And a new person. being created to replace me in glory. It is we who will be resurrected. It is we who will receive new bodies. And in the same way I believe we can see that the earth is going to be the same earth, but renewed. Refurbished. Fourth and last, an argument which uh does not have the force of the other three, I believe, but nevertheless is a significant one, is the argument that if God had to destroy utterly the earth, He would basically have said that Satan has totally ruined his creation by Satan's temptation of Adam and Eve and their sin. To say that Satan would have utterly disrupted the earth. would be to say that God did not have the power to redeem it. But that God had to step back, wipe it out, and start all over again. And I believe it's significant for us to say that no, Satan wasn't able to utterly ruin the earth, but rather The effect of sin is something that God can fix. The effects of sin in our lives is something God can fix. When Christ died, his death was powerful enough to totally overcome Satan's effects in my life. to overcome sin. In the same way, God is powerful enough to recreate, to remove the heavens and the earth, to totally wipe out the effects of sin. And as we look at the other descriptions now of the new heavens and the new earth, You'll see that in a nutshell you might say the difference between the old earth and the new earth is that the new earth is without sin. Because everything that we say about the new earth is more or less in response. To some aspect of sin in the older. So let's look at some of them then. As we go down to verse 1, the end of verse 1, we see a descriptive phrase, and there was no longer any C. Now, for those of you who like , to sail, you're probably worried that you're not going to be able to sail. No. I don't believe that's telling us that there will not be any water with waves on that the wind picks up and blows over. I believe what's being spoken of here is the remote removal of disharmony in the new heaven and new earth. In the book of Revelation in particular, and in the rest of the Bible in general, the idea of the sea is the idea of disharmony, the idea of Trouble, the idea of fearfulness. When men and women, mostly men in those days, went out to sea in boats, they often didn't return. The sea was a scary place. The sea was a fearful place. The sea disrupted family. Families when men came back dead, or didn't come back at all. And so the picture we have there, in these words that are so descriptive and so wonderful in the Book of Revelation, is that in this new heaven and new earth there will be no dish. Harmony, nothing but fear. There will not be fearful things. There will just be happy things. In verse 2, we see a picture of the church coming down to earth. We see the word. I saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. In the book of Revelation, New Jerusalem is a term used to describe the church. It is the church, the glorified church of God. In particular, coming to be his bride. And so we see that in this new earth, the church will come down to live on the earth. The church will not live off in space someplace, in some distant galaxy, removed from the earth. But the church will be on earth. Next we see in verse three, and I heard a loud voice from the throne. Saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. There will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. We see here that earth is the place where God will dwell. God will come down to live on earth. And that's why I said before, that where since where God dwells is heaven, that in the new earth heaven will be on earth. There will not be the disjoint nature of them now, where we speak of earth here and heaven where God. Dwells. He will be with us. We will see him. He will not be far away from our sight. Heaven will be on earth. And last of all, the description in these first four verses is the description of an unclean. You know, this life with sin, with death, is a life filled with separation, a life filled with broken fellowship. A life that includes the experience of the world. of death, when people we know and love die and are gone from us, when people are separated because of illness, because of accidents. All those sorrowful things associated with broken fellowship Because of sin and death, will be gone. There'll be no tears. Verse 4 says, You will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death, nor mourning, nor crying, or Pain, for the old order will pass away. So the new heaven will be a place of unbroken fellowship. So you see in these descriptions so far, if we could simply say, take away sin, and you get the result of the new earth. All of the things we've spoken of have been on this earth the result of sin. John then is taken by the Spirit to view what is spoken of as the holy city or the church. I think we must infer from our study of Revelation 21 that this new earth will have a focus on this holy city. It's like in our country, many times people who live far away from one Washington, think that Washington is sort of the focus of the place. Those of us who live near Washington wish the focus were somewhere else, probably. But just as a capital city of a country becomes a focus of activity in that country, so we see here that the New Jerusalem, the holy city, seems to be at the focus of activity on this new earth. Look at verse 9. One of the seven angels who had the seven balls full of the seven last plagues came and said to me, Come, I will show you the breath. The wife of the Lamb, and he carried me away in the spirit to a mountain great and high, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. It shone with the glory of God, and its brilliance was like that of a very precious jewel, like a dragon. Jasper, clear as crystal. We see here a picture of a city that staggers our imagination. We see here a picture of something that John is almost at a loss for words for. In his description of the city, he uses all the words for materials that are precious, that are splendid. The things you associate with the crown jewels, the kinds of jewels, the kinds of precious stones and materials. materials that you would find in a royal palace. And so John is describing a place that will be so splendid it will dazzle us. In fact, the whole new earth will be pretty dazzling when we think about what it will be like in contrast to what things are like now. This city has a description which includes dimensions, sizes, pictures of walls and gates. That all have symbolic meaning. And I would call your attention to a couple of those now. In verses 12 and 14, we see a picture of the city with 12 gates. Each of the gates Later on in verse twenty si in verse fourteen we see a picture of the foundations of the city. There are twelve foundations. Each foundation has on it the name of one of the apostles. See in this picture a beautiful way of saying that all of God's people will be there. There will be no separation between the Jewish believer and the Gentile believer. The people of the Old Testament, the people of the New Testament will dwell in this city. Together. God's people are one people. We see as we move down to verse 22 that in this place there'll be no temple. There'll be no temple in this city, like there was in the old Jerusalem. In this city, God Will dwell, and so there'll be no need of a temple. In verses 24 and 26, we come to a description, which we'll dwell on in a moment in more detail. The description here is that the kings of the earth will bring their splendour into the city. In verse twenty six, the glory and honor of the nations will be brought into the city. I believe those verses suggest to us that there will be a continuity from this earth to the new earth. That there will be something about this earth that will be brought into the new earth, into the new city. Another description we find sandwiched in between these verses is a description Of no night. Now, whether that means that in fact there'll be no day and night as we know it today, I think is beside the point. I think again, just as we saw in verse 1, the picture of no sea, we have here a picture of no Night. What does night mean? What to the people of God living in the first century who read this the first time? What did they think when they read the words? On no day will the gates ever be shut, there will be no night there. In the time Of the first century, cities had walls and cities had gates. The reason cities had walls and gates was because there were enemies outside. And the walls of the city protected the populace of that city from the enemies. night when you couldn't tell where your enemies were, you closed the gates up, you shut the city up tight, and then you were safe for the night. And the picture we have here is that in this new city there will be no fear. There will be no fear of the unknown, no fear of the enemy. In this place, the gates will be open. There'll be no night. There'll be nothing to fear. In chapter 22, the description goes on to describe this tree. This tree which is is similar to the tree in the garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt. You know, if you look at the Bible, you see man and woman starting in a garden, and you see them ending in a garden. You see in the picture of the new earth much of what was in the garden. Except you see it poorer and richer. Because now the people dwelling in this new garden, this new earth, are going to be a people of God who understand redemption, of people who can praise God more than the angels can, because there are people who have experienced death and then life. And so we see in this city a tree, a tree of life. Water coming down from that tree, water being the picture of life, a symbol of life, just as in Psalm 1, the tree is planted by the streams of water. So here is a tree giving water out. The leaves of the tree, it says at the end of the Verse two are for the healing of the nations. The healing of the nations is a descriptive phrase often used in the Bible to describe the opposite of the strife that we so often see between nations now. You know, in the in Revelation and the rest of the Bible, the nations often refer to everyone except the people of God. The nations in the Old Testament were those nations around Israel. And so we see here a picture of in this New Heaven, in this new earth, there will be a peace between peoples, there will not be war, there will not be strife. Again, a cancellation of the effects of sin as they produce strife and terror. our world. In verse three of chapter twenty two, we see very explicitly, more or less a summation of all of this. We see there the words, straight away. No longer will there be any curse. Right there. in front of you. There'll no longer be any curse. The effects of sin are gone. Remember in chapter twenty that Satan himself was thrown first of all into the lake of fire, into hell, there with the beast and the false prophet, for the beef Forever, in torment, and it's in that same place, that same lake of fire, but all those people who aren't written in the Lamb's Book of Life are. And so all of sin, all of its effects, are gone forever into that lake of fire. The new earth, will have no curse. We see also in verse three that we'll be worshiping God forever and ever. And here comes uh probably what has given rise to the picture we have of the of the angels not the angels, but the saints and rewife with hearts, singing and praising God forever. That in the new earth, indeed, we will be worshiping God. The word that's used there for serve is the Greek word meaning acts of service and worship. And so indeed, in glory, in the new earth, we will be worshiping God forever and ever. Will that worship just be singing songs? Maybe. Will that worship be doing? doing things in that new earth? Maybe. But whatever else we want to speculate about what we will be doing. You know, will we be sailing? Will we be running? Will we be building model trains? Will we be doing any of the things that we do? play softball. We won't break our wrists, but maybe we'll play softball. You know, whatever we do will be an act of worship to God, because it will be done before Him and for Him. Last of all Of the picture of the Holy City is in verses four and five. In verse four, we perhaps have the highest joy, the greatest privilege a Christian can experience, described. In verse 4, Of chapter 22, we read these words. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. You 'll see Christ. You 'll see him. How many of you have wondered what he'll look like? You wondered. what that day will be like when we will see Christ. We'll come back to that in a moment when we look at the direct applications. I want to summarize this description by saying that basically what life will be marked by in the new earth is a perfect knowledge of God, we will know him, for we'll see him. A perfect enjoyment of God. We'll be there praising him and serving him. A perfect service of God. As we worship Him, it will not be a worship corrupted by sin, corrupted by bad motives. It will be a true, perfect worship of God. So as so many have so often said, Heaven is to be with God. Hell is to be separated from God. Indeed, that's true. A simple description of heaven is a place from which sin and Satan are totally absent, and a place where God Is totally present and will be there with Him. There are two particular points in this description which I'd like to call your attention to this morning. It'll be good if over the next few Days and weeks, perhaps, you were to reflect on the new earth. I think in reflecting on the new earth, we become a richer people. Our experience becomes a broader one. One reason for that is I believe by meditating On the new earth, its description in Revelation 21 and 22, its description in Isaiah and elsewhere, that in meditating on those descriptions, we receive From God, an increase in anticipation of Christ's second coming. As we dwell on what the new earth will be like, we will begin to want to be there. We'll want to be there in a way that we didn't before. One of the reasons we'll want to be there is because Christ will be there. And so I want to focus our attention for just a couple of minutes on three different places in these two chapters where we have this idea emphasized. First of all, In verses twenty two and twenty-three, read with me. I did not see a temple in the city because the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are his temple. The city does not need the sun or the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives a temple. Light, and the Lamb is its lamb. Going on to verse 3 of chapter 21. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do it. And then over in chapter 22, verse 3, No longer will there be any curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city, and his servants will serve him. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. There will be no more night. They will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun, for the Lord God will give them light, and they will reign forever and ever. Heaven is a place. Place where God will be. Heaven is a place where the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit will be. And we'll see them, we'll understand them. We'll know exactly what the life. To be with Christ, I think, should be our highest aspiration. Christ, remember, is the one who removed from us the terror of death and hell. Christ is the one who has reconciled us with God. Christ is the one who paid the penalty of death for us on the cross, took our sins upon him when he died there. Christ is the one who has loved us. more than anyone else. In Paul's writings we often see references to Paul expecting, anticipating Christ's return. We ought to do that as well. We should each day wonder is Is this the day when Christ will return? Is this the day when sin will be no more? Is this the day when we'll see that new earth? When we'll see the new heavens? When we'll see Christ face to face, to stand before Him, to ask Him. All the questions that we've thought of, to see him, to worship him, to wonder at his greatness. That's what heaven will be. As we reflect on that, as we think about that, surely, our anticipation of it. will increase. And we'll want to be with him more and more. But lest in doing that we become, as someone said, so heavenly minded that we're no earthly good, I want to call your attention to one other aspect of the new earth. One other aspect, and that aspect is the aspect of continuity with this earth. You know, just as our bodies will have a continuity, we have every indication from Scripture That when we see one another in glory, we will know one another. We'll be able to share with one another. In the same way, I believe there's a continuity in the new earth. The advocate Evidence for that comes in Revelation chapter 14 and 21. Let's go to chapter 14 for a moment, to verse 13. There we read these words. Then I heard a voice from heaven say, Write. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, they will rest from their labor, for their deeds will follow them. And then over in chapter 21, recall those words, verse 24. And the kings of the earth will bring their splendor into the city, and then the glory and honor of the nations will be brought into it. What does that mean? What does it mean to say that there will be a continuity from this earth to the earth? to the next earth. Surely we know that the occupants of the place will be continuous, that God's people on this earth will be God's people on that earth. That's really true. From chapter fourteen, verse thirteen. See that our deeds will follow us. So there's something about what we do which will follow us there. Now, many of you remember the words of a hymn which was something like this. I'm forgetting parts of it, but it's uh will there be any stars in my crown when we get to heaven? And what many people think, and it surely is true, that we will Have rewards for serving Christ. I don't know if, for example, those of us who are particularly gifted in evangelism, those who God has given special capabilities to evangelize others, that they had these big heavy crowns with thousands of jewels in them and others of us who weren't uh so gifted or so successful would have few crowns, few stones in our crown. I don't know if that's the way it would be, but I am convinced myself That not only will the rewards that we receive in heaven on the new earth be rewards related to the kinds of work we've done in evangelism, but I believe the rewards that are there, that the glory and honor of the nations is spoken of in verse four fourteen verse twenty six of uh of chapter twenty one here refer to all of the things that we do. Were those efforts that we made to carry out the cultural mandate in Genesis. Be in evidence in heaven. What does it mean for the glory and honor of the nations to be brought into the new city? Let me suggest a couple of things it might mean. It may mean that the glory and honor of the nations may refer to the successful struggles we've had against sin. It may mean the successful efforts of mission work. All of The ages have shown us people going to places where the gospel has not been before. I can't help but believe that that effort would be noted in the New Earth. That those people who have given their lives, have given their wealth, have given everything that they have to the work of foreign missions won't be noted in heaven. What about What are those people who are giving their lives to better health care? What are those medical missionaries who are giving their lives in the foreign field? What are those people in this country who are giving their lives to improve the condition of life for people here? What are those people who who have dreams and hopes about a a complete Christian health center. What about those people who think of the mental health, physical health being linked together? Will those be noted or will they be forgotten? What is the work done by the deacons of this world? What is the work done to alleviate pain and suffering? Alleviate lack of money, will those efforts not be remembered or will they be forgotten? What about the work we do in art? What about the work we do in science? What about the work we do in literature? You know, one of the things that the Reformation left us with was a heritage that said that all things can be done to the glory of God. And might it not be true that when we turn and up in heaven, on that new earth, that we will see there that the honor and glory of the nations that are brought into it, maybe some of those things that we have labored with here on earth. To bring to fruition Christ's kingdom. Kingdom labor is evangelism. Kingdom labor is our culture. Kingdom labor is the alleviation of pain and suffering. Kingdom labor really is working as hard as we can. can to overcome the effects of sin in our culture in the lives around us. Consider then that the labors that we labor with here today will be remembered in heaven. It should motivate us to think about what we do. Are the labors that we labor in each day those that bring honor and glory to Christ? If they are, I believe those labors will be rewarded in glory. They will be noted. That time that we flitter away so often doing things that are often sinful, often maybe sinful, should we be doing that? Should our contemplation of the new earth be a motivation to us to really subdue the earth to Christ, to really conquer the earth to Christ? I believe it should be. As we approach that new earth, As we pass from that judgment seat of Christ into the new earth with our partners, we will go to a place where Christ will be. We 'll go to a place where we will be with Him forever and ever. And I believe we'll go to a place where our efforts for him on this earth will find a place. But what we do here is preparation for what we will see and what we will do there. That's right. Our Father, as we think of the new earth, we so often are tempted to think about it being a place where we can do anything we want to do. For all those things that we love to do here, we'll be able to do. If we love to sail, we'll sail forever. If we love to play racquetball, we'll play racquetball forever. But Lord, it's Your word that describes to us what heaven will be like. And as we read that description, Lord, we thank you that you have given us enough so that as we meditate on it, we can learn to appreciate it. We thank you so much that you have not left us alone. You have given us your spirit here to comfort us, and you have given us the promise that one day we will be with you, we will see you, we will know you perfectly. We will be able to bow down before you, to cast our crowns before you, to worship you in wonder, in awe. And we thank you, Lord, that Satan has not been able to totally corrupt this world. That your power, that your redemptive power is at work in us even now. That we are even now seated in heavenly places with you. That even now those things we labor with are not trutless. That those things we labor at will bear fruit that one day we too will be able to bring our labors into that city to bring glory, to bring honor, to your name.