Amen and amen. God is to be praised for He is the one who redeems us through Christ and we Who are redeemed stand and are safe in his hand. The Lord indeed holds us. We continue on in this series on heaven and hell, and this week we come to the, if you will, the end of it all. The marriage of heaven and earth, the new Jerusalem, the new heavens and the new earth. We began by looking A couple of weeks ago, at the intermediate state, that is, where do souls go when they die prior to Christ's second coming, prior to what we read in this chapter of Revelation And we looked last week at the nature of resurrected bodies, what the scriptures teach regarding the bodies that will be raised. And will either be with the Lord forever or will go to judgment for all eternity. This week and next week. We'll be looking specifically at Revelation 21 through Revelation 22, verse 6. This morning I'll be covering verses 1 through 21, and next week Pastor Tim will be carrying on to chapter 22, verse 6. So this week for me has been caught up in really wonderful place. Thinking about heaven, thinking about the New Jerusalem with such great weather, I must tell you that that was an easy thing to do. But I s recognize that with an an audience, whether it be of ten people or 500 plus that are sitting here this morning, I dare say there are probably at least a couple hundred different views of the book of Revelation. So without getting into all that , I would love to, it has inspired me to think about sometime in the fairly near future, perhaps doing a series on the book of Revelation. If you say amen to that, then you're required to pray. But one thing I know that we can agree on without getting into all of the things about which there may be disagreement, although I will tell you I will be teaching specifically from the biblical tradition known as the Reformed Tradition. And that may be quite different or at odds with what you've learned about the book of Revelation. Notice I say the book of Revelation, not the book of Revelations, which brings me to my next point. My next point is that which we can agree on. It is really one revelation, one vision. In fact, it is one grand vision from chapter 1, verse 10, through chapter 22, verse 6. Now, between those chapters and those verses, we have new and different scenes that appear, giving us What is the preeminent, if you will, example of apocalyptic literature? But generally we think of apocalyptic as being the end of all things, but indeed it carries within it from the Old Testament to the New. The idea of a unveiling, a gradual unveiling. And what we see from chapter 1, verse 10, through Revelation 22, 6. Is the gradual unveiling of the mystery of God's redemptive purposes, bringing it to its culmination in the marriage of heaven and earth And when new images appear throughout the book of Revelation, they then recur. But I will tell you, you cannot read the book of Revelation. Without also understanding that many of its images are drawn from Old Testament prophets, principally among those, though not exclusive, is Ezekiel and Isaiah. And of course, Daniel. It is highly figurative language. It isn't to say there's nothing literal, but it is highly figurative, because it is pointing to one reality. Our utter inability with all human language to truly grasp how glorious and how beautiful is the King of glory and the place where he resides But nonetheless, we've been given this vision: a vision that is for us the unveiling of the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven as a bride for Christ, the groom. To a new earth. What an amazing vision. Let's look together then. Revelation 21 Verses one to twenty-one. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city The new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. And they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. And he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning. nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payments. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars. Their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death. Then came one of the seven angels, who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues, and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper clear as crystal. It had a great high wall with twelve gates, and the twelve gates, at the twelve gates twelve angels, and on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel. were inscribed, and on the east gate, east three gates, and on the north three gates, and on the south three gates, and on the west, three gates. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations. On them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to the measure of the city and its gates and walls. The city lies four square. Its length the same as its width. He measured the city with his rod, twelve thousand stadia. Its length and width and height are equal. He also measured its wall, 144 cubits, by human measurement, which is also an angel's measurement. The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold like clear glass. The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was jasper, the second was sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald, the fifth onyx. the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysalate, the eighth barrel, the ninth topaz. The tenth chrysoprase. The eleventh Jacinth. The twelfth Amethyst And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Heavenly Father, as you sit on the throne In the midst of the New Jerusalem, which we cannot yet see with our physical eyes, we ask you Through the power of your Son, who is now seated at your right hand, that through his power and through the promise of your spirit, will you now? Open our hearts to unveil to our eyes the glory of heaven The glory of Christ the Lamb. The beauty of the city of the New Jerusalem. And the vision of the marriage of heaven and earth, that you would for us then, in this day Help us to live in the light of eternity today. And that what we do makes a difference in eternity. Will you help us to live this way? Will you also help us to see the glory of your salvation? And then prepare us to partake of the Lord's Supper, which is a supper that not only looks back, but looks forward. To the wedding supper with the Lamb for all who belong to you in the midst of that great city. Help us, O Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm very thankful for writer and theologian Jamie Smith, who has given me a long-lasting metaphor for the book of Revelation and indeed even this chapter. I would describe it as vertical blinds and billboard signs. Having spent four years living in, actually better part of six years, over my life living in the state of Florida, vertical blinds were very popular. often at the entrance and exit of your back door going out into a patio. And these vertical blinds, perhaps you have them, you know, work and they they slide open and so forth. But the interesting thing you'll note about vertical blinds is you can have them open and have light come in, but if you will for a moment, imagine if they're at 45 degrees, you you can't see through them, and yet you know there's some light coming through And what you have to do is you have to just sort of lean over just a little bit and see through that 45-degree angle to see the outside just beyond it. Well, this idea of vertical blinds is then translated to billboard signs, and many of you have already been traveling this summer, you'll note that The technology is you see a billboard sign, and if you hold on for just a moment, that will then, through Louver-like technology, it'll then shift to a completely different ad. So hold that image in your mind. The book of Revelation is like vertical blinds that are like a billboard sign You see, we can't fully understand Revelation 21 unless we understand its opposite. It's being contrasted to another great city, that is the city of Babylon. Which for first century Christians and for John, that city was Rome And what they understand is they describe the city of Babylon. Notice what you will, just by very brief introduction to the nature of that city, notice what it says regarding what takes place, its wealth and glory. And this is what it says in chapter 19 of the book of Revelation. The merchants of earth will weep and mourn over her, that is, over the city of Babylon. Now listen to its description. Because no one buys their cargoes anymore. So they're merchants who would go to the city of Babylon and put up their advertisements and sell their goods Cargoes of gold and silver and precious stones and pearls, fine linen, purple silk, scarlet cloth, every sort of citron wood and uh articles of every kind made of ivory and costly wood, bronze, iron and marble, cargoes of cinnamon and spice, of incense and myrrh and frankincense, of wine and olive oil, of fine flour and wheat. cattle and sheep, horses and carriages, and bodies and souls of men. Now have that image firmly placed in your mind. Now let's go back to the billboard sign that we travel down the highways and we see You see, what you need to understand is that the book of Revelation, in many ways, is describing all the pomp and circumstance of the city of Babylon. Like a great billboard on a summer highway, take ninety-five if you will. And what is it advertising? Cargoes, right? Cargoes of gold and silver, cars and human bodies In all their resplendent summer glory and images of a good life, this house or this village or this ocean escape or this new plot of land, all kinds of things enticing us, you see. And that's the way the world works. It's offering a rival gospel of what will take care of our ills and our brokenness because of sin, but they don't call it sin, they just call it acne. Here, try this new cream. And they don't call it sin, but they'll call it flabby muscles. Here, go and get a lifetime membership to this gym. You see. You you see what I'm saying. And they don't call it sin, but they call it that old car you're driving something that needs to be replaced by a Mercedes. You see. And so what they're trying to advertise in Babylon and all of its glory and all this the story it wants to tell about itself The story wants to tell about itself is its brilliance and its luxury and its wealth and its glory. Come and taste and see. But like a louvreed blind, revelation by way of God and his angels takes John, who's living in and around The great Babylon that is Roman knows of all its pomp and circumstance. As it were, he says to John, hey John, come here. I want to show you something. And he takes the louvered blind of reality and turns it just 45 degrees. And he allows John to peek around and what he sees. Beyond all the pomp and circumstance of what Babylon wants to say about itself, he sees behind it all, and what does he see? He sees monsters. He sees horror He sees Satan. He sees the idolatry. He sees great prostitution. He sees enslavement and he sees the truth behind the lies. And so revelation, like a beautiful, literary, biblical with all authority of God, is like a grand set of louvered blinds slowly opening that we might be able to see behind all the pomp and circumstance of earth, but to see that behind it is a great battle. The great battle is over our souls. And God is telling us not a gospel that will pass away, but an eternal gospel that really gets to the heart of our problem beyond the flabby muscles, beyond the white skin that needs its hand, and acne. Faces, he tells us that the real problem at it all is sin. And the author of sin is Satan. And the king of glory is the one who comes to conquer. sin and Satan and the last enemy, which is death, till the final moment in Revelation 21 and Revelation 22, the blinds are open. And through John's writing down of the vision which he sees, we get to see the truth behind what God is going to do. You see? And what God is coming to do is to may bring a marriage of heaven and earth And so let's look briefly then at the image of what this is going to look like. We see it particularly in verses 1 through 8. And then verses 9 through 21 retell the story, if you will, but in more detail that we learn in verses 1 through 8. But let's look at 1 through 8. And what we will see. Is the description of the place, the people who are there, but then the promise. So let's look at the place. What we see most wonderfully is the nature of that place. So let me look again at verse 5, and this is so critical to understanding What the new heavens and the new earth will be. In verse 5 it says, And he who was seated on the throne said, Now this is The Lord speaking, one of the few times actually in the book of Revelation where the Lord speaks. But here he says, Behold, I am making all things new. That is telling us that the new heavens and the new earth and the new Jerusalem is the work of God's restoration. And not annihilation, do you see? Notice what he says. Behold, I am making all things new, not I'm making new things. Do you see the difference? See, in Scripture, we might be lending credence to the idea or the notion that indeed what will happen to the old earth, as it tells us here, In the old heavens which pass away, we might come to the idea that what's going to happen is it will all be annihilated and go away. Listen to just a couple of the passages. Luke, heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. 2 Peter, being principal among those that people draw on, the day of the Lord will come like a thief, the heavens will disappear with a roar, the elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything in it will be laid bare. And then we have Revelation 21. 1. I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. So this idea has come that indeed what will happen is that the Lord will just destroy the earth and it will crumble and burn up, and then there will be a new and put in its place. But indeed, what verse 5 tells us Is actually what the Bible has been telling us from the beginning. Is that which God created is good That his intention and his actions has always been the act of redeeming and restoring and not annihilation. While there may be the fire of judgment That doesn't mean that new things will not grow up in its place. Isn't that what happens after a vast forest fire? Randy Alcorn , writer of his study of heaven, talks about the first time he went to visit with his wife, the the uh ruins, if you will, or what he thought was going to be the ruins of the old volcano Mount St. Helens. And its utter destruction of destroying everything in its path and burning up, now there is a beautiful renewed forest. So while there may be judgment and fire, that is a very different thing than annihilation. Indeed, what verse 5 leads us to see is that the place will be a place that does have continuity with the earth that is. But it will be utterly restored and renewed. Like our bodies which we looked at last week. Our bodies which go to the grave will lie as bones, but they will be raised and they will be renewed and restored in resurrected bodies. There will be continuity, but of course there's discontinuity and we can't be exactly like we are now, the full nature of which we do not know. We know that Jesus was recognizable as Jesus. And yet his body was glorified. So there was a continuity, but a discontinuity, the same as the case with creation. There will be a continuity, but also a discontinuity that will be glorified and restored and renewed. Secondly, we see in these opening verses about the places there is also. Vast security. Now you'll note, and perhaps if you've ever been a studious reader of this chapter, you will come across a phrase which may shock you. When it says in verse 1, and there was no sea. And of course, if you're like me, you go, What? Wait a second, you know? Sea is really beautiful. But here is where we don't want to invest too literally, but understand the figurative role of water and ocean. In the life of God's people throughout the Bible. What we will see indeed is, as you go back and look at water and sea, is often a place of great threat. To the people of God. And so the notion is, I believe, Having read a great deal about this, is I think less an idea of a literal, no more water or sea, but rather what is behind it. that there will be nothing, nothing to threaten the people of God. They will be utterly secure. We see that again in the vast description of the walls. Do you see how much attention is placed on the detail of the walls? Now I practice this by myself, and I'm not going to go over it again, but except to say I practiced saying all of these emeralds and stones because I knew the likelihood of my radically messing that up. So instead of getting into that, what we will note is that it was built of jasper. I can say that all day long. And uh and it it says that the city itself was of pure gold and like crystal clear glass. It doesn't mean that the city itself is translucent. But when it uses language for translucence or clear glass, it means of its purity. of the kind of gold. And then it talks about so much about the foundations of the wall of the city. It goes into great description. Why? Because God means to demonstrate through John to those who belong to the Lord, it is a safe Secure place. He is building A place that has great high walls. But you say, well, wait a second, safe from what? Well, that that's the issue. Safe from nothing, isn't it? But it's the statement of his glory. But notice how many gates there are. There are twelve gates. That is something we ought to be rejoicing at. Why? Because there are many gates, there are many ways to get in, not by faith, but by the fact of the greatness of the salvation of God, of every tribe and every tongue and every nation. We see the culmination, the fulfillment, that God will be the God of his people, and they will be the light of the world, and he will bring forth the gospel and the salvation. And they are to be his representatives around the world in every tongue, in every tribe, and every nation. We know that from earlier on in the book of Revelation. But if there's something else that describes this place, it is its brilliance. Its utter brilliance. The varied stones and jewels. It is a vast city, and so much ink has been spilt on how tall are the walls and How big of a city is it? And if you actually go and which I'm sure some of you will do if you haven't done already, you'll go and you will look for ways to translate this into English measurements. What I will tell you is you will end up with a wall That is vastly too high for the scale of the city. So, what we know is that the numbers that are being used here, again, are highly figurative and biblical throughout God 's word. But this is what we know. It will be square, and it's going to be big. Really big. And so let me encourage you, study it if you like. But don't miss the fact that that's not the point. The point is, it is a place of great detail, great brilliance, of great significance. And let me say this if you come from a tradition. That sees a distinction, too much of a distinction, between the New Testament and the Old Testament. Therefore, perhaps you grew up in a tradition that never preached the Old Testament or referred to it only briefly. What I will tell you, take great comfort in this passage, because if there is nothing, there is continuity between Old Testament and New. Because we see the twelve tribes. We see also the twelve apostles and their names. We see the fact that this place is actually reaching back to what writers have called, pointing us back to, the four-chapter gospel. That God created in Genesis, and the fall has broken and marred that which God created Human beings being chiefly among those. And from our sin and brokenness that issues forth from our lives, it is reflected in the creation. But then God brings redemption through the great redemptive acts from the Old Testament all the way through the news, seeing the fulfillment in Jesus Christ. on the cross, which we have sung this morning, to bring redemption to human beings, but that would also be the pattern of the renewal and redemption he will bring to the earth. And so you have the four-chapter gospel, creation, fall, redemption, and that's where most of us stop. That we think that the end of the story is redemption, but I will tell you, this chapter says to us It's more than redemption. That redemption has a goal. And that goal is restoration. That God will make all things right. The removal of the corruption that has been splayed out on all the earth will be renewed and restored. This is my opinion, not thus saith the Lord, but as I read Revelation, as I read of the redemptive, restorative acts, From Ezekiel to Isaiah, I am of the mind and of the reading of Scripture that what is beautiful in God's creation here will also be restored and renewed in the new heavens and the new earth. That is my perspective, not one I'm asking you to hold to. But that is what the reading of this passage points me back to. But what of the people who reside there? Verse 7 and 8 tells us the one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. The idea there being the one who conquers. What does that mean? It means the one Who perseveres, but what does that mean? It actually means the one who is not giving up on the testimony and declaring their trust. In the Lord. The one who does not give up on giving a reason for the hope that you have within you when called to account. When under the pressure of persecution or trial, the one who conquers is the one who remains faithful to the name. And saying, I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, who died for me, the King of heaven and earth Those are the ones whose names are written in the book of life, which Pastor Tim will be looking at next week. But know this those who conquer, those who persevere, those who say faithful to the name, know this it is not by your strength. Because Jesus said, you can do nothing apart from me. It is the one Who is Jesus, who upholds you, who preserves you, who enables you, who in him we are the ones who endure, who persevere. And so therefore the one who conquers is the one who remembers the source of our conquering strength, Jesus Christ, who is in us, who has gone before us, who has gone through persecution to the point of death. On our behalf, who has gone to the grave for us, who is raised victorious over sin and death, who's been raised to life and now seated at the right hand of God the Father in him. Those who belong in the book of life are those who will persevere to the end, those who will conquer. But then it says, but those who are not there Now, I would have dared ask you, if you had never read this chapter before, what do you think the first on the list of those who are not there? My guess would be we would not have chosen the cowardly. as the first on the list. But it follows with those who conquer. The opposite of those who conquer are those who in the face of great trial and persecution were cowards. and who became like chameleons and were trying to go along to get along and gave up the name and were not willing to announce and declare where their trust was Because that is not where their trust is. Who refuse to give utterance to the name of Christ in public and pause briefly to say If you read the book of Revelation as only that which is to happen in the future, then that passage would make no sense to you. It would have had no application during John's age. If you simply read it as a book that was only meant for something that happened during John's time in the first century, it would have no application for you and me today. It is a mixture, and the application for them is they were under great persecution because of Rome And the leaders of Rome, and the persecution. And so he says, Those who are written in the Lamb's book are those who conquer. Those who are not written there are those who are cowardly. Do you see the argument? And then he unpacks The rest, and we will get into this next month as we look at hell. But suffice it to say this It isn't to say that if you have been a murderer or sexually immortal moral or a sorcerer or an idolater or a liar. It isn't to say that if you have been those things, that you're beyond redemption. No. There will be those in heaven who are guilty of all these things. As Paul would say, as were some of you, as was me. But it is only through the grace of God which we get there. But those who reject the grace, those who do not know that grace, Or those who still will die and will be in their sins when Christ returns, and as they are found in their sins, so will be their eternity in judgment. But that's next month. Let's continue on. The promise. The promise is here There are many, but there are three. Notice the Abrahamic promise finding its fulfillment. He says to them after he's announced this before he announces this great uh dec declaration, the Alpha and Omega, he says, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God Himself will be with them as their God. This is the Abrahamic covenant. From the middle of Genesis, finding its complete culmination through the work of Christ, and now in the new Jerusalem. That all those among many tribes and nations who've been called to Him through Christ, based on the work of Christ and His death for our sin, His resurrection, for our redemption and restoration. we find that now we see that the end of it is the restoration of relationship. You see, as I said the four-chapter gospel, the end of all things was not to have been creation. If Adam and Eve had not sinned, the ultimate goal of creation was not creation itself. And so because of sin, and though we have a fall, because of disobedience towards a holy God, the end of the story is not redemption. And the end of the story is not just the restoration of creation, the restoration of bodies who are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. The end of restoration is what is behind restoration, and that is reconciliation. I will be your God, and you will be my people. It is the restoration of the relationship for all eternity that Adam and Eve were to have enjoyed That is the promise of God, that at the center of the city is the presence of God. And of his relationship with his people, according to his redemptive promise, which brings restoration to the point of reconciliation. The second promise is indeed in verse 4. It is the tenderness promise. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. The tears are not tears because of memories of what was on earth. It is the removal of tears as the result of persecution. And death and the brokenness that was, and these tears are the tears that were the call that were the product of persecution. Surely those who first heard John's revelation in first century knew what those tears were like. The tears of persecution and trial and suffering. But as the new Jerusalem, the new heavens, and the new earth are brought into marriage, notice through the promise that was given to Abraham, now finding its fulfillment and culmination in the new heavens and the new earth and at the center of it, the new Jerusalem, at the center of the city, is the presence of God, if you will, and he with his people. And listen to the tenderness. Listen what is implied. He's wiping away the tears from your cheeks. Do you know what that implies? That he sees my face, and that I see his Before then, before that moment, you and I cannot see the face of God and live. But behind all of the description of the grand brilliance and beauty of heaven and the new Jerusalem, and the restored earth, there is one central truth that should captivate our hearts. It is the greatest and truest story ever told. That God longs to see you face to face, and we long to see Him face to face. Because he is the one who made us. Yesterday, while my daughter was at horse lessons A young girl was, they have multiple people in this class, and this one girl was on a horse who was particularly fast. And he either got spooked and he began to go around the outdoor ring in full gallop I was sitting in my car watching the lesson. I immediately got out, could see there was something wrong because the look on her face, she just went white. And they were trying to tell her what to do, and it would end in a fall. And she was injured, but I was the first one to reach her. And as I I said, Oh my, where is your fuse her father had just been there and I ran out to the parking lot, I was knew what car he drove, I couldn't find his car And I ran back to her and other age were there helping her and I said, Do you remember his number? And she was able to give me his cell number and I called his cell number And when I called the cell number, he said, I just left to go get a cup of coffee and so he came back. And as he runs over to her, the look on her face, when she sees her father's face, why? Because that's her father from whom she comes, you see. I am a father, but I'm not her father. I'm not the father of comfort to her. I'm not the father who helped to bring her into the world. I'm not the father who cared for her and loved her. I'm not the father who was there to hold her and to Take care of her and provide food on the table. I am not that father. It is only her father that can make the difference. Don't you see? That picture is a picture of exactly what John is talking about. And that Father, which you and I long for, is tender and love. As pure as gold, as clear as glass. And we will know as we are known fully. Amen. Because that, my dear friends, is what is behind all of the book of Revelation, indeed, behind all of the redemptive scriptures. It began with God and his creation. Because of sin, that relationship was broken, and we were out of his presence, out from his face. And could not see it. And the redemptive story from Genesis chapter 3 to Revelation chapter 22 is the story of God's redemptive plan to bring about what? The forgiveness of sins through the blood of Christ on the cross and the victory over death through the resurrection? Yes and amen But for one glorious, beautiful end to be. And this is the promise and the final promise In the presence of the covenant-keeping, loving, redeeming, tender, heavenly Father. In whose image we were created. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. But praise be to God in Christ. There will be a city where that knowledge will not be a thinking thing. But will be a real thing. What is your hope Two application points. This is why we go to work tomorrow morning. Because the work you do makes a difference. If you are a Christian, whatever your gifting is, God will use your gifts to bring about until the day when Christ returns, He's bringing restoration. Whether you're a CPA or you're a stay-at-home parent. Whether you're married or single, whether you're gifted as an artist or you are an engineer and only love numbers and the art that they bring. The commitment to the gifts that God has given you is a part of His redemptive plan. And is a part of which He's bringing restoration. the restoration of his character, the restoration of his love and of his glory. So go about your work and do it well for his glory. But the second application point is the supper. How does that work? It 's basically because we come to the end of this service to celebrate a supper that gives us two ways of tasting. A tasting of remembering of what Christ has done for us on the cross, his body and his blood given for our sins that we might have newness of life and salvation and the forgiveness of sins, but a taste of the future. That this supper is to be celebrated until Christ comes again, and this supper will be replaced. By a grand marriage supper with the Lamb. And do you remember what he said to his disciples on the night in which he was betrayed? I will not partake of this cup until I'm paraphrasing? Until the restoration of all things. And we will be seated, as it were, maybe figuratively, maybe not, we'll be standing and celebrating a supper and our King, the Lord Jesus. will have a cup of the finest wine. And we will say, the best, if you will, please pardon me, the best toast ever given. Crown him, crown him, crown him with many crowns. The Lamb upon his throne. Let us prepare our hearts to eat the supper that relies on Christ and looks to Christ in the marriage of heaven and earth. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would give us by your Holy Spirit A vision through your word and its truth and its boundaries to be caught up in the beauty and the glory of what you will do, that we might have a longing. for what is to come, but that we might have wisdom for where we live, that the gospel which you tell, the truth which you tell, undresses all false gospels. It tells the truth of that which is behind all things here, so that you might restore us by the only true gospel. The gospel of the Lamb of God who was slain for our salvation. Jesus Christ. We thank you and we praise you in his name. Amen.