If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to Psalm seventy-seven. Before I read scripture for us, I'd like to again welcome all of you who are here this morning and welcome back, you ladies. It was uh wonderful to hear so many testimonies. from so many of you about how the women's retreat was such a great blessing to you. And we rejoice in that as well. And if you're a visitor here We welcome you especially. And I'd love to have a chance to meet you after the services. I go and stand by the welcome desk and love to meet you there Well, before I read for us Psalm 77 , let's bow our heads in prayer. Almighty God, we thank you for the gift of your word. For truly it is a gift. in a day and age where we have become jaded and wonder where can we hear truth? Where can we hear something that's not spun or something that's not slanted or skewed or selective or Miss of some kind or another. Father, we thank you that we have your word, which is, Lord, it is faithful, it is true. It is perfect, it is holy, it makes wise the simple, it is strong and sharp and pierces even to our very souls. And Lord, we pray that by your grace we would always hear your word. Remembering what it is. It is your testimony about who you are, about who we are, about how we can have fellowship with you. And so, Lord, we pray that you would bless this reading of your word to us. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, in as much as it is faithful to what you have said , Make it helpful. Make it memorable. Make it sensible. Make it worthy. We ask these blessings in Christ's precious name. Amen. Psalm seventy seven, the word of God. I cry aloud to God Aloud to God and he will hear me. In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord. In the night my hand is stretched out without wearying. My soul refuses to be comforted. When I remember God, I moan. When I meditate, my spirit faints. You hold my eyelids open. I am so troubled that I cannot speak I consider the days of old, the years of long ago. I said, let me remember my song in the night. Let me meditate in my heart. Then my spirit made a diligent search. Will the Lord spurn forever and never again be favorable? Has his steadfast love forever ceased? Are his promises at an end for all time? Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion? Then I said, I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High. I will remember the deeds of the Lord Yes, I will remember your wonders of old. I will ponder all your work and meditate on your mighty deeds. Your way, O God, is holy. What God is great like our God? You are the God who works wonders. You have made known your might among the peoples. You with your arm redeemed your people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. When the waters saw you, O God, when the waters saw you, they were afraid. Indeed, the deep trembled. The clouds poured out water, the skies gave forth thunder, your arrows flashed on every side The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind, your lightnings lighted up the world, the earth trembled and shook. Your way was through the sea, your path through the great waters, yet your footprints were unseen You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. This ends the reading of God's Word. Depression is real. It is very real. It is something that I have shared before, even with you, that it's something I'm no stranger to. I have been depressed and had to go see medical doctors and counselors. I had a panic attack once. And these things are not things that we ordinarily brag about or herald. Like, ooh, look at me. I've had really bad days. But I want you to know that I know they're real. And so does God. One of the things I love about John Calvin is he looked at the book of Psalms and described the book of Psalms as an anatomy of all the parts of the soul. And he says when he describes the Psalms in that way that there is not an emotion, a thought, an imagination, a fear that the human heart is liable to that doesn't find some expression. in the book of Psalms. And here, in this psalm, we encounter something particularly shocking. When I was an undergraduate student at the University of Maryland, this would have been back in 1989, I was a junior, and at the University of Maryland as a history major, you had to do a thesis. And your thesis had to be somewhere between, you know, somewhere in the ballpark is 75 pages long, original research, and had to do with your major concentration area. Mine was Tudor and Stewart English history. I was preparing to lay a foundation for seminary studies. And I picked a early English reformer who was a close friend of William Tyndall named John Frith. And John Frith's uh Complete works only existed in two libraries. And for those of you who are young, this is before the internet The works of John Frith were only available in the United States in two places, UCLA and Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia There was one place uh uh uh the the fancy school in Minnesota that starts uh in in Canada, which is sort of the same as Minnesota. Uh in ca Canada, Mc Mick, whatever. That's the one. They they had it as well, but uh so I went up to Philadelphia seminary, Westminster there. And I was there for a week studying because I couldn't check the books out. They were rare. And I'd had to I read the whole works there and I went to chapel every day. And I went to a chapel one day and the history professor at At the seminary, he was preaching on this text 77. And he said, this is the lowest point in all of the scriptures except for the Garden of Gethsemane. And I've never forgotten that. This is a low point indeed. Think about this. And the seminary professor, here I am. I'm a young, you know, t twenty-one year old, twenty-year-old junior in college. uh aspirations to go to ministry. And he's saying here in this text we have an ordained servant of the living God spouting blasphemy, not just in his own imagination But for the whole world to read it for thousands of years, has his steadfast love forever ceased. Has he forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion? And this psalm in showing us the depths to which a child of God can descend in their spiritual imagination and in their feeling of their life. is something that as I've gone through uh different stretches of my pilgrimage through the Valleys that are darker than the mountain peaks. This psalm has become something of a close friend of mine, and I want to share with you why this morning. This psalm breaks into four parts very easily. You'll notice there's a word that I did not read. It's the word salah. And the word salah appears after verse 3, it appears after verse 9, and it appears after verse 15. So you've got these three references to Salah, and they separate the four major divisions of the text. And we don't know what the word salah means exactly. You can pick up any number of commentaries, Bible dictionaries, theological dictionaries. And you'll find theories about what it might mean. Is it a uh a poetic or is it a musical marker? Does it have some meaning? I know there was one of the early elders of this church, Don Olson, he had a sailboat and he named it Salah. Uh so there's that. We have a child named Salah in the congregation, and so it has meanings for sure, but what it means in this context All we know for sure is that it breaks apart the text into sections. And the first two sections are very dark, and the second two sections, sections three and four, are very bright. The first two sections take us from this downward decline to as low as we can be. And as I'll argue in a moment, the second two sections incline to the highest we can be. And I've always found it interesting, well, you know, some of you have shared that I when I retire I want to try my hand at writing books And I'm guaranteed if uh at least my parents will buy them. If you take the names of God, one of which is most high , There are a small collection of psalms written by Asaph. A very small collection of psalms written by Asaf, who wrote this psalm. The majority of the occasions of the name of God most high in the Psalms occur in that few collection of his. So it makes sense to talk in terms of height and depth with respect. To this psalm in particular. He drops low, but he ascends high. Why? Because he has appealed to the ears of the right hand of the Most High. And I want us to be encouraged to mind the depths of what that means. But let's first talk about the depths of our experiences. I 've already said depression is real. Think about this description. It's almost clinical. Days of trouble. And the night, hand stretched out without wearying, that's a picture of prayer, someone who has prayed over and over and over again. A soul, an inner being, a life that just can't be or won't be comforted. Thinking about God, the source of hope and health, in this context, causes moaning and weariness. There's a sense in which the psalmist recognized that God, who is sovereign, is somehow a part of my suffering right now, and so he's able to say, I can't even sleep, I can't even speak. And he recognizes that God is a part of this. Have you ever been so depressed, so stressed, so fearful that you can't eat, you can't sleep, you can't even hardly bring yourself to talk about it? Your thoughts turn to dark places all the time. It's not just that the cuff is half empty, it's that it's leaking and there's hardly any left. You consider the good old days, and you're fixated on your past. What went wrong? What happened? What could be better? And when you think about God, you wonder if somehow he isn't for you what he has said he is for others, and if he simply rejected or failed you, or even is he real at all. This happens, and I want to share with you a little insight that I have learned over the years Not only is it real, but the subjects of a depression like this include giants of the faith. What do you know about Asaph? Look at the very top. The part of this that I didn't read, it's from the ancient Masoretic text, the Cliff Notes, if you will. really put together by uh the great synagogue some two hundred years before the time of Christ. They note that this is a psalm written to the choir master according to Jedathan. It's a psalm of Asaph. And who is Asaph? In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, we read about the Ark of the Covenant being brought back from Philistia. to the land of Judah by David. And in verse 16, after the Ark of the Covenant is reinstalled in the tabernacle, David appoints three Levites to be in charge of the worship services before the tabernacle, before the Ark of the Covenant in the tabernacle, and it says right there in chapter 16 of 1 Chronicles. Asaph was the chief. Asaph, the chief worship leader of the people of God in the days of David. When in some respects everything was going well in the kingdom of God as it was experienced by the people of God. And Asaph himself is the one who experienced the spiritual depth of despair. Of fear, of anxiety, even of blasphemy. Another far more recent champion of the faith comes to mind. Some of you are familiar with the Dutch statement, Statesman Abraham Kuyper. Abraham Kuyper has not just served as prime minister of his country in the early 20th century, but he also published theology books, taught at a seminary. And he had two belts of deep depression. They would have called it a nervous breakdown back then, where he had to remove himself from ministry and from politics and spend a year and get well. And then he went right back to it. He was prime minister and a seminary professor after such a deep despond of sorrow and grieved living. Depression is real And people just like you and me, children of the living God, experience it sometimes. People just like you and me sometimes wonder these types of questions. Has God failed me? People just like you and me wonder if God is no longer gracious. Asaph thought that. And it's not just that he thought at once. Psalm 73 is also a psalm of Asaph. And there in Psalm 73 He contemplates the fact that if he had said out loud to his congregation that was gathered at the tabernacle to worship before the Ark of the Covenant, if he had said what he was thinking, he would have betrayed the children of God, he says. He was like a brute beast, and his imaginations were desperate. I have been good for nothing. God has forgotten me. So Asaph on at least two occasions falls into such a deep dark despair The effects of this depression, physically, spiritually, emotionally, crippling. As a pastor, I have walked that road with many parishioners, some friends, some kids I've coached, some parents of kids I've coached, and it's not a fun road. It's not an easy road. It's a difficult road. But it is a road nonetheless, and roads have destinations. And the question I would invite you to consider is on your road of depression when you experience it, because I assure you, if you have not yet, you probably will. Where will you go? What will you do with it? Depression is real. How will you react to it when it strikes your children? Your spouse, your parents. How will you think of it? When they utter a blasphemous thought, will you count them a pagan and cast them out? When they can't eat or sleep, will you accuse them of weakness? When they cry, will you simply tell them to cheer up Well, this psalm describes well the depths of depression, but I think it also describes well the heights of praise. I remember as a young musician and I used to gig a lot in straight-ahead groups, even in reggae groups, and even in, if you remember, the go-go scene back in the late 80s and early 90s, I was actually part of that. And when we think about music, I would often think of a weird song by Taj Mahal. I don't know if some of you know him. He was a weird musician, but I loved his work. And he wrote this song that had these lyrics I got the blues so bad one time, it put my face in a permanent frown. But now I'm feeling so much better, I can cakewalk into town. Anybody ever heard that song? Nobody? I'm not gonna sing it for you. But you know that song's a great song, and it's got a real kind of funky jive to it. I love it. It's a great song. But I would always wonder, how How in the world do we go from having the blues so bad to cakewalking? Because me, I want that. I've always been something of a melancholy soul How do we go from one to the other? Because I know the one and I've I've seen the other too. And think about the other. In verses eleven through uh fifteen, the third major part of this psalm, we've got this picture of This God who works wonders, who does things. It's very theoretical in this section. And then all of a sudden, for those of you who will keep the music musical analogy going, some of you like, you know, the John Phillips Susa marches and all of a sudden when you go from four four into the the the t the trio section where you're you're in three four or in six eight And the the whole rhythm, the meter, the tempo of the song changes. Some of you are athletes. We had the Fellowship of Christian athletes uh middle school football teams here on Friday night. It was awesome. There were so many that whole back line was lined with young athletes. And it was going crazy here. The decibel level was insane when they were just goofing around playing basketball. But think about football. You're losing a game. It's tight. You're within one score and all of a sudden things start working your way and you go to a No huddle offense, and you're just banging out five, six yards, and all of a sudden you know you're gonna win. The whole tempo changes. And there's a sense of joyful anticipation. Well, that's what the poetry does in Psalm 77. I tried to read it that way, but I don't know if it came across. Think about how all of these verses, with two exceptions, have they 're called bicolas in the technical Hebrew poetry jargon. Two parts by cola. I cry aloud to God, verse one, aloud to God, and he will hear me. In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord. Verse 2a, verse 2B, in the night my hand is stretched out without wearying. Verse 3: When I remember God I moan. Second part, when I meditate my spirit faints. It's the most common form of poetry in the Hebrew Bible. The ancient Israelites had a thing for saying something twice. And a lot of verses are kind of a restatement of what came before. Most of what we read all the way up through verse 15 are bicolas. The tempo is two. And all of a sudden, once we hit this actual description of what the God who is good and wonderful in the third section of the psalm Does, in the fourth section, it's like the poem's tempo explodes to three. When the water saw you, O God, when the water saw you, they were afraid. Indeed, the deep trembled. The clouds poured out water, the skies gave forth thunder, your arrows flashed, and you can go through the rest. I can only imagine that's when the rhythm section comes in. For that fourth stanza. That's when the trumpets sound. That's when the celebration begins. That's when the blues turn into a cakewalk. But how? How does that happen Verse 10 is a hinge in this psalm. Look at verse 10 with me. In verse 10, Asaph, who has just uttered the most blasphemous words, In the book of Psalms, he interrupts himself by saying, Then I said See, he's telling us about the time he was so sad, so upset, so blue, so theologically skeptical of the goodness of God. But then he said something to himself. And this is what changes everything. Then I said, I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High. Now I want you to think about that verse for a minute. If you have a different translation, it might read very differently You might have, for example, if you have the old King James, then I said, This is my grief, the changing of the right hand of the Most High. Now think about that for a moment. That's a very, very different verse, isn't it? And if I say, this is my appeal, or if I say, this is my grief, you'd think, what in the world do those two ideas have in common? How can it possibly be that one translation, the one my pastor's reading, says, this is my appeal, but these other translations say this is my affliction or this is my grief. Well, we're not going to go into a whole lot of Hebrew this morning, but we are going to go into a little bit. Because Hebrew is a language just like any other, and it has idioms. Idioms are non-literal ways of saying very real truths. For example, to kick the bucket or to buy the farm or to see stars Or to feel butterflies. These are all idiomatic expressions that aren't literally true, but they convey deep truths. Well, there was an idiom that we see in First Kings chapter thirteen. In First Kings chapter thirteen, we read that there was a man of God who confronts The king of Israel, Jeroboam, who's standing at the altar to make offerings when he ought not to do that, as he's not a priest. And the man of God prophesies against him. And Jeroboam the king reaches out his hand and says, seize him. And this is what we read. And his hand, when he stretched it out against the prophet, dried up so that he could not draw it back to himself. The altar also was torn down, the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign that the man of God had given by the word of the Lord And the king said to the man of God, Entreat now the favor of the Lord your God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored to me. Entreat. Appeal now, because in Hebrew it's the same. What about another place? Let's think about a book that we all read regularly, Zechariah. In Zechariah we read this. In that description of the day when people's fasting will be turned into days of rejoicing, we read this in chapter 8, verses 20 through 22. Thus says the Lord of hosts, people shall yet come, even the inhabitants of many cities. The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, Let us go at once to entreat Exact same Hebrew word, appeal, the favor of the Lord and to seek the Lord of hosts. I myself am going. Many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts And to entreat the favor of the Lord. Now, in all of those cases in 1 Kings 13 and in Zechariah chapter 8, when I said the word entreat, I said the Hebrew word, it's two Hebrew words. It's an idiom. Make a grieved face towards. And so think about this for a moment. In the ancient Hebrew, the Israelite world, one of their Poetic metaphorical ways of thinking about making an appeal would be to direct your grief towards in a way that was a supplication or a plea for mercy And so the point of this text, because due to the placement of the Salah, you'll notice if you look at Psalm 77, this section, this uh This change, this then I said, I will do this, is clearly something that prefaces the positive change. It doesn't conclude the negative experience. And here the psalmist is saying, I'm going to stop appealing and referencing and directing my grief towards my past. I'm going to now direct my grief in a different direction to a different object Now my appeal is going to be this, the years of the right hand of the Most High. And here you might say, now Pastor, just hold on just a minute. In my translation, it says the changing of the right hand of the Most High. Because most old translations, in fact, do put that, nearly every one. Because they also put affliction. This is my affliction, the fact that the right hand throughout the scripture which is likened to his faithfulness, his industrious salvation, his power and his might. In fact, the right hand of God right now is the favored place of power and dignity and And honor where Jesus Christ is seated right now, the right hand of God the Father Almighty. Now, boy, if the right hand of God changed toward you, that would be a bad day. And so it was the case that before the idiomatic language of the Old Testament was better understood, that we'd think, well, I remember the uh I think about the this is my problem. God has changed. And all my fears described up through verse 9 are true. He has, in fact, in anger, chosen to withhold his compassion. But does it really say that? The years, not the changing, of the right hand of the Most High. I want to take you into a little bit of an academic side street here. We have a word in the English language. And it's spelled P L A N E. And in some contexts Say in your mathematics class, that means a two-dimensional surface. It is a plane in geometry But in another context, when you're out on a playing field and you hear a loud noise and see a contrail, it refers to a vehicle flying through the sky. Same, spelled exactly the same, to wildly different reference. There are a lot of words like that that are spelled the same. but mean very different things in every language. That's just the nature of the case. Every alphabet has a limited number of uh characters, and there's going to be repetition And the word for change and the word for years, it's the same word. How do you know which is which? Well, one of the reasons that changing gets favored is because if you look at this , the years of the right hand of the Most High doesn't make a whole lot of sense. There's no verb. I have a whole lot of research on this psalm, but it's in a box and I couldn't find it, and I was kind of bellyaching to Diane earlier that I had to redo all my research. uh for this week, which I wasn't expecting, but it's a good thing to do it. Um but I'm going to take a shortcut in the absence of my research. Somebody uh just Pretend you're not a Presbyterian and somebody shout out a psalm, chapter, and verse. Anybody? You are so Presbyterian Someone here has to be a Baptist. Psalm 43. I heard Psalm 43. So look look let's read Psalm 43. Psalm 43 says this. But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. A bicola, both parts of which have verbs. The Lord has set apart, the Lord hears. Somebody give me another one. Psalm one one Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. That's a tricola, three verbs. He walks not, he stands not, he sits not. I could beat a dead horse here. You can go through the Psalms, and in every single verse, except for two Every single phrase of bicolus or tricholas has a verb. Utterly essential Now in my research, I could not identify when I realized I couldn't find my previous translations One of the two occasions where a Hebrew poetic phrase in the book of Psalms does not have a verb. But I know where the other one is. It's in Psalm 77. I consider, that's the verb, the days of old, the years of long ago. No verb. And I want you to consider what the Word of God is telling us here. In my despair and in the depths of my depression and my anxiety, my fear, my suspicions of God, I was considering my past. The years of long ago, it sets there, inert, without a verb, unassailable and unchangeable. But then I said, To this I will appeal, the years of the right hand of the Most High. And the juxtaposition of those two collections of years could not be bolder or more clear. Look at what we find in verse 5. I consider the days of old, the years of long ago. I said, let me remember and let me meditate. Now skip down to verse 11. Then I said 10. Then I said I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High. I will remember, I will remember, I will ponder, and I will meditate. He's in a sense deciding that he will double down on his investment in focusing and directing his attention, his imagination, and his affections, not to his experience of life in the past, not to the things that conspired to bring him so low. And we have no idea biographically what happened to ASAP. We just know he suffered with deep depression twice. And instead he's saying, I am going to double down on thinking not about my past, but about upon God's past. I'm going to think not about how I've been doing lately or even distantly. I'm going to think about how God has been For eternity. And here's this description of a God whose deeds are wondrous And he is in this more theological, before we get to that historical explosion in the three-time description of the Exodus redemption of God's people. He's described as the one who redeems his people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. Now, the people of God are throughout the Old Testament described as the children of Abram. And they're described as the children of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. This is the only place they're described as the children of Jacob and Joseph in all of Scripture. And ASAF, and I love his poetry, I love his theology, I love his passion, his transparency. He picks his words carefully You, O God, you're the redeemer of a confused liar who struggles with trust and an abused son. Who chooses to trust? He is the redeemer of the entire spectrum of God's people, however they react to trouble in their life. Jacob experienced trouble, depression, anxiety, and he immediately started lying to people, tricking, sneaking. He had to be wrestled by God into submission on the banks of the Jabbok River. Joseph, as often as he was abused and maligned and sold into slavery and left for dead and treated as if he didn't deserve life. He continued to double down on trusting God. God is the redeemer of all of his children. Jacob's as well as Joseph's. And this picture, this triumphant, joyful picture of a God upon whose works you can meditate. To bring a salve, a medicine for your soul, is a God who is redeemed. Now the great picture of redemption in the Old Testament was the delivery of the people, 400,000 of them, from Egypt. through the Red Sea. And what we find in verse sixteen following in the last section of this Psalm is this great description of the might and the power of God who can break everything that prohibits and interferes and constrains and traps his people. Everything fears the living God. And there is no darkness that his lightnings cannot light up. There are no depths that his word cannot separate. There is nothing that he can't do. And some of what he does, we are completely non-cognizant of. We don't understand it. His path leads through the sea and we don't see his footprints. He is everywhere at once working for his people who he's redeemed. And we are invited to pick our eyes up from the difficulty of our life, our experience, our past, and look at him and rejoice. Because he's a redeemer of people like us. And as if in the sweetest, calmest, quiet coda at the end. He leads people like a flock, precious lambs, even by the hands of people like Moses and Aaron. Even by the hands of people who don't quite get it all the time, even by the hand of one who himself doesn't cross the Jordan. What does this have to do with you? What does it have to do with me and my depression? In the first place, by way of application, when you are depressed. I would be willing to wager quite a lot that you are focused on your past and the past's difficult effects in your present. And dear child of God, you must interrupt yourself. And you must actively speak to your own heart, your own mind. I am going to appeal to this. I'm going to direct my attention not to the mirror and to my biography or my diary. I am now going to look and take all my feeling and just simply address it to God. And I'm not going to ask him, what has he done for me in this specific context? I'm going to say, what have you done for your people whom you have redeemed? I'm going to remember that I'm a part of that. The day is going to come when all that I hold dear on this earth is going to go away. Either I'm gonna die, or they're gonna die , or my abilities will continue to reduce over time. I love music, I'm gonna lose my hearing. I love beauty, I'll lose my sight. Maybe I love the piano or Writing on the keyboard. Guarantee you I'm going to get arthritis. I already have it right here in this finger. You see, as we live our life. I've noticed that once you hit about forty, things start getting twerky on you. And I don't mean twerk in a good way. If if there is a good way. And And the things I complained about in my forties, now that I'm fifty-six, are very fond memories. I suspect when I'm sixty-six the things I complain about now will be very fond memories And that's how life is. And God weans us from the joys of this earth as part of the way that He prepares us to anticipate with great joy our rest in heaven. Heaven is what we were designed for. This pilgrimage through this world is full of struggle. It really is. It's also full of beauty But there are going to be days in the balance of my experience of life when the struggle is everywhere and the beauty seems muted And on days like that especially, I have to make the reference point for the stability of my heart, the God who is. Not me. His biography, not mine What he has done for me, not what others have done to me. And the way to do that, dear Christian, is to determine that you will take your grief and your sorrow and your confusion And always direct it to the right hand of the Most High in those years of Him who was your Redeemer, your Savior, and your friend from eternity incalculable. For you were predestined in love before the foundations of the world to be found in him. And he gave his life for you. And a reminder of such a love, such a depth of commitment to you personally, that he would wed himself to you forever. Does that not put the deepest and muckiest slow of despond that you've experienced into a little bit of perspective? Doesn't it enable you to sing? That God is good You are redeemed. You are loved. You are not without a shepherd. No one beats God. His right hand is unshakable. There is no shadow of turning with him And those things that cause me depression and those things that cause you depression, those are, from that perspective, light and momentary troubles. That in the mystery of God's economy are earning for me a glory that is eternal and far outweighs them all. That's scripture. Second Corinthians. Have you considered the life and ministry of Jesus, the one who is at the very right hand? of the Father in Heaven to be the only reliable basis for establishing how you are doing today. And will you identify with Jacob and Joseph and count yourself one of the redeemed, despite your fears, despite your failures, despite your confusion, despite your doubts? Despite the depredations that have been inflicted upon you by others, despite the worst parts of your past, whether you were the victim or the perpetrator. Will you count yourself among that great company of the redeemed, the children of Jacob and Joseph? Because as a minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is my one overmastering passion Sunday after Sunday to say to people like you and me, God's taken names. And he's offering you a chance to subscribe. And if by grace your heart is inclined to him, choose this day whom you will serve. Choose this day what you will look at. Your own years are the years of Christ's own saving work. Oh, dear friend, choose wisely Choose Christ. Follow him who has loved you, given his life for you, and said, you've gone through nothing I haven't gone through myself. I have been tempted just as you are. I've experienced every offense, every hurt, every neglect that you have, every betrayal, every hunger, every thirst. I love you, and I make all things new. Come to that, Jesus. And look at your life against the backdrop of his years for you. Almighty God, we confess that often we do have doubts about your character And your actions. And Lord, we confess that we are often paralyzed, even obsessed with our own years. And Lord, we consider our biographies to be more important than yours. Lord, help us to see the joy. that can be unlocked in our lives when we see ourselves by virtue of our union with you as people who are kept safe for eternity, who are going through trials and we're able to consider them pure joy because we see your hand in it. And are filling up in our own bodies your suffering, that others might see and hear and ask for a reason for our hope. That we might spread the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That we might be like him who became like us, that we might live for him who died for us. and that we might honor him who is not ashamed of us, even though we are indeed the children of Jacob as well as Joseph. Bless us, O God, and I pray for every soul here, if they have not closed with you. May today be a day of salvation. We hear the invitation to say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, forgive me. Lord, help me to see my life in light of who you are and what you've done. Lord, be my Lord and master my heart and teach me to be happy as is fitting for your children. Because I'm tired of being my own God, trying to save myself. And I need a Savior. And Lord Jesus, you, the Son of God, are just what I need. May we receive, accept, and rest upon Christ alone. We pray this in his name. Amen.