Well again, good morning. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the book of Luke, the third gospel, chapter eleven. This morning our text is going to be verses 45 to 54. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. And we come now to its public reading, and we ask that you would bless it to us. Lord, help us to count the plain reading of your scripture. As the very center, the very center of our worship experience The reading of your word is such a blessed opportunity for us to hear what you by your Spirit have instructed your church to know. Give us ears to hear. And Father, in the preaching that follows it, only in as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said. Bless it and make it memorable. Lord, use it to teach and instruct me and any who might have need. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. Gospel of Luke chapter eleven, beginning with verse forty-five, the Word of God. One of the lawyers answered him, Teacher, in saying these things you insult us also And he said, Woe to you lawyers also, for you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. Woe to you, for you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed. So you are witnesses, and you consent to the deeds of your fathers, for they killed them, and you build their tombs. Therefore also the wisdom of God said, I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute. so that the blood of all the prophets shed from the foundation of the world may be charged against this generation, from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation. Woe to you, lawyers, for you have taken away the key of knowledge, and you did not enter yourselves And you hindered those who were entering. As he went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him hard, and to provoke him to speak about many things. Lying in wait for him to catch him in something he might say. This ends the reading of God's Word. So what do you think about lawyers? You know, I a couple of weeks ago, for those of you who don't receive our weekly uh our our we call it our the our weekly every Friday I think at four or five it goes out from the office and it always has a note for me and then it has announcements and other things and I'd encourage you to get it. Uh the note for me is bearable. Uh the the announcements are invaluable, but it gives you a good sense of what's going on here and I try to at different times give you in those weekly notes that I write a sense of what's happening in the church, whether it's actions of the session or things happening in the office or the church at large. Well, two weeks ago I wrote about a book that was written in the Middle Ages called Exemp Exemplar. The illustrations are examples given by uh Davitri, a medieval preacher. Did anyone remember that one? I enjoyed writing that one, but that was maybe just me Even back in the Middle Ages, preachers were cracking jokes about lawyers. True fact. A lot of his examples had to do with lawyers, and we have a certain perception about lawyers with All due respect to my beloved lawyer friends here this morning. The lawyers being particularly called out by Jesus and by the medieval priests whose sermons have come down to us. were not secular, they were religious. The scribes, as some translations put it, the lawyers that Jesus is talking to are experts in biblical law. Not Roman jurisprudence. They are people who have become absolute masters of the jot and tittle, not just of the Old Testament, but of what we have come to call the Mishnah. The Mishnah. Some of you may have heard of it. You hear about the Talmud, you hear about the Mishnah. The Mishnah is the oldest The Mish literally the word Mishnah means if you use it as a verb, it means to learn by repetition. Think about how you learned the alphabet, A, B, C, D, E, F, G. You learned it by saying it over and over and over again until it's stuck. Well, the way the law of God was taught in the centuries leading up to Christ was by rote repetition, saying it over and over and over again. But that's not all that was remembered and studied that way. It was the traditions of men. The things that went above and beyond. For example, the Old Testament had a specific law that said you had to put a fence around your roof. Does anybody remember that? It's in the Pentateuch? A good example of that and how the oral tradition would be multiplied around that is the heart of that is that you lived in houses back then that usually had external staircases up to flat roofs. And if you didn't have a fence around it and someone fell off your roof and got hurt or worse died, then the owner of the home was liable because they hadn't taken certain safety precautions. So the rabbis, the teachers of the law, they would develop these oral traditions, extending the law out to every circumstance they could think of in detail. In today's words, we would say that you're disobeying that if you don't have a fence around your driveway, because a kid might wander into your driveway and get run over or backed up on. Or around your pool. And sure it makes good sense. But the multiplication of instances of obedience and the investing of those instances or applications or extensions of the law To be equal to the law of God was reprehensible in the eyes of Christ. Now, let's back up and reconceive this scene here Jesus has just been teaching about how important it is that the light in us not be darkness. And that what we see brings back into our life that which is life-giving, namely that we look at Christ. And bring him into us rather than look at the world and bring the world into us. And then he has dinner with a Pharisee who invites him to the table. There's nothing about this Pharisee to suggest that he was a follower of Christ. He just invited him over. In fact, Jesus rebukes him. Because the first thing that that Pharisee saw with his eyes was that Jesus didn't wash his hands An extension of Old Testament law that was contemptible in the eyes of the Pharisees and the scribes of Jesus' day. But there wasn't a biblical law that said you had to wash your hands before you ate. So Jesus proceeds to lay out three woes with respect to the Pharisees. And when he says, woe to you, Pharisees, woe to you, woe to you, he's not flat out condemning them. He's lamenting their state that they might come to their senses and repent. Now, now we pick up where we are this morning. There are Pharisees and teachers of the law, lawyers or scribes, also at this table, at this dinner party. And one of the scribes must have assumed that Jesus just was not that bright. Because one of the scribes says, teacher, that's very respectful, literally rabbi, uh In declaring woes on the Pharisees, you're also insulting us. Did you know that? As if he didn't And Jesus proceeds to declare three things that are tragedies about a religious use of the law that goes way beyond what God has ever said. And twists the very heart right out of it. And the first tragedy of the lawyers and their ideas is their hypocritical insensitivity Look at the first woe in verse 346. And he said, Woe to you lawyers also. And notice Jesus would have made a terrible politician, probably a bad therapist today too, because he didn't ask questions to try to surface issues. He took them head on and said, Yeah, you know, I'm I'm also talking about you Uh yeah, I get that I insulted you, and let me add a couple things that you need to particularly know. Uh you Load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with your fingers. You don't lift one finger. You are happy to put rocks on people's back way beyond anything God ever said. And you are completely unwilling to do anything about those burdens. You encumber God's people. In Acts chapter 15, 10, the Apostle Paul says, that we would put burdens on people's back, and Paul says that neither we nor our fathers could bear. The multiplication of the instances of what obedience to God's law had to look like went so far beyond what Scripture taught And were so inclusive of every aspect of life that it would be impossible to keep them all. They encumber God's people. And there's two things about this woe that are brought out in the long tradition of Christian preaching and teaching. One is that they themselves uh do not help others Woe to you, lawyers also, for you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. Imagine a lacrosse coach, if you will , who is constantly telling kids that they have to do better, but is never doing anything to help them get better. Imagine a teacher who is telling you you have to get the right answers, but never demonstrating the statistical problem or the calculus formula. Imagine a teacher of the law who's telling you what perfect obedience looks like, but is never helping you as you struggle and has no compassionate empathetic interest in your growth and obedience, but rather sees the finish line. You didn't make it, you're out Woe to such teachers of the law who would put burdens beyond what the Scripture says on the backs of people And have no interest in helping them, not even lifting a finger. That's on them. You know, the priests were instructed in the Pentateuch to be teachers of the law. That's the reason there were to be Levites in every town and village and all of the twelve tribes. And in teaching them, the goal of teaching is to help them obey, not to require a standard. And that was so quickly forgotten. There's another aspect to this woe that is brought out And is brought out particularly clear in Matthew's account of this same dinner party. In chapter 23 of Matthew, it's clear that one of the things that Jesus is clearly talking about is the fact that They, the scribes, the lawyers, the Pharisees. He lumps the Pharisees and the scribes together for all six of these woes in Luke chapter 11. Matthew does in Matthew chapter 23. He says, you put all these burdens on other people's back, but you're not lifting them yourselves. And don't we see that all the time? People who so clearly see the law of God and all of its implications and inferences and extensions for other people, but seem to turn a blind eye to themselves? Let me uh let me hit where the let me hit where it hurts. There have been times in my life when, and remain seated for this. when my wife and I haven't gotten along perfectly. There have been such times. When such times happen I think of all kinds of ways that who is not obeying the law of God perfectly Any guesses? My wife said carry. Think about this. Isn't it the case that when you are in conflict with anybody You read the Bible with a view towards what they should know, what they should do, how they mistreated you, how they XYZ Many, many years ago, when I was a youth pastor here, Uyana Youth Pastor, Youth Ministry Director was my title I had a meeting with a teenager and uh that teenager's parents in the the corner office. It used to be Steve Green's office, now it's kind of a workspace. And they were fighting something crazy. And I finally said to them at the age of like 23, I said, uh, well, you know, I think that things would be a lot better if you stopped reading each other's mail. And instantly, all three of them stopped being angry at each other and all of them started yelling at me. We don't read each other's mail. No one said we read each other's mail. I would never read that person's mail. I would never read my child's mail. I would never Well, if the Bible is God's message to us, you've read everything God said to that person, you've read everything God said to that person, you've read everything God said to those people, you hav Hadn't read your own mails Your scribes, your lawyers. You see the burdens God put on others. You're not lifting a finger to address the burden God put on you. And the scribes had a very twisted view of this, and it comes out in that Mishnah that I was talking about. The Mishnah that would have been memorized by all of these scribes. Every one of them would have known it backwards and forwards, inside and out. And they actually believed that it was more egregious to disobey the tradition than it was to actually disobey the law of God. And this is their logic. If you Google, don't do it now, with my one good eye, I'm going to be looking. I don't want to see this, but I know a lot of you are fascinated with some of these, so I'm going to give you the address. If you Google Mishnah, M-I-S-H-N-A, Sanhedrin, you know how to spell that, and then the number 11, like chapter reference, you'll find a reference to a very clear teaching That says that the traditions are more important to obey than the law because the law is sometimes difficult to understand. The traditions are crystal clear. That was their logic. And these teachers of the law had elaborated these extra-biblical instances of what they imagined obedience to the law looked like and absolutely required it of others. And condemned others more harshly for not doing the debatable things that they prescribed. More harshly than a failure to obey things that God has said in his simple word. That is a dreadful place to be It is tragic. Is it tragic? A hypocritical insensitivity. How about a complicity? A hypocritical complicity. Jesus then says to them, Woe to you, for you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed. And this one he spends a lot of time unpacking, but we'll just stop right there. Woe to you, for you build the tombs of those prophets your fathers killed. The fact that he's calling them their fathers is identifying a link between them that meant more than biological descent. These are your people. Families were never merely biological in the biblical sense. Your father is the devil, John told those who utterly rejected him in the Gospel of John. Your fathers are the ones who killed the prophets. And what does it mean that your fathers killed the prophets and you build their tombs? You honor the dead when they are no longer around to condemn you. But when God does send you prophets or apostles in the new age Christ brings, you condemn them with every bit as much venom as your fathers ever, pursued Zechariah. We're Jeremiah, we're Amos. The list goes on and on You see, it is easy for us to honor those who are gone and can't speak to us, but to despise those who are present and call us out That is complicity. Complicity in the sins of our fathers It is extending their resentments and bitterness, not honoring those who were victims of it in past centuries. And think about how egregious this is. Jesus makes a very careful point. When he says, therefore also the wisdom of God said, I will send them prophets and apostles, he's referring to himself there. He's going to be sending prophets and apostles, some of whom will be killed and persecuted, so that the blood of all the prophets, from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah. Everyone who died doing the Lord's work will be on that generation. Now let's go back into the ancient world of the Old Testament for a moment. Why Zechariah? He doesn't seem to be a hugely important figure in the Bible, does he? How many of you could instantly raise your hand and give me a biography of Zechariah? Probably none of us. If you had an Old Testament. That was equivalent to the Old Testament used by the rabbis in Jesus' day. The first book of the Bible would be what? Genesis. Ah, here's the tricky part. What would the last book of the Bible be? Did somebody actually say Second Chronicles? That is quite impressive. You're absolutely right. Now, in Genesis, the first saint to die is who? Abel. Who is put to death in the last chapter of 2 Chronicles? Zechariah the priest. Jesus is making a point that would not have been lost on them. From Genesis to Revelation is in a sense what he's saying. The whole history of the martyrdom of all of God's people will reside on you because not only have you Quote unquote condemned, at least theoretically, the sins of your fathers by building huge tombs to the prophets they killed. But when God sends you the prophet When God sends you other prophets and apostles, you kill them. You utterly despise them. You reject them. You are complicit in the sins of all of those who have rejected God. And rejected his word. And it's easy to do that when we decide that the law is our plaything, our tool, our canvas with which to paint what we want. And there's a hypocritical ministry that gets called out. Isn't this a great Mother's Day sermon? I was thinking about that this week and You know, you come up with a preaching schedule, and I I I can't tell you how much I love my mom and honor her, and she is not a scribe at all. Uh and neither are most all of you, uh hopefully all of us here are not, but all of us have something to learn, amen. We'll get to the sweetness of this text in a moment, but here's one more sour egg. Woe to you! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering. Woe to you. They themselves don't believe that which the law was most intended to instruct them about. The law was intended to show people their sin that they might know when and why and how atonement might be secured. The law was designed so that they might know that, well, I sinned. I need to bring an offering to the temple. I need to receive a covering for my sin. I need to receive the blessing of God's representative. I need to be reconciled with my Creator because my sin has obstructed that relationship. That's at the heart of the law of God in the covenant of grace. From Genesis 3 through the return of Jesus. That's the purpose of the law. Not the only purpose, but the foundational purpose that it would lead us to Christ. That was completely rejected, neglected, ignored by the scribes. They looked at the keeping of the law as something that was about them, about their life, about their merit, about their success, about their comfort. And they did not think that the whole key was the forgiveness that the law pointed us to through the sacrificial system, completely satisfied in Christ, the Lamb of God, who took away his people's sins. And so they didn't believe that themselves, and they did not instruct others in that. And in so doing hindered others from benefiting from that which the law principally had to offer, life through repentance and faith. That's the very heart of the message of the Bible. The ministry of Jesus is summarized as: repent and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand. It's not obey. Now make no mistake about it. Jesus said, if you love me, you will obey me. Obedience is essential to the Christian life, and that if we are not obeying, we ought to think about whether or not we truly know Jesus But that obedience does not merit us life with God. The work of Jesus, who lived a perfect life, died for our sins, was raised again, that merits us life And we are united to Christ by repentance and faith. And the proper understanding and teaching of the law brings about repentance, which unites us to Christ. Our experience of the love and grace and gentle embrace of Christ, that over time by his Spirit and the Word yields an increase in obedience motivated not by fear or desire to earn But by a love for the God who has asked us to do what He wills. We as Christians want to, as the Bible says, find out what pleases the Lord. We want to offer our lives as living sacrifices because he gave his life for us. And so this text offers us a couple things to think about, doesn't it? First, do we live up to the standards that we require of others? That has to do with the first woe. Are we a tougher critic with respect to ourselves than we are with respect to our spouse? Do we actually believe what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount? when he said that we should all first take the log out of our own eye before we worry about the splinter in others. Aren't there people with whom you are absolutely certain they have relative to your sin, they have a log and you yours is just a tiny splinter? And do you realize that that attitude is absolutely contradictory to what Jesus taught? It is undoubtedly the case that there are people who on paper are far worse sinners than me based upon anything you could measure or note. And that wasn't False in the days of Jesus when he preached his Sermon on the Mount. And yet the attitude of his disciples should be one of a deep humility, engendering a gentle response to those in our life who've sinned. Because we know, based on our own experience, that our sins must be counted as worse in our own hearts, because we know them. We have an undeniable conviction regarding them if we have the Spirit's presence in our life. And we will never be those who lay burdens on others and are not helpful and solicitous and desirous to be gentle in helping them to obey. And we will never put on someone else something that we will not do ourselves. Jeremiah Burroughs, an old Puritan that I have grown to love, once said that if we would bind others with ropes, we must bind ourselves with chains. And what he meant by that is if I'm going to be strict with my kids, I better be stricter with myself. And don't we tend towards the opposite? We bind others with chains and ourselves with ropes, if at all. Do we honor the Word of God in our own day? It's easy for us to think of all of the people in the past who, oh, we would have listened to John Calvin and Martin Luther's messages, even if they didn't flatter us, we would have embraced that. We would have been one of those who repented and was revived in the days of Jonathan Edwards. What about in our day? Do we in our day for ourselves read the Word of God as if it is the voice of the Almighty? Or do we simply wish people had done so more faithfully in the past? And lastly, do we use the key of knowledge ourselves? You did not enter yourselves, Jesus says to experts in the law, people who knew not only the scriptures by heart But all of the traditional theologies and applications of the scriptures by heart. And yet they did not know the living God. What a frightening idea. Do we know the life that comes through repentance that the law calls us to and demands of us? And is that central to our message? Is our message obey, obey, obey, or is our message repent and believe, repent and believe? Are we begging people to be at peace with God through the sacrifice of Jesus that satisfied the law's demands? Or is it something else Now the beauty of these woes is that they are the heart of Jesus, trying desperately to reveal the heart of those he's speaking to. Always so that they would turn to him and live. It's hard to read these woes as someone who is, at least relatively speaking, An expert in the law of God. It's hard as a preacher to read these woes, both for the Pharisees and for the scribes, the lawyers. But there is something for me to learn in every one of these woes. There's something for me to repent of. There's some warm and pleading invitation of Jesus for me to grow and be different. What about you? Is there not something in these woes that might call you to, as the kids say, level up? To take one more step in gospel obedience, to draw more closely yourself to the heart and the word of Christ. To lay aside all of the shallow, hypocritical, image-related worldly thought that is constantly intruding in our theology and our practice. Doesn't it make you and me want desperately to listen more closely to what Jesus said and note more carefully what he did and grow into the image of the one who is our leader, the author of our life, our elder brother. our captain. That is my prayer for myself and for you. And isn't it sweet to know That Jesus, if he were at a dinner party with you or me, and if we were to say, you know, Jesus, what you said was kind of offensive, that he would look at us, no doubt, with love in his eye, and say, You know, Bob Woe are you? And call me to himself. And Jesus is calling you to himself. And if he calls out or by his word puts a finger on sin, that's so that you can by grace let him use his entire hand to remove it as you repent and believe. Almighty God, we ask your blessing on us. Lord, we confess that we often forget that we are engaged in a struggle against the world, the flesh, and the devil And Lord, we forget that those things are true in our day of internet and space travel and microwave ovens. Lord, we forget that this is what is fundamentally true of the human experience. That we are caught in this spiritual struggle. And by grace, through faith, we are saved, not by works that none may boast. And Lord Jesus, we pray that we would call people to faith, that we would help people in growth. Lord, that we would be careful to be biblical in everything and not go beyond or fall short. Lord, bless us as your people. Give us grace. Make us strong. Help us to hide ourselves in you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.