John chapter four. Long passage invites you to read along, to simply listen Uh however, the word of God uh is to be delivered to you today But actively listen, I charge you to actively hear what God is saying to us through this. Now he had to go through Samaria, and so he came to a town in Samaria called Sikar, near the plot of ground Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, and Jesus, tired as he was from the journey, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour. When a Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, Will you give me a drink? His disciples had gone into the town to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, You are a Jew, and I am a Samaritan woman. How can you ask me for a drink? For Jews do not associate with Samaritans. And Jesus answered her If you knew the gift of God and who it is who asks you for a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Sir, the woman said, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where can you get this living water? Are you greater than our Father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did also his sons and his flocks and herds? And Jesus answered Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks the water I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. And the woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so that I won't get thirsty and have to keep coming here to draw water. And he told her. Go and call your husband and come back. I have no husband, she replied. And Jesus said to her, You are right when you say that you have no husband. The fact is you have had five husbands, and the man you now have is not your husband. What you have just said is quite true Sir, the woman said, I can see that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshipped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. And Jesus declared, Believe me, woman, a time is coming when you will worship the Father, neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know. For salvation is from the Jews, and yet a time is coming, and has now come When the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they are the kind of worshipers that the Father seeks. God is spirit, and his worshipers must worship in spirit and in truth. The woman said. I know that Messiah called Christ is coming. And when he comes, he will explain everything to us And then Jesus declared, I who speak to you am He May God please, God, add your blessings to the reading of your word. Meet us in that I know that you and I often don't feel like it, but the fact is we were made to worship. Why then is it that we find it so hard to worship? Why is it that we find it hard to enjoy worship? Why is it so much easier to enjoy playing upward basketball in here than it is to worship? What is it that you're looking for when you come to worship? What does it take for you so that when you leave, you're able to say, I really feel like I worship this morning? And when's the last time that you were able to say that? Well, we're taking three weeks this month to consider this very important topic of worship. Very important for every Christian. And we're doing it both in the sermons as well as in the middle hour where we get to hear our worship leaders having conversations. among themselves and with us. One more week to go in that. If you've missed the first two weeks, let me encourage you still to come next week, middle hour. It's been a very worthwhile time to be able to understand a little bit of where we're going and why we do what we do at CPC and how we can be able to enter into that more fully. But this morning what I want to do is to strip away all the debates about styles and cultural preferences. And to just consider what is at the very basic nature of biblical Christian worship. What's at the very heart of it? Jesus once addressed that, and he summed it up in four words. Four simple words. Do you remember Tim read them to us a few minutes ago? He said, the nature of true worship is that it is in spirit and in truth. In spirit and truth. Four very simple words, in a very unlikely conversation. Simple and yet so profound. What I want to do is look at that story again, familiar to a number of you in John chapter 4. And I want to see those words in their context. I want to examine the nature of three things to help us to understand and to want to worship Jesus, as he says, characterizes true worship. So get your bulletin outline there and follow through along with me as I go through this the nature first of the woman who is the worshiper And secondly, the nature of the water, that is Jesus, who we worship And then thirdly, the nature of worship that it is in spirit and truth. Those are the three things. First of all, notice then the nature of the woman. as you see her in this passage. You remember that Jesus with his disciples are heading up to uh Galilee and they're going through Samaria and he stops as the disciples go in to buy some food at this well This woman comes along, it's about 12 o'clock noon. She comes along with her water pitcher, and he asks her for a drink And uh that's very easy to see, and I think very much of it, but you know, we have to remember that there are three reasons at least why that was a very remarkable thing for him to do. First of all, because she was a Samaritan and he was a Jew and the Jews despised the Samaritans. And the Samaritans returned the favor by despising them back. It was kind of like you guys are scum. Well who do you think you are She even remarks on that in verse nine, you remember. She says, You're a Jew and I'm a Samaritan woman. How can you ask me for a drink? For the Jews do not associate with the Samaritans. They would ignore them. Rather go thirsty than ask this Samaritan for a drink. Secondly, because she's a woman, and a Jewish man would not initiate a conversation with a woman, particularly a rabbi. A rabbi would feel it's very much beneath him to instruct or to associate with a woman. And she makes that point. I'm a Samaritan woman And yet you still initiate conversation with me. And then the third reason, of course, is that uh it's noon, and that's not generally when women would draw water It was in the heat of the day, they would do it early and late, but they wouldn't do it at noon, and so that indicates that this woman is a social outcast. She has to kind of slink over to the well when nobody else is there and avoid the gossip and the scorn and the shunning to get her water And yet, in spite of those three things, Jesus initiates conversation, asks her for water. Will you give me a drink? And uh As she says, you know, well, why you initiating conversation with me? He says, well, if you knew who it was that's talking to you, you'd ask him and he would give you living water And then, you know, wow, you know, what are you talking about? You greater than Jacob, and then he pursues it even further. You drink this water and you're gonna get thirsty again. I have water to give you that will cause you to never thirst again. And so he's prompting her curiosity. And you see, uh when he does that, she then says, okay, well give it to me And he says, well now go call your husband. And at that point, he puts his finger on the root sin of her life. He says, Well, I don't have a husband. Well, you're sure right in that You've had five husbands. The guy you're living with now is not your husband. Now what is amazing to me is that you read after that. She doesn't run She's not insulted. She's not offended. She doesn't say, who do you think you are meddling in my business? And you're asking me for a drink? Get out of here. But her response is, Sir, respect, I can see you're a prophet. That tells me a lot about how Jesus must have looked at her and the tone of gentleness that he must have used. When he struck to the deepest core of her sin. She must have felt undressed and vulnerable standing there before him It's like if you could imagine Jesus coming physically here to CPC some Sunday morning, and as you're going out the door, He initiates conversation with you. And in the conversation, he says, in a kind but almost matter-of-fact tone I know about the abortion that you've had. I know about the homosexual experiences that you've had. I know that you've been unfaithful to your husband or your wife. I know those things that very few people in your life know about. I understand this. And he initiates the conversation to pursue her. A few months ago, every session meeting, we have a little time of devotions we want to start by letting God speak to us before we start yapping to each other. We'll have to take turns with one of the elders leading. And one of the elders uh was leading a devotional in this passage. And I still remember as he was going through it, he just kind of blurted out Brothers, our God seeks whores to worship. And, you know, it just kind of struck. Yeah, well, you know, that's us Our God seeks whores to worship. The most amazing thing about Christian worship is who God seeks for worshipers. Some of you come here week after week, month after month, and you may be thinking, all these people look like they got it together. And I'm full of shame. And if I could only clean up my life, then maybe I could get close to God and really be able to worship Him You see, in the one definitive passage in the New Testament where Jesus instructs on worship, he has an audience of one, a whore. That's who he chooses to talk about who God seeks for worshipers. It's amazing. It's staggering when you think about what he's saying here. He's calling you and me. And all of our shame, and all those parts of our lives that we'd like to hide from Him. God who has known you and everything you have done and thought. From the moment you were born, calls you to worship him But he doesn't simply call you to worship him as if that's a bald bear edict. It's in the context of offering himself as living water. I'm the living water. Now come and worship. You need to see the connection of those two things in order to make sense. And I think a good illustration to try to make the point is a current movie. And uh if you haven't seen it, I'll spoil it for you. Um maybe you'll see it anyway, but it's not one I particularly recommend you seeing. because of some of the scenes, but it got the the top movie of the year, 2002, on at least two critics lists. It's the movie Adaptation. I won't ask who's seen it. But in that movie Adaptation, it's a uh a story about many things, even the title Adaptation can be understood on three or four different levels. Uh but one of the things it's particularly about is passion. And in this, you have a writer for New Yorker magazine who's given an assignment To uh write uh an article about an intriguing character down in Florida who is an orchid thief. So she goes down to do her story, and you watch as this woman who seems to have no passion. A sterile woman, as she writes and she begins to approach him from a superior, analytical, sophisticated New Yorker posture , And writes about this guy who has no front teeth and stringy hair and drives a beat-up old man with delusions of grandeur, and you begin to watch her become irresistibly attracted to him. Why? Because he lives life to the full with intense passion for whatever he's into, currently very rare orchids. And you see her lying beside her husband in bed later on, back in New York, and she is thinking. Oh, if there was only one thing in my life that I would give everything to possess. See that longing, that thirst to have something. I wonder if the woman in John 4 was something like that. You know, got into an arranged marriage with some Samaritan guy. He was kind of rude and crude. And there wasn't very much to the relationship And she said, There's got to be something more. I'm longing, I'm thirsting. And somehow, which is very unusual in that case, Jesus says about the five husbands you've had It doesn't seem to indicate any of them died, and she was a widow. And so uh it seems like she divorced. And uh moved on to number two. There's this longing, this thirst for something I have of a relationship and love. Come work out again. Moves on to number three He's a disappointment too. Goes on to number four. I mean, even in our day, that would be something. Going through five men and after the fifth, loser, in her judgment. She says, forget it with marriage. I'll just live with them. Forget, you know, it's just not worth all what it is to go through the formalities. And so now she's just living with a guy. She's looking for something. And Jesus sees not simply her sin, he also sees her thirst. Now in the movie, through some convoluted circumstances, Merle Street cheats on her husband. And she goes to spend time in affairs with this guy with no front teeth and the stringy hair who she cannot resist because of his passion for life And through uh some various circumstances, she winds up causing the death both of him and another man. And there is a scene at the end of the movie where she's holding her lover's lifeless body, and everything has just crumbled and fallen apart all around her. She's destroyed her career, her marriage, her life. He's dead. And she cries out. I want my life back. Oh, I wish I were a little girl again. And you feel the sense of her ruin. Have you ever felt like that? Oh, I wish I could be five years, ten years younger. I wish I could be a little kid again. I wish I could live my life over again. I wouldn't make so many mistakes. I would make better choices. I wouldn't pursue my thirsts in such destructive ways. You feel her sense of ruin If you do, then let's move on to the second point, the nature of the water. Jesus, who we worship. Again, notice that Jesus initiates a relationship with this woman who he knows thoroughly. The Spirit has given to him revelation about her. And he knows not just her sin, but he knows her thirst. Now listen, you will never want to worship Jesus. If you simply see him as one who died for your sin in order to take you to heaven, but in the meantime to suck life out of you here. So that you pursue an anemic living on your way to heaven Envying non-Christians their passions and the pursuit of their thirsts. The only way you worship Jesus Is when you see him as the satisfaction of the deepest thirsts of your soul. Jesus does something here that's absolutely astounding. He takes the passages of the Old Testament, for instance, in Isaiah chapter 44. In verse 3, where God, Yahweh, Jehovah, says, I will pour water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground. I will pour out my spirit on your offspring. And my blessing on your descendants. We 're chapter 55, verse 1 that Tim read at the beginning. With the invitation, come All you who are thirsty, come to the waters. You who have no money, come and buy and eat. Come by wine and milk without money and without cost. Or in Jeremiah chapter 2, verse 13, my people have committed two sins. They have forsaken me, the spring of living water. And they have dug their own cisterns, broken cisterns, muddy, stagnant cisterns that cannot hold water. And Jesus takes these images and he says, I am the fulfillment of that. You see what he's saying? He's saying, I am God. I am the one who can satisfy the deepest soul thirsts of your life. I am the fulfillment. Of all of that hope and longing. And he develops that even further. In John chapter 7. The invitation in verse 37: If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within you. I will give you not just enough to slake your thirst. You will become a A means of living water, streams of it flowing through your life, not only to satisfy you, but others, as you point them to me. Revelation chapter 7. We're told that in heaven, part of what we will experience there, Revelation 7, 15 to 17, is that we will never thirst. Again, fully satisfied. Revelation 21 and 22. Picture the new Jerusalem with a river of water, of pure crystal water Streams of it to slake your thirst and satisfy you completely. There's nothing, nothing, like pure spring water. On a hot, dry day, is there? Pure water Sure water. Jesus says, I can satisfy your thirst. Fully. Drink deeply. You know? Mmm. Mmm. They showed that at the first service and the woman pulled out her water bottle and started drinking Let me tell you about the frustration of preaching. About three months ago, I found around here a large cup. From a chain I'dn't even heard of, Tiger Mart. It's this large cup for, you know, a big gulp kind of thing. And on the side of it was written in large letters, thirst stops here. And I thought, what a picture of Jesus. There he is. Thirst stops here. So I took that cup and I actually filed it in my filing cabinet. I thought, I gotta use that. I want you to see that. I want that image to be fixed in your mind. Thirst stops here. And then I kept a note of where it was, and I found it, and I dug it out a couple of days ago, and I thought I gotta make sure that I Got that thing and I remember it'd be really frustrating. I go over and I forget it. I had this cup over here, you know. So I put it out on my desk last night to make sure I'd have it And because of upwards the cleaning people came in late at night and they saw this old cup sitting on my desk. And so my sermon illustration is sitting out there in a dumpster somewhere And I thought, no, I'm not gonna go get it. But when you see see this, you know, just just kind of think, Jesus is that fullness Of the container of living water that says, Thirst stops here Jesus sees not only your sin, he sees your thirst. He sees that soul thirst of your heart that says, Oh, if I was only a little girl again. Innocent and I could make the choices that I wish I hadn't made, if I could do it again. If I could only have someone who could take my life and give me a new life and and forgive me and cleanse me and and you know, isn't that the longing of our hearts? Jesus says, I'm the living water. Come. He offers to you that new life, the forgiveness. He offers you and me who have seen the terror of judgment day standing before a God with all the shameful choices we've made and the way that we've used people to satisfy our thirsts. And all of our pride that's always comparing ourselves with others. And I either come out inferior and so needing to justify myself. Feeling all wrapped up in myself and my shame, or I come out feeling superior to this one and arrogant. Yet I so wish I could be free from myself And Jesus says, Come, come and drink of me. Drink of me who has taken your sin and given to you the offer of that new life. Come and find the freedom from bondage to yourself and your view of yourself. By knowing your true identity and the security you can have in my Father's love and care, to be free from your anxieties , To be free from the worries. To be free from your pride and your need to put other people down and to gossip and protect yourself and defend yourself. And to have that hope of that place where we'll never know thirst again, that mystery in which we thirst and are satisfied But we don't really thirst. And yet it's not like we're simply full and satiated. We continue to drink and to drink. And to know the delights that God Himself could only imagine and grant to us. Common drink. He's the living water. Thirst stops here with Jesus. Now it's in that context that you very briefly look at verses 23 and 24. Because to this woman, he's offering both the forgiveness and the living water to satisfy. And then the conversation, as she turns it to worship, he says, you want to go there? I'll go there. Now let me tell you God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship in spirit and truth. And so he has these two simple statements: worship must be in spirit and truth. It must be in truth, because God must tell us who it is that He is that we must worship. You will never guess accurately at God's nature You never will. Whenever you begin to conjure up and speculate apart from scripture about what God is like, you'll be wrong. I guarantee it. I know I always am God Himself has to show us. If you don't believe that, just remember the Israelites. After they had gone through in Isra in Egypt God demonstrating his supernatural power, his being a spirit who is able to bring ten plagues against the Egyptian gods and defeat them part the Red Sea and bring his people out to worship him in the wilderness. Moses disappears for a little time and they say, yes, we want to worship God. Okay. Let's do something that helps us to fix what God is like in our minds, and they make a golden calf. They so utterly demean his nature. And they make a worship which there is a gravitational pull in all of us that becomes entertainment. And so God says, through Jesus, worship must be in truth, the truth of who God is that we worship and how he is to be worshipped, because we won't get that right either. And so he says, I need to tell you. And he he gives us pictures in the temple in the tabernacle and then the temple. And then Jesus comes, this holy God who has dwelt between the outstretched wings of the cherubim over the Ark of the Covenant. And John says, Jesus is God in the flesh. And so basically what Jesus is saying to the woman, time 's coming when you'll never neither worship God up on that mountain or here in Jerusalem, the place in terms of a geography in the world won't matter because there's one place you will worship God. At the feet of Jesus. He's saying, I'm where you'll worship. And you only worship me when you worship in truth of the gospel And in spirit. You worship at the feet of Jesus because Jesus, remember he says, God is spirit And Jesus says, though God is spirit, he's seeking worshipers to such an extent that he was willing to become flesh. In order to fulfill the law that you and I could never fill, and then die in our place And he who is truth became the embodiment of falsehood, cursed As false, so that you and I would have be in clothed, uh robed In his truth and righteousness to come before God. As a gift, not something that you will ever learn And when you begin to feel that, when you sense both your ruin and the terror of standing before God, and then you sense that he comes in his tenderness to offer to you himself as the living water. Then you begin to understand that worship comes from the word worship, and he becomes of infinite worth to you. He becomes your heart's desire. And so you worship in spirit, and commentators through the ages debate, should that be a large S spirit, Holy Spirit, or should that be a small s spirit? And of course the answer is, if you understand, John , both. It's large and small. So if you have a Bible, you know, put all this that's kind of in between or a big one and a little one above and below, whatever, he'll do it for you. But I'm convinced John means this both ways, because he's just said in the previous chapter, you can't see God except you're born again of the Spirit. Talking about the Holy Spirit, you can't worship God apart from the Spirit, revealing Him as truth and showing you your own need for Him and making Him worthy in your eyes. But it's also spirit with a small s because he's saying God is spirit, and we worship him not through forms. Through idols, through the rituals, through the actions, through things that we see. It's a matter of heart affection extended to him by the Holy Spirit that we worship. And so the scripture is quite clear. You must worship. You were made to worship, and you must worship. But when you say must, what do you mean must? And here is where I can't resist bringing in the classic example from John Piper. That John referred to once again in the middle hour. And the example of the must of worship And it goes something like this. Suppose, you know, since next month is Valentine's Day, I see someone that says You must give your wife a dozen roses on Val Valentine's Day. If you expect to continue to have a happy home, still sleep in the same bed at the end of February, and have three squares a day, you must Give roses on Valentine's Day. And so I present to Kathy. On February 14th, a dozen roses, not red. She likes other colors. I give her a dozen roses, and she says, oh Alan, they're beautiful. Thank you And I say, Oh that's okay. I had to do it. It's Valentine's Day. It was simply something that you do on Valentine's Day. It's my duty and obligation, and I hope you enjoy them. I have just reduced those roses to weeds, and I've just lost my happy home If on the other hand I give to her a dozen roses in the favorite color that she likes, and she says, Oh, Alan, they're beautiful. I love them, thank you. And I say, Kathy When I think of you and my years with you, and how precious you have become to me, and how thankful I am that you are my wife. I had to get you those roses. Must. But there's a world of difference in the must We must worship Jesus Christ on Sunday morning. But if that must becomes to you a duty to check off so that you can do what you really enjoy the rest of the day. Save your time. You've missed it. Only as you and I become in touch with the deepest thirsts. And passions of our heart, and look at all the stupid, foolish ways we've tried to satisfy them. And then see Jesus Who says, thirst stops here, and I drink deeply One of the things that's been said in the middle hours, the best thing we can do to improve worship at CPC is for each of us to worship more fully during the week. And if this week you become more deeply in touch with your thirsts and your longings and you see Jesus In all of the infinite fullness of his satisfaction, and drink deeply from him. Discovering him, how much better he is than all of your guesses, as you connect those longings of your heart to all that he supplies and how much he cares for you. And how he initiates conversation with you and knows not only your sin, but your thirst, and that he's there for you. You will say, Lord Jesus, you are so worthy. I gift to you my adoration And I can't wait for Sunday to grab every one of the 75 minutes and not miss it and get here late, but to come and to be able to fully enter in To giving to you the expression of the delight of my heart with my brothers and sisters, brothers and sisters, that's when revival begins to come. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, how foolish we are. Then we think, yeah, worship. Not something I really enjoy a whole lot. I hope that the music's good and I hope they do something that kind of gets me going. And Lord Jesus, we've missed you. We have so demeaned what you were like. And here you are before us, the deepest satisfaction of all of our thirsts and longings, calling us Even as the whore before Jesus in John 4 to say, you are those that I seek to worship in spirit and in truth. Lord, what an incredible privilege. I pray for each one of us that this week we will discover more about your worth. That we might bring to you worship that is from our hearts, in spirit, and in truth. Because you're worthy of it. And we delight in you. And we praise you and honor you. And we want to give to you that which is best in all of our lives. And Lord Jesus, we do that. And all that feel that and desire that, join me, as we say in Jesus' name and all God's people said, Amen. Amen.