Good morning. Welcome. The Lord has been gracious to uh provide safety as we travel through the ice and the snow. And uh we give him praise for that, for providing us a place to gather as well With ears to hear, we trust. I want to invite you, if you have a copy of the scriptures, to turn to Hebrews, a letter near the end of the New Testament. Book of Hebrews, the second chapter, and we're going to look at verses 14 to 18 today. So I want to invite you to turn there Place that on your lap and keep it open and we're going to refer to it as we go. Let me read then from God's Word, Hebrews chapter 2, beginning in verse 14. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things. That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil. And deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore He had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God. To make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted He is able to help those who are being tempted. Let me pray. Gracious God and Heavenly Father, we thank you. Lord God, for this word before us today. We thank you for The way in which you have preserved that word, men and women have given their lives to see it through the centuries and you have superintended that process so that before us today we have a divine appointment With the power of the living God, as it is found in your word. Lord, we pray that you would By your Spirit, open our hearts to receive, and that you would somehow, Lord, use me as we look to see our Savior. It is in the name of Jesus that we ask this of you. Amen. So it's that holiday season, right? Look. See all the red? I have a green shirt and this is about as Christmassy as my Thai collection gets The snow God was so gracious to provide as we traverse the parking lot and the salt now is ruining the leather on our shoes and it's that holiday season. Whoop-dee-doo, right? What comes to mind when you think of Christmas? What are the images that are evoked? Is it a quiet nativity scene with That soft glowing light illuminating one sheep, one cow, maybe a donkey. And a young mother, and her betrothed, attending to the needs of the brand new and fragile baby boy. Who is wrapped in swaddling clothes? Right? Are those the images? Of course they are. But they're far from the complete picture, albeit somewhat misleading. It's always a clean sheep and a clean cow, right? But we don't see the the grime and the poverty, the humble surroundings. And it causes us to think, Christmas I want to respectfully suggest to you today to consider Christmas as the ultimate rescue mission. The ultimate deliverance. It is a story of great power. It's a story of great triumph. Christmas The King of Kings, laid to rest in a cattle stall crib, so vulnerable, and yet Lord of glory We wouldn't write it this way. It doesn't fit. And yet we see the wisdom of God displayed here. You've probably heard it said that combined found in every good story is elements of the greatest story ever told. I came to first come in contact with that truism in the summer of 1977. Maybe some of you as well. It's before the age of DVDs and VCRs and recording devices. So when George Lucas released his science fiction picture, Star Wars Episode four, IV, A New Hope, I sat with rapt attention in the dark theaters of Pasadena and Glenburnie. And I watched it several times that summer. And I remember the thrill of the triumph as Governor Tarkin, that evil pawn of the emperor and his big steel Death Star, had targeted for termination the Princess Leia. You remember this scene? And hopeless and helpless, there she is, the princess. And the door opens to her cell on detention block. Well, I don't remember the number And there's this person clad in a stormtrooper uniform. You remember Princess Leah's first words? A little short for a stormtrooper, aren't you? It just doesn't fit. Look at this shrimp boat coming in here. And so he pulls off his helmet. I'm Luke Skywalker. I'm here to rescue you. Okay They proceed into the hallway, they find that the place the way they came in is now blocked, their exit, they're blasted with you know lasers and blaster guns and all this stuff Blow a hole in the garbage chute, into the garbage chute, fly boy. You know? You call this a rescue? You came in here and you didn't even have a plan for getting out You remember the movie? And later in the film, the Rebel Alliance, they're attacking, they're waging their seemingly pathetic attempt to destroy the Death Star. And Governor Tarkin again Informed that the threat has been analyzed. We have analyzed the threat, sir, and there does seem to be, even though it's a small, uh, there is a potential And Tarkin in that ironic twist of movie uh fate and his arrogance says, evacuate in our moment of triumph I think you overestimate their chances. And you know, moments later the screen is filled with the brilliant light as the Death Star disintegrates and Tarkin as well And all of his evil minions, except for Darth Vader, who turns out comes back and Empire Strikes Back But do you remember that thrill, that triumph, where seemingly unbeatable odds? And there's the hero. Unlikely How great, how much more, beloved, the thrill of seeing the deliverer, the rescuer. The hero. And that's what the scriptures present to us today. We see the characteristics of Christ, our Savior, our Redeemer. Born in a cattle stall, you know, laid in a manger, swaddling, vulnerable. We heard Alan last week detail how Herod After two years, you know, these wise men come, and Herod had every baby boy under two years slaughtered. And the weeping and the moaning, the wailing of Rachel weeping for her children, and she was not to be comforted. This is the rescue of humanity? This the savior of the world? Yes. The God of the gospel does things that we would never do. He writes this plan in ways That cause our jaws to drop and our hearts to rejoice at to see his wisdom unveiled. God, who out of nothing created all that came to be Everything that was made was made through him and by him and for him. And in that creation he set this special part. This unique part of creation, a man, male and female, made in the image of God to reflect his glory. And he placed them in the luscious garden where they enjoyed fellowship, face to face, with only one parameter, out of every tree, out of every tree you may eat, but not the tree. Of the knowledge of good and evil. You must not eat that fruit. For in the day that you eat it, Genesis 2 reminds us, in the day that you eat that You will surely die And Adam, representing all of us, all of humanity, took and ate And when Adam sinned, Paul tells the Romans, we sinned. When Adam died in that moment, we died, and we were plunged into that death sentence into which we were plunged. born. Everyone who breathes air, everyone who walks this planet, born with a death sentence. The wages of our sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. That's the message of Christmas. I want to suggest that we make that the Christmas story we tell. And the writer of Hebrews, in this one small section of verses, shows us again how unique our Savior is. God took on flesh. The second person of the Trinity partook of flesh and blood so that he might rescue us from the clutches of death. Remaining what he was, the second person of the Godhead became what he was not. God from all eternity knew that death was sure. Before the foundation of the world, the lamb was slain. See, that baby was born with a purpose. And the purpose was to die. And that's the message of Christmas. Hallelujah. Praise be to God. How sweet the day when Christ was born. We probably wouldn't have written it that way. But God does. The text today reveals our rescuer. There's three points I want to make. Three characteristics of Christ, our Savior. And in each of those characteristics, we see the desperate need that we have as children of Adam. To trust in the finished work of that Savior. We see the desperate need, and we see the perfect provision of Christ to meet every need completely. The first characteristic of our rescuer is this That he is the destroyer of death and the devil. The destroyer of death and the devil. You see two verbs presented there in verse fourteen, to destroy and to deliver. That was the purpose for which the baby was born. To destroy death once and for all, for all those who believe, and to deliver them that We're subject to a lifelong slavery, living under the fear of death. It's the sobering fact that we have to come in contact with We just prayed for a family in our church mourning the loss of a loved one. Last Monday I was in a room where a coffin was uh containing the body of my sister-in-law's mother, who passed away right before Thanksgiving. Despite all our efforts to eat healthy, to wear our safety belts, to do all the things that we try to do to prolong the inevitable, the inevitable comes to each of us. It is appointed unto man once to die. And after that, to face the judgment. See our our desperate situation there is that we deserve death There isn't anything we can do about it. But God, who is rich in mercy, provided The destroyer of death, the deliverer of those who are held in bondage to the fear of death. He came to destroy death. The sting of death is sin. The power of sin is the law, which brings condemnation to those of us, all of us, who are lawbreakers. That's the point. We can't ever achieve the righteousness that the law holds us to. That holy standard has only been met in one person. Jesus Christ our Lord, He alone has fulfilled every jot and tittle. He didn't come to abolish the law, he came to fulfill the law. He came to destroy the works of the one who holds death and wields it like a weapon. How many things do we do out of a fear of death? We won't leave the house We go obsessive on various ways that we're going to avoid that. We won't visit a relative in the hospital. We won't shake hands on a Sunday morning. For fear of swine foil. I mean, there's there's tons of things because in our head we're got um plan that we're going to avoid death. We can't, but it has been destroyed. We can be delivered. He came to deliver, just like Moses and Joshua, those who uh came before Christ, who prefigured Christ. Who pointed to that time when once and for all those who were enslaved would be set free and set free completely Jesus Christ has accomplished this. Paul told Timothy in the second letter that he wrote to young Pastor Timothy. God saved us, called us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and his grace Which he gave to us in Christ Jesus. Listen, before the ages began See the determined, predestined wisdom of God being unfolded for us who see it from this side of time and history. Before the ages began, and which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death. and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. That's the message of Christmas. He came to destroy death. Do you fear death Put another way, are you afraid of dying? It's two different questions as I started to think about it this week. Do you fear death is actually pretty matter-of-fact? I've got to deal with that. I think the second question is where I start to really wrestle with fear. I fear the process. by which death will come to me. How will it happen? You see I thought it was a Christmas message. What it what are you doing? I'm all depressed now. If that's your thought right now, and mine as well, here again, he destroyed death Do we tear this enough? I'm going to answer the question for you. No, we do not We don't hear the wonderful work of Christ enough. We don't saturate our dinner table conversation with it. We don't in in insist that our home fellowship groups be centered on Christ and his finished work enough. We don't make demands of on ourselves and our Sunday school teachers. To preach Christ. Give it to me again, the wonderful words of life. We should. I should Because he's taken care of it for us. I remember hearing uh R. C. Sproul take Hamlet's soliloquy and Shakespeare's work on the Prince of Denmark, Hamlet, Act III, scene one You remember Hamlet, to be or not to be, that is the question. Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. And on and on and on as Hamlet struggles with the pain of this life And then near the end of this time of thinking out loud, Hamlet comes to this conclusion. But that the dread of something after death But that the dread of something after death, the undiscovered country from whose born no traveler returns, it puzzles the will And it makes us rather bear those ills we have than fly to others we know not of. Listen, thus conscience does make cowards of us all I know what I've got here. It's pretty bad. But I don't know what's on the other side of the grave. It just might be a judge. So conscience does make cowards of us all. I'll stay here, Hamlet the sermons. If you fear death, I've got great news for you. Our fears are diminished as we learn to grow in our knowledge and intimate understanding of Jesus Christ. They're directly proportionate, our fear and our faith. You see that all through Jesus' ministry. Oh, ye of little faith, why did you doubt? He tells the disciples in the boat. When Elder Birkus and I and Pastor Green and Dan Halley and Craig Colgurn left the Presbytery meeting yesterday down in southern Maryland, we determined to take Route four north out of southern out of St. Mary's County. And if you're familiar with the Patuxent River and the Patuxent River Naval Air Station down there and all that Um there is a bridge. It is a narrow bridge, and it is a high bridge, and there's only about this high of Jersey barrier on either side of that bridge. And yesterday when we left Presbytery, there was also rain and wind and really bad conditions. In fact I asked the guys in the van, d would you consider this freezing rain? Just because the illustration that was coming to my mind, I really thought that would help it. And they all concluded, yes, you can call this freezing rain, but not sleep just yet. And I said that that's fine enough. Because when you Enter that bridge. There is a certain level of apprehension. When there is freezing rain and winds, there is even greater level of apprehension. But as soon as you put your vehicle onto that bridge, you've entrusted something of that bridge As you go. Now, if you go to that bridge every Monday and walk the span with the bridge inspector and get underneath and look and then it looks like that bolt might have some corrosion on it. We probably should replace that. And what about those pylons? And I think this maybe needs to be looked at too. And you spend time examining that bridge and seeing the structural soundness of that bridge and everything to do with that bridge, and I can almost guarantee you that the level of apprehension decreases dramatically each time you cross that bridge. That's the knowledge of Christ. The knowledge of our Savior works in our hearts. That's why we need to be preaching the gospel to ourselves and to one another. We don't have to destroy death. That's been accomplished. We need to rejoice and rehearse it and believe it. Receive it. So he's the destroyer of death and the devil and the deliverer from the fear of death. The second point is made here is that he is the great high priest. Who offers himself as the propitiation for our sins. You see, just as the the first need that's pointed out in Christ's characteristic of the destroyer of death Our need is to be delivered. We are condemned to die. This second desperate situation is possibly even greater than death What could be greater than death? Well, we just recited it in the catechism answer. That we were subject to the miseries of this life. Death itself and the pains of hell forever I remember a a a story that again R. C. Sprohl told once when he was walking across the college campus and a a man stopped him. And accosted him, he said, and he said to R. C. Are you saved? And R. C. said the first question that came to his mind was a response question. Saved from what? And then R. C. goes on, of course, to tell you, I'm certainly not safe from people accosting me in the middle of the courtyard here to when I'm trying to get to class. Later on, he was very grateful that the gentleman would show concern for R. C. Soul. But what goes from that second question was really intriguing to me. R. C. said The guy who had asked the original question, are you saved? And R. C. put the second question in him, saved from what? It flummocks the man. He didn't know w well y you know, uh g uh y to be saved from your sins, you know. And RC said, that's I think the problem With our understanding of the gospel. What are we saved from ultimately? What is the greatest calamity that we could ever incur. What is the greatest disaster that it could ever come to rest on you for all time? It is to incur the wrath of God unmitigated Unbounded for all eternity. It's terrifying Writer of Hebrews says in a later chapter, it's a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. It's appointed unto man once to die, and after that the judgment. The scriptures are clear. Romans 2. Do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who practice such things and and yet you do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Do you presume on the riches of God's kindness and forbearance and patience? Not knowing that it is that very kindness of God that is meant to lead you to repentance, but because of your hard heart, an impenitent heart, You are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. Wrath stored up because of your sin. Whoever believes in the Son, Jesus words himself from John 3 Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. But whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God remains on him. Paul to the Ephesians, let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things, because of these things that you've done, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. In Colossians 3, after listing the deeds of the flesh, those things that we so frequently delight in and find ourselves entertaining ourselves by, Paul says, put to death therefore what is earthly in you. Sexual immorality. Impurity Passions, evil desires, and covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these, Paul says, the wrath of God is coming. That's sobering news. It should be a wake up call to our soul Do you feel the weight of God's wrath? The inevitable, eventual God's wrath You feel that for those that you call neighbor and loved relative and person that's two cubicles down at work I've got great news for you again. Great news, which shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David. A Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Because the writer goes on to say that the wrath of God has been propitiated. The wrath was poured out on Christ instead of those who would believe. For we've been spared the wrath of God. The Apostle John, who walked with Jesus, rested at his side at the Last Supper. Wrote these words, in this is love. In this is love. This is what we know what love is. Not that we loved God. We don't define love God defines love, not that we love God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. We don't use that word a lot It's to conciliate an offended party. It's to appease an angry deity. And Jesus Christ has become the great high priest, the merciful and faithful high priest to be a propitiation for our sins. You see the mercy there? You see the richness and the love of God? That's what John says. This is how we know what love is. Jesus took God's wrath for you, for me. Do you believe it? Shows forth God's mercy, shows forth the faithfulness. Here is the merciful and faithful high priest. In the service of God. You see, this isn't for the angels, the writer of Hebrews says. It's not for the angels. This doesn't benefit the angels. This Benefits. It helps the offspring of Abraham. He draws our attention directly back to the covenant promises made to Abraham. I will make for myself a people. I raise up a standard of righteousness and I will fulfill that righteous standard. And all who believe will be called children. Of Israel. Joint heirs with Christ. That's Paul's argument to the to the church in Galatia The offspring of Abraham, therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful, faithful to the covenant that God had established, faithful high priest. In service of God. Yes, his bride was in view. He loved his people. But the glory of God the Father was the reason he did it. In service to God, he wanted his father exalted And so he willingly took on flesh. The second person in the Godhead, remaining what he was, fully God, became what he was not fully man, in order that we might know God through him. That's the Christmas message. That's the gospel We heard from Stuart Jones a couple of weeks ago. I listened to the the tape of the uh sermon that we missed on November fifteenth. Jesus was a man But more than a man. He was a special man, but more than a man. He was the faithful and merciful high priest. A price to be paid there was And he paid it in full. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. We esteem him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, our sins, your sins, my sins. Those thoughts that are Seeking to take preeminence in your mind right now, Christ took the penalty for those. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. By his stripes we all are healed. That's the full payment for sin accomplished in the person and work of Jesus Christ. He destroyed death and delivered us from the torment of the fear of death, the enslavement that that is. He's taken the wrath of God reserved for his bride upon himself. And because he has taken on flesh and blood, he knows what you face every moment of every day in every trial Our greatest need is to know that someone knows us, and someone's there for us. And the third characteristic, Jesus completely meets that. He completely meets that need. The writer says, For because he himself has suffered when tempted He is able to help those who are being tempted. Being tempted today? You have trials that you're in encountering today, this week This month, this year, this life? I'll answer that question for you. Yes, you do. You have trials. And we have a faithful high priest who who partook of flesh and blood. He knows what it is to be tempted. Tempted in all ways, the scripture says, and yet never once Did he succumb to temptation? He withstood the full force of every temptation and successfully triumphed over it. There is no temptation which has seized you, brother, sister, which is not common to man. And yet God is faithful in this, that He will always provide a way out. But that way out doesn't come through you, it comes through the death. of Jesus Christ. That was the significant part in verse 14 That he came to destroy, he came to deliver, and he did that in the way that we would have never scripted. He did that through his death. You're never alone. Even in the darkest of nights, he is with you We have a a GameCube at home. It's a gaming device where you play these video games on your TV. And uh there's a lot of games that the kids have, but there's one that I really like. I can't play any of them, but there's one that I really like because it's like watching a movie take place And there's one person in our house in particular that I really like watching play this game. The game is The Hobbit. And you basically follow Bilbo Baggins from the Shire, you know, in Hobbiton, all the way through all these adventures, through the trolls, through the mines, through all these tormental things that occur, all the way to the end And there's one guy in our house, my son, Kevin, in whom I'm well pleased Who has successfully negotiated every one of those levels? Successfully negotiated In fact, if you watch the the saved program, all the coins have been found. All the different uh events that you're supposed to do have been successfully achieved. All the medicinal things have been purchased, all that stuff. Every level, a full compliment And so it's neat for me to watch when Kyle, his ten year younger twin is playing the hobbit and Kyle runs into a situation where he can't jump that and how you do a stick jump again and what's this all about And he simply just passes the controller back to Kevin, his elder brother, who has successfully negotiated every single trial that you face. Kevin, you've been here. You've met this. You've triumphed. Take me through. Take me through. That's us. He has successfully negotiated every trial Every temptation, everything in this life. And I want to plead with you, and I want you to plead with me. Are you trusting him as Savior, as rescuer, as deliverer? James says, count it all joy when you face trials of various kinds. Count it joy. Yeah, because you'll know Jesus so much deeper. than when you first encountered the trial. In this world you will have trouble, Jesus said But be of good cheer. Take heart. I have overcome the world. I've destroyed death I free you from the fear of death. I have become a propitiation for your sins. The wrath of God was poured out on me. And I invite you to come and rest in my finished work. I've been tempted in all ways that you are, and able to help In your time of need, I pray that we trust him more fully when we leave here than when we came in. Let me pray for us. Gracious God help us to see you, to see with eyes of faith the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Lord, to see our need for that sacrifice to be applied to our lives, to be received by faith. God, I pray that you would work in us those who have trusted you Lord, increase our level of trust. Decrease our level of fear. Cause us to be filled with the joy of our salvation. Lord, make us bold proclaimers of the gospel that is so wonderful to hear and so wonderful to share. I pray for those Lord in the room with us now who have not yet trusted you They are still evaluating your claims. And I pray God that right now you would invade their hearts, give them faith to believe, to receive. to rest and to rejoice all the days of their life. God, we praise you that you took on flesh and blood. For us in the service of God. In Christ we pray. Amen.