So we came this morning to have news on workers. Today and next week only. Now I realize that there are many questions that we haven't dealt with concerning worship. A lot of things that maybe you'd like to take up, but uh this isn't a course on worship after all, it's a series of messages. And so um we're going to bring it to a close next week But this morning I want to deal with a very important question, the question of him in worship. The question of him in worship Hinton and Solomon are hard times, you know. I say would say that uh Hinton suffers from what I call the the drought of the three E's. The three E of inflammation, the problem of defect , enjoyment, and honoring. Don't worry about that third word for a moment. We'll deal with that when we get to it. But respect, enjoyment, and honor. The first problem in pin singing, I would say today, is sinning for the effect Things, you know, are used often for emotional manipulation. Uh how many of you have been in a service where it was just one more stanza of just as I am before we finally closed? Or perhaps you're in a service in which the hymns are used to produce a kind of pep rally effect Uh let's sing a little louder and raise the roof on this one. And I've heard people say uh that before we have the message we need a warm-up time of a few hymns. Or maybe there are people who have said, well, you know, let's get the people together. So let's sing a couple of hymns to get them all in here and into the right spirit. Using him simply for the effect, the psychological effect that they produce on the thing. Usually trying to produce a certain emotional effect But the second problem is singing for enjoyment. Thing simply for enjoyment. The congregation things and the primary criteria about whether the hymns are good or not are simply whether we enjoy them You know, it wasn't until the Reformation that Hinton really came into a great deal of popularity. Before that, it was simply choired sometimes. But after the Reformation, congregation sang. And the only thing that they sang generally were the Psalms It wasn't really until the beginning of the 18th century that there were hymns other than scriptural hymns that were sung by and large by the congregations of God's people. And as these hymns introduced incidentally by Isaac Watts, largely, and then Charles Westley, and others after that Uh these hymns were written usually with a great deal of scriptural content, but then through the revivals of the 19th century there came a new element through hymns. And it was the element of the gospel song But after the song was centered on my experience of Greece. Because a song was quite emotional in the Victorian spirit of that time. uh songs that very often had very little biblical content, but were quite fun to sing. Robert Rayburn, in his book A Some Let us Worship has this replay writing on him. One of the major contributing factors to the superficiality of the lives of evangelical Christians in our country today is the failure of churches to teach and use the great winds of the church universal in their service of divorces. We view the generation of neocristians who prefer sentimental songs with highly questionable theology to the greatest Christian poetry which has ever been sent. For example, on a recent questionnaire which was submitted to thousands of Christians in this country, in an effort to determine their favorite hymns, the two length of selections were addressed. The old brother's off and in the garden. Neither of which can actually be classified as a hen. You take a look at those, you find that what they reflect on are primarily my experience. I come to the garden alone, I'd be so And a song which maybe had lots of precious memories for many of us, lots of associations uh but how much biblical content is there really in such kinds of songs and yet the song primarily for enjoyment. I find that as I talk to people about what their favorite songs are that by and large it's usually the music that determines what our favorite hymns are rather than what they say. If you don't believe that, take one of your favorite hymns, put it to a different team and see if you like it anymore. Well very obvious I mean, you know, you you put what a thing we have and use it to any other team, you can forget it. Uh we've grown up with them using, and that's what we enjoy Because for many of us now there has come a whole movement of choruses and 50 songs, many of which are excellent in their things. And I I think it's been of terrific uh help to many patients in pagan. I personally am very grateful for the music of fifty songs and choruses But for many Christians the idea of singing them when they have been built into our thinkings that we do this for enjoyment, but from an old chorus is fun to sing Even though the chorus itself may say practically nothing about what Jesus has really done for us, or may even be questionable when its theology takes place in Of course you say, Have you seen Jesus my Lord? Have you seen the sunset have seen Jesus my Lord? It's something that I think the gospel writers would have a little bit of a hard time following and saying And so we need to determine how do we change it? Is it simply for enjoyment or is it something that how did we take it to change the night? Now the third E, the one that nobody understood, was this one on risk. Now unreas is typically e so and it's a good word because what it means is And word is E-N-N-D-I is a word that simply means uh williness, tediousness, and boredom And that's I think the third problem we're considering today. Uh weariness, tediousness, and boredom. Not knowing what we're saying Um how many times have you sung a hymn and you get down to the end and you go back up to flight and up stands and you find you're on the wrong standpoint? So what's happening, your mind sort of flips in the neutral and you're thinking about what they're gonna do after the service and next week, you know, and all of a sudden you find everybody else is on standard four and this and standard five, you know And uh maybe that's a subconscious effort to get through it a little quicker. Uh but uh so many times we've had that kind of experience. We don't know what we're thinking. We we finish to him and we say, Now what did I say? that and I didn't know the name of the wife. I have no idea what I was just saying. Our minds wander and uh we're just totally out of press with what we found instead. What was the first thing we find for? How much did you tell about what we say we've got forward from that? But what did you say then? Did you promise God anything about him? Did him call on you to do something? What were you saying for God's doing? How many times have since we had a hard test to know what we're saying? Well, for years, my wife was a little girl sang my grand old hymn, Daily the Cross-Eyed Bear. Thinking for you to do the song about a cross-eyed bear named Darryl Now, that may seem unabscreen and yet to many of us there's not much more of an understanding about what we're seeing. I think sometimes it's longer I think. But why do we sing him? What's the purpose of him? That's what I want us to think about this morning. When we go back as far as the purpose of God people of God. Hings of Sangham and Ericus, in the tabernacle, in the temple. You're having that great revival during the days of Nehemiah. The people of God sing their hearts out so that you could hear them for miles around And this and the hymn book of course that they used was the Psalmic, the Psalms. Jesus and his disciples were told, sang hymn. In Matthew 2630, after the Passover, we needed Jesus and his disciples. I could went out and found a hymn. Probably a hymn from s Psalm a hundred some Psalm 118 to 130 around there. Fallen finished found him. Then they were in prison, we told That's the truth. But I think to give us the clearest idea about the purpose of things, we find that in this passage in Hebrews chapter 2. In Hebrews chapter 2, verse 12, we're told the place and the purpose of Him according to Jesus Himself. In Hebrews 2. 12, we read that Jesus says, I will declare your name to my brothers In the presence of the congregation, I will claim your praises. Two functions from him to declare that verse. First of all, to declare your name to my brother. And secondly, to sing your things in the midst of the congregation. To see on pleasure with him. The first, we are singing about God through Christians In the second place, we're seen to God among Christians. Notice those two functions. First of all, then I will be claimed remained to my brother. Thing about God to Christians. Some people think that a hymn or a true hymn can't be a hymn if it's not addressed to God. That's not true. Many hymns and many of the psalms are about God addressed to one another In fact, we have an Ephistus in Ephesians chapter 5, Earth 18 and 19, that's the statement of the sentiment of him. Notice in Ephesians 5, 18, we're told That um verse 17, do not be police, understand what the will of the Lord is. Don't get drunk with wine, which leads to debauchery, but instead be fed with the spirit. Verse 19, speak to one another With Psalm, Hymn, Spiritual Psalms. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord. So the soul there is to speak to one another with the Psalms, to him and the spiritual psalm. We're instructing one another. In fact, Colossians chapter 3 verse 15, the parallel passage to that tells us that the word of Christ did dwell enough with me as ye seek and admonish one another. With all wisdom as you sing psalms, sins, and spiritual songs with gratitude in your hearts to them. You see, there's a two-fold reference there, we're singing to the Lord, but we're aggressing each other, we're speaking to each other We're instructing, we're admonisher, each other. Notice the word there is to declare. I will declare your name. Now what am I doing now? See I'm declaring God's glory to you. You call that preaching. But because you all get a chance to please You know, every Sunday you all get a chance to preach to each other. Because that word to declare is the word related to the word evangelist. It means to announce, to feast And when you sing hymns, you are preaching to each other. You're declaring God's things to each other. Do you realize that when you sing Do you ever think about the other Christians while you're singing, I'm singing with him now and I am encouraging, I'm absorbing, I'm entrusting my brothers and my sisters. Now you know there have been a few times when we tried to face each other Just to help you to realize that in God will you are instructing each other and that is totally difficult to declare God's blow to our brother Strengthens when we came in Him such as if thou but suffer God to guide thee in all the trials and tribulations. We're talking to each other about how to trust him. And when we sing, as we'll do in a few minutes, all you that see Jehovah's Name, whose glory is hell, his praise proclaim, is telling each other to praise him, to imp uh to send his glory to each other. So many of the hymns are declaring God 's name to each other. But you notice that in the second place, they were declaring his name. The focus is on the Lord, not our experience. The focus in a hymn is on the Lord and not our experience. I will declare your name. to my brother. CBC for our character. But the focus only is on his character, on his attributes We're telling what God has done for us. Give us about to realize that that's unique to Christianity In any other religion, the hymn, tone to the god or whoever it worships, does not tell what he has done for them. Only Christianity can tell what God has done for us in history. And we sing this phrase as we tell each other this is what the Lord's done for us. He pays him for what he has done. He pays his name because his name is the covenant name, Jehovah. And the one who has kept his covenant to his people and it's a copless starvation So in a whim, we are declaring his name when we tell that the Lord has accomplished salvation for. We sing about that salvation That's what we're doing to each other. We're declaring God's name. And we declared it to each other. I will declare your name to my brother. For example, Psalm thirty-four is an illustration of this kind of a hymn. In Psalm thirty-four The psalmist starts off, I will expose the Lord at all times. His praise will be on my lips. My soul will boast in the Lord. Let the afflicted hear and rejoice Glorify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. Notice then in verse 8. Taste and see that the Lord is with suffering. Hey fellow Christians, taste of the thing the Lord is here. Because after him, the other secrets, the other brother and sister, to taste of the Lord. Blessed is the one who takes refuge in him Verse 22, the Lord who use his servants, someone who takes refuge in him will be condemned, instructing one another, declaring God's name to one another A very different kind of focus from I come to the garden of my alone while the view is still on the ranges and he talks with you, talks with me, and talks with me, and he tells the eye on his own and the focus You see so many of these good gospel songs with government things, but in words. Because it's it's it's the question is so fast focused on declaring God's name to one of the Think about that the next time you are thinking about which him you want you in worship to learn Then the other side of the point is the second part of those classes. In the presence of the congregation, I will sing your praises. Hims on the one hand address each other, talking about God to one another. The other side of it is among one another, talking to God The Lord heals us. We are addressing forms. We are not just fooled out into space. You realize that, as you come Thunder by Sunday, that when we say, God is listening to us. He says what we're saying is what we're saying. What a privilege that the Creator of the heavens and the earth does to you to us and meets with us in the heavenly Jerusalem with all the names of assembled around Praising him with a for him to hear what you and I had to say. We sing the favors to him. In the service of the congregation, I will sing to you, literally, in the brief In fact, most literally it is, I will sing a hymn to you. The Greek word there, for sing phase, is the word from which we get our word hymn. It's simply a transliteration of that word. It's a song of praise and adoration. And we sing that directly to the Lord. He hears it. For instance, a Psalm ver uh Psalm 9 is an example of this kind of a hymn. I will praise you, O Lord, with all my heart. I will tell of all your wonders. I will be glad and rejoice in you. I will say praise to your name, the most high. Have you ever noticed when you read through the phones who they're addressing? Have you ever noticed when you sing a hymn? Who are you addressing? Notice that the next time you sing a hymn. Is this a hymn that is singing praise to God in the midst of my brothers and sisters? Or is this a hymn in which I'm addressing my brothers and sisters, focusing on who God is? It makes a difference in our understanding of what we're singing. And so we sing to God in the midst of the whole conservation, where it literally is the first In the presence of the church, we see that body of called-out believers assembled in the heavenly duration. We stand in the midst of that congregation and we sing to God to save Now, secondly, I want you to notice who doings. First of all, we took a look at what was going on. Now, secondly, noticed who is doing this. Jesus T-cell is a quote from Psalm 23, 22, as we saw before. And that Psalm, if you take a look at it, you'll see that it was written by David. And so David is the one who says here that I will declare your name to my brothers and the congregation I will praise you. David is saying, That's what I will do among the people of Israel David is teaching and praying, praising. That's it. He's instructing us here. But of course, Psalm 22 is more than just the words of Jesus. Psalm twenty-two with the very words of son. And so even Hebrews two, twelve, and introducing it says in verse eleven, Jesus is not ashamed to call them brothers. He says I will declare in your name to my brother. In the presence of the congregation, I will sing you praises. Did it start to think of Jesus singing him? Did it start to realize that Jesus is a single Savior? Jesus is a common faith. So what does he say? He tells us here The song is a song of declaring the name of God to his brother. And it's a song of praise to the Father in the midst of the congregation. So you see, verse 22 of Psalm 22 is the climax of what's been going on in that Psalm. That's why I had it read it responsibly to get a feel of what's going on there. And what is the nature of that song that Jesus says? Of course we see from the very beginning that the song is suffering My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me? So far from the words of God's words. He 's a call, he's a call of suffering. A song of lamenting. A song of the deepest grief. A song of being cast off from his father. That's the song of deepest. The song moves on into petition. We later in verse 19. You, O Lord, be not far off. O my strength comes quickly to help you. Deliver my life from the story, my precious life from the power of God. As he was there in being rejected by the Father Continuing that Solomon's custom and alienation from the Father who had loved him from all eternity calls upon that Father to deliver us And that suffering, Jesus was there in the same the sin and the punishment of every one of us who have no soul in the same But there's no song in your heart this morning. If there's no song in your heart because it's heavy with the guilt and the burden of your sins. And Jesus said, I came to send a song of suffering. I came to sing a song for the only thing. So that by sing thy song and asking for the Father to deliver me The Father has heard that request. And in response to that petition we see, Psalm 22 doesn't tell us he was raised to begin. It simply says he has suffered He says, God, deliver me. And then verse 22, I will declare your name to my brothers, and in the midst of the congregation I will praise you. Hallelujah. Jesus is risen from the dead. And because he 's risen from the dead, his song has become a song of science. Jesus is a singing savior singing upon a client because his suffering completed its purpose. And Jesus has now accomplished the purpose of salvation. He's a really real means. And because he's accomplished by God, he can show salvation. He has control and referred to us the full meaning of who God is. God is a God and saves him. God is a God. He says you put it even like me. And even like me. He has the Savior who can put a fall in our heart. He can make us sins because he's triumphing over our sin. And because in him we have our sin forgiveness. And because of him we don't bear that gift. But if you come to Jesus Christ and acknowledge His grace and bring it to Him a manifold for you, He put Christmas. And He puts in your heart rather than the call of grief and good, He puts in your heart I call it silence and praise. But who says? Well, not your favorite. It's not a feeling. Because we're the ones that this verse is speaking of as well as David reason. Because we join Jesus in his cause. Don't know what that means. Because verse 12, Jesus is not ashamed to call them brothers. He says, I will declare your name to my brothers in the midst of the times of each, and I will finish savings. Followed by verse thirteen, and again I will put my trust in him, and again he says, Here I am I and the children that God has given to me Jesus is joined with us in the voice himself of salvation and save of those who have been liberated and freed from their sins because of his death on the sand. You're gonna feel sometimes embarrassed to be singing in the same part of Reason with Joe Stevens and Bob Hompus, you know, from standing next to him and then trying to pull it out, you know, and looking at Ryan out and they um let me go and you think boy How do you guys say them? We're gonna start to think of these things with these fundamentals. The Jesus comes down, the Jesus comes to things , all upon salvation, the human beings of sin. Jesus says, I will declare your name, my brother. And in the presence of the congregation, I will clear your Savior. And when you are saying you fall aside , please is dealing with it. What's the person of him? To declare the covenant God to one another and all his glory and all his attributes and his mercy to us. To talk to God about how wonderful he is, to sing with Jesus, the Song of Salvation. The fall of freedom. The God is saying the song in our hearts. Place to God. Do you have that power in your heart with me? You have that understanding. So that you can think, four or for a thousand times to think , mom , they can do sin. Be God, I see you in the name of Jesus Christ. The land of God, the following , the fingers, and prophets, and eyes and wings. So we should be able to find our fellow fellows. Let me say to those of you who have given your lives to Jesus Christ, a couple of suggestions in him from that I see growing out of this text First of all, we're called to sing with understanding. Things, we see, accomplishes in a unique way the opportunity to worship in spirit and in truth. Because in sinning we combine the content of truth with the spirit. Remember if we looked at John four a number of weeks ago, the primary reference there is to our spirit, not to the Holy Spirit To sing with all of our hearts, to worship with our whole hearts. And sin in a unique way enables us to enter in with our emotions and our hearts in that fruit that we declare. so that we may honor the Lord by that. It also is a unique opportunity, of course, for us to join together in doing that. So that we can join together in the same words, in the same feelings, of declaring the Lord to one another and speaking to Him about His goodness and His mercy to us. But it's got to be three things that we're thinking. The hymns that we use must first of all be biblical. There must be hymns that we care about three. We have to be careful that we don't get sloppy in what we think just because a neat key and it's lots of fun to things. Anything we sing in worship must be thoroughly scriptural and theologically accurate. This is going to worship you too. And we think things things things like Lord of the Dance or other choruses In which there's a big notion about what it is about Jesus doing here. Uh hymns that uh some hymns have been written by those who by their own admission, denying the deity of Jesus Christ and his complete and unique work. Uh that's not necessarily in itself disqualifying to him. Um the um Fan old tell uh the angels um it came upon a midnight series written by a unitarian but what it says is true. But we have to examine the content of the soul itself So that we can say that I've been really running into seeing that because it's such a viable thing. And I honor God by seeing that. But let's be careful what we think. Let's be careful what percentages How many times do you hear people say that I've gotten a hallelujah? I love to tell the story of Jesus and his love. And if I had to be honest, they'd say there were 15 opportunities this week I could have played that story, and I didn't love to tell it at all. I bypass up by three or four times when a person passes and said, What do I do to be saved? And I was too nervous to get the word out. And then I come one Sunday and I say, Well I lost the time of saved. Be careful what you think But it's not only biblican too, but it's also personal. It's something that we can send honestly. That's one of the reasons to send some of the hymns that have said the test of time. They are him they tend to be much more humble and centered on the Lord rather than uh rather bold associates of my faith in a civil that you see often in the gospel form of the Lord Pesquin I think of my own experiences. How there were songs that I love to sing just because I wanted to sing those songs, uh, not because they were true, not because there was something that honored the Lord. I remember that there was a group of us who uh Um you may know in Maryland there's a place called Hilltop Rand. And I personally um likely came to Jesus France at that place. And so one of the favorites uh Phones and choruses and R YouTube was melting over the hilltop. You know, I've got a melt you look over the hilltop, and oh no, I was thinking about it. It would be some bland, uh, profound expression of voice that we just love to be reminded of hilltop, you know? And think about why you sing what you think. Is it true? Is it something that you're saying because you want to tell them or something? Or is it something that you just enjoy Make sure that it's something that's God sending and directed to him, not something takes it along your screen. Secondly, I've encouraged you to study the words of the hymns you say. Study the words. That is ridiculous for us to think that we can sing with any kind of meaning whims that we only look at when we sing them on Sunday morning. And yet how many Christians never look at whims except on Sunday morning? If you are singing a hymn on Sunday morning life, the only time you you look at a hymn is when you sing. Your eyes pass over those words that one a second or less, maybe three, four words a second, you can't meditate on what it means The only way that you can think in truth and be able to really enjoy him is to study him. I would suggest that you put out and own a couple good hymn books. Keep them as part of your own personal devotional literacy. Use them for the poetry. Use them in your own words to study those words. To be able to understand what they're saying. Remember a few weeks ago we looked at the hymn of Dawah Common , him we'll be looking at more tonight And I explained there that uh there's a reference, uh hearing he coming and hear we not by golden bell And I said, now well, what do we mean when we say doing not thy golden bells? Because none of us knew what we meant by doing not thy golden bells. Well, if you look at it, it was so reference to the two cells and the Exodus 1 in Exodus 28 You can give you a fuller meaning of what you're saying. Study the hymns. Look at them. Think about why the person expresses worship that way. This is a person that walked with Jesus Christ and loved him. Why did he take his worship in those things? Think about him so that you can sing them with understanding at home And I'd also suggest that you use the time just before worship to look at the hymns that we'll be singing that morning. We come in here and hopefully uh generally can get in here from twenty after to twenty-five after on every quiet, have that time of meditation, that time of quiet before we worship One of the things that's most profitable to do there is to point to the hymns. If you look in the bulletin that morning and see what will be saying, plain to that hymn. Look it over Familiarize yourself with what it says so that when we come to sing it, then you'll have in request in understanding what you're going to pay for. That 's the suggestion to help you to sing with understanding And then finally I would suggest that we sing with feelings. We sing with the spirit. I would recall your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praises, and I will sing them, you see, with my whole being. Let's make sure that when we sing God's faith, we're doing it with our whole being. Notice as I say in the bulletin there, uh that we should first of all uh picture hymns that are syllable. And be willing to gradually learn more. Now of course the ones we're leading the wonderful things and picture hymns. We need to try to do that The pipums that are pinnable, the power pit ones that will accept the theme of that morning, give us feedback. Some of you give us a lot of feedback, others of you don't give us a lot of feedback Still have to do that about the hymns that are fullable and those that you can only enter. But also be patient with us and try to learn more hymns We try not to lay more than one new and all your heat. So if you at least uh know that most of the hymns will be song, but as you uh enter in to the singing of the hymn, be willing to pick up more and more of the rich reservoir of hymn singings that uh God has given to through the three thousand years. My new hymns And if you learn them, I I would suggest that you remember something that helps me off sometimes when I find myself maybe a little impatient with a hymn, to remember that that hymn was written by a real life person that loved Jesus. You know sometimes we look at him as just sort of given around the page where it's like a little document, somebody just laid it out there and they're just supposed to somehow pick up on us The bad wheel was written by a person that walked with and loved Jesus Christ, whether it was written in the third century or whether it was written 50 years ago There's a person that wrote out of their experience of their lack of Jesus. But even if you don't know that him , at least give the benefit of the doubt to the person that wrote it that he had a reason to write it, and the person that was reading it Or if it had a reason for fipping it, it's sort of emoji something there that your spirit can enter into as you find out what is fair How many of you know that the word the pen that's uh so popular, so familiar, it is well with my words. Is that him in some studies with somebody simply putting their things in the back of uh believe hymn that they could run to the next Sunday morning worship. But as I understand that hymn written by Horatio Stoffi was written on a ship. Cephio 's entire family had been lost to land in a shipwork. And so when we read when peace like a river, um when peace like a river comes warming and follows like two billion rolls The whole family is down into the sea. And out of that lust of his understanding the grief of the loss of his family, but affirming his trust in Jesus Christ Become those words, it is well. It is well with my faith. Let's learn about the hings and realize that God has given to them given them to us as a heritage from faith. And enter into them with our emotions and what I feel them. Praise the virtual fame of mind if you come on Sunday morning. I pray that you'll be able to enter into the spirit of the Him. There's nothing worse than seeing a whole congregation people saying, Oh, for a thousand tons to sing my great redeeming savings, and all for a thousand tongues to sing my great redeeming savings. So nobody's smiling, nobody's paying attention to everything. The single song of the joint of Jesus ' risen, and you know we're all for a standing, couple of people, looking down. before with our bodies and with our spirits, percing to him with our whole being. And finally, I would suggest that we personalize This I have found to be one of the most helpful of the practices that I use in my own devotions to personalize a human private work. I would suggest that you think about at least for a period of time, maybe for the next week or time, if so give it a try. After you've registered during your own private workers But before you go to prayer, take a hymn book and take a hymn, one hymn, and sing that hymn to the Lord before you get into prayer and release to the day. Thing that him. But if you sing that him, I would suggest that you do something with it. If you take that hymn and you change a couple of things If you take the references to God and don't sing them as he, but rather as you. Get all the references to the believer, you don't sing as we, but you sing them as I or me And I think you'll find a great lesson in that kind of thing. For instance, if you educated to him, what a friend we have in Jesus, all our things and deeds to bear, what a privilege to carry everything to God in care. Then in the owner spirit personalizes, what happens? It becomes a friend. Lord , what a friend I have in you, easy. All my sin and grief to death. What a privilege to carry everything to you in faith. All what peace I offer in for them. But we just call I don't because idol that we're going to use in practice. You see the difference it makes. Take them, personalize them, leave them to the Lord, and then send them to the Lord. Let your mind revolve around them and use them to bur up your spirit in worship. And I think you'll find that it can do a great deal for your own worship experience privately within the world. And it will transform the worship that you have together as a congregation As we come to things with spirit and understanding, as we fill with our hearts involved in himself that God has given to us, preparing his names to one another and sing his praises. In 1950, the Malayus and Border Nicolas went into the Epidorian jungle and was stealed to death. They say that one of the most profoundly moving experiences in the Berlin Congress on Evangelism is when two of those Auto Indians, one of whom had personally killed one of the missionaries, whom and they found the Author language. A hymns of praise to God. God had performed the bloodlust of the office and the hymns of praise to him. Who but our God can take our heart and stand on it in all its guilt and spit in it, and bring us the same thing to him. And he would say , He can't have it there. Oh Lord I God We come to praise you, Lord Jesus, this morning as performing season. Lord Jesus , I thank you. But you thank the name of your God to our blood. You declared that many to us. You declared it in all his faith, in all his glory, when he went to the cross. Will you feel this? Will you fall with suffering that our God is a God of mercy and a God of justice and peace? A God who has not let us remain in our king. But a God who lets you thank you for seeing that formal session. We thank you that your song of suffering has turned into a fall of silence. A song of hallelujah, a fall of praise because we are wisdom. And you come now with us with your people. The fall of salvation. People pass on Lord. Lord, we are so sorry for the times when we have some phrases who have called us. Times when we haven't even noticed what we've told. Or when we don't really care what we're singing about. And only fear that it might be something familiar and something that we could um find pepper. Oh God, help us We're all in our understanding of worshiping. We might sing these things in of the beauty of simple choruses , in the wonder of simple crystal songs. And in the hymn, Father, that also reflects your honor and your God. Help us to be mindful of you as we bring your claim. Be mindful of anybody as we declaim the man Lord helped us with me. With hearts very flows by the work of Jesus Lord. Amen. Now of course what else can we do there if that's a thing. So let's see