A story told of Martin, an early Christian, that he was in his cell. Excuse me here. Yes. A Christian by the name of Martin who was in his cell praying one day, when all of a sudden the the cell was filled with a glorious light And a figure appeared to him dressed in purple and gold that said, Recognize, Martin, whom you see. I am the Christ. And I am about to visit the earth, and it is my good pleasure to reveal myself to you beforehand. Martin was rather perplexed and paused and was distressed. Finally, he said, I will only believe that you are the Christ when I see the marks of the cross in your hands and feet Whereupon it is said that the vision vanished, and Martin realized that he had been tempted by the evil one. Now I offer that to you as possible sort of a hint for how to test visions. But beyond that, the main point that I'm trying to make in that Is that we never know Jesus apart from his cross. The cross is absolutely central to our faith Nothing makes sense about Jesus apart from his cross. When Paul wrote to the Corinthians, he said, I was determined to know nothing among you except Jesus and him crucified. When Paul wrote to the Galatians, who were a bunch of perfectionists, who were trying to live under the burden of the law that they might be more mature Christians, so that they would be able to show That they could keep the whole law by the power of Jesus, but nevertheless, that they were seeking to find their sense of satisfaction by the fact that they had kept the law. Paul wrote to them in order to free them and to restore them to sanity in Galatians chapter 3, verse 1, with these words, You foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? Before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. Now why did Paul say that? Because he wanted to say to the Galatians, as I believe that God would want to say to some of us right here. In fact, perhaps all of us who need to have Jesus once again portrayed before us as crucified, that we might have balance and sanity in our lives. And so after a month of missions, when we've been talking about reaching the world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus, I'm glad that we come to a time of Passover when we are particularly reminded by the very season itself that it was at this time of the year that Jesus was crucified. So that we might once again turn our attention, our focus, on the very heart of our faith, the cross of Christ. And so what I want to do for you this morning is I want to portray the cross. In two ways. I want to portray the suffering of the cross, first of all, and then secondly, I would like to portray for you the significance of the cross. Now, because I want to deal with the significance of the cross, I'm going to need to keep my remarks on the suffering of the cross. A little briefer than I would otherwise. But again, let me call your attention to those words in Galatians chapter 3, verse 1. You foolish Galatians, Who has bewitched you? You foolish Presbyterians, you foolish Marylanders. Who's bewitched you? Before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified Now, you need to remember that when Paul wrote this, he wrote this to people who understood crucifixion. Most Perhaps all of these people, at least very many of them, had seen someone crucified. They knew what it meant to be crucified. You and I have never seen someone suffer like that. And that makes a difference when we read these words, doesn't it? You and I can never read these words. You before your very eyes, Jesus was portrayed as crucified, and have the vivid imagery of crucifixion come to us. As those people would have. Crucifixion was a means of torture and execution that had been probably invented by the Persians. At least it was used on a large scale by the Persians as the first people to ever use it, and Alexander the Great became acquainted with it in his conquests. And he thought it was such a good idea, it was such an effective deterrent, it was the most exquisite torture anyone had dreamed of, that he introduced it into the Mediterranean world. The Romans probably got the idea from the Carthaginians in North Africa, and they began to use it widely. Now it was only of restricted use. A Roman citizen could never be crucified. It was too vile a torment. The Jews didn't crucify their own people. They wouldn't have thought of it. It was against the law. The Romans only used it for the very vilest of crimes and political offenses, because it was a very effective deterrent. It was effective not only because it was something that was done publicly, people were generally crucified in very public places. They were crucified along main roads, in intersections, in places where people would see them. But the person who was crucified took sometimes two or three days to die. In the most unimaginable agonies. The Romans themselves pitied their victims. And if Roman soldiers were standing around even the vilest of criminals whom they despised Generally, after a day or two, if they were still on guard in that area, they would hasten the death by taking a large club and smashing the shin bones. In order to hasten the death of the criminal. Now, in order to understand why that would do it, you need to understand something about crucifixion First of all, crucifixion would have often been preceded by the kind of whipping or scourging that Jesus suffered Do you remember that during that trial after they had condemned him, they took Jesus and they tied him to a post? And this was a common practice, as I said, before the execution itself. It was kind of the warm-up exercises, the precursor to the main event. The Romans would take leather thongs that were tied to a whip And in those thongs there were embedded probably le uh lead balls. Could have been bits of metal, but often they used lead balls And they would take that and strike the back of the victim and then drag the whip down in order to lay open the flesh. Now the Jews had a rule that if anyone was flogged, that forty lashes were the limit, and so they would do thirty-nine to make sure that they didn't miscount and exceed forty. The Romans had no such restriction. So dare not think that Jesus was only flogged with forty or thirty-nine lashes. The Romans, in their maliciousness against this one who was causing them trouble that morning. would have taken their fury out, as you see that they did, with the mocking and the crown of thorns, by whipping him as off as long as they wanted to. Until after having opened up the back and the capillaries and the surface tissues, further blows would begin to lay open deeper. and deeper muscles until the arteries and the veins would begin to spurt forth blood, and after a while all that would be seen was a unrecognizable mass of laid open muscle and tissue and bloody pulp. When the victim was to the point of fainting, they would stop and they would release him from the pole. It was at that point that, in Jesus' case, do you remember they took a crown of thorns that they had platted, and they beat it down on his head with rods in order to add to the torment. They put a purple robe on him. And the purple robe was part of the mocking, but think about having your back so laid open and then ripping that robe back off again and starting the bleeding anew and taking more flesh with it. And then the custom was that the prisoner would carry their own crossbar. And so they would lay that piece of wood, which was estimated at somewhere between 40 and 100 pounds. That they would put on his back, that back that had just been beaten on his shoulders, and they would then take him and he would be driven out to the place where he'd be crucified And further humiliated by carrying the cross piece, stumbling, falling as he went. Jesus was too weakened by the torment. He had already received. And you remember they had to have another Simon of Cyrene to carry his crossbar for him. When they came to the place of crucifixion, The soldiers would come and they would lay the victim down on the ground on the cross. And they would feel for that indentation in the palms. And then they would drive iron spikes through the wrists to the cross bar itself. Then to understand how the person was crucified, we always have these pictures that we see where there's kind of a footrest, And you you really don't get the picture of what it's like. There were of course no pictures of crucifixion And it's been only recent archaeological studies that have revealed probably what crucifixion looked like. And so you see on your bulletin outline there A little diagram, a figure from a book on this , that gives you a picture of probably what crucifixion actually looked like. You see, the way it was actually done was more excruciating than the way you and I sometimes imagine. Because after laying the victim on that cross piece and nailing the wrists, They would take the heels and they would put the feet parallel, twisting the body onto the piece, the upright piece Then they would take a piece of wood and drive a seven-inch iron spike through that wood. There have been archaeological discoveries of people who have been found that had been crucified this way. And they would take that board and then they would smash the iron spike through the board, through both ankles parallel, into the wood. Now imagine for a moment what that would do to you. Both ankles have now been smashed by this spike going through them. Your body is twisted. And then they put this little C called a sedecula on so that you would have something to be able to lift yourself in order to breathe Because if you didn't lift yourself, you wouldn't be able to breathe. The diaphragm wouldn't function. And so you're just hanging by your wrists. And then for the next hours and however long it took, the victim would hang from the cross, needing to lift himself on those feet. By the very nails through his feet in order to gain a breath, lifting himself off of that little wooden seat. Each breath was self-inflicted agony, waves of cramps Would come from the wrists down through the body and up from the ankles, so that at each point when you tried to breathe, you would have to lift yourself and inflict your own torture. The cramps would make it more difficult and then eventually a shock set in. The cramps would subside. Dehydration would filled the mouth so that your mouth became dry, particularly in the hot Palestinian sun. And your mouth would be swollen. You couldn't speak. Imagine what it took for Jesus. To utter those last seven brief statements from the cross, lifting himself up on his feet in order to get enough air to speak and be heard. As the shock set in, you would find that the cramps would make it more difficult to raise yourself up. And eventually the victim would suffocate themselves by no longer being able to lift themselves for a breath. Breathing would be shallower and shallower until at that point the pericardium would begin to fill with serum and fluid and crush upon the breast another animal Breaking the legs, you see, was a mercy that the victim victims was a very good thing. begged for. To be in such agony that you would hope that the person would come and take that club and break your leg so you would not be able to lift yourself up one more time. And you would suffocate as you would lay there on the cross. Paul says, before your very eyes Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. You and I need to see Jesus in his crucifixion We need to see it not simply so that we will feel bad, that God's intention is not that we pity Christ. When the daughters of Jerusalem wept for him, he said, Don't weep for me, but weep for yourselves. Jesus never desired pity. But you and I need to see the cross in order to understand how to live the Christian life. Now why do I say that? That's the second thing here, you see. We need to understand the significance of the cross portrayed because that's what Paul's driving out in Galatians 2 and 3 here. In order to understand how to live the Christian life, I'm suggesting that the cross is the key, you see in the blank there, the key to living The Christian life. Not just being motivated to live it. The idea is not that you and I say, well, Jesus suffered so much for me, how can I not want to lay down my life for him? There certainly is that element of gratitude and love in response to him. But there's more than that that God wants you and me to understand as we think About the cross in particular focus, I hope, this week. And it is this fact that you and I need to see in three ways from Galatians 2 and 3 what the cross means for us First of all, the cross means a curse under the law. The cross means cursing, a curse under the law. As you can see from what I've described, people who were crucified were under the vilest of curses. And the Bible is absolutely clear that Jesus' curse was not ultimately the curse of men. Jesus' suffering was not ultimately the physical suffering of the cross. That was, in fact, the Bible would indicate to us the least of his sufferings. It is what we can grasp, and so because his spiritual suffering, the relational suffering of being cursed by his father, was so grand on such a scale that you and I can't begin to comprehend it. God put him on a cross so that we could at least begin to comprehend something of the physical suffering. And then extrapolate from that that the cursing that he endured was God's cursing. God himself was cursing him. Only those who are in the deepest recesses of hell can understand the suffering that Jesus endured on the cross. He was cursed. And so what Paul is wanting for you and me to understand is that whenever we look at Jesus We never can look at him as primarily an example to follow, or someone who is an inspiration to us when we're low and we're lonely, or someone who is going to help us when we're dysfunctional. The cross is first and foremost to us a symbol of cursing. And so the idea of the cross is that Jesus was cursed because you and I live under a curse. You see, Galatians chapter 3 verse 10, Paul says that. All who rely on observing the law are under a curse. For it is written, cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. You think that your life can please God? Then you must do everything that is written in the Bible, not only in your behaviors, but in your thought life, in your motives, in your actions as well as your reactions. Everything. You think you're a perfectionist? You don't know what perfection is. The Bible says you must do everything perfectly. If you don't, you're under a curse. And you and I, every one of us, are under a curse. Now, you see, you might say, Yes, I've understood that, and I've come to Jesus for forgiveness, and I pray that every one of you have. If you haven't, you better do so quickly. But Paul's writing to Christians. And what he's saying is that you and I still tend to want to come back under the law. You and I still have a gravitational pull to our own self-effort to please God. Somehow we think that our lives are able to keep what the Bible says. We're able to take the cross and then we supplement it by our own good efforts. That's exactly what the Judaizers did They said, yes, you need Jesus in his death on the cross, but you need to supplement that by obedience to the Mosaic legislation. And Paul is saying here that a Christ who is supplemented is a Christ who is supplanted. If you and I ever think that we can live for God, that we can do something in our flesh that is pleasing to Him, we haven't understood the curse of the cross. Because the curse is the radical death to all self-effort. You know, I've been amazed through the years at how many people have said the things that transformed their life most at Columbia Presbyterian Church. was the emphasis I would place from time to time on our absolute powerlessness to be able to live for Jesus Christ. You and I are always, the flesh is always rising up to say, but I can do something. There's something that I can offer to God. There is something that I can do. And when we come to the realization that we can do nothing, that our lives and our hearts are utterly corrupt, utterly worthy of the cursing of God. It is then that we look to the cross, and it is then the gospel becomes good news. Amen. Amen. I can tell from that some of you have experienced that. You know, when we come to understand our sinfulness in the most radical ways, it's disorienting, isn't it? I mean, we say, I knew I was sinful, but I didn't think it was that sinful. I didn't think I deserved that. And God says that is exactly what you deserve. And you are helpless to be able to get yourself out of that cursing. Jesus took the curse. And that's what the cross teaches. Not only is it a curse under the law, but the second thing we see is it a death to the law. The cross indicates to us, as a picture to us, of death to the law. Because Paul says that you and I were crucified with Christ. See, right back there, just a few verses before that, chapter 2, verse 20. Paul says, I have been crucified with Christ. The life that I live now in the body, but Christ as he lives in me. I no longer live. I'm dead. I have died. My life is now the life that is in union with Christ. He now lives in me. You know what that means? That means you and I have been executed. You take a picture of a person who's sitting in an electric chair. That person sitting in that electric chair is about to be executed. And the sentence is read, and then the switch is pulled. You watch their eyeballs dilate and that charge surges through their body and there's the shudder, and all of a sudden the body goes limp and it slumps and they're dead. Then the executioner comes up and he stands before him and he says, now get up. Now go do better. Serve out your sins and live according to the law the best you can now. I hope you've learned your lesson. Now, a person could speak, what would they say? Can't do it? You can't execute me anymore. You have no more power over me. I'm already dead. That's exactly what Paul says: that you and I say to the law The law has no power to condemn you. You no longer are under bondage to the law. You don't live according to the law. Romans 6 and 7, and Galatians 3 and 4 and 5 and 6 says it again and again and again. You are no longer under the condemnation or even the jurisdiction of the law. You now have a new master. You have been raised up with Jesus. He is the one you serve by love It's now a relational thing, not a rule thing. Now that doesn't mean that the law of God is no longer pertinent to you. The law of God reflects to you his desire. The law of God still becomes for you that guiding principle to show you how it is that God would have you to live like Jesus. But it's not the law that rules you now. It is Jesus who rules you by his Spirit in your life. Because you died, the cross is to you the symbol of death. It has taken you out of that realm of the flesh and put you into the realm of the spirit, by which you now live according to new principles. Jesus says, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. And he's delivered you and me from the bondage and the burden of the law. And yet I find that so many of us want to go back under that yoke. Some of you here this morning probably need to be reminded that you are not under that burden. You're still trying to live according to the flesh. And if you were able to do it, Jesus died in vain. The verse right before Galatians 3, verse 1. Paul says, I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness could be gained through the law, Christ died for nothing. So, you foolish Presbyterians, who's bewitched you? Who's made you think that you can live by the flesh according to the law? Train the Christians, you see And so he says, before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. I'd just like to learn one thing from you, he says. Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law? Or by believing what you heard? See? So foolish? After beginning with the Spirit? You're now trying to attain your goal by human effort? The point is, Jesus was portrayed to you as crucified, so you would put aside any such aspirations and learn that if you are going to live in a way that is pleasing to God, in a way that is going to be cru To fulfill his purpose in your life, you're going to do it by the Spirit. You're going to do it in relationship with Jesus. You're going to do it by loving him. You're going to do it by knowing him. You're going to do it By understanding what he's done for you and how he's freed you That's how you go on. But remember, don't ever forget the gravitational pull that you and I have in our lives to always try to bring us back in the principles of the flesh. under the law. The only way escaping is to say Jesus is crucified. Then finally the last thing. Is that the cross means love over the law. The cross is to us the demonstration of love over the law. Why is it that Jesus endured such hideous suffering? Why is it that Jesus was willing, voluntarily, at any moment, he could have come off of that cross, he could have ended it, he could have said, enough! This is ridiculous. I didn't think it was going to be this bad. But at no point did he entertain that thought because you were that precious to him. Again, look at what he said back there in verse 20 of chapter 2. I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live. See, in my flesh. I don't live now. I have a new life. Jesus lives in me, and my life now is a life that is in union with him by faith. The life I live in the body now I live by faith. In the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Gave himself for you. Knowing you. Through and through. Knowing those vilest parts of the recesses of your dark character. Jesus loved you. The cross is the demonstration of a love for you and for me that none of us can conjure up on earth. There is no parallel in any human relationship. To the love that Jesus Christ demonstrated by dying on the cross. But so when you and I come to this week and we are once again reminded in this Passover season, This Palm Sunday, as we enter into that, of the fact that Jesus died for me on the cross. That means to you that you now have a new life because Jesus was cursed for you You now have a new master because you've died with Jesus to the law. And you now are captured by a new love. Which is the love of Jesus for you. It's that love that compels you, motivates you at everything that you do. And some of you have been bewitched, like the Galatians You foolish Galatians, who's bewitched you? Busyness has bewitched you. Secularism has bewitched you. Your independent spirit has bewitched you. Your putting aside your Bible to focus and meditate upon what Christ has done for you has bewitched you. And you've fallen back into a joyless duty. You've fallen back into trying to live for Jesus Christ in your own strength. Jesus was wanting to call you back to himself this week. Jesus is wanting to portray himself before you as crucified. And so I have one last suggestion for you. I'd like to suggest that you and I take this week and that we set aside fifteen minutes each day Whatever else you do with the Lord, don't say that counts, okay? I'm saying take 15 minutes each day of this week and just meditate on the cross. Think of what Jesus suffered there for you. Think of the curse that He endured so that you're not under that curse and why you are under that curse. And the hopelessness of trying to live according to the flesh. Think about the death that he endured to the law, and that you have died with him Such a definitive death. And then think about the love of Christ for you demonstrated in that. And see what difference That makes in your life. Let's come to Him now, each of us, in our own needs. Let's commit ourselves to Him to have Jesus portrayed to us in New. Let's pray together. Oh Lord our God. We are shocked when we think how easy it is for us to displace the cross in our lives. We call ourselves Christians. And everything else seems to have competed for center attention in our thinking and in our lives. And we're ashamed to think of how successful those intruders have been. Many of them are good things. But there are things that have displaced you. And even when we think about you, we don't think about you primarily as one who was crucified. Portrayed before us in your extreme suffering, what you endured for us Because you were determined to rescue us from hell. But we think of you as one who's always calling us to do more than we think we're able to do Who perhaps from time to time wants to take away our fun? Who wants to lead us into ways of more severe commitment To be like others that we see and don't particularly find attractive. To even think of this last month and missions To dare to think of what you might lead us into in a cross-cultural service. We view you as severe Satan has blinded us so that you've become for us not one who is intensely desirous of giving us freedom. But of holding us in bondage. And we have forgotten the cross. How could anyone go through that for us? And not desire our very best good. But our idea of best, Lord, has been twisted And we need to come back to the cross, to regain our sanity, and to regain our freedom. And so at this moment now, Lord, we want to take whatever it is that's been displacing you, and we want to lay it before you mentally on the altar. That you might become central to us again.