Well, every decade or so I feel like I need to address what I call the Christmas problem. That doesn't seem like a very nice way to begin a joyful holiday, does it? Well, what do I mean by the Christmas problem? Well, for the American Civil Liberties Union, it's the problem of public displays of Christianity. So they go on their annual search and destroy mission of any, and I do mean any public displays of Christian meaning. Recent examples in a New Jersey school district. Even the instrumental playing of Christmas music was banned. In Baldwin City, Kansas, the Santa Claus visiting a public school asked why we celebrate Christmas. The little girl answered because it's Jesus' birthday. This caused the ACLU to send a letter demanding no more visits from Santa because the name of Jesus had been mentioned on school property. In Indianola, Iowa, a student was forbidden from wishing anyone at school Merry Christmas because someone might be offended. More and more pressure to not say Merry Christmas. In public places, many stores are now altogether secular, no Christmas carols No Merry Christmas. It's just simply happy holidays. Want to make sure we keep the holiday, but just simply not recognize its meaning. In fact, in one school situation, the ACLU wrote that they needed to make sure not to associate the winter holiday with any particular religion. I mean we wouldn't want Christmas to think that it had anything to do with Christianity. So it's called winter breaks. Red Poinsettias are banned in many places because red has been associated with Christians for some reason. All of this despite the fact that in a recent survey, 87% of Americans said that they fully supported public displays of nativity scenes and things like that on public property. More and more pressure to go secular. So the second problem for Christmas is uh the problem that public uh school principals have, afraid that somebody's gonna bring a lawsuit because There is some religious expression on the school property. And this despite the fact that no court has ever ruled that the singing of Christmas carols in school is unconstitutional. If you're interested in finding out more about what can be done in public school situations or in public property, go to the Focus on Family website, just Google Focus on the Family, and you can get a link there that will help give you your legal rights in public places. But thirdly, the Christmas problem is for Christians one that's very searching. On the one hand, we're angry and sad when we hear people say that it's inappropriate to say Merry Christmas on a day that we honor the Lord's birth. or to hear that um the winter holiday, holiday trees shouldn't be called Christmas trees, the holiday shouldn't be called Christmas And all of these kinds of things, uh, despite the blatant commercialism, the greed, the materialism that um Are brought in from this world and tag on to, associate with the celebration of the Savior's birth Um the irony of that seems to escape many people that it was simply the celebration of his birth of the one who said that we do not find our lives meaning in what we acquire in this world, that um he taught that uh true joy is not in what you get C. S. Lewis has a clever piece that's been put into the volume God in the Dock. in which he looks at um the customs of the British. He uh describes this by looking at an island, some faraway island called Niturb which uh is simply Britain spelled backwards. And he looks at the uh Niterbians uh who have a very strange custom of fifty days a year where they wear themselves out and make themselves miserable in honor of a God in whom they do not believe. But even better is his uh piece that follows that in God and the Doc called What Christmas Means to Me. Let me read to you from that. You'll be hearing a lot of Lewis in the next week, so you might as well get used to it. Lewis says the three things go by the name of Christmas. One is a religious festival. This is important for Christians. But as it can be of no interest to anybody else, I shall naturally say no more about it here. The second, it has complex historical connections with the first, but we needn't need go into them is a popular holiday and occasion for merrymaking and hospitality. If it were my business to have a view on this, I should say that I very much approve of merrymaking. What I approve of is more is everybody minding his own business. I see no reason why I should volunteer my views as to how other people should spend their money and their leisure among their friends. It's highly probable they want my advice on such matters as little as I want theirs. But the third thing called Christmas is unfortunately everyone's business. I mean, of course, the commercial racket. The interchange of presents was a very small ingredient in the older English festivity. Mr. Pickwick took a cod with him to Dingley Bell. The Reform Scrooge ordered a turkey for his clerk. Lovers sent love gifts, toys and fruit were given to children. But the idea that not only all friends, but even all acquaintances should give one another presents or at least send one another cards is quite modern and has been forced upon us by the shopkeepers. The Neither of these circumstances is in itself a reason for condemning it. I condemn it on the following grounds. One. It gives on the whole much more pain than pleasure. You have only to stay over Christmas with a family who seriously tries to keep it in its third commercial aspect in order to see that the thing is a nightmare. Long before December 25th, everyone is worn out, physically worn out by weeks of daily struggle in overcrowded shops, mentally worn out by the effort to remember all the right recipients and to think out suitable gifts for them. They are in no trim for merry-making, much less if they should want to to take part in a religious act. They look far more as if there had been a long illness in the house. Number two, most of it is involuntary. The modern rule is that anyone can force you to give him a present by sending you a quite unprovoked present of his own It is almost a blackmail. Who has not heard the wail of despair and indeed of resentment when at the last moment, just as everyone hoped that the nuisance was over for one more year, the unwanted gift for Mrs. Bizzy whom we hardly remember, flops unwelcome through the letterbox and back to the dreadful shops. One of us has to go. Number three, things are given as presents which no mortal ever bought for himself. Gaudy, useless gadgets, novelties because no one was ever fooled to make them their life before. Have we really no better use for materials and for human skill and time than to spend them on all this rubbish? And number four, the nuisance. For after all, during the racket, we still have all our ordinary and necessary shopping to do. The racket simply trebles the labor of it. We are told that the whole dreary business must go on because it is good for trade. It is in fact merely one annual symptom of that lunatic condition of our country and indeed of the world in which everyone lives by persuading everyone else to buy things. I don't know the way out, but can it really be my duty to buy and receive masses of junk every winter just to help the shopkeepers? If the worst comes to the worst, I'd sooner give the money for nothing and write it off as charity. For nothing? Well, why better than for nothing than for a nuisance Right? And you see it more and more. This was written in December nineteen fifty-seven, nearly fifty years ago, and what's happened since that time. I was intrigued to see that last year so many of the Christmas commercials during the holidays were about stress. You know how to you know send gift subscriptions to magazines to reduce your stress. One-stop shopping here to reduce your stress In fact, this past week if you went on to MSN's homepage for the internet, there's a guy with this silly Santa hat looking all glum and it says You know, coming to the holidays. Five ways to avoid depression. Hey, you know, if you don't know anything about what's going on, you look and say, there's something strange about this. You know, these people are really geared up for the area for the time of the year when the suicides are highest, depression's highest, violence is the highest, family dysfunction's the highest, all in the name of joy Uh you know, and and we export it. The Japanese, less than one percent of the Japanese are Christians, but Christmas is a big deal, it's a big holiday in Japan. Nobody knows why they celebrate it They just do, because it makes a lot of money. In fact, many businesses depend on Christmas to survive. Uh I mean, I don't know how many of you saw what went on Friday, the day after Thanksgiving That's become now this major event. Used to be seven o'clock, then six o'clock, now it's five o'clock. There were some cameras, news cameras that filmed one place where they opened the doors and people were stampeding, trampling on each other to go into the store to buy their junk. One poor woman was trampled on, she lost her wig. The cameras there trying to she's trying to get her wig back on. People are walking on her. In one store, it got so bad that they started just throwing computers out over to the crowd to see who could catch them. Two people caught one computer and started a fist fight over it. The thing is insane And so it's at the beginning of this season, if you consider this the beginning, see beginning, I think it's about mid-season for it, that we as Christians need to stop and take a look and say, hmm, wait a minute I remember last year, the afternoon of December 25th, we all got together and I looked at my wife, her husband, or friend, and said, You know what? This is insane. Next year it's got to be different. And what happens? There are the good memories and the things that we enjoy about the holiday, and so gradually we get sucked in like a whirlpool. into the same old patterns. So my plea is that you and I look at some scripture this morning and see, is there a better way? Is there something else that can be done because it it really is hard. For years my family and I struggled with how do you try to make this something that's honoring to the Lord And that you don't look at the end of the holiday and say, if we can get through it, then we can recover in January and get reacquainted with the Lord. It shouldn't suck us dry. What is the answer? Well, I certainly don't have all the answers But a passage that has helped me in this regard has been Romans chapter 14. Somebody said after the first service, I thought, what in the world is this guy doing preaching on Romans 14 for Christmas? But I think there is some help here. You see, in Romans chapter 14, you're dealing with two areas that were disputes among early Christians. Now one had to do with eating meat, and the other had to do with observing special days. Now the eating meat business was that there were some Christians who were vegetarians because they thought that It was the best way to avoid eating non-kosher meat or meat that had been offered to idols. And there were other Christians that said We don't have to eat kosher meat anymore. The Lord has cleansed all things, and who cares if it's offered to an idol? An idol isn't anything, so I'm free to eat anything. And they would disagree about that The one that's more appropriate to our particular situation dealing with Christmas is this observing of days. Now, obviously, Paul isn't talking in verses 5 to 9 about Christmas What he's talking about probably has to do with the three festivals of the Old Testament, Pentecost, Passover, and the Feast of Tabernacles. Some Christians said we should continue to observe those. Other Christians said that no, those are Old Testament feasts. Those have been fulfilled in Christ, and so they're no longer to be observed. It's important for us, I think, to realize that Christmas is not something that's been celebrated for 2,000 years. You know, it's just kind of like. It's a religious holiday. Even Lewis said in his little essay, I left it out, he said, which is obligatory for Christians? It's not obligatory for Christians. In fact, as late as 1659, in the Massachusetts Bay Colony, there was a five-shilling fine for celebrating Christmas. It was seen to be a pagan holiday. And um only in the mid-18th century uh did things begin to be celebrated. Only in the mid-19th century Did Christmas become a holiday, even in the United States? In fact, it was between the years of eighteen thirty-six and eighteen ninety- that states began to make December 25th a holiday where you got off. As late as 1890, there were still some states not even having it as a holiday. Now um Paul's argument I give to you in reverse order. First of all, verses 5 to 9, Paul is saying, be convinced in your own mind whether you observe a particular day. Be convinced in your own mind about what will please your Lord to whom you live and die. Secondly, the first paragraph, do not judge your brother or your sister with whom you disagree. They are accountable to the Lord, not to you. So Paul is saying Columbia Presbyterian, you'll take different positions on how to celebrate Christmas, whether to even acknowledge that it's a special day, but don't argue about it. You can discuss it, that's fine. But don't argue about whether this should be some day that Other people have to observe the way you observe it. Be convinced in your own mind, don't judge or condemn the person who disagrees with you. Now applying this to Christmas observance, let me make three points. Number one, be consistent. First blank in your outline. Be consistent Christmas only has meaning for Christians. Non-Christians cannot celebrate it, they can only distort it. Romans 14, 6, Paul says, one man considers one day more sacred than another, another man considers every day alike. Each should be fully convinced in his own mind. Verse 6, he who regards one day as special does so to the Lord. It's what you do to the Lord. It's an offering of worship. It's to him. Face it. The Northern Hemisphere, when the days become dark and cold, simply needs a holiday. If you don't have Christmas, they'll invent something. But there's a need for us to bring some cheer and light and song and the rest of that. I mean, that's how the whole thing started anyway, wasn't it? The holiday predates Christianity. It's based in the Roman Saturnalia, which was a one-week-long feast between December 17th and 24th. 21st being the shortest day of the year. The seventeenth to the twenty-fourth were the it was the shortest week of the year. And so it was the time when the sun went from seeming like it was dying to being reborn, the days beginning to get longer. And they had that feast to celebrate that. Christians in the early years took Malachi chapter 4, verse 2, which says But for you who revere my name, the sun, S-U-N, the Son of Righteousness, will rise with healing in its wings, and you will go out and leap like calves released from the stall. So Christians said, the true son, the one who brings light and peace, that sun is who we celebrate. So they took the day after Saturnalia, December 25th. made that the day to celebrate the birth of the Lord Jesus. Now is there any evidence he was born on December 25th? Absolutely none. What do we know about when he was born? Only one thing Because Luke tells us that when Jesus was born, the shepherds were in the fields with their sheep. There's only one time of the year That if those were dealing with the general farmlands of the area around Bethlehem, that that was done. It was between October and December. At the end of the harvest in October and before the winter sowing in December, they would put the sheep out in the field so they could kind of clean up the stuff. So probably Jesus was born between October and December. Whether it was the 25th or not, we have no idea. No reason to think it was that. I told you why they stated it was that. Probably was before that. Um but the fact is that Chris uh the the unbelievers have said we need a holiday for that And we have taken it to celebrate to the Lord, and now there is this tension. Should Christians then fight to reclaim Christmas? to be a uh a religious holiday for the Lord? I'm very ambivalent on that. In fact, I would say, let him have it In fact, I'll go further. I would say the more pagan it gets, the better. Now why do I say that? Because verse 6 says, He who regards one day as special does so to the Lord. An unbeliever can't do that. If you are here this morning without Jesus Christ, you cannot celebrate Christmas. You can have fun, you can eat, you can drink, you can do all, but you can't do that day to the Lord until you know the Lord. So in order to make that clear, you see, what the world has done is in America you had this thing that, you know, Christmas is kind of like an American Holiday, it's just the American thing to do. In fact, I just read one argument that we need to reclaim it because it's American. It's not American. See, everything that America tries to do that's unchristian for Christmas does nothing but water it down and eventually undermine the gospel. Miracle on 34th Street, you know, Little Drummer Boy, all these films and all the rest of this stuff, is always saying, you know, man is really good. We're really nice people. hope, the spirit of Christmas, all this kind of thing. It's not gospel. So I'd say, fine, make the distinction Have that. But then as Christians, we're going to decide, some of us, to celebrate the day to the Lord in a distinctly different way. Now there's an advantage you see in trying to do that because what Paul says is you do that to the Lord, you regard it to the Lord. Uh it's because Jesus died, and you could say was born, lived, died, returned to life, that he might be Lord of the dead and the living, that We can use this opportunity where Christ has been taken out of the meaning of Christmas in the culture to say, you know, what happens when you take Jesus out of celebration? When you take Jesus out of Christmas? You have stress, hollowness, disappointment, people beating each other up, get presents. You know, you have movies like Surviving Christmas, Christmas with the Cranks, Bad Santa. I mean these are these are not joyful movies. Because you see, Christmas without Christ has no joy. Now, why don't we take advantage of this time where everybody's stressed out to say, you know what, it doesn't have to be that way And as we as Christians approach this season distinctly, uniquely, redemptively, And if we can walk around as people of peace, you know, we're sinners, yes, we get stressed, but but that there's an observable difference. What an opportunity. For people who see that, to say, you know, my life is so stressed, if we say, you know The holiday is about the person who came in order to relieve our stress and our pain, our brokenness, our hollowness. It's about Jesus. What an opportunity. See? So let's be consistent. Use people's disappointments to witness about the uniqueness of the Christian. Celebration that's to the Lord. Secondly, be creative. Be creative. Christmas is not a command, it's a choice. Verse 5: One man considers one day more sacred than another, another man considers every day alike, each fully convinced in his own mind. If you regard the day, regard it to the Lord. Verse 8, if we live, we live to the Lord. If we die, we die to the Lord. So whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord. For this reason, Christ died, returned to life, so that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. Be convinced in your mind, and then be free to develop your own meaningful traditions. This is an opportunity for families. To be able to teach kids about the gospel. As you look at the promises, the prophecies, the Advent, you know, Advent was a season developed by early Christians. And there was wisdom in that. It's not a matter of a day, it's a matter of a time anticipating his coming and realizing that we look again for his return. Use that opportunity. We did that in our family. We would talk about the various prophecies and talk about Jesus coming and why there was the need for Jesus to come. Some families uh on Christmas Day will put an envelope on the Christmas tree, and uh that envelope, uh there's money put in that, and that's the gift to Jesus. We're celebrating his birthday, and it's for a needy family or for some diaconal matter or perhaps it's for a mission project. It's for something that is for him. And so we are showing it's not just about what we get, it's what we give because we love him. Our kids are vulnerable. You kids, it's really hard. You know, all your friends are just talking about what they get, get, get. And I think this is an important area where fathers, dads need to Take some leadership so that we're able to say, you know, let's get the family together. Here's how it's going to be different this year. Here's how we can celebrate this to the Lord. How it can be something that's helpful to us rather than something that we just survive and get through and all the rest of that. If you're looking for some ideas, just Google Focus on the Family. Go to their website, Focus on the Family. They give you, there's always ideas there about Christian traditions, people's ideas of how to make uh the season more meaningful as a Christian. Think about it now. Now's when you gotta do it. Not a week from now, two weeks gonna be gone. Right now, this afternoon. How are we gonna establish something that's meaningful? to help us to celebrate this holiday to the Lord. And then the last point, be Christ-centered in it. Again. He who regards one day is special does so to the Lord. It's to him. Notice All the times he says it's to the Lord. Verse six, it's to the Lord. You see it there in yellow on the screen. We don't de live to ourselves, we don't die to ourselves. If we live, we live to the Lord. If we die, we die to the Lord. So if we live or die, we We belong to the Lord. Six times Paul there says that if you celebrate a day, it's to be to the Lord. It's Christ-centered. It's not Lord, uh, excuse us, but for a month we're just going to find our joy in this world, and then we'll get back to you. You can't do that. There is no joy in the season. The joy is in Christ. A lot of happiness, a lot of bubblies. But if you're going to find joy this season, then it's going to be because you find it in Christ. Now it's I kind of smile when people say, you know, this year Christmas is on Sunday. That's a problem. Okay. You know what? It's not a problem. It's a test See the question is, because Christmas is on Sunday, is this place going to be all sparse? Because we're saying, well, you know, it's Sunday. I mean that doesn't fit. What do you worship service on Sunday or Christmas? You know, they don't go together. What do we say? Oh, yeah, that's great. It's to the Lord. Now we're going to have special services. It's going to be different. It's going to be two one hour services, 9 30 to 10 30, 11 to 12, no middle hour. singing, meditation on Christmas. But how do we s do we see that as an opportunity? You see, or is our is our focus on, yes, I want to take advantage of Advent, of this season. To know Christ, to speak for Christ, to help our family to worship Christ, to understand the gospel better, to understand why it is that Jesus came. To be able to come to him and say, this afternoon, how do I restrict my insane schedule so I don't get sucked into the vortex? Schedule in some downtimes to spend with the Lord. Times where you take carols and you unpack them. You look at the words of the carol and you use it just for personal worship. Well, you look at messianic prophecies. Where you look, you know, hey, messianic prophecies, next three weeks. This year I'm doing the book of Jeremiah. Now there's a happy Christmas book, right? Jeremiah, to a complacent people who were in trouble and didn't know it. We're going to cover Jeremiah, the messianic prophecies of Jeremiah, in three weeks. And they are precious. But to really understand them, you need to read the book. So why not say, okay, I'll read the book of Jeremiah in connection with Matthew 1 and 2 and Luke 1 and 2? And enter into the hope of Jesus coming and why he came and why I so long for him to come again. God made Sabbath for his people to be a people of rest. And there is no time that we need that more than in December in our culture, right? Scott Hafman, who wrote an excellent book, The God of Promise and the Life of Faith, says on page 40 in that book. Every attempt to squeeze a reason for living out of this world in isolation from its creator ultimately runs dry. Leaving the idolater unfulfilled, frustrated, and bitter. The insufficiency of creation is a billboard for the sufficiency of God. He alone can meet our deepest needs. For this very reason, Christ was born, lived, and died, and returned to life so that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. What's Christmas about? It's about a Savior who came to bring peace to a people who were determined to find their peace in this world. Some of the worst blow ups in our family have been during Christmas time. The very most painful time I can think of of a blowup in our family was on a perfect Christmas morning. The blow-up was about what order to open the gifts And it turned from a disagreement to screaming and sobbing and brokenness. And I was part of that. I can think of New Year's Eve going out to dinner. One New Year's Eve. One daughter wouldn't let the other daughter in the backseat of the car World dressed to go out and have a great time and this is the perfect evening. And they start screaming and yelling and fighting. He said, forget it. We'll never even go out to dinner. I can think of other fights during Christmas Eve and others. Why is that? Why is that a time that we look at and say, this is going to fulfill the joy and the hopes Because the day can't deliver on its false promises. And if you and I don't go to Jesus Christ We become self-absorbed. We become grasping and fighting to make this season the perfect one. And that means control, and that means you must fit into what I want and how I design it. And Jesus Christ came for sinners. Like you and me that are so grasping and controlling and needy in order to die so that we'd be forgiven. And so that we'd be free from all that self-absorption. In Luke chapter two In verse 14, the angel said, Concerning his birth, glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to man on whom his favor rests. And we want to know that peace, don't we? You want to know that peace. That peace is found in the person of Jesus. It's not found in the season. The season has a bunch of delights which can enhance the celebration. For the peace is in Jesus. Verse 19: Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. You're going to schedule as an appointment time to ponder these things in your heart this next four weeks. It's not going to happen because it's not full yet. It will get full in the next few days, believe me. You need to schedule appointments with the Lord to have those special times. Verse 20. The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, which were just as they had been told. So you and I come to celebrate the fact that Jesus has come for sinners. To forgive us, to bring us that joy. And yet just the taste of it now as we look forward to the fact that He's coming again and we can hope in His return. That return where he will outshine the richest Christmas morning that you could imagine, ever imagine in all your wildish, childish longings and delights Not focused on yourself. That's when you get agitated. That's where the meltdowns come. But when you and I see him in all his glory We will be totally self-forgetful, self-unaware, as we see him in his radiance. as the shepherds who saw just a glimpse and returned, glorifying and praising God. What will it be like when that morning, when we see Him, the season is to cultivate that hope? Let's pray. Lord, we are so foolish. We are so like children who want to grasp the first toy that they get. We so long for the tangible over the intangible, the immediate over the wait and the hope We get so sucked into this world that when we pull into a parking lot and we see people running around crazy with their bags full, we think, what's wrong with me? I'd better get going. We get anxious. We get consumed. Oh God, deliver us. Deliver us from the insanity of our culture. That in all of its crazed greed, in all of its emptiness and hollowness, look for fun in the latest technologies and the Xbox and the rest of the things that we can acquire so that we can stash it And then find the hollowness that follows so quickly. Lord Jesus, how we thank you that you came for people like us. To deliver us from that hollowness. We pray that you would grant to us the wisdom and the discipline now, this afternoon, as families. To get together to talk about what this Christmas will be like, how it will be different, what the priorities are, so that we don't come a month from now needing to recover Needing to get reacquainted with you and telling you once again we're sorry for how this month went, but that we can enjoy it because it is a delight. It has the potential for joy. In many delights. And so, Lord, teach us what it means to celebrate this day to you, to worship you and to enjoy you, to feast on you. Show us, Lord, how to do that, each in our families. Help us as dads and fathers to take the spiritual leadership in bringing sanity into our homes. We pray, pray that you'll help us, each of us, in whatever our circumstance is, to know what it means to celebrate this season to you because we love you.