A couple of weeks back, U. S. News and World Report ran this ad. I don't know if anybody Saw it. It was uh I only saw it one time. But uh whether you can see it very well or not, uh it's a movie theater Sort of like this, you know, and there's a screen up there, kinda like this, and on this movie theater there are two priests, and uh one has uh big Looks like a trash can full of money. And he's saying to this other priest who's got a kind of a beatific expression on his face, looking up toward heaven, you know, and he's saying, Looks like we saved the orphanage, father. All you needed was a little faith. You know, here's all these people looking. And then the byline over there, I don't know if I ought to mention who this is. It's uh I will because it relates. This is a prudential insurance. And they say on the side over there. Now here you get see you gotta see the contrast. It looks like we saved the orphanage, Father. All you needed was a little faith. And then over here it says in the real world, if you haven't made solid plans for your future, you haven't got a prayer. Now that is one of the most blatant expressions of the fact that faith is something for fairylands, the movies, a couple of befic-looking priests that probably don't even know how to play pool or deal a hand or something. I don't know. I mean the whole idea is that these guys are just totally out of touch of the real world. Faith is something for the movies. But in the real world you gotta build on the rock which is prudential. Well, I think that when we talk about the Holy Spirit We can adopt something in that kind of mentality, can't we? You know, let's talk about the Holy Spirit. We're in church this morning. It's Pentecost Sunday. Let's talk about spiritual truths. And we'll get kind of beatific expressions on our faces, and we'll have our Bibles open and we take notes, you know. And then we say, now when we finish with that, Tomorrow we'll get back to the real world, and in the real world, if I don't make plans and work things out on my own, I haven't got a prayer. And so we we live with this kind of dichotomy, don't we? This idea that is expressed so so uh explicitly in that ad that faith and the real world don't mix. Truths of the spirit and how you really cope with life are not really compatible. There's something to sing about but not something to live about. I'd like to challenge that and I'd like for us to be able to see this morning as we go through the Holy Spirit. The idea is this third in this series on the Spirit. That these are truths that are for the real world and are real living today and tomorrow, in the struggles that you'll wake up to and wish that you didn't have to face, the things that you dread, the fears that you have. The things that make your stomach clutch, your pulse race, and all the rest of that, that you'll see that these are things for the real world. Now, we've talked about Three things about the Spirit in this series, finishing today because it's Pentecost. First one was we looked at the Spirit as a change agent. And do you remember we saw there from Acts 2? If you remember, Peter gave this message, the first Christian message in Acts 2 on Pentecost. And in that message, he had presented Jesus Christ as the one who rose in the real world. That he had in fact received the Spirit in the real world, and that Spirit had come to live in his church to enable the church to live in the real world. And when the people heard that, these very same people who had a few weeks before cried out, crucify him, or had watched as the Lord of glory was taken away, whipped And beaten and then crucified. These same people, when they heard this, verse 37, they were cut to the heart. And they said to Peter and the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And then we read in verse 41 that a number of them, 3,000, accepted this message, were baptized, and the result was that they were changed people. Verse 42. They devote themselves to the apostles' teaching, to fellowship, breaking of bread, to prayer. They're filled with uh awe. They share everything in common. They sell their possessions. If anyone has need, they give to them. They're transformed. In their character. Because the Spirit is the ultimate change agent in our lives. We saw secondly that the Spirit is a gift to us. In verse 38, Peter replied, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit And so we saw that those four elements in chapter, in verse 38 there, all go together. The idea of repentance and forgiveness, the idea of water baptism and spirit baptism, and all these things occur at conversion. As Ken read from Luke 36, remember we looked at that to see how these things all come together. They are all joined together. You can't separate them. The gift of forgiveness and the gift of the baptism of the Spirit are joined together at the point in which a person comes by faith to trust in Jesus Christ. And verse 38 will not let you separate those things. And then in verse 39, we come finally today to this idea of promise. The Spirit is a promise. And so look at verse 39 of God's Word, Acts chapter 2. The promise is for you and your children, and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. Now the fact that the Spirit is spoken of there as a promise, I think is far more significant than we first realize. If you just read that verse, the promises for you and your children, you tend to think that The idea of the promise is simply that he was foretold and now it's come to pass and that's about it. But there really in the New Testament understanding of this is a lot more to that idea than simply the fact that this was something foretold. There's a powerful truth here for the real world. I want to demonstrate this to you by that statement you see in your bulletin outline That the Spirit is given to every believer in Christ, which is then a promise. And I want to finish that sentence in three ways. That you see, first of all, that that That the Spirit is given to every believer in Christ, which is a promise of grace undeserved That's the first point, that he's a promise of grace undeserved. That's the main thing I want to drive home for you to see this morning, and I want you to see how practical that is. This really excites me because There's something here that can transform your life and my life when we feel helpless and hopeless in seeking to live the Christian life and try to do it on our own. The insight here is something that you and I need to understand. So try to follow along closely. I've written out a number of things here so that you're able to see them. The Spirit is called a promise a number of times in the New Testament. That's very significant. Let me just remind you of a couple of those. And they're particularly in Luke's writings, what Jesus said and how Luke recorded it, in Luke chapter 24, for instance, in verse 49 And Jesus says, I'm going to send you what my Father has promised, but stay in the city till you've been clothed with power. Now the Greek, the phrase really is, I'm going to send you the promise of my Father. So the emphasis is on the fact that he is the promise. And then that's reiterated in Acts chapter 1. In Acts chapter 1 in verse 4, you have this same phrase. On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he gave them this command, do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift my Father promised. The promise of my father. It's the same idea there again. He is the promise. And then in verse 33 of chapter 2, right up here, we talk Peter's talking about Jesus in his resurrection. He says he was exalted to the right hand of God. He's received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit has poured out what you now see in here. Verse 39. that we're looking at right now. The promise is for you, for your children, for those who are far off, as many as the Lord our God shall call. You see, again and again he's emphasizing the Spirit is a promised spirit. Now why is that important? Again, not just because you see that he is fulfillment. It's because the word promise is freighted with a lot more meaning in the New Testament. And so what I've tried to do is capsulize that by some of these statements that you see in your bulletin outline. The promise in the New Testament is in contrast to law. Promise is always in contrast to law, not simply to what's not promised, but in contrast to law. What do I mean by law? Well, I'm talking there about the law principle, that is, the idea of my ever deserving any favor or blessing from God. That principle. The idea of promise is utterly in contrast to that. It's utterly antithetical to the idea of by law that I can earn, that I can deserve, that somehow I can get up in the morning and I can say, God, I have a right to your favor today. Yesterday I pulled it off and I've uh had good prayer time and I uh have uh been kind to the family and I didn't kick the dog and I gave some money to somebody that needed it and I've done some things. And so Lord now I have come to a place where I deserve for you to be nice to me. Give me a break today. I deserve it. You see, promise is an utter contrast to that. Give you a couple of examples of that. Look at Romans chapter 4. Romans chapter 4, Paul's making this very point. Concerning Abraham, Paul says in Romans 4. 13, it was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise. that he would be heir of the world, but through the righteousness that comes by faith. For if those who live by law are heirs, then faith has no value, and the promise is worthless. It's either by law or it's by promise. And if it is by law, then the promise is worthless, because the law brings wrath, and where there is no law, there is no transgression. Therefore, the promise comes by faith, you see, not by what we do So that it may be by grace and may be guarantee to all Abraham's offspring, not only those who are of the law, but those who are of the faith of Abraham. Thank you remember I've spoken about that before and I've given to you the example, the old old example, about Dean, my son, and my promising him a 10-speed bike. Now as long as long as I've used this illustration, I still never give him the key to the t a ten-speed bike, and maybe if I ever give him a ten-speed bike, I won't be able to use this illustration anymore. But you remember the idea that was if I promised him, I say Dean, I got a promise for your birthday Next fall or for Christmas, I'm going to give you a 10-speed bike. And he says, great, I got a promise. Is that really a promise? Yeah, it's a promise, Dean. You can count on it. And then I say, but now there's just one thing I want to add to that. You remember how I've shared with you that I tell them then, you know, you gotta do all your chores, you gotta keep your room straight. You gotta get uh decent grades, you know, A's, maybe a couple B's thrown in, we'll throw in a little grace there. And uh you you can uh Not uh bug your sister, at least not more than once a week, a little bit more grace. And you gotta be a really you know, you gotta do the things that we expect for you to do around the house. What's Dean do? You know, well, you know, I don't know about your kids, but he'd throw up his hands, he'd say, Forget the promise. It's zip zilch, it's worth nothing, because I will never inherit that promise. You see, he just made it law rather than promise. And so now he he has no hope of a promise because a promise, by its essence, has to be by grace. So when po when Peter says this promise of the gift of the Spirit is for you, then no Christian I don't care how spiritually he makes it sound, can ever tell you there are conditions for your receiving the Spirit and His baptism Because if there are conditions that you fulfill, the Spirit is by law. The Spirit has come because of the conditions that Jesus has fulfilled. And therefore he is a promise to you upon the reception of Jesus and his forgiveness. You see that? Why that's so free? Now give me a I thought I heard something over there. That's good. Somebody got the point, yeah. Galatians chapter 3, another example of the same kind of thing. In Galatians chapter 3, Paul's making this point. In chapter 3, verse 18, he says, for if the inheritance depends on the law, then it no longer depends on a promise. But God in his grace gave it to Abraham through a promise. Now what was that promise? What was the promise he gave him? Some real estate in Palestine, right? No. Look at verse 14. It tells you what it was. Jesus is saying there, redeemed us in order that the blessing given to Abraham may come to the Gentiles through Jesus Christ. What is that? So that by faith we might receive the promise of Palestine, right? No. So that we receive the promise of the Spirit. That's the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. It's the promise of the Spirit. And how is that promise received? Not by law. That's what he says in verse 18. It's by what Jesus did that we receive as a free gift. At the point we receive Jesus. And so then he goes on, verses 21 to 29, part of which we read this morning, to talk about what the law does is that it hems us up to Christ. It shows us that We can never attain a righteousness by what we do to try to discipline the flesh or to follow Jesus or any of the rest of that. But rather what it is, is that Jesus has come and so faith has come and that by that we receive the promise of the Spirit, that promise which Paul goes on to say is the promise of sonship. The Spirit makes us his sons by an adoption by grace. It's not by what you and I ever do to deserve God's favor on us. It's not something that we ever come to say, I have now come to the place where I can attain to this, and therefore now I am on a spiritual level. You see, many Christians of us, we look at this whole idea of the Spirit and we ask, how do you get the Spirit to be close to God? How am I able to love God more and to love people more? How am I able to do what the Bible says to do? Well, it seems like certain people are just kind of spiritual by their temperament, but not me. I'm just not like that. Or maybe it's that you have to be more disciplined, more devotional, more obedient. There's something you have to do to get onto this closer level with God, this higher plane where the Spirit is real in your life. And that just leaves me out, so I guess I'm relegated to a second-class Christian life. I'm just not of that devotional kind of temperament. I you know I'm not disciplined in my life. You know, I make goals and all I do is they just uh haunt me with the stuff I don't do, you know, and all the rest of that. What is it then? You see, well, what that's doing is that we are just renewing that old sacred secular distinction of pre-reformational thinking. That, you know, people that just kind of work in the work-a-day secular world always will be consigned to live on a kind of a second plane second-class Christian walk with God. You gotta be a monk or a nun. You see, you gotta you gotta have that special devotional life where you're kind of cloistered away to then get the spirit in some particularly close way with God. Then you can live on that victorious plane. But you know, for the rest of us that have to kind of live by our wits, that live in the real world, rather that world of faith the Spirit isn't really very meaningful to us. You see that contrast? You understand? And you see, that's exactly what Paul is trying, or excuse me, Peter. What Peter in this message is trying to break down in our thinking. He says this promise, he's the gift that's given to you. Jesus has inherited the Spirit. He's come now in this new age as a promise for you. And so look again at the bulletin because it's very important to get these distinctions. Just as your relationship with God is established through faith in Christ, that's the next outline. is established through faith in Christ, so also your growth in that relationship is by what? Faith. Keep more. A couple little mutterings. Say it. Faith, you see. Just as your relationship with God is established through faith in Christ. So also your growth in that relationship is by faith. You see, it's not, you don't switch to works and obedience for that. That's the whole point of Galatians chapter 3. Remember Galatians chapter 3, Paul says in verse 2, he says, Now I'd like to learn one thing from you. Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Very clear, Acts 2. 38-39, you receive the Spirit by believing. But then he goes on. He says, no wait, think of the implications of that. Verse 3, are you so foolish? After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort? Ah, you know, you say, well, I've got the Spirit. He somehow comes to dwell within me by faith in Christ. But in order to live by the Spirit, you know, then I've got to discipline the flesh in order to do it. Well, you know, Paul's saying, wait a minute, he says, you got this whole thing totally backwards. It's inconsistent. If you receive the Spirit as a promised gift by faith, Then you walk in the Spirit, you grow in the Spirit by that same kind of faith, that same faith which says, I am unable to do anything on my own. And so, for you and for me, our growth in the Christian life, then, back to the bulletin, our growth in the Christian life is only by the Spirit. That's the next blank. Our growth in the Christian life is only by the Spirit who is the promise of grace. Acts 2. 39. He is the promise for you. Now get this. Not because you obey. but to enable you to obey. So it's just in that point in your life when you feel the most defeated and you say. I feel so far removed from Jesus and I feel so powerless and hollow. And the Spirit is so distant in any sense of his power Therefore, I am in a hopeless situation that the Bible comes and it says, no, it's precisely at this point that Jesus Christ comes to meet you. It's precisely at this point that you are in the best position to be able to receive the fullness of the Spirit that you already have living in you. Because the Spirit comes to you in your brokenness. And that brokenness is irresistible for him to come to fill you. You are in the position now where you're not going to mess up what he's trying to do by your own efforts. where you and I are going to going to undercut his power by our self-sufficiency, you see. It's at that point. The ironic thing is as soon as the Spirit begins to work and we begin to then get out of the pit a little bit, then we say, ah, I get the hang of it now. This is what you do. And we so, in some superstitious kind of notion, we sort of try to repeat what we did in order to get out of the mess. And the Spirit's got to bring us right back to humble us again to say, no, it wasn't what you did, dummy. It is what I was doing in you, and you were able to experience my power when you realized that you get my power and not So that you will be able to obey. You know, that somehow you're going, I mean, excuse me, you don't get my power because you have finally learned to obey, but you get my power so that I will enable you. To love and to draw close to Jesus and to be able to meet this overwhelming circumstance in your life, whatever it is. You see, that's good news. And that's what Peter wants us to understand here. And so you see, he even emphasizes that in verse 39 by saying, This promise is for you, your children, for all who are far off, and for all whom the Lord our God will call. And you see, by emphasizing that faith is given to those who God calls to himself, he's emphasizing that the whole thing is by grace. that it's God's grace operative in us from the very moment of our initial response to Jesus Christ all the way through at every point in the Christian life. And so again back to the bulletin you see what I've listed there, the next contrast. You get the Spirit by what? Believing. You get the Spirit by believing. That's what Acts 2, 38-39 says. You see? Repent, be baptized, believe the gospel. And the gift of the Spirit, the promise of the Spirit comes to you. And so you grow in the Spirit by what? Faith. Believing. Same thing, you see. We tend to think you get the Spirit by believing, you grow in the Spirit by obeying. No, you get the Spirit By believing and you grow in the spirit. I'm glad somebody didn't say obeying. I had to just point you out and say, no, you haven't been listening for the last 15 minutes. But that's not easy. We got the right answer. Thanks, Don Marie. It's by believing. Our growth in the Christian life is by believing He is the promise, you see. That's the point of that, that He's the promise, and so therefore we grow in Him by believing. Believing what? Believing the gospel. Believing the gospel that you and I are in a hopeless condition apart from Jesus Christ who takes his record of righteousness and obedience and love. And he takes that record and because of his death on the cross and his resurrection, he is able to transfer that record to our accountants, so his record counts as our record before God. And because of that, you and I are able to come before God with a clear conscience. We believe the gospel, and we believe that that gospel which has given to us new life in the righteousness of Jesus gives us also the Spirit to work in us that righteousness. That He does that. He works out that character of Jesus in us. And makes us to be experiencing what we have in Christ in our day-to-day walk with Him. Believing is only by God's grace. And so you and I think we need to discipline the flesh harder, you see. And God keeps trying to teach us, keeps trying to help us to see the promise of the Spirit, the brokenness that comes to claim that promise is really the best news that you and I can receive. Because it places us in that position where we are able to experience the spirit that we have. How does that apply to your life this morning? What's an area of defeat that you see that God is trying to get your attention That you might at this point be able to say, Lord, I keep trying, I keep trying to join together this idea of my discipline and your availability, and it's not working. Let's take just a moment now to pause and take that specific area and let's bring it before him and apply what God's been teaching us right now. Let's just take a moment of quiet in our own thoughts before we go on. Or some of us may be feeling confused now, and we're saying, I I want to believe this And it doesn't even seem like I'm able to believe it. That's true. It's as many as the Lord our God shall call. And so we pray, Lord, that you would build faith in us. Grant to us that faith by which we lay hold of Christ and can see what you're trying to teach us. That in our brokenness, that in our helplessness, that you would come to meet us, that you would show us the power of the Spirit in that matter That is too strong for us, that enemy which is threatening to conquer us in our lives this morning or this week Lord, we seek now by faith to give it into your hands. We acknowledge and confess our helplessness And that the Spirit has been given as a promise to us. A promise in contrast to our deserving anything of your blessing or favor. And so, Lord, we come now in the merits of Jesus Christ to receive your Spirit and His power in this particular area of our life. And pray that you'll enable us to act on that faith this week, to believe that you will be faithful to us, whatever it is, and honor yourself through that. In Jesus' name. Amen. And I just want to add a couple last points to this to kind of nail home some things here from verse 39. Do you believe that promise is to you personally? That's the second point there. This promise is to you personally. You see what he says? The promise is for you. Now, of course, that's talking about the people who were standing there that day at Pentecost. But he was being specific. He's saying this promise is for you people that are standing right before me. And for your children, and then he brings us into it. Because he says then for all those who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. And so this all is including you and me. If you are trusting Jesus Christ this morning as your Savior and Lord That promise includes you. It is all, no exceptions. Every one of you who trust in Jesus Christ, he says, this promise of the Spirit in your life. To enable you to live according to what the Bible says and know the fullness, the joy, the contentment, and the peace that is promised. That is for you Not for super saints. Not for people who are devotional and live in the kind of picture that we displayed that Prudential shows in that ad. It's for you and for me in the real world. What's it take for you to believe that it's for you? Does Jesus have to come here on the stage in the flesh and say to you, this really is for you? I mean you. Come to me. But do you know what he's done? In the way that God has ordained the church to function, he has appointed me as messenger. And from his word now, he has said to me that I am to invite you personally to come to Jesus in the way that I've just done. That you come and believe him. Bring your burden. Bring your need. Bring the fact that you wonder what you've gotten yourself into in that pledge to the Vision 91 campaign. How am I ever going to fulfill that? How am I ever going to pay the bills and how am I going to manage the finances of the coming months and years? You come to Jesus and you bring that. He says, come, this promise is for you personally. Where you look at your job and the discouragement of your job or your lack of a job. And you look at your needs in that area, the tensions of that job. Jesus has come to me personally and bring that need, that burden. Let me come and carry it. When you look at your family and the stress, the tension, the brokenness of certain relationships and things that are going on there and you say Lord what can I do? I don't know how to handle this Jesus has come to me. This promise of the Spirit is for you because I have inherited that Spirit. I've gained him. And I give him to you as the gift to enable you to live this week in my power. So Jesus is inviting you and for me to come. And he's invited you personally. I hope you see that. This promise is for you. For all who the Lord our God will call. Not a special subset of Christians who do something else, that receive the baptism of the Spirit and His fullness in some way that is not for all of His people. Then finally, the last thing to see is that this promise is so vast and yet certain. This promise is so vast and yet certain This promise is for you and your children and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. This vast multitude is before Peter as he stands there, thousands and thousands and three thousand of them respond to this message and trust Jesus Christ that day And the Bible says that's just the merest first fruits. That's the whole point of Pentecost. Pentecost is the first fruits of the wheat harvest. And the Bible is saying this 3,000 is just the very first fruits of the harvest of the nations that are going to come to Jesus. And so the Spirit is continuing to do that to this day, and he's adding to the Church of Jesus Christ this day nearly 10,000 a day in Latin America alone. Because he is irresistibly calling, as many as the Lord our God shall call, and he's calling people to himself. I love the way Charles Spurgeon expressed this in one of his messages. He's talking on the text. That many shall come from the east and the west and shall sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. And he says this about that. I just love the way he puts this. He says, Oh, I love God's shells and wills. There is nothing comparable to them. Let a man say shall and what's it good for? I will, says a man, and he never performs it. I shall, says he, and he breaks his promise. But it is never so with God's shells and wills. He says shall and it shall be. When he says will, it will be. Now he has said here, many shall come. Or in this text, As many for all whom the Lord our God will call. The devil says they shall not come, but they shall come. You yourself say, we won't come. God says, you shall come. Yes, there's some here, some that you work with, some that you talk to. That are laughing at salvation and scoff at Christ and mock at the gospel, but I tell you some of them shall yet come. Watch you say, can God make me become a Christian? I tell you yes. For herein rests the power of the gospel. It doesn't ask your consent, but it gets it It doesn't say will you have it, but it makes you willing in the day of God's power. The gospel wants not your consent, it gets it. It knocks the enity out of your heart. You say, I don't want to be saved, Christ says you shall be. He makes your will turn around and you cry, Lord, save for I perish. Ah might heaven exclaim, I knew I would make you say that, and then he rejoices over you. Because he has changed your will and made you willing in the day of his power. If Jesus Christ were to stand right here on this platform this morning, What would many of you do with him? If he were to come and to say, here I am, I love you, will you be saved by me? Not one of you would consent if it was left to your own will. He himself said, No man can come to me except the Father who has sent me. Draw him. Ah, we want that. And here we have it. They shall come. They shall come. You may laugh, you may despise us, but Jesus Christ shall not die for nothing. If some of you reject him here, there are some who will not. If there are some here who are not saved, others shall be. Christ shall see his seed. He shall prolong his days The pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. They shall come, and nothing in earth or heaven or hell. can stop them from coming. Amen. Keep that in mind this week when you're talking to somebody and you say, ah, they'll never come. You see, the spirit is working in power. Prison fellowship works around the world in prisons. Philip Yancey went with one of the workers some couple of years ago. And he recounted his experiences in those prisons. One particular prison in Peru, it was a prison of abominable Uh conditions, Yancey says he he was so profoundly impressed by the horror of the surroundings of the prison and these prisoners, some who were prisoners who were felons, murderers, and rapists and the rest, others who were political prisoners. But he said, in that surrounding The contrast of the horror of the surroundings and the peace and serenity and joy of the prisoners as they sang hymns to Jesus Christ was something he'll never forget. In one particular block, he was singing with a group of 120 prisoners singing in four-part harmony hymns to Jesus Christ. And the person next to him whispered, he says, 35 of these men will soon be executed. Now what can bring that kind of peace and joy? Only the Holy Spirit. It's not natural. He talks about a situation of a fellow in Ghana, Dr. Appyinda Athas, who was a political prisoner, who was brought into prison, not a believer. One day he was blindfolded and brought out with a group of other prisoners. They were marched out for execution. They lined them all up and then fired. Turned out to be blanks, and they all laughed as the prisoners all crumbled in fear and shock, believing that they must be dead and just not understanding what was going on. Took him back into that kind of torture and malicious treatment. He finally got out. Excuse me, before he got out, he got a Bible in that prison. He read the scriptures, he fell down in his cell, and he committed his life to Jesus Christ. And he said, if I could ever get out of here, Lord, I am yours. Jesus Christ gave him a new peace, an ability to live in that prison, and he was released from that prison. Following up on his promise to the Lord, he went to Fuller Seminary. Got a degree, and where is he now? He could be here free, but he's gone back to Ghana to work in the prisons to share Jesus Christ The Spirit alone can change a person like that. The Spirit alone can change you and me. Amen? Amen.