Want uh to um ask you to turn in your copy of the scriptures to Second Corinthians chapter five. We're gonna um look at part two to a message that we started last week and uh um That's the Lord's blessing on um showing us what he would have us to see here. It's an honor again to be able to stand and and proclaim his word Before I read the text, what I'd like to do is ask you to consider, to put in your mind a question. Why did you come to Columbia Presbyterian Church this morning? Why did you come? Why did you get in your car and come to this place at this time? What motivated you to do it? Why are you here? Why are you staying? And it's for a psychology class to figure out why you sat where you sat But it's for us to consider in this time why we're here. And so, as we are prone to do with rhetorical questions, I want to offer to you some options. Why did I come to CPC this morning? Option one. I'm gripped and amazed. That God would reconcile Himself to me through the Lord Jesus Christ that his life would be lived as a substitute for me. His death would be s satisfied would satisfy the justice of God And through that life substitute and that death substitute, I have full pardon and full acceptance with the Holy God. And my sins are taken care of the way they're supposed to be. And I marvel at that. And I came today to rejoice in that. I came today to to glorify God with my need of Him. I came today to praise Him. With songs of praise and adoration. I came today to fellowship with other believers to glorify God as I fellowship. That's option one. Option two. I came to CPC this morning because I'm obliged to be here. It's my responsibility to be here. I'm a believer. Believers do this. That's why I'm here. I'm not on the golf course, like some I saw on the way here. I'm not cutting my grass or weeding my lawn Like those that I passed on my way here. I'm here because it's my duty, my responsibility to be here. I'm not running around the jogging track like those I saw as I drove here today. That's option two. Option three, I'm here because I was invited by somebody who cared enough to risk me ridiculing them with an invitation to come to church. I used to go to church and I can't quite remember why I went to church and I don't really and can't tell you why I stopped going to church, but I'm here today at someone's invitation. That's option three. Option four, I'm here today because I'm trying to figure out this thing that you call Christianity My spouse talks about it. My mom and dad seem to live it. And I want to figure out what you're talking about when you talk about Christianity. Our God is reconciled. What does that mean? How does that apply to me? The option four carries with it this idea that I'm here today to try to figure out how to fill up this emptiness There's something nagging inside, and I've tried a couple of different things, maybe more than a couple, that the world had to offer me, and I'm still empty I'm still not satisfied. I'm still not filled, and I'm here today because I'm trying to figure this thing out. That's option, what are we on, four? Option five, my parents made me come. That's a quick one. Option six, my spouse made me come Why did you come to CPC this morning? Why are you here? Why are you staying? I think it's good to think these things through. Maybe you didn't see yourself in one of those options. You know, in the first five or six options, I see myself in a couple of them. It's kind of weird though, but that's the way we're designed. We're kind of multifaceted individuals, and I can find myself in several of those, but maybe you'd like another couple of options offered I hear that reconciliation is supposed to cause my heart to joy and cause my mind to wonder, and it's not happening for me. And I want it to. And that's why I'm here. Or maybe a second alternative option. I know that exposure to God's word and the message of the good news that Jesus Christ has reconciled lost man to holy God is supposed to change the way I behave. And it's not doing so on a consistent basis, and I'm here because I'd like to see that With risk of sounding like the opening to a VeggieTales cartoon, have I got a text for you? If you fit one or more of those options, boy, do we have a text for ourselves today. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. I'm going to start in verse 14 this week and in chapter 6 and verse 2, but listen again. Read along. I'm reading from the New King James King For the love of Christ compels us, because we judge thus, that if one died for all, then all died. And he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves. But they should live for him who died for them, and they should live for him who rose again. Therefore, from now on, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation Behold, old things have passed away, and behold, all things have become new. And all these things are of God. Who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ and has given us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ as though God We're pleading through us. We implore you on Christ's behalf. Be reconciled to God. For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. That we might become the righteousness of God in him We then, as workers together with him, also plead with you not to receive the grace of God in vain. For he says, This in an acceptable time I have heard you, and in the day of salvation I have helped you. Behold now Is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. We we need to stop right there, Athnay. We're going to. We need to pray. That God Himself would uh impact our hearts with what this passage is saying Because we need to know the joy and the wonder of reconciliation with God. Let's pray together. Father, we um pause to beseech you, to request, to plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ. To um change us. Lord um point to us Point your word to us. Point us to your word. We pray, Father, that you would do that which you are famous for doing, and that is taking eternal, timeless truth. And particularizing it for each one of us, your special part of creation. And we ask you to do it in the name of the one who makes it possible, even our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Our desperate need for reconciliation. I I wanna uh at the risk of preaching too long, if you are aware of the first service you already know what happened, but I want to review just briefly the uh several points made last week because it just ties in with this week's message. So if you will, I printed it for you today. It's in that bulletin. I can in order to make the deadline that the office has for these sermon outlines, I have to do it two weeks in advance. So last week we saw from this passage that we have a desperate need to be reconciled to God. And this need is not that we're somehow partially sick or mostly dead, uh, we have a need because we are absolutely dead in our transgressions and sins And we are enemies with God at war. Remember, reconciliation brings with it the idea that there are two parties at war with one another. And there to be reconciled means to be at peace. We talked that reconciliation, then if that's our condition, then God must initiate. He must take the lead. And that is what he has done. Reconciliation belongs to our Lord. And he spought it up. Remember in our imaginary scenario where we were the creator We wouldn't come up with a plan to take care of our creature's problem ourselves. We just wouldn't do it. That's the manifold wisdom of God revealed to us. We would not think this up. We need Him to reveal it to us And God is so gracious to us as Creator and Lord that He has. He has revealed it to us. We would be left to stumble around in the darkness except that He intervened and He revealed and He gave. to us himself. So reconciliation belongs to our Lord, and reconciliation comes through Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone. There's no way to get around that. Jesus didn't leave that option open to us. He said, if anyone is to come to the Father, he must come through me. He said it in the negative, no one comes to the Father except through me. I'm the reconciler. Because in that small phrase he packed Centuries of theological study that the eternal Creator God would take on flesh, dwell among his creation. Place himself under his righteous law, fulfill that law on behalf of his creation, and then offer himself as satisfaction for the penalty that that law breaking deserved. Jesus said, if you want to come to the Father, you must come through me. There is but one way of salvation. And so reconciliation comes from God through Jesus Christ alone. And then we we looked at uh in closing that the it's almost as if Paul uh speaking to the church in Corinth, to the saints there gathered, he says Be reconciled to God. Now he's talking about their ministry of reconciliation that they've been given. They've been given the word of reconciliation. They've been made ambassadors for Christ, and he says, but I don't want you to miss this. Because it's possible that you're sitting there in the church in Corinth and you're not reconciled to God on God's terms. And he says, So be reconciled to God And you shouldn't miss this either. You could be sitting in Columbia, Presbyterian church, and not reconciled to God on God's terms. And he says to you, be reconciled to God. And then we concluded with this illustration that God was very gracious to give to to me, to my family, to us. And I tried to pin some of the little lessons there in your outline that a a child Feeling alienated from the Father, separated, isolated, alone. Fear takes over. We'll do just about anything to fend for ourselves. You know that. You've seen it work out in your in your own life You'll defend your record of righteousness to your spouse. You'll lose your patience without even a thought or regard for those that you're crushing underfoot. We'll do some weird stuff to fend for ourselves when we're not connected to the Father. I threw another lesson in there. That the Father, despite my coming out and giving her the one minute signal, whichever she couldn't figure out. But the father, I was concerned for her. The father is concerned for us, whether or not we feel it, whether or not we're aware of his concern. You see, because as a sinful father, I'm concerned for Leah and I keep wanting to come out and tell her, you know, it's like this. And Jesus tells me Tim, you know, you being a sinful father know how to give good gifts. And that sweet three-word phrase, how much more your heavenly father cares for you. See if if my kids asked for a loaf of bread, I wouldn't give him a stone. Jesus knows that. And that's why he uses that. He says, listen, I want you to see something. You're wicked and you're evil and you know how to care for your kids How much more the Father cares for you. And then I threw this in because I tried to make a point of it last week, but I didn't. But it's so precious to me I assume this moral high ground on Alejandro Avila, but that assuming a moral righteous high ground didn't make me righteous father material. I commend to you Paul's word to the Galatian church, Galatians 2, 21, Galatians 3, 21. That if righteousness could be produced by the law, then Christ died in vain. It can't. We need a righteousness that comes through faith apart from the law. And that's what Jesus came to do. Amen. Praise God. And then I uh realize and I need to live in it moment by moment, now, whenever it is now, that I can be reconciled to those that my sin offends because I'm reconciled to God. I can receive by faith full pardon for my failure. I can receive by faith full acceptance and a righteous record that's not mine. It comes from an alien righteousness that I passively receive by faith. And I can receive those things and I can enter into re reconciliation with my daughter or my wife or you, whoever we whoever my sin happens to offend. It doesn't take my feeling away because when I went to pick Dana and the other girls up from the giant grocery store, I was still feeling The failure. I was still feeling the emotion of letting my daughter down, but I was walking not by sight or by senses, but by faith By faith, I was reconciled to God. And by faith, I was reconciled to Leah. And so I'd like to look at these three hours of reconciliation. I want to do a brief reminder that reconciliation is more about God than it's about us. You see, we would miss this if we just read past it. We're so self-centered that we get caught up in the fact that that we're at enmity with God, that we're that we're the warring party, that that that we're hostile towards Him. And yet We would not do ourselves any service at all if we forget the truth that reconciliation needed to take place because God is at enmity with sinners. God hates sinners. In fact, hell, the final resting place for those who reject Christ is the final expression of his divine and just hatred of sin. We're so comfortable with the phrase, love the sinner, hate the sin, and yet God will not permit that to be a part of our vocabulary as Bible believers. Because God sends sinners to hell. And so if there is anyone to be reconciled, it is God. Right? And we won't Have really feasted on the entire counsel of God if we don't make mention of that again. If we don't see that. I want you to bear this in mind. And I want to say this as as winsomely as I possibly can. I need to hear it, and so do you. Reconciliation Only extends to believers. Those who reject Christ ultimately are still at enmity with God. And I can still safely say that God loves the world. You know it's true. Because of God's common grace, because God loves his creation, you and me and the vilest of pagans can go to Outback Steakhouse and enjoy a steak dinner. When that thing hits our tongue, we enjoy it. That's God's common grace. When we hear the soothing sound of the ocean waves hitting the sand That's God's common grace. That's available to you and me and to all of his creation. To see a sunrise, a sunset, to see the beauty in that That's God's love for his world. But God's redeeming love is particular and effectual, and it extends to those who believe. And so I want to ask you a question. Are you reconciled to God on God's terms? Have you come to the place of the sinner where all he really requires of you is to feel your need of him? To know that you are not right with God and you must be made right through Christ. You know our our our vows as members that we take. Have you come to the place where you confess that because of your sinfulness, you're totally unfit, unable to come to God on your own? And that you trust salvation not in yourself, but in the Lord Jesus Christ alone. Have you come to that place? Where you've seen the futility of trying to live the righteous requirements of the law by yourself. Can you hear the voice of Jesus today saying, Come to me? All who are heavy laden and weary trying to keep the law. And I will give you rest. That's an invitation to salvation. Won't you respond today? I implore you, as if God were pleading through me, be reconciled to God. On God's terms. If if that's you, if there's something about what's just been said, the Holy Spirit prompting your heart, I we want to speak with you I want to speak with you. If if you don't want to speak with me, there's a whole boatload of elders floating around that would love to speak with you. The pastors. I'm so glad to have Steve and Peter back in the office. It was really lonely by myself. But we long to share this reconciliation, the joy, the wonder. And so if that's you, please talk to one of us. And that's just the introduction to the message. Wow, we're in trouble I want to point out the three R's of reconciliation, if you will. Regeneration, reconciliation. And the reason, the reason we do what we do, why we do, why we're here, why we've stayed, why we'll go, and in whose name we'll go. So the first part, Paul says, you're a new creation. You've been regenerated. Make a little note in your uh notes there. Ezekiel 36. Verses 24 and following. And then read that, meditate on that this week. God says, I will give you a new heart. I will cleanse you. I will cause you to walk in my statutes. I, the Lord, will do these things. That's his activity. That's it, reconciliation belongs to the Lord. And so you're a new creation. Because you were dead in your transgressions and sins, you needed to be made alive in Christ, and he's done that. Not only are you a new creation, but you no longer live for yourselves. You live for the one who died for you. You live for the one who rose again on your behalf. Sin is a serious thing. You don't play with sin. You don't entertain temptation. Try to see how far you can go without crossing some stupid imaginary line that you've concocted in your feeble finite brain, right? No, you rather listen to the the words of Jesus Christ when he says Sin is so serious, Matthew 5, that if your eye offend thee, pluck it out. There's a radical amputation that he's calling us to If your hand causes you to sin, I want you to lop it off because it's better to enter into glory maimed than to suffer the fires of hell with your body intact. Now listen, lest you leave this place with the burden of the law heavily resting on you again, I want you to see the context of Matthew 5. As Jesus begins this whole dissertation about you have heard it said, and I tell you, with this, I didn't come to abolish the law. You've broken the law. Now what would what would you do if you break the law? Well you just change the law. You know, you'd you kind of you'd fix it or figure out a way that lawbreakers could still be under the law. God will not do that He ceases to be God if he does do that. And so Jesus said, I didn't come to abolish the law. I came to fulfill it because you can't. And then, then He goes into the details about the seriousness of sin and the importance of obedience. You no longer live for yourselves, you live for the one who died for you. You live for the one who rose again to give you the power to live. Amen. And then you ask yourself, well, why don't I see that kind of change? Many reasons. I give you some of them. We got those options things working again. Maybe you don't see sin for what it really is. You don't see the power of sin. You don't see the destructive nature of sin, and so you don't really take it that seriously. Or maybe you take it so seriously that you're condemned by your sin and you won't move forward Maybe you don't see, maybe you underestimate the power of Christ on the cross to save you from your sins, like Alan reminded us, past, present, and future. You know, we heard this illustration, maybe you've heard it some time before, but uh You think of that baby elephant and the way they train him to stay put, they put a shackle around his foot and then they hook the chain to something that the baby elephant could never move Like a big building or a huge tree or something like that. And so he grows up with this idea that if I pull against that chain I'm not going anywhere, so I'm not going And as the elephant grows and then has the capacity to pull over a building or rip a tree up from its roots They can put the same shackle around the same leg, around the same elephant, and they can drive a little wedge, a little a little wooden stake into the ground. And when the elephant feels the pull of that chain, he still doesn't go because he doesn't think he's free. He doesn't think he's got the power to whip that little twig right up out of the ground and go. We don't think that Christ gave us the power to defeat sin in our lives, and so we remain in bondage to it. You no longer live for yourselves. You're a new creation, a radical life of obedience. Jesus calls you to And equips you for. And then the third part of regeneration, we have a new way of looking at others. New way of looking at ourselves, new way of looking at Christ, new way of looking at those around us. Because He's given us a humble heart You see, there's only two types of hearts, the proud heart and the humble heart. The humble heart sometimes creeps in pride. And God comes in and humbles. Remember Deuteronomy 8. I will cause you to hunger, and I will humble you. And the Lord is gracious to do that. Because He's the creator of all things, but He didn't just wind up the world and leave it be. He created and he's eminently involved in your life and my life. Where would we be without him? Utterly lost, hopeless, dejected. What comes to mind when you encounter sin? Your sins, other people's sins. Are you like uh my four year old this week? We were getting ready to go to cell group Thursday night and uh trying to wolf down some dinner and neither Leah, our six year old, nor Anna, our four year old were eating. So we kept giving them the law, you know, come on, you guys need to eat. We need to go, we need to eat, gotta clean up, go, you know, eat, eat, eat. And finally, just a direct one, you know, to Anna. Anna, you need to eat. And what was her first reaction? The law has been revealed. She knows she is a lawbreaker. Well, Lily not eating? She did the comparison game. Somebody else is sinning the same way I am. Why am I being accused of this sin? You know, it's what we do. We're blame shifters, we're self-promoters, we're sinful. We need Christ We need to be reconciled to God on God's terms. Maybe we see our sin and we're so bogged down by it that we we're stuck there. Maybe we're too busy looking at our sins. Robert Murray McShane, the Scottish preacher, said, For every one look you take at your sins, take ten looks at Christ. The great high priest who intercedes for you daily. The blood of Jesus shed for you, the present value, the whenever it is now value of Jesus' blood to cover you. So whenever you see your sin, take ten looks at Jesus and be reconciled to God. Reconciliation, that's the next point We don't have time, so I'll just give you this phrase. We do everything For a reason. Paul says you're an ambassador for Christ. You've been reconciled to God. You've been given the ministry of reconciliation. You've been given this word of reconciliation. Jesus said that when The Spirit is given to you, you'll be like this streams of living water that well up and flood over and spill over in everything you do. That's why we named this sermon the joy and wonder. Of reconciliation with God when we grasp this truth and rest in it, we'll be worshiping properly. John Piper says that missions exist because worship does not, and that's the reason we do what we do. We serve one another locally. In this church, in our families, in the community, we go on mission trips around the world and in the states. Why? Because we've been gripped and amazed by reconciliation with God and we want others to know it. We want to just overflow with that. How sweet the name of Jesus is. And then finally, the reason we do what we do Paul said in verse 14, For the love of Christ compels us. Would that we could develop what he's talking about here? The church where Corinth was, what was going on, the accusations that he had received. When Paul says the love of Christ compels us forward to see the love of God demonstrated on the cross. To feel and experience and rest in the pursuing love of Jesus. He chooses to love us And his love will not let us go. I didn't Want to belabor the point um here, but I think it suffice to say that we see this in many characters throughout the scriptures. God choosing love, God loving them in spite of their sin. And we could uh you know, I got a whole list here. Bunch of biblical characters where that fits. Solomon, what a perfect example. When he was born, it was pronounced God loved him. Before Solomon could do anything good or bad, and then we see Solomon doing a whole bunch of bad. And then when Nehemiah is rebuilding the temple and they're trying to use Solomon as a negative example, don't do what he did. He got caught up in all these concubines and all this other stuff. Don't do that. And then Nehemiah goes on to say And God loved him. I want you to hear that. I I need to hear that because when I sin, I don't feel God's love But he loves us so much that he gives himself for us. He loves us so much that he makes us joint heirs with Christ. He loves us so much that he makes us into the very image of Christ. He loves us enough to correct us. And to provide us with people who will correct us. He loves us in that knowing our weakness, he provides us with a regular and physical reminder of him, his body broken, his blood shed, the Lord's supper. He loves us so much that he's gone to prepare a place for us. He loves us so much that he'll come back again physically to take us to be with him. He lavishes on us the riches of his grace, both here and in eternity. He loves us completely and to the uttermost. I was trying to find an illustration of someone sacrificing themselves to conclude the sermon. I can't find a better one than John chapter 13. The Lord Jesus Christ, the Creator of all things, in him all things were created, and for him all things were created, wraps a towel around his waist and washes the feet of his disciples. And John records in chapter thirteen and verse one, knowing that his ministry on earth was done, he did this To demonstrate his love to them and he loved them to the end. That little Greek phrase there, to the end, means completely, comprehensively, to the uttermost. This is the kind of love. That God has demonstrated for us on the cross. This is the kind of love that He pursues us with. This is the kind of love that must, must compel us forward. And so last week we started with a little thing, imagine if you will. And I was going to conclude today, imagine if you will. Reconciliation with God, that kind of love, imagine what that can do to your marriage, to your family, to your service, to your prayer life. to your evangelism. I was going to say imagine what that can do, but I'd rather say correctly, live by faith what that can do Don't imagine any longer. It's here. It's for you. Now is the day of salvation. Let's pray together. Father, we please, we need you to help us equip us, Lord. We are so frail, we're so fragile. We're um So self-centered, so sinful. Lord, send your spirit To equip us, penetrate our hearts, and particularize this message for each one of us in this room in a way that only you can We offer this request to you, and we look forward to the answer from you in the name of the only one who makes it possible, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.