Dick, I'm gonna give these to you because I'll end up preaching a sermon that is not my text. Yeah, there we go. Yeah, thank you. It will make no sense. This morning, um, I have a lot to do, and by that I don't mean length I mean the weight of what this passage declares. So I will read the text this morning And just jump in straight away. It is Mark chapter 14, verses 26 to 50. This is the description of what is the long dark night for Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we now ask that you would take this word, that you would equip us, encourage us, and take us deep by your Spirit To see the beauty of who Christ is and what he has done for us and why we need it. Father, the reality of what Christ has done for us We remember in several ways. One, we remember it when we celebrate Good Friday, Easter, and we remember it every week as we hear of the gospel. We also remember it this particular Sunday because we are commemorating the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. It began before 500 years ago, but it was something that took place hundred years ago that we that we remember. Of returning to the centrality of the faith, the substitutionary atonement of Christ. And that our way into the gospel, our way of staying in the gospel, our way of growing in the gospel is by faith alone. So help us, we pray To remember Christ. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name, Amen. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. And Jesus said to them, You will all fall away, for it is written. I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter said to him, Even though they all fall away, I will not. And Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you This very night before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. But he said emphatically If I must die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said the same And they went to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. And he took with him Peter, James, and John, and began to be greatly distressed and troubled. And he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch. And going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed, prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. And he said, Ah , Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but your will. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. And he came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough, the hour has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners Rise, let us let us thus be going, see my betrayer is at hand. Immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs From the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, The one I will kiss is the man. Seize him and lead him away under guard. And when he came, he went up to him at once and said, Rabbi, and he kissed him. And they led they laid hands on him and seized him. But one of those whose who drew his sword and struck the servant on the on the the high priest and came off his ear. And Jesus said to them, Have you come out against a robber with swords, clubs to capture me? Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. Let the scriptures be fulfilled And they all left him and fled. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. As we look at this passage together, you will see in your outline It forms a narrative that enables us to see these three things which I've outlined for you. The denial, which Jesus predicts The cup which he asks to pass from him, and the arrest. The denial, the cup, and the arrest. I want to say that in pre preparation for this sermon It was my intention to have it be a be a full-throated three-point, but in its actual preparation, I don't know if I'll get to the third point. I'll do the best I can. I hope you don't mind. First, the denial that Jesus predicts The denial that Jesus predicts is the denial of Peter. And what I want you to see about this interaction are things that first are very ironic. You see, it's Peter who often is the first to open his mouth, which I find near and dear to my heart But in opening up his mouth, the first, he also is the first to get himself in trouble. Something else I find near and dear to my heart. But the irony is very thick, because several chapters before When Jesus declares what is about to happen to him, the fact that he will give himself up, that he will be crucified, and on the third day rise again. It was Peter who took great offense at that and said, no, no, this will not happen to you. In Peter's declaration, he's saying, no, it can't be that you would suffer. And Jesus said to Peter, get thee behind me, Satan But he wasn't just saying that to Peter. It was hard for any of the disciples to be able to face this declaration that Jesus gave, that he would face suffering to the point of an incredibly disgraceful death. on a cross, particularly at the hands of the Romans, and then also be raised on the third day It's ironic that now, after Peter had already said, you know, hey, listen, this cannot happen to you, that it would be Peter now that looks at Jesus. And says, wait a second. I'm not going to deny you in your suffering. No, I will be the most loyal. What a transition. First, the suffering is something that he could not face. Now it's Peter who steps forward and says, hey, listen, you said everybody's going to scatter. Not me, I will be with you. As we've heard, it was the use of Zechariah that Jesus uses to predict the denial of the disciples. But he says, truly I tell you, I listen, I will not do this. And there is the irony. That while he was earlier offended by the prospect of Jesus' suffering, now he vows allegiance with Jesus in his suffering. What that demonstrates is the second thing about this predicted denial. It demonstrates Peter's blind spot That Peter's blind spot has always been this overconfidence. This living by this idea that was also shared by the other disciples This very silent but creeping success. This will not happen to you. We want to be with you when you come into your glory. We want to be sitting next to you. Where will we be? They argued about the place of privilege. Peter's saying, hey, listen, there's no way you're gonna give up yourself to suffering. How can you give up yourself to the very people who've been against you? No way. And now he's saying yet again, as if he hasn't hasn't been taught enough that Jesus' way is not the worldly success. He now is still stuck up in the success model. But now crazy, it's about Jesus' suffering. He's saying, okay, I get the suffering part, but I'm gonna be right there with you. In other words, he has such an over -self-confidence in what he believes he will be able to do, despite all that he has seen and heard from Jesus, despite all the confrontation that he's already been given. His blind spot is he's living by the wrong model. That even though now he claims allegiance to Jesus in his suffering, he failed to see that to go with Jesus in suffering is not the way of success. But the way of giving oneself up to the will of the Heavenly Father. And that is giving yourself up to an overconfidence and reliance on yourself. Of seeing what your strengths are. And being blinded to the weaknesses. As we look back now, Peter should have been filled with a lot more self-doubt. Instructive. That we have this recorded for us. We see the journey of Peter. We see Jesus' prediction. And now we know on the other side of the work of the Holy Spirit. On the day of Pentecost, we see a very different Peter, not relying on his strength, but relying on the Lord We see the journey, but that journey is not possible unless he goes through the place of being shown his blind spots. And this is precisely where Jesus seeks to do it. He's showing Peter his blind spot. And not only his, but also so those of the disciples. And so this drama actually, before we even get to the cup, this one interaction Works as a double-edged sword, meaning it has two ways, two lessons. The first Is not as great as the second, but let me give you the first. The first lesson, not only for the disciples, but for those, for those of us who now hear it read again, it is a lesson Of what are we building our lives on? How do we view our ourselves? What I mean is I'm borrowing a phrase from David Brooks, columnist for the New York Times several years ago, leading up to his book on the development of character and how character is developed. Which is also a part of his coming to faith, talks about the way in which we live. Do we live by way of resume or do we live by way of eulogy? And he draws the contrast. Our resumes are often built on what we think our strengths are. Our eulogy is built on what our character was. The one is an illustration of all of our experience and ways in which we can contribute and build. Our eulogy is the expression of the influence of our character. And so in the process of talking about this, he learned in studying this through one particular teacher, he says There is this idea that there's an atom one and an atom two in all of us. The atom one wants to live by the standards of the world. Success. Live by your Adam too wants us to live by eulogy principles of love, redemption, and hope The one is about strength, the other is an expression of our weakness and why we need something outside of ourselves to make us a people. Who hurt and who help and love others. Here's what he says. Yes, and this was given on a TED stage, which is a remarkable speech nonetheless. He says these words. He says this through three people have gone back into their own pasts, sometimes to a precious time in their life, to their childhood, and often the mind gravitates. in the past to a moment of shame, some sin committed, some act of selfishness, an act of omission, of shallowness. the sin of anger, the sin of self-pity, trying to be a people pleaser, a lack of courage. Adam one is built by building on your strengths. Adam II is built by fighting your weaknesses. You go into your self, you find the sin which you've committed over and over and over again through your life, your signature sin, out of which all the others emerge. You fight that sin and sin and you wrestle with that sin, and out of that wrestling, that suffering, then a depth of character is constructed And we're often not taught how to recognize the sin in ourselves, in that we're not taught in the culture how to wrestle with it, how to confront it, how to combat it. We live in a culture with an atom one mentality where we're inarticulate about Adam II. And he closes with this thought. Nothing that is worth doing can be achieved in our lifetime. Therefore, we must be saved. Nothing which is true or beautiful or good makes complete sense in any immediate context of history. Therefore, we must be saved by faith. Nothing we do, however virtuous, nothing we do, however virtuous, can be accomplished alone. Therefore we must be saved by love. No virtuous act is quite as virtuous from the standpoint of a friend or a foe than from our own standpoint. Therefore we must be saved by the final form of love, which is forgiveness. What we learn in this drama with Peter, one lesson, in seeing Peter's over-self-confidence. What we see is he's living by a resume kind of world, a success world. But what Jesus does is he exposes Peter's weakness. Not to shame him, not to belittle him, but to awaken him To awaken him his need for love, forgiveness, forgiveness, hope, and faith, not in himself, but in Christ Peter cannot yet see it. Neither can the other disciples Yet Jesus, and here's the second lesson of this first part of the drama, notice the grace that Jesus has. To expose the sin and weakness of his disciples. Christianity is not a shame-based faith It is a truth and grace based face. Faith. Try to say that fast. Meaning that Jesus Explores the truth with Peter and the disciples. You will deny me three times. The rest of you will be scattered. That is the truth. But here's the other truth. It must be so, because I'm the only one who can descend to the cross. Here's the truth. Have too much confidence in yourself. I will tell you the truth of your weakness so that you can be led to the point and united with my weakness, so that in my death, for your sin, you can be redeemed. You can be renewed. in a hope not based on your resume, but a hope based on who I am. It is a grace-based faith because in so doing of telling this truth, it is not truth alone of exposing our sin. When Jesus Allows our sin to be exposed. It isn't just, well, there you go. It is a truth that leads to its solution, its covering, its forgiveness And the power of what he's about to do. It is truth and grace. This is what Jesus demonstrates for us, this first lesson, an addicted denial It is about the disciples sanctification through seeing their weakness But it is also about the demonstration of the truth of what Christ is about to do and the grace which is more than enough. It is overflowing. So what is it that he's about to do? We get to see it in the Garden of Gethsemane. It is the cup. Look with me. Beginning in verse 32, in this place called Gethsemane, Jesus tells his disciples he wants he wants to pray, but then he invites. First, he summons a particular group, and who does he summon? Peter, who's just professed self confidence. James and John, who were the sons of Zebedee, who had desired that they would have a prominent place when Jesus came into his kingdom. You remember? So these are the disciples that he calls to go with him into his hour of prayer. Again, is another part of seeing their own weakness, but it also is a part of a fulfillment that even those who are closest to Jesus would be with him in his greatest hours of suffering, friend. So it is this summons. And the irony is these sons of Zebedee were also the ones who said that they would want to drink of the cup. They can't drink of this cup. So look what it notices as we go into the text, verse 34. After he summoned them. He then, by these words, demonstrates for us the reality that he's facing. 34, my soul is very sorrowful, even death. Remain here and watch. And he would know that they were to pray because the overwhelming practice of prayer in the scriptures would have been out loud prayer. It wouldn't have been silent and often a corner by themselves. They were called to be at watch, stay awake, and pray out loud. But in this reality of what Jesus is facing, When he says that his soul is very sorrowful, what is he talking about? What is the reality that he's facing? Is it that he is looking out at the torment of the cross? It could be. But I do believe that that is what is at the heart of this these words. I believe what is at the heart of these words, that my soul is very sorrowful, even to death, is as one writer says, it's not that Jesus is being confronted with the cruel destiny that he is getting ready to walk into. It's that he knows he's getting ready to face the judgment of God. It's not the cruel nature of the cross that he is most sorrowful for. It's the fact that he knows that what is about to happen Is that all of God's judgment and wrath for sin? That has ever been committed, and that will ever be committed, that that wrath is about to be poured out to the very last drop. on his son, who was innocent of any sin, who became flesh and made his dwelling a mess. And though he observed nothing but glory, he gave it up that he might be in our place. To see it further. It's not just to see the summons of who's with him and their failure to pray. It's not just to see that the reality that Jesus is getting ready to face the judgment of God. It's even more so in the meaning of the cup that he uses as a metaphor. In his prayer, verse 36, he says, Abba Father, those very words Would never never ever have been prayed by any Jew. To even translate it as daddy doesn't get at it It is so familiar. It is such a tender and intimate name. That only Jesus dare, and only Jesus can call him Abba Father And he begins with the tenderest of language, Abba Father, all things are possible for you. Do you hear that even the Son of God praises God in all of his glory and strength? And he then says, remove this cup from me. Not, yet not what I will, but what you will. What is the cup? What is its meaning? Wine in cups is very familiar to the scriptures, but this cup is the cup of God's wrath Hear now Psalm 75. This is now God 's proclamation through the psalmist of how God uses the cup of wrath to pour out judgment. For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup with foaming wine, well mixed, and he pours it out. On all the wicked of the earth, and they shall drain it down to the dregs. Then in Isaiah chapter 51 This is now Isaiah the prophet prophesying of how God is getting ready to give out his judgment. This is what it says. Wake yourself, wake yourself, stand up, O Jerusalem. You who have drunk from the hand of the Lord, Lord, the cup of wrath. Who have drunk to the dregs, the bowl, the cup of staggering. There is none to guide her, all of the sons she has borne. There is none to take her by the hand. Among all the sons that she has brought up, these two things have happened to you, that is, to you who have drunk of this cup. Who will console you? Who will comfort you when you drink of this cup? Not his disciples. No one will console him. Devastation and destruction, famine, and sword. Who will comfort you? No one. Your sons have fainted. They lie at the head of every street like an antelope in a net. They are full of the wrath of the Lord, the rebuke of your God. The rebuke of your God. This cup that Jesus drinks is a cup not of f fine wine, but wine that that is foaming. What what that means is If you're familiar, when you stir wine really fast or when you shake it about, it has bubbles at the top because of the fermentation. But what it does is it stirs up the sediment. That's what the dregs are. It's the sediment. It's the wineskins and the stems and everything that actually give the unique character to a wine. But you don't want to drink it. But this cup of wrath is a glass cup of wine that has been stirred and poured out, and those who have to drink it to the bottom is a horrible taste. Know that what they have just done is they've drunk something according to the scriptures, and it tells us that leads to disgrace. Being caught by your enemies, staggering about, but most principally, it is a picture of the power of God and his wrath against sin must be poured out. So stop there for just a moment. What we want is we want to serve a God of love, not a God of wrath. But we cannot have a God of love without a God of wrath. What do I mean? In the event that it is not self-evident, if you have ever had someone do something to you in hurting you Or hurting, hurting, starting, starting, starting, starting, starting, sorting, sorting, sorting, something, sung, sung, sung, sung, sung someone that you love Isn't it interesting that what rises up within us is a desire for justice, for something to be done, for that hurt to be righted, for those of injured to pay the price. Where does that come from? It does not come from evolution. It comes from something completely other. It comes from the hand of the one who created us, the God of justice. So if we as human beings who fail often every day, who sin against one another and are sinned against, if what rises up within us when we are hurt or when others are hurt If what rises up within us is justice because we recognize that sin must be paid for, justice must be doled out, then why do we get so shamish when we bring up the name of God? It's because rises up within us is justice, but we also want yield. We want justice for everybody else, but we Are ashamed of the fact, and we don't want to face the fact that I have screwed up, and that God's justice can be for everybody else, but not for me. That the reality of justice also exposes how we fail And it should not make us squeamish. Because of these verses. Don't you? Because with with these verses, God's love is glib. It's just a nice afternoon story. It's someone who loves us, but doesn't care all that much about wrong We would not want to be surrounded by judges or a justice system that refuses to punish wrongdoing. And a God who refuses to point out and punish and pour out wrath on sin is a God not worthy of our worship. He's just a nice, nice old grandfather with a Snickers bar ready out to all the good boys and girls. That is not worthy of our worship. But these verses declare a God of wrath and a God of love. Why? Because we deserve this cup. But what we want is we want the good stuff. I was a professional waiter for eight years. I had to do this several times, but it was the first time that scared me to death The day prior to this important dinner party happening in the middle of the restaurant in front of everybody else, they had ordered a $500 or plus dollar bottle of wine Which meant meant they had to have it sitting things straight up down for more than 24 hours. And then at the table, very carefully, I had to bring that bottle of wine without it in any way, shape, or form being jostled about as much as I possibly could. Then I had to remove the glass covering over an open flame. I then had to bring out this $200 decanter, clear glass, very large, hold it in one hand. And before the open flame, for the entire party of the table, I had to pour this very expensive expensive bowl of wine, but making sure that that any sediment got into the decan canter. Because if that sediment into the decanter, the bottle of wine will have been ruined. And I would probably lose my job. And I remember that night, sending over that open flame, I was burning up inside. I was like, I do not want to mess this up because what happens in that moment is we want what we get paid for. We we want to take the good stuff. We don't want the dregs. But here's the beauty of what we celebrate in communion. We get the get the guff because somebody else drank the cup to the dregs. If you've never tasted of unfiltered wine and had those pieces in your mouth, perhaps you cannot understand how it just, it's horrible. You want to spit it out. But the wine we give, the wine of God's love and grace and forgiveness and hope and faith are all a gift because this Son this Savior, this Messiah, said, if there is any other way, take this cup, but not mine, but your will be done. And on the cross he takes cup. And he drinks it to last. God's wrath poured out, but God's wrath satisfied. And the invitation to the Savior is now an invitation of grace. Come, as we've already sung, come to Jesus without money Leave your resumes at home. Bring all that we are and who we are, our inner weaknesses and our sin. And come to Jesus. Because he has gone before us and taken the cup that was due to us. And in so doing, we get to taste of forgiveness. Of love, of mercy, and of grace. We can't have the love of God without the wrath of God being. Satisfied. This is what we mean. Central to the gospel of the substitutionary atonement of Christ. One in our place. Who drank the cup? So what does that mean? That means as Jesus takes of this cup And then is arrested. But even in his being arrested, he continues to show grace and mercy He comes not by way of sword. He doesn't come by way of wrath. He doesn't come under compulsion. He comes because he willingly gives himself over. He doesn't have to be arrested. He's been here the whole time. He gives himself over. You don't need clubs. You don't need swords. Here, take me. Because Christ is a willing sacrifice. And his disciples flee Jesus is in the garden and is arrested. And everyone who had pledged pledgefulness are no longer. Jesus recognizes even just being asked to pray, they are unable. That is how marvelous and how complete is the work of Christ. Though he confronts them, though he predicts It is Jesus who willingly gives himself over. And so because he is, and because he has taken on the wrath, And because he has done this for you and for me, the invitation of Christ is to any who come weary and heavy laden. Are you wearied by sin Have you been unconvinced of your sin, but now by the Holy Spirit you've come to see it? The invitation is to you to trust in Christ Because what is on offer for you today is grace and love. But the Lord will return, and the day of grace will be over. And judgment will come because judgment has already been pressed. Its execution will take place. So the invitation during this day of grace is to come and drink what Jesus offers you. And you will receive forgiveness and redemption and renewal. Jesus' long dark night gives us a brand new day And this is one of those days. It is a day of grace. Let's pray. We ask by your grace, by your spirit, help us to see how marvelous, how wonderful, how beautiful is Christ Jesus our Lord. Who took the cup of wrath and drank it to its dregs, so that we would not have to. And so we ask you, O Father, through the beauty and power of your Son, by the power of your Spirit, help us to rejoice in Christ our Redeemer.