As you're being seated, I'd like to make an announcement that was just handed to me, and it concerns a gift for each of you, should you want one. The Christmas tree located in the lobby on this end has lots of poinsettas around it. And if you would like a poinsetta following the service, feel free to have one or two. If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of John, chapter 3. As Wayne earlier said, this is a text many of us have memorized. Please join with me in prayer. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. Lord, especially this Advent season, we thank you for your word. Lord, that tells us so much about life, about the meaning of our life, about who you are, about how we can know you. And Lord, we thank you that you have blessed us with a word that It can be translated into every language on earth. Lord, it can speak to brain surgeons, it can speak to tribal peoples, it can speak to Stone Age and Rocket Age alike. Lord, it can speak to us. Father, we pray that it would do so with your blessing. Lord, use your word to reach us, to teach us, to lead us, and guide us. And Father, in the preaching that follows the reading of this one verse, Lord, we pray that in as much as it is faithful to who you are, that Lord, it would be something helpful and useful and memorable for each one of us. We ask these two blessings in Christ's name. Amen. John chapter 3, verse 16, the Word of God. For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well this year during Advent we've looked at the four traditional themes associated with the four Sundays of Advent. And while there's some variety in the way they're expressed, We chose the the one that begins with hope. So the first Sunday of Advent we looked at hope. The second Sunday, peace. Some people look at promise. And the third was joy. That was last week. And this week is love. The love of Christmas. And when I think about the love of Christmas, I'm often thinking about the love I have for Christmas. Like many of you, I love Christmas. I I love the fact that my guys are here, uh m my sons and uh One of their best buddies showed up on uh the nineteenth and we've got a full house and there's noise and games and laughter. I love family. So I love Christmas because family gathers. I love cookies. I love decorations. I love driving down the road and seeing houses lit up I love getting Christmas cards, and so far I've gotten two Christmas cards with snakes on the front. I love so many things about Christmas. I love getting presents Books, commentaries, Old Testament or new, in print or out. I've never seen a commentary I didn't like That's that's not entirely true. I have seen a couple I didn't like. Don't you love Christmas? So that kid's listening. I love Christmas, you love Christmas, we all love Christmas, but this is not what the love of Christmas is really about It's not so much about the love that we have that is sort of instigated or engendered in us when we think about a red letter day on the calendar. When we stop and ponder about the love of Christmas, just like the peace of Christmas and the hope of Christmas, it's the peace, the love, the hope, the joy. that Christmas as a property it possesses gives to us. And Christmas, in terms of just being a day or the Advent Just being a day doesn't particularly have any real power or meaning. It's what God did on that day that is the source of the hope, of the peace, of the joy. That is an expression of the love. And when you consider all of the Advent texts, all of the Bible verses or passages that could be preached, on a Nativity Sunday or on a Christmas morning, John 3. 16 must rank at the top of nearly every list. And it's about love. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son. Now, the first thing we notice about this great love is that it's a love It comes from God. For God so loved. I want you to ponder that for a moment. God loved the world so much that he did something astounding. We're going to get to that thing in a minute. But for God to so love something That says something indeed. Think about if uh Scrooge McDuck, for those of you kids who were of that generation, so loved something, what might he do? Think about if your pet dog so loved something, what might he do? You see how the way in which someone or something is capable of so loving is limited by who that lover is. Think about if I have so loved something. There are certain capacities or limitations to what that love could look like, how it could be expressed. Because I'm a man with limits and flaws. Think about yourself. If you so loved something. How that love would necessarily be impacted not just by your strengths and your assets, but by your deficits and flaws. Think about how many people on this side of heaven have loved you perfectly and purely, how many people have loved you truly without any self-interest at all. How many people have loved you in a way. that is, to quote the old poets, perdurable, lasting, and incapable of being defaced. How many people have loved you and never changed their mind or faltered even for a moment? How many people have ever loved you and never once been ashamed or embarrassed by you? You see, if God so loves something, and his love is only limited by his person His love necessarily has no limits. And that's why in Romans chapter 8 we read that nothing can separate us from the love of God which is ours in Christ, neither height nor depth Neither angel nor demon. Nothing can separate us from the love of God because it is God's love. It is the love of an infinite, perfect, glorious, holy being that can in no way be dimmed. Or taken away or lost or forgotten. When we think about Christmas, think about this fact that God so loved the greatest lover in the history of relationships. And there is no even remotely distant second. Such a one, so loved. Loved to his nth degree, as it were, is the foundation of Advent. God Himself so loved. The greatest giver is God, and his so great love Yielded for us the greatest gift. His only son. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son. Every once in a while, and Edward Ruiz can attest to this, although I think he is traveling to Michigan. Edward, are you here? Nope. Okay, well then everything I say is absolutely true. Every once in a while I will give Edward Ruiz a book. Any guesses on why I give him the book? Because I discovered I had two on my shelf. That's true. I three times giving them books. The it's usually a different edition, but I'm thinking, you know, I don't need to keep both of these editions anymore Whatever research project I thought I would need both editions for, that uh shelf life of that project expired. Think about how easy it is for us to give something we have a multiple of How easy it is when you're a kid to give someone a rookie Cal Ripkin baseball card because you have two others. How hard it would be to give up your only one. Think about how easy it is to let someone borrow your car because you have two And how difficult it is to lend out your only car. Think about how easy it is. To part with something for good or for a season when you've got backups in place Well, one of the things in the mystery of the Trinity is that there is one Son , one Father, one Spirit. They're not replaceable or disposable. Those relationships are distinct and unique and from all eternity. And the great mystery of the Trinity, which is for me itself evidence of the veracity of God After all, if I could understand everything that was ever said about God, that would be to me pretty clear indication that humanity made it up. But the fact that there are mysteries carved into the very substance of the faith from the very dawn of the religion as it's recorded for us in Scripture. indicates something different for an origin. And in this divine mystery of the Trinity there is one son, and God so loved that he gave his only son Gave his only son. And why did he give his only son? Well, John 3. 16 is a beautiful verse in and of itself, but it comes in a context. And the context is one in which God has just had expressed and explained the way he arranged to heal and to save his pe people in ancient Israel when they were being tormented by the serpent, the fiery serpent in the wilderness. Poisonous snakes were inflicting judgment upon the people for their sin, and they were being bitten and dying And God had told his people through Moses to make a bronze serpent and lift it up on a pole, and that if any is bitten by the serpent and look to that symbol of what their evil had wrought, they would be healed. And God says something utterly shocking. He says, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whoever believes in him may have eternal life, for God so loved the world that he gave his only Son He gave his only son so that his son could be lifted up in the wilderness, so that his son could be, in a sense, recast into the form of a serpent. Put on a cursed tree. And think about how shocking this is for a moment. When the Apostle Paul, moved by the Spirit, writes to the church and to people like you and me today, millennia later. For God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might be the righteousness of God. He made his only son to become sin itself, as it were, when he's lifted up on the cross and has the wrath of God, a just, a holy God against sin, poured out upon him. so that you and I don't need to pay the penalty for our sins, but instead receive the blessed love of a God Father for his Son. Now, God so loved his creation, and in particular, the people he created to bear his image. that he, in the infinite mind of the Triune Godhead, determined that this would be the plan of salvation. He himself in the person of his Son Would come and become flesh and live a sinless life so that that person of the Godhead need never die The wages of sin is death. We read that in Genesis chapter 2, Genesis chapter 3, throughout the book of Romans. The entire Bible is about this one theme. But the free gift of God is eternal life. So God the Son comes on a Christmas morning, born of the Virgin Mary. He leads a sinless life. Therefore, he does not need to pay the wages of sin. And he is able to stand in the place of another See, I could never pay your penalty for your sin, because if I were to die, it would only be for my own sins. But Jesus, the Son of God, because he knew no sin, is able to say, I don't deserve to die. Here I will die in his place. And because he is the Son of God, still fully God in every way, infinite in being, he is able to offer his life in the place of any who would, to use the words of John 3. 15, look to him and believe. God so loved the world, a burning, passionate, deep, soul-filling love, unlike any love we could ever imagine That he gave with this greatest love the greatest gift ever, and attached to it the greatest offer imaginable. You might think that my favorite word in that verse, for God so loved the world, is the word loved. It's not. It's the word whoever. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Whoever. Whoever. That means me. And that means you. That means whatever you have done in your life or has been done to you That means however intelligent or less than intelligent you are, however wealthy or poor. That means whatever corner of this beautiful globe you came from. That means however you voted in this past November. That means whatever your hopes and dreams or gifts and abilities are. That means whoever you are, you can look to Christ , receive the gift of God who loved you so much. that he would offer to pay fully the payment for your sins, freeing you from death and damnation itself for eternity, that you might live with him. And that, my friend, is a gift that keeps giving for whoever receives it. Because God does not save us and then leave us. He saves us and then he changes us. So that as we get to know him better and walk through this pilgrimage of life, reflecting on the truths he inscribes for us in his word. We become more like Jesus, who became like us. We find our hearts less and less attracted to the things that hurt not only ourselves but others, and more and more desirous of finding out how to glorify God. and bless our neighbors. You see, the greatest giver and the greatest gift and the greatest offer come together in this unique experience of salvation, utterly like anything The greatest film writer or novelist could ever dream of. It's what Jesus calls in the Gospel of John, the abundant life. The life of one who is full and contented because they have known it, the love of God outpoured. Such that on a good day or a bad day there is a hope and a peace and a joy and yes, a love. Because God is God and we are his. And it's one that grows us and changes us and builds us It twists us and turns us into something better and bolder and braver and more beautiful than we could ever imagine. And it is a gift that it is the calling of every preacher who has ever met Christ. To declare as clearly as can be declared, God so loved you that he gave his only son, that if you believe on him You might not perish, but have everlasting life. And this, dear friends, is the love of Christmas So loved you are by so great a lover that such a tremendous, costly gift was given to you, to you With your name on it. Won't you receive it today? The application section, I don't have a lot for you, but I do refer you back to a poem that a not a poem of proverb. Proverb chapter 19 verse 22. I stumbled across this when I was in high school, and I was trying to wrestle with becoming a beta a better person than I was, and I knew God could help with that. So I started memorizing these proverbs Proverbs 1922 says this in the NIV that I memorized it from. It says, what a man desires is this unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. And sometimes we read a proverb like that and we're like, okay, what's next? But I wrestled with that. What a man really desires is unfailing love. And in examining my own heart, I realized that was true. What I really wanted out of life was to be loved unconditionally Faithfully for who I actually was, such that I didn't have to put on masks or pose or pretend to be someone. But I wanted to know that I was actually loved. And I suspect, since I know the Bible to be true, that if I could scratch deep enough Past all the shields and the calluses of each one of you, we could get down to the sticky, gooey stuff in your soul and what you deeply desire, what you truly long for, what a man really wants, or a woman really wants. is to be loved. But why better to be poor than a liar? Why does that follow in that proverb? That's one proverb What a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. I want you to think about what you've tried to do with your life to attach meaning and value and purpose. When you have looked for it in places where the unfailing love has not equaled the need. And you have spent your time and your energy and all of your resources. You have impoverished yourself pursuing pleasure. Fame, popularity, social standing, professional accomplishment. You have worn yourself out seeking for fulfillment in every place that couldn't conceivably offer it. Because you didn't come to grips with this one fact. What you really desire is unfailing love. Start there and hear this. Unfailing love is what Christmas is all about. And if you would find unfailing love That's really the only place to find it. Everything else is an echo that comes from it, or a hint that points to it. But the love that your soul needs, that you personally long for most, is the love of God, who gave his only Son. That you might live. Almighty God, we pray that this Christmas, even as we are full of hope Even as we have experienced peace, even as we have grounds for great joy, even in dark valleys. Lord, we are loved. We are loved so much by so great a God. Father, we pray that you would help us to know this love and to recognize it as we consider the gift of salvation that is ours through Christ, your Son, who died for us. And was raised for our justification, that we might have a sure ground of hope. And Almighty God, we pray that this year, not just this Christmas, but this whole year You would shape us more deeply, grow us , strengthen us and encourage us with this great love. that we might glorify you and in adorning your gospel with good works bless the world in which we live. Hear our prayers, O God, who loves us, for we lift them up in the name of Jesus, your Son, our Savior. Amen.