I used to think of the Book of Venus as the Liberal's last stand. Uh I used to think that uh somebody who simply wanted to establish a basis for social concern and social action would take a few verses from Amos out of context, and then they would test those verses for all that they were worth beyond anything that Amos himself would have ever recognized. Then I studied the book of Amos last year. And I got a very different impression of what Alice was about. I saw that the book of Alice is a double-edged sword. But in fact, Amos condemns liberal theology, which is unrooted in the Word of God. But I saw that Amos also condemns Pietistic fundamentalism that focuses on externals and which misses the heart of what God's holiness means. And I look at his condemnation of the liberals and the fundamentalists, and I say, Well, ready missed us. And then I read on and I see that we're not vindicated either. I find that Amos is a very searching and very penetrating book for the Christian to read. Or for anyone who calls himself a Christian, particularly in today's terms. I think that I have found that I had three misconceptions about Amos, and I'd like to share those with you by way of introduction. Because perhaps you identify with one or more of those misconceptions about this book. First of all I realized that I questioned the relevance of Amos for our society and our church today Do I read the Old Testament prophets and do you see references to Damascus and Gaza and Edom and all these places that you don't understand? And they seem very important to Alice and as if he is assuming that you know that when he mentions this place or this custom or this idea, that that will mean something to you. But you and I read it means nothing to us. And so it's hard for us to get excited about digging into all of what that means with the hope that maybe there will be something relevant to our society. Well, I found that by looking at the book of Amos, that it was written to a society that was characterized by success and affluence. In fact, there's an emphasis on physical fitness. I find that it's written to a society that has the profit motive as its highest aspiration Comfort. I find that it's written to a church that was very big on activities, on religious activities. Very big on a number of things that they were doing for God. It is a church that is highly religious. It is very powerful in its culture. And yet, it didn't differ from the culture in a way that anyone could notice. Does that sound familiar? So as I looked at Amos, I began to realize how very relevant Amos was to our situation. Our second misconception was that Amos was a crutch for liberal politics. Somehow, Amish was a book that was simply wrenched out of its context as a basis for social concern and social justice. But I began to see as I studied through the book of Amos that if you take out his concerns for social justice, he will radically distort the message of the book. That Amos indeed does have A very central concern for the matter of justice and mercy in society. And that it is not in any way a destruction of this message or distortion. to see that as a major theme. The third misconception, I think, that I had of the book of Amos was of Amos himself. I guess I sort of pictured him as a kind of a ranting wild man, sort of a hollow-eyed, blunt, uh Christian rasputin, you know. A guy who sort of went around the shouting and screaming doomsday prophecies. A fellow who um sort of got carried away, you know, the kind of guy you see pictured in the cartoons with the sandwich board about the end is near. But as I read the book, I discovered that Amos was a very sophisticated man. Despite the fact that he was a farmer and a sheepherder, he was a man who moved very easily in intellectual circles He was subtle. He was self-spoken. And while he could speak very powerfully, he was a man who often did tend to move his audience by his tears and by his shouts. He was persuasive and he was subtle. His authority came from his declaration of the truth, and not simply by shouting or ranting. And so I'd like to get to know this man. And I've enjoyed thoroughly getting to know the Book of Amos. It's meant a great deal to me. And so as we look at this together over the next few weeks, I hope that you will come to get a feel of what this man was like and what his message is for us today. An excellent example of Amos 's subtlety and wisdom is in how he begins the book. Now, in order to save time, what I want to do is move very quickly through chapter 1 and part of chapter 2. And to help us to do this, to see what Amos is driving at, so that we'll be able to focus on a point this morning, I've given you a map there in your bulletin outline And on that map you see the seven nations that Amos is speaking to in chapters one and two The first three nations that he speaks to in chapter one are nations totally unrelated to Israel Damascus, Gaza, which is a capital for the Philistines, and then Tyre up there in the northwest. The second three nations that he speaks to are nations that were cousins of Israel They were related to Israel. And so there you see number four Edom on the right and then moving up Ammon and then just between those two number six Moab And then he moves into Judah in the south, and then Israel, which is the people that Tanais is speaking to for the rest of the book, he finishes up with there in the north. Let's begin then looking at the book of Amos. Let's hear the Word of God. I will move with some comments rapidly through chapter 1, and then we will slow down as we get into chapter 2. The words of Amos, one of the shepherds of Techala, but he saw concerning Israel two years before the earthquake, when Isaiah was king of Judah, and Jeroboam, son of Jehoash, was king of Israel. Now the time, we don't know exactly what the time of that earthquake was. We have no reference to it in any other secular history. But we do know by the reigning of those kings that Amos was prophesying probably somewhere around 750 BC. If you remember your Bible history and your Sunday school lessons well, you'll remember that the northern ten tribes of Israel were decimated, destroyed by Assyria around 721 BC. So Amos is speaking about 30 years before the Holocaust. And yet there's absolutely no indication in the society that things are going wrong. It's a society of power, expanding power, affluence, comfort, and utmost security what anyone can see It's a society that's very much at ease with itself, with no idea that the end is so near And so in that context, Emma says, verse 2, he said, The Lord wars from Zion and thunders from Jerusalem. The pastures of a shepherd's dry up, and the top of Palmer withers. We have here the statement of Amos that the Lord is speaking similarly to what we saw last week. Do you remember in Psalm 50? We saw how the Lord speaks from Zion. And we saw his speaking, his word thunder and fire that devours before him. And what's the message that he gives? Well, notice what Amos does. He begins to these foundations And let's run quickly through them. Do you notice the repetition? Verse 3. This is what the Lord says. For three sins of Damascus, even for four. And Amos goes on to describe the physical cruelty of Damascus in their conquering of other nations, absolute callous physical cruelty He says, I will send fire upon them. Verse 6. The three sons of Gaza, even for four. And he goes on to describe Gaza of the Philistines and their psychological fool. The slave trade. They uh Carried out, taking people as possessions, and with no feeling concerning their relationships, using them as slaves. And then in verse 6 The three sins, excuse me, verse nine. The three sins of tired, even for four. And he goes on to describe the The slave trade of Tyre, which is aggravated further by it being in violation of a covenant, a promise that they had made with their brothers, a promise that was no better than the paper or parchment that it was etched upon. And it was an utter violation of that promise that they carried on their slave tree. These were nations unrelated to Israel Now Amos moves in and begins to describe nations that are related to Israel, related by the patriarchs and their descendants. Verse 11, for three sins of Eden, Edom for food. And he describes Edom's irrational hatred A persistent hatred that goes on without any basis that you can understand, a hatred that consumes even against its enemies. And again the statement, and I will send fire upon you Then verse 13. This is what the Lord says, for three sins of Ammon, even for four And he describes how Ammon in their wrath lipped open heavenly women and dropped the babies out, an utter detestable action against helpless people. An utter callousness and cruelty that we could see , described as a natural practice of Ammon against their enemies. And you look at that and you say, ah, but that's a society that's foreign to ours. And we don't know that kind of cruelty today. That was a barbaric kind of cruelty. And yet just this week while my wife and I were taking a walk up our street, we found out that there was a 16-year-old fellow right across the street from us, who at that time was beating his mother to death with a baseball bat And she fled and screamed for mercy and they took a butcher knife and stabbed her repeatedly until she died. And he was running up the street at the time that we were walking. Two ambulances and five police cars came and we couldn't save her. And you read about Anna and you say, but that's not us. And you see what happens in Colombia. Why did he kill her? Because he wanted to go to Atlantic City and he thought that she might refuse him. We see the kind of cruelty in our own society, irrational cruelty. Then he says, finally , Chapter 2 and verse 1. The three sins of Malay and her four. And what's the climax of all this cruelty? Of all the sin that he's talking about these nations. And you notice that in the speaking of these nations, in every piece, he holds them accountable. Famous never, in any of these cases, says that they don't have the Bible, and therefore they're not accountable for what they did. They were sincere in the worship of their gods. But in every case, Amos holds them accountable by their consciences to the Word of God. And he says, God will judge them even without the Bible for what they have done. And what has Moab done? He brings this whole thing to a climax. It's almost ludicrous. Moab's saying is that they burn the bones of Edom's king And all of a sudden you're you're sort of shocked and you say, Why is that the worst thing of all? And you all of a sudden you realize that this is not a progression of intensity of cruelty. But it's a progression of the foolishness of hatred and cruelty. It's a progression of the foolishness of sin. And so, what Amos is saying is that sin and hatred and self-pleasing is so utterly irrational that it would even dig up the bones of somebody who's already dead just to bed its hatred. The hatred consumes the hater more than the one who's hated. Then a must lose from these, and you can imagine all the people. And you're sonorously saying, Oh yes, isn't it wicked, what a terrible world we live in. Then Amos turns and he says, for three sins of Judah and for four. And now there's some mixed reaction. Because Judah are their brothers. But at this point in history, Judah are no longer friends with Israel. There's been civil war. Judah and Israel are alienated. And so Judah is seen as those self-righteous tribes down in the south who think they're better than us. Saka to him, Amos. So Amos gives it to him, and he says, Judas also under God's judgment for their sins, for they've rejected the law of the Lord, and they've been led astray to false gods. Then he moves on in chapter 2, verse 6. This is what the Lord says. Wait a minute, Amos, let 's finish. He says, wait, I have one more. The three sins of Israel. For pleasons of Israel, even for four. I will alone as I read them. I will not turn aback thy wrath. They saw the righteous for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals. They trample on the heads of the poor upon the dust of the ground and deny justice to the oppressed. Father and son use the same world, and so profane my holy name They lie down beside every altar on born is taken in flesh. The house of their God they drink wine taken as vines. I destroyed the Amorite before them, burden as tall as the cedars, and as strong as the oats. I destroyed his fruit above all his roots and his roots below. I brought you up out of Egypt. I led you 40 years in the desert to give you the land of the Amorites I also raised up prophets from among your sons and Nazareth from among your young men. Is this not true, people of Israel? declares the Lord. But you made the Nazarites drink wine, and you commanded the prophets not to prophesy. Now that I will crush you as a cart crushes when loaded with grain. The swift will not escape. The strong will not muster their strength. The warrior will not save his life. The archer will not stand his ground, the fleet-footed soldier will not get away, and the horsemen will not save his life. Even the bravest warriors will flee naked on that day, declares the Lord. Hear this word the Lord has spoken against you, O people of Israel. Against the whole family I've brought up out of Egypt. You only have I chosen of all the families of the earth. Therefore, I will punish you for all your sins. Can you imagine the scene? You can imagine Amos speaking to them about the sins of the nations, and as he moves closer and closer. Things become a little more uncomfortable. Now, why does he do this? Why does Amos take all these chapters, all these verses, in order to move up to what he's really after? Have you ever been in a situation where you had some friend that you dearly cared for who in your judgment was walking in some sin that was very serious in their life But they had no inkling that there was anything wrong. They thought things were just going fine, and if you asked them how their walk with the Lord was going, they'd say, great man, the Lord is just like this, you know, and God's blessing my life and things are going just great. And inside you 're uneasy. Your stomach's sort of turning because you're thinking, I think I see something very serious wrong. But you don't see it, and I don't know how to bring it up without you becoming defensive with turning off to what I have to say. And so, what is the thing that you can do in a situation like that? Well of course what you've got to do is you've got to find some point of agreement. You've got to find a point of contact. Something you can both agree is wrong. And if you can agree on that and then try gently to show the person you're concerned for, they're doing the same kind of thing. They may listen. And so what Amos does, if he were to translate it into our days, he stands up and he says, Let me tell you about that godless, atheistic nation of Soviet Union. Everybody says, oh, isn't that terrible? Look how they've taken God out of their society. He then goes on and he says, and look at Communist China, and how they persecuted the church, and how they ignore God and all of their policies, and everybody says, Amen. That's just her. Then Amos says, and it's not just over there, but look at the secular humanism that we have in our own culture. And everybody says, oh, is it that trouble? And they shake their heads and he says, Look at what they're doing in our own country and how we've departed from our Christian roots. Look at the ACLU and what they're doing to the Church of Christ and Christians and our freedoms and liberties and look at how they're seeking to destroy the family and everybody's going, Yes, Amis. It's terrible. We need revival. We need to pray for what we're caught in here. Minus turns to the courts and he says, and even within those who call themselves Christians, you look at the Mormons and you look at the Jehovah's Witnesses. Have a Christian destroyed the scripture. God or aimed men as parable. But he says, and even beyond that You take a look at others that even call themselves Jesus by the name of Jesus Christ, who are from traditional Bible-believing denominations and how they departed from the Word of God. How they no longer believe the Bible is God's Word, how they no longer believe. Even a literal hell or a literal resurrection, and everybody's going, isn't that horrible that there are people that believe that? And everybody's risen. Then he says, and not even only that, but you take a look at some of our own experiences in Bible believing Christianity, deliverism, and you look at the externalism and all those things that we've been in, and everybody says, Yes, praise God, I've been delivered from that. The Lana says, and then you look at the rebuild evangelicals, and everybody gasps. You say, hey, wait a minute. Now you stop preaching and you're starting to meddle. Amos, you know we're trying our best. Amos, you know that we're trying to do what God says. Now don't you start laying heavies on us, Amos. And all of a sudden, everything is trying. All of a sudden, Amos now feels that there's a tension in the air. As he begins to try, To demonstrate to them what God's word is saying to them. And as he begins to do this He shows them three misconceptions that they have about God. Three misconceptions. I just want to touch on these this morning. We're going to explore the second one in more detail next week The first misconception that Amos says that you as the church have. Now let me remind you, as I give you this misconception, of two things. Number one These are not simply misconceptions that Israel in the Old Testament had. When Elis is speaking to Israel, he is speaking to the Church of Christ. He is speaking to the evangelicals. Let's not miss that. In Galatians 6, chapter 6, verse 16, Paul addresses the church at Galatia as the Israel of God. He says, you are the Israel. He doesn't even say there's a new Israel. He says, You are Israel. In Galatians chapter 3, he had said that we who are following in the footsteps of old Israel in the new covenant are the spiritual seed of Abraham. We are Israel. In Philippians chapter three, Paul says that you are the circumcision. So we are Israel. Don't miss that. Don't let anybody tell you that there is some cleavage where Israel is only in the Old Testament, we've got the church in the New Testament. And so all you have And these Old Testament prophets are some examples for us. These are addresses to us and to these people who are naming the name of Jesus Christ, that is the God of the covenant, in the Old Covenant. Amos gives this message. It's a message to you and me. Note a second about these misconceptions what I say here that they're each half truths. But each false truth, which when portrayed as a whole truth, becomes a lie. Now very briefly, what are they, by way of introduction? Just to introduce the subject this morning. All we have time to do. The first misconception was that they saw God as a lamb. They saw God as a man, and that's all they saw. Now, certainly, it's true that God is a man. It's true that the Bible presents Jesus Christ as the Lamb of God. When John the Baptist introduced Jesus, he would introduce him by saying, Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world The Bible again and again, through the Old Testament sacrificial system, through the book of Isaiah, as it wraps everything up in the book of Revelation, again and again refers to Jesus as the Lamb. And there's absolutely nothing wrong with seeing Jesus as the Lamb, unless that's all you see. Because if you do, that's a very imbalanced picture. Because the Lamb in his gentleness, in his quietness, is never a threat as well. Again, how does Amos introduce this book? Chapter 1, verse 2. The Lord roars from Zion. That hidden word is the word that is used of a lion just about when he's to pounce. Because a lion's strategy When he is to attack, is to roll. Now he doesn't roar just because he feels good. The lawyer doesn't roar simply because You know, he just just can't he can't contain himself. And he's just, you know, he's looking at that real and so he just wants to roll and let everybody know. The role is the strategy. It's a win. But an alliance strategy gives us to paralyze. The line of doors so that his victim can do nothing but stand still. And so God is here now worrying before the punishment comes, and he's saying, stand still I am a lion. I am coming not simply as a lamb now, but I am coming as a lion to speak. The same kind of image we saw last week in Psalm 50. For the Lord spoke from Zion with thunder and lightnings and fires that devoured before it. If you look in the book of Revelation, chapter five. But you see there in verse 6 that Jesus is a lamb. I saw a lamb looking as if it had been slain, standing in the center of the throne. What does it say in the verse before? Revelation 5, 5. Do not we see a lion. The Lion of the tribe of Judah, the ruler David has triumphed, and he is the one able to open the school and its seven seals, and he is the lion who comes to judge sin. Who comes to terrify his adversaries with the majesty and the power of his holiness. I think that it's look at the church today. We see too much of arms around a God as a body. A kind of a celestial acceptor He never does anything accept this in our sin. You read most of popular Christian literature today. But the whole emphasis of it is you will never feel rejected by God. No matter what you do, all you have to do is come to him and just put his arms around you and motion. I see that's not a total distortion. There's truth to that But it's a distortion of his holiness, as if somehow God did never dare try us for our sin. I think C. S. Lewis fits it very well in this book, The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. You remember how Aslan is introduced? When the kids are uh ignorant of who he is and they want to find out who this as well is and they ask, is he a man? Do you remember Mr. Beaver responded in shock and amazement, a man? Certainly not That's how you he's the king of the wood and the son of the great emperor beyond the sea. Don't you know who the king of beasts is? Aslan is a lion, bee lion, the great lion. Ooh, said Susan. I thought he was a man. Is he quite safe? I don't want to notice it without meeting a lion. Ah That you will, dearie, and no mistake, said Mrs. Beaver. If there's anyone who can appear that they're asked about their knees knocking, they're even braver than those who are just plain silly. Then he isn't safe? asked Lucy. Safe, said Mr. Beaver. Don't you hear what Mrs. Beaver's telling you? Who said anything about safe? Of course he isn't safe. But he's good. And he's king, I tell you. That's what he've got to capture again with the church today Of course Jesus isn't safe. Why have we domesticated him as a meek lamb, as someone that we never have to fear, someone that we can be comfortable with no matter what we do? But the Bible presents him as good. And as a lion, the tribe of Judah. And then he roars, roars in justice, and the amazing thing. Is that he roars also in mercy. The amazing thing is that you and I were convicted of our sin this morning and despair of any hope before such a majestic and holy and powerful God who roars as a lion. Chapter three, verse eight reiterates the same thing. The lion roars , who cannot be spared? The Lord prophesies, who cannot speak? And as we see this Lord speaking to us in the book of Amos, then we tremble. The amazing thing is that he also speaks in mercy. And unless you see it as a lion, you'll never appreciate what it means to worship it as the Lamb. The second misconception. And it said the church at that time had. As he says, you see, sin is something that's simply external worldliness, a list of actions, a neglect of activities. Whereas he's trying to show us that the essence of sin is a self-pleasing disregard of the law of God. Kind of thing we took to look at last week. Ignoring the first table of the law in terms of our relationship with God. Then a disregard for God and for people. And the bearing of the second table of the law, loving one another as ourselves, a self-pleasing disregard for God and for people. Forgetting that because God is just and merciful and He has called us to be like Him, we are a people to reflect His justice and His mercy. But that's the essence of sin, to not reflect his character. More about that next week. But you see that again and again in the life of Jesus. Now he never treated sin superficially in terms of external actions. In Mark 7, the Jews were all concerned about their washings And all of their rituals to keep clean. And Jesus says, it's not what goes in you that pollutes, it's what comes out of your heart. He speaks about the sins of the lusts and the greeds and the covetousness that come out of the heart He says, that's what sin is. But a rich young ruler comes to him and he says, I've kept the law from my youth up. What is it that I lack for eternal life? And Jesus says, it's not the external. Look at that tenth commandment. It's the one that feels With the heart of the word that's most obvious for you to see. You shall not cover. Jesus deals with the heart. He deals with that part of our character that reflects God or denies Him. And then go about that next week. But see that misconception. Then finally That bold misconception is seeing the covenant as external religion. To see salvation as a matter of church association or membership or heritage. Associating with Christians, whether in Bible studies or in church, a matter of being able to use evangelical wingdom. rather than that evident change of heart. That relationship with Jesus Christ that manifests itself in a life that's distinct. See what he says in chapter 3, verse 1, after he's described all of the sins and talked about his mercy to Israel. He then sums it up in verse 1. Hear this word then, the Lord has spoken against you. The people of Israel, yes, the whole family. I brought you up out of Egypt. Who only have I chosen of all the families of the earth? Therefore I will punish you for all your sins. You perform the evangelicals that I have called to myself that bear my name, that hold my word. In high esteem. He says, I've called you to myself, I've chosen you, I've brought you out to be a people for myself. You belong to me, he says. The covenant's been established with you. Therefore, I'm going to punish you. Doesn't make sense, does it? But it joins you. I've chosen you. Therefore, I will punish you. What can Amos possibly mean to connect these two thoughts together? Of course, he means exactly this. There's a tremendous danger. In Christians today confusing two very important doctrines. The one is the once saved, always saved doctrine And I've done say that many of us could hold to that. Once saved, always saved. Make a decision for Jesus, you'll never lose it. Can't lose your salvation. That's a half-truth. I would suggest that's a half truth to you. And that's what Amos is trying to get at He says a better statement of a bad doctrine is what you might call the perseverance Of God's people. Those who have once become Christians will follow Him to the end. And what's the difference? But the difference is simply this. If I say once saved, always saved, then I say, I once made a decision, I once signed a card, I once did something Some external action, it got me into the club, got me into the Bible study, got me into church membership. And now I know I can never lose that, no matter what I live like. No matter what happens in my life, whatever disinterest, whatever I do with the Lordship of Christ, and Amos says, won't you take the name of God upon your life? That's got to be evident. And if you take that, His name upon your life and His work is in you, you will change and persevere, and you will show forth grace-like fruit to the end. But don't presume on what you have done. Don't presume on a decision you made five years ago. Don't presume on a membership and being able to describe in Christian terms and explain. Experience you have. Because Anna says, My name is so precious, it's so exalted, that when those who are in covenant with me take that name upon them, and they live like hell, and they live like the Lord God says, I must purge out those names. people. I must purge the pretenders of that covenant and purify my own people. Purify them so that those who have truly come to know me will stand out as stars in this world. You kids, you've grown up. Hear about Jesus Christ. You hear about it in pioneer goods To hear about it at home and in Sunday school. Damn this is saying to you, be careful. Be careful that you don't think that because you have heard these things and to talk about them, you're comfortable with the language that somehow therefore we are automatically going to be Christians. By association. You don't become Christian by an osmosis process. You don't become Christian by just observing Bible verses. You become a Christian by your personal commitment to Jesus Christ in a life-transforming manner. The word for the rest of us. Any of us here who need Jesus Christ, let's be careful that as we look at the Church of North America , Moreover, what are the people surveyed would say that yes, I'm born again. I have some experience with Jesus Christ and I know I'm going to heaven. But we don't cheapen that language to mean nothing Because God says, if you take my name upon you, you're in covenant with me. And if you're in covenant with me, then if that covenant is demonstrated in the life of my spirit in you , Then there's glory and there's a presence, there's adoption, there's that closeness of the Lord glorious to himself. But never lose it. But he says, don't presume to think that you can quote John 3. 16 and talk about some external experience That means that you have Christ in your life. But if you speak goodly of those things, God says I must punish the church that allows that. Whether it's the Church of North America, or a church in any part of the world who will allow that to happen God be merciful to us as he brings to us a deeper sense of what it means to bear the name of Jesus Christ in our world, in our society today. Come join us Wednesday. As we pray for reformation and revival, and we seek the face of our God together. Let's pray. O Lord our God, we come to you now and we ask that you would open our ears, that we might hear the message of Amos to us. We might not presume upon some experience that we had ten years ago. They might not presume upon our association with Christians To think that that's enough to give us security and assurance that we belong to Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray that you would deal mercifully with us. If there's any here who know your name, but don't shake more that try to follow you, your word and your lordship. We pray that you draw that person and those persons to yourself. That you the lion would show mercy as the Lamb who has taken our sin. And you'll hold out that mercy to us as we come to you, trembling before you to realize how terrible our sin is, and how great and rich your mercy is in the light of that. Lord, we pray. That you would comfort and assure us of the covenant that you have made, and of your urgent concern for us to know you and to walk with you as your people. Speak to us, Lord. Encourage us and strengthen us as a church of your people as we see this message to our society and to our church. And may we understand, and may we obey, and may we worship you. God who has spoken to us. The one who has roared from Zion. It speaks as the land slain for us. In Jesus' name. Amen.