Turn in your Bible to Mark chapter 10, passage that we're looking at these two weeks, beginning of our month of missions. Mark chapter ten beginning with verse seventeen As Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him and fell on his knees before him. Good teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Why do you call me good? Jesus answered. No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not give false testimony, do not defraud. Honor your father and mother. Teacher, he declared. All these things I have kept since I was a boy. Jesus looked at him and loved him. One thing you lack, he said. Go. Sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me At this the man's face fell. He went away sad because he had great wealth. Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God. The disciples were amazed at his words, but Jesus said again, Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. The disciples were even more amazed and said to each other, Who then can be saved? Jesus looked at them and said, With man this is impossible, but not with God. All things are possible with God. Jesus, Peter said to him, We have left everything to follow you. I tell you the truth, Jesus replied. No one who has left home or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for me in the gospel will fail to receive a hundred times as much in this present age. homes, brothers, sisters, mothers, children in fields, and within persecution, and in the age to come to eternal life. The many who are first will be last. And the last first. Last week we looked at one of the beautiful people who came to Jesus, man of wealth, of power, of youth Who wanted eternal life but was unwilling to face the evil in his heart and had Jesus transform him. We remember how Jesus Even with all his logic, his logic did not convert the man, the law did not convert the man Even Jesus' expression of love did not convert to man. And Jesus observed how in verse 27, with man it is impossible, it is impossible for us to turn from our Sin, to face it honestly and to come to Jesus Christ apart from the work of the Spirit of God. But with God all things are possible And the disciples we saw were an example of that, of how God intervened and worked in people who were spiritually dull like the disciples, or even like you and me. And was able to transform us, to see our sins, and our need of a Savior, and to come to Him. And so we saw that the first great incentive for being involved in the Great Commission Is the thrill of seeing God change lives? Of seeing God do the impossible in transforming people from death to life And a week from Saturday, June 25th, has been designated a day to change the world. A day when there will be the largest calling together of the prayer of God's people in the history of the church. It's expected that a hundred and fifty million Christians will be praying, concentrating that day. On God's power to transform this world and to complete the Great Commission within our generation, possibly within the next ten years It is a realistic goal to have a viable witness in every people group, every tongue, every subculture on this earth Within the next ten years. Because God is doing an impossible work. He has some examples last week. We'll be going through through some other examples during this um month and Next hour we're going to be hearing about what God is doing in Italy and what God is doing in Albania. A place where just a few years ago it was A capital offense, the death penalty for believing in God, and where the Church of Jesus Christ is growing 39% per year In Albania currently. So God's doing a mighty work and it's an exciting thing. But when you and I hear about this and the possibility of participating in that Our tendency is not to respond with, wow, that's great, let's get in on it. This is so much better than investing myself in acquiring things or being able to just live to myself and ignore the fact. That God's heart is for the loss in my neighborhood and for the loss of the nations. But rather our response tends to be guilt and fear, doesn't it? It's guilt because we're saying, tell you the truth, I don't really know what's going on, and I don't really care all that much. I'm trying to survive in my world and my family and my job. And I guess that makes me a pretty poor Christian. So I just feel guilty when you talk about this stuff. Or the second response is a response of fear, saying, you know, I'm really kind of afraid to find out about this I mean what happens if I begin to get serious about this? I I you know you never know where I'll maybe wind up and how I can change my lifestyle and what it could do to me. You know, I'm not saying I got the greatest joy and satisfaction right now in what I'm doing, but at least it's known. It's familiar I feel like I'm in control. But man, if this stuff gets a hold of me, who knows what might happen in my life? Things might get totally out of control. And so guilt and fear become a major obstacle to our understanding what God's part for the world is as we come into a month of missions and being able to eagerly pursue that. And that is, brothers and sisters in Christ, where the second incentive comes so forcefully to play. Because the second incentive is a promise from Jesus to you and to me. It's a promise. Now the very character of Christ, of God the Father and the Holy Spirit, rests on his fulfilling this promise, and notice what it is The promise is the second point you see in your bullet now. The person was just kind of summing up last week. Second point, the incentive of the return on the investment of my life in kingdom service. The return on the investment of my life in kingdom service. Now you notice I don't say there in missionary service. We're not distinguishing. It's simply a matter of serving Christ as one who is conscious. and participating actively in his global purpose, wherever and however, not simply everybody going across to the sea or in other cross-cultural contexts. But for every one of us, this is a powerful incentive toward participating in the Great Commission. Now, look at how you see it in the passage there. Get get the drift of the thought. Jesus Has spoken to this fellow. He's climbed back into his Mercedes-500 SEL, and as he's taken off, the disciples hear Jesus talk about how impossible it is for us to change our hearts. And how only God is able to do such a powerful work. And as he says that, all things are possible with God Peter blesses hearts, always the one saying stuff that we'd like to say and feel like we'd be too stupid to say it. But Peter blurts out, verse 28, we've left everything to follow you. We're an example of that, Jesus. You've worked enough and here look it. I've left my home, I've left my security, I've left my fishing business, I've left all my comforts, I've left everything to follow you You notice how Jesus responds. You see, Jesus understands that in that statement you have a classic statement of the sacrificial spirit. I've loved everything. Isn't that amazing? I mean that's really kind of staggering when I think how much I've given up for Jesus Now, you notice Jesus doesn't respond by saying, I really appreciate how much you guys have given up for me. I, you know, it really means a lot to me, how much you have sacrificed to follow me. Because you see, Jesus understands that the sacrificial spirit is a close cousin to self-pity You see, as soon as you and I begin to think we have given up a lot for Jesus, and and we may even have to think about giving up more for Jesus this month in some alteration of our lifestyle or our participation in the Great Commission, with our neighborhood, with the nation, whatever it is, as soon as we begin to think in terms of the sacrificial spirit, then when things go bad And we begin to suffer and things begin to cost us, what are we going to do? We're going to immediately say, God, look at all I've given up for you and look what I get And we indulge in a bitter spirit of self-pity, don't we? So Jesus cuts right to the heart of that Notice in terms of the blanks there, Peter speaks in terms of sacrifice. Verse 28. We've left everything to follow you. Jesus Rebuke gently, but he rebuke such an attitude, and Jesus speaks in terms of investment Peter says, We've left everything to follow you. Jesus turns to him and he says, Listen Peter, let me tell you something. No one has left home for brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields, for me and for the gospel. Who will not fail to receive a hundred times as much in this present age of homes, brothers, sisters mothers, children, fields, and within persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life. So I want for us to notice five things about Jesus' response to Peter here. First of all, notice what's invested. Notice what is invested. Verse 29. Homes, brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, children. And field. Basically boils down to two kinds of things. Property and relationship. Those are the two kinds of things that you see investors. Property and relationship. Not only property and relationships, but the most precious property and the most precious relationships. All that is familiar and precious to us In terms of property and relationships, homes and fields. Fields would have to do with the business, as well as everything that you possess, all of your investments But particularly your home. I remember last year, nineteen ninety-three, closing up my mom's estate and I remember the heart-wrenching experience sitting in the room that I had been born in. And going back to that house for 50 years And then was closing it up forever. Never to be able to step in there again and say, I'm back home. I'll tell you that was a powerful emotional experience for me. One that was very difficult for me to grasp, all the memories, all that was part of me. And Jesus says, I may call you to leave home. You may or you may not. Some of us have to leave home emotionally. We became Christians and leaving home became something that was a spiritual severing Because we were no longer at home with the family that were unbelievers. And so he links that with the relationships, you see. Sisters or brothers perhaps don't appreciate your newfound saints in Jesus Christ. They're not with you in this And you're alienated from them. You're distanced from them. You can't share the things. There's even a little bit of tension, or maybe there's a great deal of tension when you're together. Because they don't love the Lord, who's the most important one in your life. Maybe that's even true of mothers and fathers. He talks about leaving mother or father When I became a believer, from my background, my parents weren't believers, and there was a definite alienation A distance. And my mother often referred to that. She was glad for what it did for me, but she was so sad that it separated us because of my walking with Jesus Christ. Now you notice uh it even says here that Jesus says, Children. Now, it's not saying that you know you say, Well, you know, these kids are a real hassle, yeah, I think we'll go to a mission field and Jesus said that's okay, you know. So the word in the Greek means grown children. Children that you've already raised, okay? So you don't there's no fine print in the clause. Can't get out of that one Grown children who are on their own, Jesus says, you may need to be away and not see grandchildren, or there may be some separation. There's you see what Jesus is saying here is that as you and I look at the opportunities, whether it's in Russia, whether it's in Europe, whether it's in Japan, what we cannot do is say, I'd like to be open to that. In whatever way, short-term, long-term, supporting, changing lifestyle, just my mentality of being part of this, I can't do that because It would impinge on my home, my property, and my closest relationship. And that's non-negotiable to me. I'm not going to consider anything that would alienate me From my home or my relationships, my family. And what Jesus does is that he doesn't say in that That if you do that, he's going to alienate himself from you and cut you off. You notice the incentive is an incentive of delight. He woo you in me gently to say, let me tell you something. You think that this is going to be a heart-wrenching sacrifice? But I want to promise you that if you do this, that you will never possibly regret it. Notice secondly the reason why this is done. The reason is not a spirit of adventure. It's not out of guilt Verse 29, I tell you the truth, no one who has left home or brothers or sisters, or mother, or father, children, or fields for me and the gospel. So two things, love for Jesus and love for the gospel. Those are the reasons that Jesus gives for this. Love for Jesus and love for the gospel. It's because out of your sins you have seen that Jesus has become your Savior. He's forgiven your sin. He removed that bondage, the shackles that held you captive to the patterns of sin in your life that were destroying you. And you've come to love him because he has freed you from that sin. You've come to love him because you've seen the wonder of his ways. You've seen him as a shepherd who leads you. You've seen that he is the one person in your life who you can always depend on, who will never let you down, and will never leave you And so if you've come to love Jesus, you've come to admire that shepherd's heart that he has that drew him to you, a lost sheep. And as you've seen a shepherd's heart, you've found that that heart has become more and more admirable to you, and you've taken on something of that shepherd's heart. And you now care for people that Jesus cares for who are lost and who are without hope and who have not experienced the forgiveness that comes. By taking the work of Jesus and his shed blood on the cross and in his resurrection, and believing and trusting that alone for your salvation. And not only that, you've come to love the gospel. And notice he says, for me and the gospel. I believe that that is something that we're losing today. I'm very concerned about that. You know, in a recent poll, 77% of people who called themselves evangelical Said that most people are basically good. And these are evangelical believers Now if we believe that most people are basically good, it's no wonder why the whole doctrine of hell, eternal hell The seriousness of that, the reality of that, is fading from the church's consciousness. We don't believe that people deserve hell. In fact I I'm so concerned about that's so important that next month I'm going to devote a a whole message on hell and we're gonna turn off the air conditioning. You notice it's getting a little cooler. You think it's hot now No, seriously, we're going to deal with that next month because this is a big concern. But if you and I don't believe that, we lose our love for the gospel It's only when you and I realize what we have been delivered from and what the stakes are of heaven and hell for Jesus and the people who respond to him that we love the gospel. The gospel's precious. It's the message of deliverance. And Jesus said, When you love me and you love the gospel. Then you're willing to separate, to put aside, to not clutch on to property and relationships. And if you're willing to not let those things be matters that will shut you up from hearing about Jesus' concern for the loss in your neighborhood and the nation. Then you notice the third thing, what the return is on that investment. The return is in verse 30. He says, such a person, no one who does this will fail to receive a hundred times. Times as much that's a ten thousand percent return, if you figure that out. Ten thousand percent return On your investment of home, brother, sister, mother, children, field, and with them persecutions. So first of all, Jesus is saying, and notice he divides into two ages. He says, first of all, in the present age, verse 30, and then he says at the end of verse 30, and in the age to come, eternal life. So there's two realms in which you receive the return on this investment. In the present age, it's vastly more property. You're going to receive a hundred times as much homes and fields, Jesus says. Now this term a hundred times uh was a common term used back then that just simply meant vastly more. It didn't literally necessarily mean a ten thousand percent return It's the same word that's used in Mark three when Jesus talks about the parable of the soil. Excuse me, Mark chapter four Where he talks about there that uh of a seed that produced thirty, sixty hundredfold, it just means it multiplied vastly the return It's used in other places in the Bible that way too. Jesus is simply saying you're going to receive vastly more in terms of property. Now what does he mean? You know, you Give up your home here, you give up a condo, you're gonna get, you know, placed in Farside if you follow Jesus. Now that's not what he's saying. What he's saying is what is it that property that homes and fields represent It's basically security or sense of belonging, the comfort, uh that which you have that is home. And Jesus says, What you have in terms of security and comfort And the sense of belonging and a place that you can consider home is going to be vastly increased once you begin to follow me and see the world the way I see it. And that's related closely again to the second idea. Vastly more relationships. Vastly more family. More specifically. You'll receive vastly more family. But the word that's used house here. When Jesus says whoever leaves home is literally in the Greek the word house And it's a word which can also mean household. For instance, in chapter 6, in verse 4, Jesus talked about prophets not without honor, save in his own house. And it's that word, he means his family, doesn't mean in that place. He's talking about among his family. And in Hebrews chapter 3 in verse 6, we read that Jesus is the head of his house And that's how we are if we hold on to our faith. So it's talking about the household of faith It's talking about the family of faith. And what Jesus is saying here is that if you find yourself alienated from your family because of your following me Then take heart. I have vastly more family to make up for that. And so some of you who like me and like Kathy come from non-Christian families. Have some understanding of the reality of that, don't you? I know there was a a place in my life where I had to, out of my family come to terms with the fact that following Jesus was going to separate me from them. And you know it's a it's a rule that that more and more uh Research and study of these things is demonstrating now the more dysfunctional the family, the more loyalty tends to be demanded. And so if you are from a difficult family situation with turmoil and dysfunctionality, it's more difficult for you to separate yourself from that. And Jesus' incentive here comes with power to you and me. He says, don't fear that. And I remember that When I came to Christ and I understood that I no longer can have as my primary association of loyalty. Not that I cease to honor my father and my mother. Not that I separated from them, but they did not become to me my primary sense of loyalty and affection. Jesus was, and his body was the first family. And then the Sunday school teacher and his wife that Kathy and I had became to us as Christian parents Uh they took us under their wing and they were precious to us and it was a precious relationship God gave to us at that time. And others that God has given. Have you found those to be like that in your life? People you kind of look at as Christian parents. People that you feel you can go to and and go to for wisdom and and they have a separate relationship from brothers and sisters. And then of course he vastly increases the brothers and sisters that you have Those that you find uh in your small group. If you're like our small group, then it's like a family. You know, you you get close and things get uncomfortable like a family, but you love each other through everything like a family. And really like brothers and sisters. And there's something very precious about that. And the more you extend that, you see, the more you are able to see and incorporate into your joy the different kinds of people in Christ's family. From different cultures and different backgrounds. You understand that this is literally true. I now have a family that is not simply people who are like me in this one way of looking at the world, but I now have a family of diversity in different races and cultures and tongues Who are now expanding my understanding of the world and of the beauty and the glory of God. And these are people that I can count on Jesus is fulfilling what he has said. He's giving to you and to me a hundredfold family Then notice that after that he he doesn't simply leave it at that to say, well I see it Being a Christian is just full of fun and parties and joy. You know, I mean there's nothing difficult about it at all. You notice he adds in with persecution Verse 30, with persecution, just to remind you and me that when we move into that family, we don't sit in this world anymore We don't fit in terms of our values, the very fact that we believe absolute truth, the things that we believe, the fact that we believe that a person needs Jesus Christ Christ in order to be right with God and that's seen as judgmental and you have a corner on the truth and who do you think you are? All kinds of ways we don't sit anymore Whether it's in family or among friends, there's gonna be people that aren't gonna like us and they're gonna make life difficult for us. And in some cultures it may cost jobs It may even cost, and we see even in this century, more Christians have lost their lives for Jesus Christ than in the previous 1900 years. Far more By a factor of a number multiplication. I mean, we're not just talking about a little bit more. Numbers of times more people have lost their lives in this century for Christ. There are all the previous nineteenth century. But then he adds the climax And in the age to come, eternal life. It's as if Jesus was saying, hey, in this present age We're only talking a hundredfold. You know, this is just a ten thousand percent return. But in the age to come, it's going to be infinitely more of all the property and relationships your heart could ever desire. All the sense of belonging and security and comfort and joy and all that can possibly be the epitome of all you wish that home could ever be And all that you wish that your family could ever be. Jesus says, I will give you in that age to come. In 2 Corinthians in chapter 4, verse 17, Paul describes it like this. He says, For our enlightened momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. And so we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is not seen. For what is seen is temporary, but what is unseen is eternal. Paul saying here you got a scale. And you put on that one part of the scale all the momentary afflictions, the things you've given up of home and relationships and all those things that it's cost you to follow into Go after Jesus Christ and what is on his heart. And Paul says now I'm gonna put on the eternal weight of glory on this side of the scale and when I lay it down it goes bing like a teeter totter and just shoots all those momentary troubles right up into the air. Because it's a glory that far, far outweighs. Not only in terms of quantity, eternal life compared to a few years, but in terms of quality. The quality of life in heaven compared to anything that we've experienced here on earth. Now this is Jesus' promise. So what then is the sacrifice Well, rather than speak myself, let me quote from missionaries themselves who have followed Jesus, not because we all should be missionaries, but simply because these are people who have to the ultimate extent. left home and family in order to be part of the Great Commission. David Livingston, 1857, who had gone to Africa. For my own part I have never ceased to rejoice. that God has appointed me to such an office. People talk of the sacrifice that I've made in spending so much of my life in Africa Can that be called a sacrifice we can simply pay back as a small part of a great debt owing to our God which we can never repay? Is that a sacrifice which brings its own blessed reward in healthful activity, the consciousness of doing good, peace of mind, and a bright hope of a glorious destiny hereafter? Away with the word and such a view and with such a thought, it is emphatically no sacrifice. Say rather it is a privilege. Anxiety, sickness, suffering, or danger now and then, for the foregoing of the common conveniences and charities of this life may make us to pause and cause the spirit to waver and the soul to sink But let this be only for a moment. All these are nothing when compared with the glory which shall be revealed in and for us. I never made a sacrifice. An investment, not a sacrifice Samuel Zemmer, who is a missionary to the Muslims, 1897. He and his two wives, he and his wife and two daughters. hail to the Persian Gulf to work among you're listening, aren't you? To the Persian Gulf to work among the Muslims of Bahrein. Their evangelism was largely fruitless The temperature soared regularly to 107 in the coolest part of the verandi. I think it's bad here. In July 1904, both the daughters, ages four and seven, died within eight days of each other. Nevertheless, 50 years later, Zlamer looked back on this period and wrote, The sheer joy of it all comes back. Gladly would I do it all over again Hudson Taylor, pioneer missionary to inland China, wrote, I never made a sacrifice, in later years looking back over a life in which that element was certainly not lacking. So what he said was true, for the compensations were so real and lasting that he came to see that giving up is inevitably receiving When one is dealing heart to heart with God, the sacrifice was great, but the reward far greater I remember as a teenager hearing of a a missionary I got to know in our church who was in Nairobi in Kenya. And our church was very uh Focused on missions and missionaries were admired and I remember talking to this fellow after I'd just become a Christian. Gave me a whole new plan on missions. He was talking about how you guys feel sorry for us over there in Nairobi in Kenya. He said, hey, he said, tell you the truth, I feel sorry for you guys over here. I love living in Nairobi. I love what I'm doing. I love what God is doing through me. I love the place. I love the people. I'm having the time of my life. Don't feel sorry for me. Sure, there was a struggle, but there's the joy. Think of these words written by a contemporary missionary called Ants in the Sugar Bowl. So send I you to ants in the sugar bowl, the things that fly, creep, and crawl into the house to uncertain waters, sporadic electricity To long hours, smoldering heat, exhausting days, to uncomfortable vehicles, crowded jeeps, smelly buses, to noisy early, early mornings, to rice, rice. And more rights. To poverty you didn't believe existed. To masses of people like you have never seen. To know and to work with people who have never known comfort So send I you and expect you to adjust. So send I you to people who will give to you from their poverty, to friends that will embarrass you with their generosity. To pastors that will entertain you from their lack with bounty. To hungry, receptive, questioning people who want to know God To study, to teach, to learn from your study and teaching, to prove your own motives, values, and beliefs, to learn about yourself and the culture that has reared you. To know God and to understand more deeply your dependence on Him. So send I you. Are you going? I'll go with you all the way. What about you and me? I think of a testimony I heard. Wish I had time for all of it, but I'll just give you a brief snippet from fella Bob Heppy. I was stopped in my tracks when I read this. There was a fellow who was asked by World Harvest Mission to lead a team in London in 1987. He said they prayed about it and considered it and found that the biggest obstacle was his own fears and his own heart. He had come to Christ as a radical counterculture person, and he said, when I came to Christ I was sold out but irresponsible. As I grew and I matured, I became stable and responsible and sold out to self. We talked about how they had become acquainted, accustomed to a life of comfortable conformity. We began to see that we had subtly placed many conditions and qualifications on our commitment to the Lord. We came to wonder whether we had merely given Christ a big part of our lives while secretly holding on to them. In theory, we saw ourselves as here for God, but in practice we acted as though he were here for us. to help us along those pursuits that we found interesting or worthwhile. Then he described how he read the gospel and had a new vision of Jesus as the warrior king calling us to forsake all for his grand cause. And how he promised to give to us multiplied more than anything that we ever sacrifice or better delay gratification for him And then he says, as they began to consider that, they realized that all they were doing was cluttering their lives with what-if questions and protective self-defensive mechanisms. And when they saw that, he says, a new clarity and freedom came into our lives. We've been attempting to decide about London with a carload of confusing conditions. Will we be happy? Will we succeed? Will we be secured? Secure. Are we overly zealous? Will we be lonely? We replace the wrong question, what's best for us, with the right question. Where will our lives best be used to accomplish God's purposes? And we were able to say to the Lord that we would do whatever it took to advance his cause in the world, big or small, whether it meant staying here, driving a taxi, teaching, or going overseas. And there was a freedom. In coming to a new all-consuming passion of what was on Jesus' heart. Let's pray. Lord, for some of us, we want to follow you. We really do want to know what's on your heart and be used by you. We want our lives to count for you and not be trivial. But we feel fearful. We're fearful of what it means for us to be totally open to you. Lord, you know, I feel that as I think of are going to Japan and and being more exposed to and and involved in what you're doing throughout the world Lord, right now we want to give to you our lives, our homes, our relationships, our property, our possessions. And we want you to make us willing to see the promise that Jesus has given to us. That we can never sacrifice ultimately. It is only an investment. Because you will never be in debt to us. Help us to believe the promise of Jesus. And give to us the freedom that comes from believing it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.