I'm lucky because that's the second time I got to hear that song today. That is a song that we'll preach. We do have a refuge. In Christ. It is Christ who is the resurrection and the life. And we turn again this morning back to the letter of 1 Peter. We spent the last four weeks looking at the prayer of Jesus in John 17 as we looked at the mission of the church. We come now again to the letter of 1 Peter in the series entitled Living the Resurrection: Life and Faith in the Letter of 1 Peter. Let me tell you briefly about where we're going over the next two months we will finish uh the letter of first Peter by the end of November. And so This Sunday today, we will be looking particularly again where Pastor Flora left off in chapter 3 of 1 Peter. Verses thirteen to seventeen. And we're looking this week at the glorious calling of the Christian. And next week we'll be looking at verses 18 to 22, the glorious call of Christ. And it is our hope that by God's Spirit and by looking at this letter again That you find a grounding in the living hope. The living hope of the resurrection. And let me remind you, because it's been a few weeks since we were in 1 Peter, some of the opening verses that speak to this very crucial theme. Of which now Peter has been taking through the entirety of his letter as he's been looking at what does it mean then as those who have a living hope in the resurrection of Jesus Christ, what does it look like to Follow Christ and to be a Christian in a world that is hostile to the faith, hostile to God Himself, what does it look like to be faithful? In relationships, in relationship to politics and government, in relationship to employers, in relationships between husbands and wives It has a profound application, this letter, to the life of the Christian, because, listen to the opening words, 1 Peter 1, verses 3, where he says, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us the new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you. It is. To live as a Christian is to live the resurrection every day. We come now again to this similar theme in chapter 3, as he again deals with the nature of these Christians who are newly converted, who are trying to follow Jesus, but are in the Roman Empire scattered around, dealing with what does it look like to have not only just individual persecution, but even nationally blessed persecution of those who profess Christ. What does it mean? Well, hear these words, 1 Peter 3, verses 13 to 17. Hear now the word of God. Who is going to harm you if you are eager to do good? But even if you should suffer for what is right, you are blessed. Do not fear what they fear. Do not be frightened. But in your hearts, set apart Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect, keeping a clear conscience, so that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ may be ashamed by their slander. It is better, if it is God's will, to suffer for doing good than for doing evil. Over the last few weeks, I've been saying at the end of reading a scripture passage, this is the Word of God, and I've been answering that question by saying, thanks be to God. But I'm not alone. So when I say this is the word of God, you respond by saying thanks be to God. Can we do that together? Okay. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. That reminds me that you're participating and that you're not asleep. So there we go. All right? Okay, let's work together through this passage, but let's begin with prayer. Father, we thank you for this wonderful treasure of your word In it we find great truth, yes, but also great hope that speaks to every person who can hear my voice. Regardless, Lord, wherever people are, in relationship to answering the question, who do you say that I am? Jesus asks. Everyone. Who hears these words from this word, there is something here. Primarily, there is hope. So, Lord, we pray that by your promised presence, your Holy Spirit, Working together with this word, I pray, Lord, speak to us. We are listening. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen So together as we look at these verses 13 through 17, in many ways, it is filling out a little bit of where I left off last week. In fact, it dovetails quite well with the message that I was speaking of last week, which is that the Church of Jesus Christ is called to be a church on a mission. Not walled off from the world, not trying to look like the world, but the Church of Jesus Christ is called to go into the world, that is with the world, not to argue against it, but to declare to it the hope. The power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so therefore we come again to this very idea that the very assumption that underlies this entire passage. that Peter is is describing, the assumption that Peter has is that those who profess faith in Jesus Christ are in dialogue, are talking with, are living around. And dealing with those who don't believe, even those who are antagonistic towards Christian belief. That is the assumption. Why? Because for Peter it's the mission. And so he has a particular message. Now, of course, he was dealing with those who were, if you will, on the razor's edge of persecution. I do not believe that most of us in this room are on the razor's edge of persecution if you're a believer. By that I mean you're not suffering the loss of life because of your profession. But if you profess faith in Jesus Christ and seek to do so by his grace with opportunities, there is going to come all kinds of persecution. This message is still for the church today. In this community, which is very diverse, which has a diversity of faiths, which celebrates that But nonetheless, this message is here. And if you do not believe, the message is for you just the same. Because the promises that are for the Christian is for everyone, for anyone who would believe So walk with me, if you will, through these passages. You'll see in your outline, it is a new fear, a new hope, a new respect. A new fear, a new hope, a new respect. Looking directly back at the word, you see very quickly that this is important for Peter because he says, Who is going to harm you if you're eager to do good? Again, he's dealing with those who are on the razor's edge of persecution. But he says in verse 14, But even if you should suffer for what is right, you are blessed. And then he says, Do not fear what they fear. Do not be frightened. This is important because I believe that what he wants to say here is that there is to be a particular kind of fear For the person and those who profess faith in Christ, but he first describes what that fear is not. He says, Do not Fear what they fear, do not be frightened. Well, interlocked within the Greek is the notion of two things about what not to fear. First, do not fear what the world fears, but secondly Do not fear them. Literally, first, do not fear those who are antagonistic towards the Christian faith. And it is not uncommon to, when you are professing and talking with those who don't believe, one of the very serious questions, in fact one of the most Direct questions. In fact, one of the most painful questions I ever had to face from someone was this question. You say That Jesus Christ gives hope in the midst of suffering. Well, my loved one has been suffering with stage four cancer for eight months. But you talk about a Savior who suffered for a weekend. It was a direct rebuttal of the centrality of the Christian hope. But it was not given in sort of a nice dialogue. It was a targeted question laced with accusation. But let me say, I don't blame them Because in reality, we must recognize that the world is full of fear. And in fact, the writer of Hebrews says That that fear, while it shows itself in various ways, fear about war, fear about economic instability, fear in relationship, is all of itself wrapped up into this idea. It is the fear of death. That because of sin, death has entered the world, but death looks like a lot of different things. Death can be death to peace, death to good health, death to good relationships. He's saying here, do not fear what the world fears, meaning you do not have to fear death. It is real. You must contend with it, but do not fear death. Economic instability is as much of a reality for those who profess Christ as those who don't. Do not fear economic instability. May I go further? Do not fear political instability Interesting that Peter should say that in the Roman Empire. giving state-blessed persecution. He's saying to Christians who are facing the very reality of losing their lives because of their profession of faith, and here this message is for those of you who profess Christ. If he can say to them, do not fear what they fear, then what fear ought the Christian to have in regard to political or national instability. I'm not saying it shouldn't be a concern, but the issue is it isn't the ultimate goal. It isn't the ultimate hope. Do not fear what they fear. But then it not only is that, it is also do not fear them. Do not fear those who come at you with the sword. It is a remarkable thing. And I believe a glorious, gracious thing, that the person who wrote this is the person of Peter. Walk with me, if you will. It is Peter who took out the sword to cut off the ear of the soldier who was there to take Jesus. Jesus said, That is not my weapon of war. It is Peter Who, when he declared that he would not leave Jesus, Jesus said, You, Peter, will deny me three times before tomorrow morning. Peter said, Not gonna happen. Now this morning my hope would be, my hope was, rather, that we could have projected on the screens one of the paintings that I've been looking at of late. One of my favorite painters is Rembrandt, because I believe that Rembrandt puts so amazingly into a painting the tension in the moment that he's painting. And he does this wonderfully with uh biblical scenes. The problem was the image was too dark, you would not have appreciated it. So let me describe it. One of his paintings is of the denial of Peter. Now, if you if you go back and read about Peter's denial before that morning that Jesus predicted. that he goes to three different people who ask him, aren't you associated with this Jesus, the Christ? And Peter, of course, denies, as we're familiar with. He denies Jesus three times. But there are three different incidents. And then after that, he remembers, after the third incident, he remembers what Jesus had said, and he weeps. What Rembrandt did was he took all three of those denials and placed them within the same painting. And at the center of the painting is a light shining on the face of Peter. And at this point, he's looking at the woman who is asking him, did he belong with the group that followed Jesus? And you can see in the eyes that Rembrandt painted, you can see the fear. Of being associated with Christ. And next to her is a soldier who is seated and he has his sword just by his side and he's clad in his battle armor. And then the third person that he had spoken to is standing in between them. But the light shining on Peter's faith is unmistakable. It is the look of fear. But then Rembrandt Painted also just off his left shoulder, at the back, in the distance, in the shadow, is Jesus with his hands behind his back. Looking over his shoulder at Peter's third denial. And what Rembrandt is capturing in that very tense moment. is not only the fear of Peter, but its sheer folly. Because this is Jesus Christ who has said to Peter, I will not leave you nor forsake you. This is Peter, who had pride and puffed up in his arrogance that I will not leave you. And what he missed was his profession should be, you will not leave me. And now, after Christ's resurrection, sending forth the Holy Spirit, it is Peter who's writing to the Christian. Who says, Do not fear what they fear? Do not be frightened. But not only to be able to be able to understand the new fear, and I've only spoken about the fear that we ought not to have, we have to understand what that fear we ought not to have, to look at the fear that he does call to. Look at verse 15. He says, But in your hearts set apart Christ as Lord. In essence, he's saying, Do not fear the world, reverence Christ. To set him apart means that he is wholly other. He is above all things, he is in all things, he is in control of all things, and he is Faithful. And if we set Christ apart in our hearts, what that actually means is that in your minds In your actions, you embrace the power of Jesus in the resurrection, victorious over sin and death That releases the human being from the fear of death, the fear of what the world fears And even fearing the world itself. Why? Because Jesus faced the fear for you He was acquainted with suffering. He was acquainted with abuse. He was acquainted with attack for you. I believe though he is not referencing this passage directly, I could not help but think about Paul's words in Romans chapter 8. Consider these words. What then shall we see in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things, not some things, not certain things, but give us all things. In other words, the Christian can say, regardless of circumstances, regardless of the fear that I'm tempted to give into, I can say that He has given me all things to face it. Why? Because there's something special within the person who professes Christ? No We are all of flesh and blood, given to anxiety and fear. The difference is for the Christian we've set Christ apart if you profess faith. And what does that mean? Well, Paul answers it for us. It's saying in the mind and in the heart These words, know in all things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death Nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future. Nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. That is the new fear. That is where the reverence goes. That is where the awe of our hearts and minds are poured out. That he is faithful. The reason why Peter talks about setting apart Christ as Lord As the new fear. It is because it breeds new hope. As one writer said, hope is The settled, unwavering confidence that the Lord will not leave us nor forsake us But will always have more in store for you than you can imagine. Let me repeat that Hope is the settled, unwavering confidence that the Lord will never leave you nor forsake you, but will always have more in store for you than you. Can imagine. And so when he writes here in verse fifteen Of chapter three, he goes on to say, But in your hearts set apart Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you, to give the reason for the hope that you have. If my declaration is that nothing can separate you or me, trusting in Christ, that nothing can separate us from his love then that breeds real living hope. Two kinds of hope. First, let me see this. Hope and grace Hope and grace. Now, for just a moment, what I want to do with this idea of hope, and if there's any reason why I've preached this sermon, it's for this point. And so that means if I don't get to the third point, we don't get to the third point. But here you go. The gospel is a diamond. And when you shine a light on a diamond. It is what is projected through it and on whatever it touches will be a kaleidoscope of colors. A diamond is multifaceted. The gospel is multifaceted. And one of those facets in which the Christian finds hope is in grace. And by that grace I mean this. The undeserved love of God. And let me say this again. The undeserved love of God. What I mean by that is It is the transactional nature. This is one facet of the gospel, the transactional nature of the gospel. What do I mean? What I mean is We talk a lot around this church about, and rightly so, the transactional nature of the gospel, that is, that Jesus Christ Came to earth, clothed in flesh, who knew no sin, but to die on a cross to take sin on himself and become a sin offering. But in the exchange of becoming sin and receiving God's wrath, we receive in exchange not judgment, but grace. We receive Jesus' obedience, we receive the benefits of who he is as the Son of God, we receive his goodness and love, and all that is given to those who profess faith in Jesus Christ. That's the transaction. Our sin goes to him, his righteousness is declared to us. Therefore God, as Vern Rushing said this morning, one of the members of our church, who told me after the first, he's exactly right. For God, there is no past, nor present, nor future. It is all right now. And that is, when Christ said it is finished for you, and for those who don't profess Christ, you need to know wherever you are in coming to Christ, it becomes an ever present now that what Jesus has done on the cross becomes present for you now. It is finished. There is no way either the Christian or the non-Christian can ever work to God. Even a Fantabulous, which is not a word, a fantabulous display of repentance and confession, a great display of Christian service and feeding the poor, a great display of worship and humility. Absolutely not one strand of any of those actions can ever say before God, it deserves grace. But everything in the Christian life, everything in the Christian life is always the product of God's grace working first. That is the transactional nature. But let me say something to you as a church and to my own heart. That is an important, but only one facet of the gospel. The hope isn't just in grace that Peter is calling us to give an answer for, to talk about the hope. It is also, remember, the message is coming to those who are presently facing suffering. The hope he also, I believe, wants to remind us of is the hope in glory. What do I mean by hope in glory? I believe, and with my heart, as I've been convicted of it this week, that the hope in glory is the forgotten source for Christian hope, by and large. And what do I mean by the hope and glory? I mean that the end of the story, that is, the end of human existence The exclamation point will not be brokenness. It will be healing. It will be a new heaven and a new earth. It will be not a broken city. It'll be the blessed New Jerusalem. It will not be sin, it will be hope. It will not be unlove, it will be love. This is the end of the story. But here's the question, and I was reminded of this and convicted of this all at the same time, by a new book by Bob Peterson, one of my professors from seminary who's written a new book called Life Everlasting, The Unfolding Story of Heaven. He and his co-author did an interview recently, and uh what's interesting is they asked uh one of the authors and about this. Why is it that the church has forgotten glory as a source of hope? And he said this. Human beings are glorious and are created for glory. Do you believe that Are you able to look at yourself, the gifts you have from God, and say, I am a glorious creature in God's creation? Can you? Does it feel awkward? He suggests that so oftentimes the Christian church feels awkward about talking about the glory That human beings have created in his image and the glory that is yet to come because we live in a world, ourselves included, who are gluttons for glory. And by that he means it's a different kind of glory. It's a glory about puffing ourselves up, our own wisdom, our own ideas, our own gifts. But that's not the way the Bible understands glory. He says this, that the scriptures are abundantly clear when it comes to our glory. Paul teaches us that one way of viewing the Christian life is a renewal after the glory of our Creator in the same image. from one degree of glory to another. He says, our reformed emphasis on our sinfulness and God's gracious acceptance of us must be combined, must be combined, and equally biblical emphasis that we are made in God's image for glory, a glory whose restoration has already begun. Practically. If we believe that the end of the story is Christ returning to make all things new. That we will, as Rick Belovo said earlier, see him face to face. The offer is to everyone in this room, where are you in relationship to Jesus? Because when he returns, we will see him face to face. And the hope is that that day will be a day of pure restoration and glory. That is what is offered. And what that means is, it doesn't mean that when the Christian focuses on glory and on the promise of a new heavens and a new earth, that that makes us presently no good in the present. Just the opposite. I agree completely with C. S. Lewis when he says these words in mere Christianity. He says, hope means a continual looking forward to the eternal. It does not mean that we are to leave the present world as it is. If you read history, you will find that the Christians who did most for the present world were just those who thought most of the next. It is since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have become so ineffective in this one. Aim at heaven, and you will get earth thrown in Aim at earth, and you will get neither. And if you are one of those for whom I prayed earlier, And you're facing physical, emotional, spiritual suffering. The greatest antidote Is to know that what He has in store for you gives you hope in the now, that this is not the end I close this idea with Robert Peterson, who says these words. When we see the Father in heaven And realize our complete union with Christ in that moment. And that we have pleased the Father through the work of Christ. There is no room for vanity, self-glory. There is no pretense, no selfishness. There is nothing impure about the joy of God. And the glory of Jesus saying to us, Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of your master. We were created to please God, and it is his pleasure to lavish his glory on us and to make us As he himself planned, vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for glory So, in this moment, you need to know that while we are bound to time and are in the midst of circumstances, We are here this morning to worship a God for whom everything is present now. Which is why Paul would say Justified, glorified, sanctified. Means it is finished, which means in the midst of whatever you're facing, We are not in slavery to the present, but rather we can be connected through a living hope in glory That can say, in the midst of whatever we're tempted to giving into and giving up hope, we can say, and remember, as we hear from God's word, we are vessels of mercy. Prepared beforehand for glory. A new hope. Is that your hope? It is, as been sung this morning, a refuge in his wounds, and I would add, a refuge in his victory. A new respect. That this new fear of recognizing it is Christ Who is in all and is in control of all things, who is our hope and gives us this hope in his grace, but also a hope and glory. Clearly says here, 1 Peter, that it also gives a new respect. Again, verse 15, always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you, to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect, giving keeping a clear conscience, so that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ may be ashamed of their slander. Very simply, I believe these verses, that verse preaches itself That when this new fear and this new hope grips a human heart And that heart recognizes that what has just happened and is happening because of Christ has nothing to do with them. What dawns and shapes the way that they interact with others is humility. If I know that I'm merely a beggar at the king's table, and the crumbs from his table are enough to satisfy me and bring me salvation. In my face, my speech, my interaction with those who are even to the point of violently opposing what I believe. or those who simply dismiss is should be a face characterized by loving humility As we talked about last week, that the gospel brings about a respect for those who don't believe, even when they seek to dismiss the Christian. as being unintellectual, unreasonable, weird, out of touch The Christian can say, yeah, you're probably right, but I have this thing. Let me tell you about this person. Peter recognizes that the reason why gentleness and respect characterizes the hearts that are gripped by this new fear and this new hope Is that ultimately, the war is never with you. Our war is never with the human flesh. Ever. Which is why Jesus can say, love your enemies. Bless those who curse you. Bless those who persecute you. And this week, if you're a Christian and you're moving out into where you live, and you're talking with those who don't believe, which I hope that you are, Giving a reason for the hope that you have in you, the hope that has nothing to do with an election cycle, a Supreme Court, a paycheck, or an address. But a hope that is in the eternal God, that as you do so, and even in counter pushback, may you remember That at the back of all of the church's testimony is a Savior who took all the wrath on himself. To clothe us with grace, kindness, and love. And that only as I see that Jesus is victorious Well, I recognize that I don't have to be victorious over those who oppose me. I'm simply to bear witness. And isn't it wonderful that Peter of all people is the one bearing witness to these things? Praise be to God that the very one who writes the letter has also been the subject of these things. May the Lord fill you with the hope in glory. May He fill you with a reverence for the love and covenant-keeping promises of our God. And may he equip you with a gentle, humble respect for all that you encounter. Let's pray Father, this is the glorious calling of the Christian. Because you have first given us the glorious gift of Christ. I pray, Lord, that for those who are here this morning that don't know you, I pray that your spirit would emblazon on their minds the hope in grace and glory. And I pray for those who profess faith, may you renew them in this hope. And make this body of Christ. This local expression of what you're doing may be a place characterized by the gentleness and the humility of the Savior that we proclaim In Jesus' name, Amen.