Set your hearts on things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things above, not on earthly things. For you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature, sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires and greed, which is idolatry Because of these the wrath of God is coming. You used to walk in these ways in the life you once lived, but now you must rid yourselves of all such things as these anger, rage, malice. slander and filthy language from your lips? Do not lie to each other, since you have taken off your old self with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge in the image of its Creator. Here there is no Greek or Jew, circumcised or uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave or free, but Christ is all and is in all Therefore, as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience Bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. Forgive as the Lord forgave you. And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together. series. It wasn't really intended to be a series. It something in my seminary studies, and I know some of you are knowing me now as the perpetual seminary student. I think I'm going on six years The whole idea of Christian ethics and what we are supposed to do is something that has really become something that intrigues me, something that really motivates me. It is a Something that I pursue all the time in terms of my studies, in terms of a particular part of my studies that has really grabbed me When I think about these things, I think about the letter of Philemon. And when I think about the letter of Philemon, I think about the passage I just read. And when I think about the two together, I think of another passage From J. R. R. Tolkien's book of the Hobbit. You might think, well, that's kind of vulgar compared to how sacred scripture is, but but hear me on this one. The Hobbit Is a book now that if you're in middle school or high school, it's very popular to read for young people. I don't know if it was twenty, thirty years ago. Maybe it was J. R. Token was an an Englishman a lot like C. S. Lewis. He was a Christian and he involved a lot of symbolism in his writing. But there's one scene towards the end of the story And what is this story about? For those of you who haven't read it and are thinking that a hobbit sounds like something you buy from Track Auto, a Hobbit is kind of like an elf or a dwarf, but it's smaller, weaker, it's pretty much less of everything. It's really the smallest thing living on that particular C. S. Lewis type fantasy world. It's pretty weak. It's pretty uh unimposing, pretty scrappy, you know. And uh here's this hobbit, and the book is about him and these thirteen dwarves. These dwarves are strong, they're kind of proud, they're kind of arrogant, they can do whatever they want And they're on this mission to capture this mountain fortress where there's this dragon living who kicked all the dwarves out and stole all their gold. And that's what the whole story is about. And throughout this whole adventure This hobbit keeps coming to their rescue. Because the adventure doesn't start when they get to the mountain. It's when it starts when they leave this hobbit's house and there's trolls and ogres and there's poisonous spiders that are huge. There's uh bad guys all over the place, goblins. It's a good book, kids, if you ever want to read it. But when they get to the dragon, and when the dragon gets killed, there's this big battle scene. And at this battle scene The king of the dwarves, who is one of these thirteen, is trying to get this hobbit to fight in the war and this hobbit saying, I'm not going to fight in the war, and uh the dwarf king says, You well, you're a coward. And the hobbit says, How can you call me a coward Wasn't it me that saved you from the spiders? Wasn't it me that saved you from the ogres? Wasn't it me that saved you from the goblins? Was it me that did all these things when it was hard? And Thorne said, You don't see me cringing now, do you? That's the text that comes to mind. That one quote. You don't see me cringing now, do you? And the conversation ends right there in J. R. R. Tokin's book. It doesn't go on. I can remember as a kid I was really into this book and we used to have the big some of you kids won't know what I'm talking about, an LP, a big huge record with a story on it, and Jim and I would have the whole thing memorized and We'd talk about that. And I always always wonder, why didn't Bilbo say, of course you're not cringing now? The dragon's dead. Of course you're not cringing now. You're in the mountain fortress. Of course you're not cringing now. There's this army of dwarves from the Black Hills and your cousin Dane coming to your rescue. I didn't say that. The Hobbit didn't say that, and the Dwarf didn't cringe. But I think that when I think of Philemon, the reason that comes to text is because it's Paul's plea to Philemon Don't cringe now. Why? Philemon is a book that's received some attention lately, and a lot of people have been writing about it in terms of its context and all of Paul's writing in general, which is good But Philemon is a book that really needs to be read right next to Colossians. Right next to it. And you might be thinking, well, there's five other letters in between, but just kind of take those five letters out for a minute and think Colossians, Philemon. They were written at the same time and they were delivered by the same people. If you look at the end of the letter to Philemon, we read in verse twenty two, I'll give you a minute. You might want to flip to Philemon now because we'll be spending the rest of our time there in Philemon. And phyluming we read these names in these greetings. Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends you greetings. And so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. All these same people, these same companions are present at the end of Colossians, the same people. The beginnings of the two letters are identical. Paul begins by thanking by rejoicing in these people 's faith in Christ and love for the saints. Two ideas which run through both letters. Both letters. Two ideas. Faith in Christ, love for the saints And Paul, when he's writing to the Colossians, when he's writing to Philemon, I want you to think for a minute about the impact a letter from Paul would have on a congregation. I've done some thinking about this and thought, what would it be like? We know that Philemon had a church meeting in his house. He was a pillar of the church there in Colossae. And we know that back then churches often met daily. So if you can imagine the excitement of uh suddenly the news going out, hey Uh Tiger just showed up. This guy that has a letter from Paul and he's going to be staying with us for a while and the letter's going to be read. This is what would happen at church. Paul's letters would be read. Copies would be made, they'd be distributed to other churches. I want you to think for a moment about a minister of the gospel who means a lot to us, who's maybe not with us now, somebody that If he were to just show up out of the blue with no warning and come up to the pulpit and give us a message would just thrill every one of us. And you might be thinking of Tito Padilla or Alma Dorsbach or somebody that you've really developed a love and appreciation for their ministry. I want you to think about how exciting it would be for you and for me to hear them give us the word of the Lord and minister to us in that way. And how easy it would be for us to say, Amen. Praise God. Yes. Oh, great to see you. Wonderful message. I can remember kind of firsthand back in like 1987 Dan Wecker was kind of interning me to be the senior high youth leader here. It was I was nineteen or twenty and I would sit there like a student teacher and watch most of the time and one week, the week before I was gonna do my first my first message, my first youth group talk, Dan said, Well hey, next week we're gonna have a special guest And immediately all the kids started saying, Oh, Dave and Linda Thompson are coming back. They've been the previous youth group leaders. And you know they were saying that Even next week, when there was no Dave and Linda. They were looking out the window. Oh, Dave and Linda could be here any minute. It wasn't until Dan said, Well, Bob's gonna talk to us now that they said, Oh You know, I think they coined the phrase, oh, it's you, Bob, way before that movie came out. But you know, when somebody who means a lot to us is coming to bring us a message, it's very, very easy to get caught up in it and say, Yeah. Very easy. Now I want you to think for a minute about Philemon. The church is meeting in his house. Tychicus has brought the letter, Colossians. And it's been read, glowing review. The church is healthy, the church is wonderful, they have faith in Christ. They have a love for the saints, which is something Paul writes glowingly about. We have these beautiful drop doctrines in Colossians spelled out, and then we get to that part that I just read to you all Chapter 3 About how in Christ there are no divisions between us and how Philemon must have been saying, Amen! Yes, preach it. Keep reading, Psychicus But Christ is all and is in all. Yes. Therefore, as God's chosen people Bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. Yes, amen. I believe that Forgive as the Lord forgave you. Praise God. Preach it. And as we're reading down and he gets to the final greetings and he's given some directives about the Christian household, we read Paul's writing to them. Tychicus will tell you all the news about me. He's a dear brother, a faithful minister, and fellow servant of the Lord. I am sending him to you for the express purpose that you may know about our circumstances and that he may encourage your hearts. He is coming with Onesimus, our faithful undear brother, who is one of you. They will tell you everything that's happening here And I wonder what Philemon thought then on Assimus, who's one of us, and he must have dismissed it from his mind. I had a slave named Menesimus a couple years back. He ran away and he did me great harm. I had a slave named Menesimus who was a bum, who was a rat, he was a scum. He mistreated me. And in the Roman world, if you were a slave, you were property. The Greek and Roman philosophers would categorize everything, and they categorized possessions Based on inarticulate, articulate, and intelligible possessions. You had your inarticulate possessions, something that couldn't make a sound, Like this podium makes no noise. If I owned this podium, this would be my inner if if I had like a moose or something, you know, or a cow and moo, you know, make a sound, that's my kind of an audible possession and then intelligible possessions. Think about this. That's people. By Lemon was his possession He owned him. He invested in him. What we know about Onesimus, the slave, is that he was a skilled person. Paul was able to work with him as a as a leader. He was a fellow minister of Paul's He rendered service to Paul that his dear brother Philemon would have otherwise rendered, we read in Philemon, and we'll see in a minute. And later, in fact, there's a bishop in Colossa named Anesimus, who many think is this same slave. Who knows what Philemon was thinking? Then he gets handed a letter. He gets handed a letter that is not to the church but to him and he reads it, the beginning of Philemon Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon. Grace and peace to you from God our Father and Lord Jesus Christ. I always thank my God as I remember you in my prayers. And he begins by saying all those same things. that he had said before to the church in general. Philemon is a godly man. He's a godly man And after this summary of Paul's prayer for him in hope, we read in verse eight of Philemon, therefore Although in Christ I could be bold and order you to do what you ought to do, yet I appeal to you on the basis of love. I, then, as Paul, an old man and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus. I appeal to you for my son Onesimus, who became my son while I was in chains. And what must Philemon have been thinking then Somewhere in God's big plan it was ordained that this slave would mistreat his owner, Philemon. Run away from him, meet Paul, whether in Philippi or whether in Rome itself, probably Rome, and become a Christian Through Paul's ministry in Rome. And somewhere in the course of that discipleship, it comes out that Onesimus not independently wealthy by any means. He's not just a man about town. He's not a somebody who just goes about like a rolling stone. He's a runaway slave Well, where do you run away from? Colossae. Oh, I know people in Colossae. Philemon. Oh, I know Philemon. And somewhere in the course of that discipleship it is determined, and we'll look more at this three weeks, two weeks from now Anesimus decides to return home to his master. And Paul writes with an appeal, saying, Philemon. Forgiveness, bearing with grievances, remembering that there is no longer slave or free. These are easy things to say when you're in your fortress, surrounded by your army and the dragons outside. But this is a real-life situation, Philemon. And I'm interested in knowing, as is the rest of the community in Colossae, whether or not you can actually do it or whether you will cringe now. Can you forgive Anesimus as the Lord forgave you? Can you bear with him? Or will you let these divisions that separate people from each other Give the other people in Colossae who know you. You're a wealthy man. There's a church that meets in your house. You're outspoken. You're important. You're rich. Well you give them opportunity to look at you and say, well, it's really not any different with Christians than we thought. They really do the same things we do You know, if Philemon did to his runaway slave exactly what I would have done. He cut off his nose or his ears or he threw him to the to the wild animals or he killed him or he just you know beat him But Paul makes an appeal. And his appeal, as we look at it, we see two things. It's on the it's fornesimus, and we read that the appeal is that Philemon would take him back no longer as a slave, but better than a slave as a dear brother. Now many people, when they look at this, say that Philemon is a worthless book of the Bible. And they say this, and it kinda bothers me because it's a book I've grown to love very much over the last year and a half, because they say Paul doesn't really get to any point. He doesn't say anything clear. He gives no kind of absolute directive. He doesn't say by Leman You are gonna release Annesimus your slave, give him his freedom, and then love him for the rest of both of your lives as a Christian brother. And he doesn't anywhere actually say free him, as many would like him to have said. In fact, in the letter to Colossians, he gives rules for how masters should treat their slaves. And you think, what exactly is it that Paul wants? And I think that becomes very clear when we read down, and y it might be confusing, you know, he just said, you know, I didn't make any command, I could have ordered you to do this to to accept him back. And then we get to verse 21. Look at verse 21. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I ask. Obedience to an appeal Now, see, there are commands in the letter of Philemon that are overlooked. And for the next this week and next week, we're going to look at two each. Commands that are imperatives that show us what Paul's real heart is. Regarding this relationship that Philemon and Mesimus have, this test case of the gospel, this opportunity for the gospel to make a difference in the lives of these two people who are broken and in need of reconciliation. Or not. And what are they? If you look at the uh the first command, it's A on your bulletin. The first command is, we read in 17, so, this is after the appeal is made, so If you consider me a partner, welcome him as you would welcome me. Welcome him as you would welcome me. What an easy command to follow, isn't it? You know, that's something where you know you wish it was so easy to have a Christian life and uh and treat other fellow Christians appropriately just by welcoming them You know, hey, I can do that Tombaudette thing and leave the light on for you. Hey, I can put out a mat. I can let you wipe your feet when you're coming. I can even wave to you across the room here. I can do all these things. That's welcoming. Not Not the idea. And as I studied this book, I was kind of amazed to r to know that uh this is the only time this word is actually translated welcome. And every place else where the word welcome shows up in your English Bible, it's a different word in the Greek And the word is a word that's kind of two words stuck together. The word for alongside or with, and then the idea of taking up. So taking up alongside with, that's the idea there. And it's the idea like if I was going to say that, you know, I took up with uh such and such or so and so, it could be could mean even in English that I became good friends with them, maybe we got an apartment together, maybe we uh w went on a vacation or a fishing trip or something. It's not just a welcome. It's a word that is used in Romans chapter 15, verse 7. It's translated accept And in that particular context, it's therefore accept one another just as Christ accepted you. Accept. How did Christ accept us? He brought us into his circle. He brought us into close fellowship with him. He didn't just put out a light or a mat. He didn't just say a kind word on a Sunday morning And I know that as we look around this room, being all sinful people like we are, some of us sat where we did today based on where somebody else did or didn't sit. And that's missing the point, regardless of whether or not you shake their hand in half an hour. Accept as you would accept me And the second command, if he has done you any wrong or owes you anything, charge it to me. That's the command, charge me Charge it to me, if he owes you anything. Now what might Onesimus have owed Philemon? Back then, if a slave ran away It was a very difficult thing. He could be killed, he could have anything done. I mean before the Romans were persecuting Christians, it's not like they weren't bloodthirsty people. They'd persecute runaway slaves. Hey They're fair game. There's one letter, it's a kind of a gross letter, but it's a letter in which a woman is writing about what she's going to do to her slave she just caught, and her uh one of her friends, the correspondent, is in a previous letter said, Well, how can you do things like this? And the woman says, What? Is he a man? Does he have rights? Is he human? He's a slave. For a slave to run away was a big step, a huge step. It was doing something which ordinarily would involve no turning back And we need to understand that if we understand the size, the scope, the significance of what Onesimus has done in saying, I'm going back to Philemon for reconciliation, because it was not an easy thing to do. It's not an easy thing to do. Anesthomes goes back and anything can happen. Under the law he can be killed immediately. No trial. What is he a man? Nothing But he goes back, and Paul writes, Charge anything he owes you to me. And we can look at accounts for apprenticeship from the ancient Roman world and say that they were just like us. These people were no different If an apprentice got sick and missed they actually had down for the hours, how many hours they would extend his apprenticeship. You've got no sick days in the Roman world If this slave ran away, how would he have lived? You know, they didn't have uh meal deals at Mickey D's back then, but if they did, how would he have paid for it? Not scrubbing pans In all likelihood he did what uh what Leah did as uh Jacob was running away from his father-in-law and stole some of the family goods to finance their uh expedition across the ancient world So we have a guy who not only removed himself from the service of his owner, denied his owner any service that he would have had from him, but also in all likelihood stole something in order to get his getaway and live. And Paul's saying, charge that to me. And that's something we can all relate to because it's a financial term. Charge it to me. All of a sudden Paul's slipping into this very formal this what he gives here is a contract. In the ancient world this would have worked. This was a contract. And Paul's saying, hey, open up your uh your ledger book, find that page that says Paul, and just go ahead and write these things down. Write them down as credits. And you can imagine if if Fi Leman was anything like me saying, Oh wow, okay, let's see. He was away for twenty months, that forty hours a week, that's eight hundred hours, that's plus his you know his hourly rate, let's say he's skilled, that's eight thousand dollars and it's getting bigger. And he's saying, okay, I didn't lose so bad after all. It might be easy to accept him back. And so he says, Oh, and what about that one gold bowl and that silver platter? And he starts writing it all down So then he breaks out his ledger and he gets that black quilt pen and he opens it up to the page that says Paul and he starts writing it down and up at the top of the page all of a sudden he notices in red ink my life Paul says, I will pay it back, not to mention that you owe me your very self. And suddenly Fauleman has a dilemma. How many hours of how many weeks at what wage will ever account for the fact that I owe my life Suddenly Philemon has a dilemma. How many silver bowls or golden spoons will balance this spreadsheet? How many? How much? We see that what Paul has done here is he has given us a picture of what Christ has done for us. Paul has given us a picture which is perhaps clearer than any other, than perhaps Judah submitting himself in lieu of Benjamin before Pharaoh , brother Joseph. Because what he's doing, I want you to circle the pronouns. Look at A. Welcome Him. Circle him. As you would welcome me, circle me. Under B charge me, circle me, if he, circle that, owes you anything. What Paul has just done is shown us the means of reconciliation And he set himself up as a model of Christ. When Jesus died for you and for me , He said to God the Father, Accept them as you accept me. And when you think about their debt that they owe you, charge it to my account And regardless of what people have written about Christian ethics and what is it right to for us to do, and don't we have a right to exercise what is justice around us and in our world Jesus did change ethics when he came. Because no longer was the pattern for how you should treat one another and how I should treat you and how you should treat me. Based on what I think you should do for me, the Golden Rule becomes a bit dated Because when Jesus says, A new command I give you, and we're all good Hebrew people sitting on the hillside, and he says, Love your neighbor, we think, Well, what's so new about that? As I have loved you. There's something very new about that. And as we watch Jesus in his ministry, and as we read about it in the Gospels, and as we see how he died for us, as on that spreadsheet for us, we owe him our life. As we see that he gave us his. And as we look at the implications of that, where Jesus is so clear now on the basis of this model Love each other. , On the basis of this model, forgive as the Lord forgave you. The message of Colossians, the plea that Paul has for Philemon. Forgive freely. And as you and I think about the fact that it is not just an Apostle Paul or a Tito Padilla, Elmer Dortzbach, or Dave Relinda Thompson who's making this plea for you and for me But it's God Himself in Christ saying, Forgive as I forgave you. Remember that there are no longer divisions that separate us from each other, but Christ is in all and is all. He's it. And this isn't something new here, this idea of looking at one person and seeing another. Jesus in Mark chapter 9 says, In as much as you welcome, same idea, one of these little ones, you welcome me, and in as much as you welcome me, you welcome the one who sent me. Or in Matthew 25, before the throne, and the sheep and goats are separated, and the people are saying, Lord, Lord, when did we not feed you? When did we not clothe you? And as much as you didn't do that for me, you didn't do that. And Paul is saying, Philemon, when you look at this Onesimus, this returned slave, and see him When you think about accepting him into the circle of your life warmly, taking up with him, think about how you would do that with me And when you think about those other thoughts, see, Paul is not just saying let bygones be bygones. He's not saying time heals all wounds. Paul is not saying leave well enough alone. He's saying when you think about this debt done to you If I leave me, charge me with it. Bring it to my account. Because only when you are reminded of what has been done for you will you be able to come to grips with what has been done to you Brothers and sisters, we spend our lives thinking about what has been done to us by each other, by our past Maybe by what's coming up in the future. And we need to remind ourselves that our lives are taken care of As we look at this and ask ourselves what is God's word saying to us, I know for me anyways, it's very, very easy, given my personality profile, to look at something like Colossians, something that's a It's a doctrinal heavy hitter and it's pretty abstract really. You know, it's easy for me to read that and look at these just kind of commands given out of any real context and think, yeah, yeah, oh I can do that. Yeah, that's a wonderful idea. I can see that. Yes. Forgive. Good. Got it. Bear with I can I can do that and all of a sudden you know you're you're falling into that possible Philemon comp uh complex of hearing it, assenting to it, and leaving it at that What we have in Philemon is something different. It's an actual situation which is as concrete as concrete gets. What Paul is saying now, Philemon, in this particular situation of your life. And you and me, if you're like me, maybe think in terms of the curve or the average or the mean or the norm. And we're happy with ourselves if we can look at our life and say, well, by and large, I'm a forgiving person. You think for a moment about that one relationship in which you really don't want reconciliation? The injuries were too big. Pain is too great. Disappointment is huge. I want you to imagine if Paul wrote you a letter and had that person's name in it. My appeal to you is on behalf of My appeal to you is on behalf of this person that you would rather not be reconciled with the same thing. What I want you to do is over the next week anyways be thinking about that. And as I work with the high school kids, I always encourage them to write things down because it forces them to come up with an answer And if the Lord is laying somebody on your heart right now, pick up your pen, borrow one from someone next to you, and write it down. Is there anyone with whom we should seek reconciliation? Is there anyone with whom we have a relationship, however strained at this point in our life, that we have written off decided to let go for reasons that are not good. And we have decided to say, well, I will never welcome them or accept them. I will always remember what they owe me. And begin praying about that relationship. And think about this means of reconciliation. Because it is Jesus who is coming to you on behalf of his beloved son or daughter, and saying Accept him or her as you accept me, because I am all and in all And two, think about how Paul has set himself up as Christ and been willing to go so far to affect unity in the church. Think about how far he has gone to seek the reconciliation of these two people And if you are in a situation in your life where you are aware of a situation, and this isn't just any situation you're aware of, I think it's important to notice that Paul refers to both of these people as his beloved children in the Lord. They are both people he has led to faith in Christ, both people that God has used in discipling, both people with whom have a natural disposition towards disliking one another. I'm not just saying if you're aware of a conflict medal, but I'm saying if you're aware of a situation in which you are the key person that can begin moving to bring about reconciliation Paul is willing to do that at his expense, because the unity of the Church is important. So important that when Christ prayed for us, his one prayer in John seventeen was that we be one And think too then about your relationship with God. Perhaps many of you don't know Jesus. Perhaps many of you Don't know what it is to know that when God looks at me, Bob Birkis, sinner, he doesn't see me and my debt, he sees Jesus Christ and his righteousness Perhaps some of you are runaway slaves who have run away from your Creator, God, plundered his house on the way, worshiping his creation And perhaps some of you deep in your hearts long to return home, long to go back to where you came from. Know that you too have a Paul, but so much more. You have a Savior who is willing to stand in your place, not just beside you as you bear the brunt of it But take your place, stand before God, and say, love this person as you love me, and forgive all their debts. Give them my righteousness that I might bear their sin and shame. This is the gospel. This is what Jesus came to do, and this is the message of his word for us. Let's bow our heads. Father God, as we think about the love that you showed for us on the cross and the way that you have Loved us first, Lord, in the way that you have uh forgiven us when we were so unforgiving. Lord, we just ask that over the next weeks as we look at this book, this letter, which is so dear, that you would uh help us to learn. Not just neat facts about Philemon, but Lord, that we would be able to incorporate this into our life, that we might become more perfected in the image of your Son Lord, we just pray that by your grace and the power of the Spirit at work in us, you would help our faith to become active. Lord, that you would help our love for the saints to become real. You pray these things in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior and our Lord. Amen.