Just upon the fact that God is who He is. And if the Lamb is this But the Lamb who is worthy is the Lamb who was pierced for you. Um I'm going to preach this morning. on the crucifixion. But in order to set the scene for you to be able to understand what we're going to look at I need to go back to historical events. Those of you who know me as I came knew that when I came here I had a pronounced limp It's because years back I had a motorcycle accident and my my left hip was basically damaged and continued to get worse and worse and I developed arthritis. So that three years a ye ago, those of you who are here know that I went in and had my left hip replaced. Which by the way is a surgery that if at all possible means you can avoid, avoid it It was a brutal procedure. And about four or five days after the surgery, I had an ambulance ride to go from north of Baltimore to get home, and I got home, and as I got and settled in that evening, Anne came to me. Upstairs in the bedroom and asked me a question. And the question was really appropriate and very simple. She simply said, are you glad to be home? In my callousness, in my ingratitude, I told her that I had better care in the hospital. What I didn't know was in the hospital my care was as good as it was because of her. But as the nurses didn't give me pain medicines for 10 hours after the surgery, she pressed the matter. But as the nurses didn't clean out the line where the blood was coming in so that they could put on another bag, she cleaned it. I didn't recognize that she had held my household together for five days while traveling to see me in the hospital. I didn't recognize how much work it was for her to watch the kids and to give me peace and quiet, to give me my twice-a-day IV. My three time a day shot and to keep sanity. After all I'm the husband. I'm the patient. She's the wife. And don't we expect certain things from one another? I trashed her sacrifice. Each of you is at risk Each of you is at risk. Because, brothers and sisters, we do the same thing to Jesus We do not value the sacrifice that pierced the land. We do not treasure his love for us. Think of the last time you were in a period of suffering. It may be right now. You may be sitting here in that situation. And have you cried out, God, why can't you show me that you love me? He has. He has. And that's what I want to look at today. That's what I want each of you where you are to see. Because it is a God of glory who is crucified for you. We looked a month ago at the transfiguration. And we saw that Jesus, in all three of the gospel accounts, is related as having identified himself as the Messiah. Through the testimony of Peter. And in all three accounts of the synoptic gospels, right after that, it says that he began to teach the disciples. That the Messiah must suffer, must die, and be raised from the dead. And as soon as it says that, it moves into the transfiguration. The account where Jesus' glory is revealed. He takes Peter, James, and John up the mountain, and he goes to be revealed in glory to meet with Moses and Elijah. To have them comfort him as they speak of his coming death, to give the disciples a taste of heaven and prepare them for the ministry that will take place when Jesus rises from the dead. And then he commands, do not speak of this to anyone until I have risen from the dead. Brothers and sisters, as we look at the passage of his arrest, his trial, and his crucifixion, I want you to see that it is the God of glory. Who undergoes this for you? Let me read from Mark 15. Immediately in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and the scribes and the whole council. And they bound Jesus, led him away, and delivered him to Pilate. Then Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? He answered and said to him, It is as you say. And the chief priest accused him of many things, and he answered nothing Then Pilate asked him again, saying, Do you answer nothing? See how many things they testify against you But Jesus still answered nothing, so that Pilate marveled. Now, at the feast he was accustomed to releasing one prisoner to them, whomever they requested. And there was one named Barabbas who was chained with his fellow rebels. They had committed murder in the rebellion. Then the multitude, crying aloud, began to ask him to do just as he always had done for them. But Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? For he knew that the chief priests had handed him over because of envy. But the chief priest stirred up the crowd so that he should rather release Barabbas to them. Pilate answered and said to them again. What then do you want me to do with him whom you call the King of the Jews? So they cried out again. Crucify him! Then Pilate said to them, Why? What evil has he done? But they cried out all the more, Crucify him So Pilate, wanting to gratify the crowd, released Barabbas to them, and he delivered Jesus after he had scourged him to be crucified. Then the soldiers led him away into the hall called Praetorium, and they called together the whole garrison. And they clothed him with purple. And they twisted a crown of thorns, put it on his head, and began to salute him. Hail, King of the Jews! Then they struck him on the head with a wreath and spat on him. And bowing the knee they worshipped him. And when they had mocked him, they took the purple off him, put his own clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him. Then they compelled a certain man, Simon A. Cyrenian, the father of Alexander and Rufus, as he was coming out of the country and passing by, to bear his cross. And they brought him to the place Golgotha, which is translated place of a skull. Then they gave him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, but he did not take it. And when they crucified him, they divided his garments, casting lots for them to determine what every man should take. Now it was the third hour, and they crucified him. And the inscription of his accusation was written above, the king of the Jews. With him they also crucified two robbers, one on his right and the other on his left. So the scripture was fulfilled which says, and he was numbered with the transgressors. And those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, Ah You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself and come down from the cross. Likewise the chief priests also, mocking among themselves with scribes, said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross that we may see and believe. Even those who were crucified with him reviled him. Now, when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eloy, Iloi Lama Sabakhtani, which is translated, My God. My God, why have you forsaken me? Some of those who stood by, when they heard that, said, Look, he's calling for Elijah. Then someone ran and filled a sponge full of sour wine, put it on a reed, and offered it to him to drink, saying, Let him alone. Let us see if Elijah will come to take him down. And Jesus cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last. Then the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. So when the centurion who stood opposite him saw that, he cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, Truly, this man was the Son of God. Let's pray. Lord Jesus. You who are the Lamb, show us your love. Break through our callous hearts Speak to us. God of glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. There are really three questions we have to look at as we look at this passage, as we look at this story, as we look at this event. The first and foremost is who is Jesus? That's the question that the Sanhedrin asked in chapter 14, verse 61. Are you the Christ? And he said to them, Yes, I am. And that should have settled it, because he was innocent of the charges that they raised. Instead, they bound him and they took him to Pilate. And Pilate in chapter 15, verse 2, asks the same question: Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus answers again, It is as you say. It should have ended. He should have been worshiped. But God had a plan. Jesus answered this question for the disciples. He answered the question by asking them, who do men say that I am? And then he said to them, Who do you Say that I am. You've been with me. You've been part of my ministry. You've seen the works that I've done. You've seen my relationship with the Father. Who am I? You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. That's not enough. He then takes Peter, James, and John and goes up to the mountain, and he reveals himself in glory so that they see God the Son without any veil. He's manifested in glory. And he says to them, Do not speak of this. To anyone until I've risen from the dead. For you see, Jesus knew what was coming Jesus was committed to what was coming. Peter said, Lord, it is good for us to be here. Let's stay. Let's camp out. This is what we want. And it's what they should want. It was right for Peter to want to stay, but it was the wrong time. For you see, Jesus had to go to Jerusalem and he had to die. So that as Peter stayed with him in glory, Peter would not die. So that as we see him in glory, we are not bearing the wrath of God. But if we trivialize the cross, we shame ourselves The same way that I did in my relationship with my wife. And if you think, well, but I've never done that Think of the last significant suffering you've gone through. Think of the last time of darkness and of trial that you've gone through. Did you cry out to God, why won't you show me you love me? I got better treatment in the hospital. I want more than you're giving me. I'm not satisfied. Let's look at what Jesus did. But in seeing that, there's one thing I want to be in the forefront of your mind. Because Jesus is who he is, because he is the God of glory who has taken upon himself humanity, Jesus is capable of unparalleled suffering. You can never know the full measure of what he did So what does he suffer? There's three things that we're going to look at briefly as we look at this. The first of which is the physical suffering. And that makes sense to us because we can extrapolate from our own experiences and begin to understand some of what he went through. The second is social suffering. And again, there's some sense of extrapolation of what we can recognize from our own experiences and and push to the utter limits and begin to get some sense, some glimpse of what Jesus went through. But the third category of suffering is spiritual. And there we are at a loss. So physically, what did Jesus suffer? In chapter 15, it talks about how Pilate, wanting to gratify the crowd, released Barabbas to them and delivered Jesus after he had scourged him. To be crucified. We've heard the stories, we've gone through Easter services, and we recognize what happens when a Roman soldier will take a whip with barbs of lead and lay open the back of a prisoner. Through the skin, through the muscle, to the bone. We recognize that that in itself can be fatal. And we may have been slapped, we may have been hit, we may have been struck at some point and felt The tiniest glimmer of that pain. Jesus was scourged. It says, then after that the soldiers took him and the entire garrison came out. They twisted a crown of thorns and placed it on his head, pushed it into his scalp, and he bled profusely. And then they beat him. They beat him with a rod. They hit those thorns and they pressed them further into his scalp. They beat him all over And if the thorns make you cringe, imagine being hit with a rod on your back where now what you see is bone. He was naked. They took his clothes and they clothed them with a robe of purple. And they took the robe off and they put it back his clothes. And they crucified him. They pounded spikes through his wrists. They pressed his back that had been laid open against the wood. They put nails through his feet. And they hung him to die. But this is still somewhat within our frame of reference. We can understand levels of physical pain But we don't think enough about what he did socially Here is a rabbi, a leader in the community, arrested by soldiers who bind him and drag him off. And we've all seen cop shows, and we've all seen things that give us some sort of frame of experience visually as to what might have taken place, but put yourself in his position. Two o'clock in the morning, you're sleeping soundly in your home, and the police cars with their lights flashing and their sirens blaring drive up to your home and screech to a halt. The police rush out of the cars, they beat down your front door, they come upstairs to your bedroom and grab you where you sleep. However, you sleep. Bind you and carry you out the house. So your neighbors who now have been awakened by this glare, by all this noise, come outside to see what's going on and watch you bound, carried off by the police. You begin to get a glimpse of the shame. She's tried. He's tried by the Sanhedrin and they ask him a question, he gives an honest answer, and they scorn him He goes to Pilate, who begins to recognize that this man is innocent, speaks the truth, declares his innocence. And the crowds cry for his death. One of the most difficult for me is the shame of misunderstanding. All of us have times where we're misunderstood. But I want you to think of a time where somebody you care about misunderstands you. What do you do? Some people that I've been in situations with when they're misunderstood begin to think that the issue is they've got to get this information across and you have to know what you've missed. So they begin to speak faster and faster and louder and louder, and they try to make you understand what you obviously have missed because you've misunderstood and disagreed with them And if they can only get you back to that point where you went off track, you'll be okay. And you'll approve them. Because they care. It says here that Jesus was silent, and his silence caused Pilate to marvel. How can you be silent when they say these things about you? Please straighten this out. Jesus says nothing. Now there's another way you can respond when you're misunderstood, and that's for the walls to go up. And what you do is as soon as you're misunderstood and you begin to feel the pain of that misunderstanding, you put the walls up and you protect yourself. And you stop caring for the one who's misunderstood you. And you move into this mindset, it says Someday you're going to see what a stupid mistake you made. And you're going to come back groveling to me, and you're going to recognize how utterly stupid what you did was, and I'm going to be approved. But in the meanwhile, I don't care about you. Until you can come back and deal with what you've messed me up on, the walls are up. If you come knocking and you come grumbling Sorrowful, repentant. And I hear that through the door, I may let you in. Jesus doesn't do that. His silence is not a silence of disconnection What is it he says on the cross? Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He's ridiculed by everyone You've got to understand that Roman crucifixions were not really focused on the one being crucified. That slave had already been judged. That rebel had already been punished. The issue was now more an issue of publicity. And so the Romans, when they crucified you, what they did was they put you on the major road going into or out of the city So that everybody who passes by sees what happens to those who cross Rome. So Jesus hung in shame, naked on the cross, for everyone to see. And as they saw him passing by, they blasphemed him. We're getting out of our limits. We have never in our wildest dreams begun to experience some of this, but it's still something we can cling to. It's an extrapolation of our life. We can say, yeah, boy, I've never had it that bad, but boy, let me tell you about how my life was. But now we're moving into spiritual. Now we're moving into an area we do not grasp. Because spiritually Jesus takes upon himself sin. I want you to think of that thing in life which is most repulsive, most repugnant, most abhorrent to you. Okay? I want you to think about it and get it in your mind. That thing which you absolutely will not allow to come near you. Okay? For you guys it may be a toilet bowl that you've got to fix. But it's something. There's something that just causes you to feel a pit in the bottom of your stomach as you even think about it. You know, let's just take this example of the toilet bowl that needs to be unclogged. So as you go to the toilet bowl You got the nose plugs. You got the rubber gloves, you got the tools, you got all the stuff that keeps you distant from that thing. Jesus took a bath in it. Jesus dove in and embraced it 2 Corinthians 5. 21, Paul said, He, the Father, made him, Jesus the Son, who knew no sin, to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. The entire history from the Garden of Eden until now has been an issue of the relationship God longs for with his people and the barrier of sin. Peter couldn't stay on the mountaintop with Jesus because Peter's sin had not been dealt with. So here on the cross, Jesus doesn't simply dispassionately, unemotionally, and in a self-protective suit, deal with sin. Paul says he becomes sin. He is identified with sin. He bears your sin. And holds it to himself. Now God the Father couldn't do that because God had to judge sin. Jesus is God. And so when you begin to try and grasp the nature of the sacrifice Jesus made for you, God took your sin Romans chapter eight, verse three. For what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh. God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. On account of sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. Who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. Jesus took, became, bore all of your sin And you will not understand that even when you stand before him at the gates of heaven. In taking sin, he bears the wrath of God. He knew that as he began to turn his face to Jerusalem. That's why God had to comfort him in the transfiguration. That's why Moses and Elijah came to speak to him of his coming death, as we read in Luke chapter 9. That's why as he goes the night of his arrest to the Garden of Gethsemane, he cries out, My God, my God, take this cup! This cup of God's wrath, this cup of judgment, this cup of punishment, take this cup from me Do not diminish the sacrifice Jesus made in taking that cup for you But none of that touches this last thing. None of that touches it God is Trinity. We sang in the song Holy, Holy, Holy. We sang of the Trinity. We sang of that community that exists. We recognize that there has never been a time where the Father, the Son, and the Spirit have not been in fellowship with one another. They have never been alone. They have never been rejected. They have never been in hiding. But the son on the cross Taking upon himself sin with which God cannot be polluted, bearing the wrath of God for that sin, cries out, My God, my God, why? Why have you, of all people, forsaken me? And for that time, Jesus is cut off. Jesus is alone. Jesus is rejected Why? This question leads us to wonder what in the world could bring the Son to do this? What in the world would be worth this suffering? What does Jesus accomplish? He accomplishes relationship. For God's plan since the fall into sin in the Garden of Eden is that man would be restored to him The entire Old Testament is a story of God's love for his people and building that relationship. The cross is the penultimate act. The necessary act where God provides the way for that relationship. How must Jesus have felt on that mountain when Peter rightly recognizes that this is what he ought to want. Peter says, Jesus, let's stay here. Please And Jesus has to say no. We can't yet. A time is coming. But I have to die. One verse that helps us to see some of this is Ezekiel chapter fourteen. It's right before the chapter where God speaks of his relationship with Israel, how he saved her as an abandoned child and moved forward into relationship with her and redeemed her from her walk away. And says to her, I will establish an everlasting covenant with you. In chapter 14, he's speaking about those who pursue idols, the false prophets, and those who seek from them wisdom. And he says that both of them are going to be punished and cut off, but the purpose is what's critical. Why he does that is everything, and he says In Ezekiel 14, verses 10 and 11, I do this so that the house of Israel may no longer stray from me. I don't want you to walk away. That they will nor be profane anymore with all of their transgressions. I don't want you to sin, but that they may be my people, and I may be their God. He wants relationship, he wants you, he loves you And that's why we cannot trivialize his sacrifice. It is the God of glory who has died on the cross for you. Don't expect that because he's Jesus, that's what's going to happen. Don't expect that this is just another story to remember. When you suffer, this is his declaration of love to you. There can be no greater expression of love. But it's only yours if you're in relationship with him For those of you who have that relationship, the blessing of this morning's truth is that you don't need him to say anything anymore. He said it. Now he will continue to say things. He will continue to care for you. He will continue to act in your life. But even in those hard times, he's spoken He said to you all you need to hear. For those of you who don't have that relationship Acts, I mean Ephesians 2, for by grace you're saved through faith. That not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not as a result of works, lest any man should boast. Acts 16, 31. The Philippian jailer comes to the apostles who'd been freed from jail by the miraculous work of God, and he says to them, What must I do to be saved? And they answer, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you shall be saved. Do you trust in Him for your life? If you have come to trust in Him for your life, do you recognize His love? Let's pray. We trivialize your love. We refuse to recognize your glory. We place ourselves first And we long for you to be our servant. Lord Jesus, you have loved us in a way we can never fathom Lord, continue your work in us. Open not only our eyes and our minds, but our hearts. You have said that we love because you have first loved us. Lord, show us more of that love. That love which has no boundaries Fulfill Paul's prayer for us as he speaks of your Spirit working in us in such power that we begin to comprehend the height, the length, depth, the length, and the breadth of your love. Transform us Jesus, in your most precious name that we pray this. Amen