Oh, that's terrific. The singing, the rejoicing in the fact that Jesus Christ is risen today. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Amen, right? What a wonderful morning to worship and to celebrate the fact of what Jesus has done. And yet I was thinking as I was preparing for this morning that often we don't go beyond thinking about the fact that Jesus has risen from the dead on Easter to consider the implications. Of the fact that Jesus has risen from the dead on our own lives, particularly on our lives after we die. If in fact we belong to Jesus Christ. For then we shall rise ourselves with the same kind of resurrection body that He had And I think often we don't consider that a whole lot. In fact I find that often we don't think about heaven very much at all. Glenn Mitzel's small group is studying heaven right now and Glenn came in for some resource material, some books in my office. And he said he was surprised how little there is that's written on heaven. Part of that, of course, is because the Bible doesn't give us a whole lot of data about heaven. But part of it is we don't tend to think about it a whole lot. Now, I can't tell you a whole lot this morning if you were to ask me to describe what heaven is like. But I can tell you a few things about what you will be like, particularly about what your body will be like, because Jesus has risen from the dead. Fortunately, in the New Testament, Paul gave us one full chapter on the resurrection, 1 Corinthians chapter 15. So if you haven't turned to that already, Please turn in your Bibles. You have a Bible with you to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And in this chapter, Paul tells us four specific things about our resurrection body in verses 42 to 44. Now I want to pick up the thread of his thought at verse 35. Because there you notice that his theme is continuity and discontinuity in life. Paul talks to us about, he wants to show us how our resurrection body is both continuous with the body that we now have. That is to say that it is our current bodies that will be, in fact, resurrected That's the continuity. But then he also wants us to understand that those bodies are going to be radically transformed, and that's the discontinuity in it. And then verses 42 to 44 give us four specific descriptions about the nature of that transformation. So follow that thread of thought as I read to you from God's Word, and you follow along or listen to what Paul says about our bodies because Jesus has risen. Hear God's word. But someone may ask, how are the dead raised? With what kind of body will they come? How foolish. What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. When you sow, you do not plant the body that will be, but just a seed, perhaps of weed or of something else. But God gives it a body as He has determined. And to each kind of seed He gives its own body. All flesh is not the same. Men have one kind of flesh, animals have another, birds another, and fish another. There are also heavenly bodies, there are earthly bodies But the splendor of the heavenly bodies is one kind, the splendor of the earthly bodies is another. The sun has one kind of splendor, the moon another, and the stars another. And stars differ from star in splendor. So will it be with the resurrection of the dead. The body that is sown is perishable. It is raised imperishable. It is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. It is sown a natural body. It is raised a spiritual body. I want you to notice, as we look at this portion of God's Word, three examples that Paul gives here of continuity and discontinuity. You notice as you heard that, that in verses 36 to 38, he shows you the continuity and discontinuity of seeds and plants. He says when you plant a tomato, you don't plant the tomato plant. You plant a tomato seed, and out comes a tomato. You don't plant the tulips that you see out there in the parking lot. Somebody planted bulbs. And from the bulb came the tulip. Continuity, it's the same thing. Wasn't that as if they were disconnected. The tulip grew out of the bulb, but it's very different from the tulip bulb. Then the second example he gives is of flesh. He says, now, among different kinds of flesh, there's continuity. You and I share a lot of things anatomically in common with animals, but there's discontinuity. And he talks about human beings and animals and fish and birds. And then the third example that he gives is of heavenly bodies. He says they all have things in common. They're all spheres in space. But there's things different about them. Stars are very different from planets. The moon is very different from our sun. Things in common, continuity, but there's also discontinuity. Now notice that after saying that, when he comes to verse 42, what's the first word? So will it be. Alright? So now you need to understand in order to understand what your body is going to be like For all eternity, if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning by faith, if you have turned from your sin and you've trusted in his finished work, what your body is going to be like is described in these verses. It's amazing to me that I had paid so little attention to those verses before actually studying them for this. Because you think if there's just this these three verses of data that can tell us what you're going to be like. For all eternity, if you have risen with Jesus Christ this morning. He says, so, just like I've described these analogies So it's going to be with the resurrection of the dead, talking about your resurrection from the dead now, not Jesus, but after him, your resurrection. And so he says, you're going to be like a seed. And he comes right back to that example. See? And so the three times he talks, or the four times he he uses the uh illustrations here, he talks about sowing. And so he says, you are going to be like a seed that is sown that brings forth a new plant. There's going to be continuity. Your body, your resurrection body is going to be tangible. You'll be able to touch it and feel it. We'll be able to touch and feel one another. It'll be identifiable. Jesus was identified after his resurrection. We will know one another, but he says there's going to be a radical transformation. And that's what I want to concentrate on. Look at the radical transformation that Paul talks about in your body and mind. Four descriptions that he gives of what your resurrection body is going to be like. The first one is he says it's going to be buried perishable, but it's going to be raised imperishable. So the first word for that first blank is imperishable. Your resurrection body is going to be imperishable. It will never decay. He goes on to expand on this in verse 50. He says, I declare to you brothers that flesh it, well first of all, let's read back there in verse 42. He says, the body that is sown is perishable. It is raised imperishable. Now he says the body that is sown. Think of it again like the seed. He's saying when he's saying the body that's sown, he's saying when you bury the body When one day before Jesus comes, if you and I die, that body's going to be buried in the ground like a seed is planted in the ground. That's the analogy he's using. And he says it's going to be planted or it's going to be sown, it's going to be buried as a dead body. But when it's raised, it's going to be raised as an imperishable body. He picks up on that in verse 50. Look what he says. He says, I'd see clarity of brothers that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit imperishable. Down to verse 53. For the perishable must clothe itself with the imperishable, and the mortal with immortality. When the perishable has been clothed with the imperishable, and the mortal with immortality, Then the saying that is written will come true. Death has been swallowed up in victory. Where of death is your victory Where, O death, is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Now what's that say? He's saying this. He's saying now, your flesh, when it gets old and when it dies and decays, it cannot dwell in a realm where there is no age and decay Heaven is a realm where there is no death or decay. And therefore you've got to be transformed. Now why is that? Because he's saying you cannot separate death and decay from sin. Sin is the only reason that there is death and decay. And Jesus Christ on his cross defeated sin when he took it upon himself, just as we've concentrated on in the last couple of weeks. As we've seen that our hearts, like Judas, Deserve God's wrath and his punishment. Jesus took that. And when he took it, he not only bore that curse in your place and mine judicially. But he suffered and defeated death, so that it's put away. Therefore, when you and I join him in that kingdom, it's got to be a kingdom where there is no death and decay. Because of that, you and I will have bodies that will never age, will never use their lose their youthfulness, their resiliency, and will continue to go on in perfect health forever. Now I know that you teenagers probably think that your present body is going to go on in perfect health forever. That's the way I was. But even now, you're beginning to get signs, aren't you, of decay? I mean, just look at your teeth, right? And after a while, it's not just going to be the cavities in your teeth. It's going to be the caps you'll need on your teeth and the root canals you'll need on your teeth. And maybe some of your teeth will need to be pulled and replaced. And so you're going to know that you're getting older. You're going to suffer hearing loss. You don't even have to get older to suffer hearing loss in our generation. You know that six out of every ten entering freshmen in college suffer elderly hearing loss as of this past year, those who were tested? In fact, it's said that by the year 2000, hearing aids are going to be as common as contact lenses. Beyond that, though, you'll notice as you get older, like I'm noticing, loss of hearing in the upper frequencies. I noticed this already. I'll tell you, I stand out there in the lobby, and when there's background noise, I can't hear the upper frequencies very well And so I'm afraid I l I just dread the day when one of you women are going to come back and you're going to say, I had the most terrible week this week that I have ever had in my life. And I'm going to smile and I'm going to say Glad to hear that. Half the time I'm just picking up a few words here and a few there, you know, and I'm trying yeah, yeah, she's smiling, so I guess it's good, you know Not so much trouble with the men. It's the upper frequencies and you begin to notice more and more of the loss. Your eyes dim. You know you've been around for a while. I didn't have to wear these things across couple years ago, what's happen? Protein buildup in the eyeballs, you know, stiff eyeballs, so I gotta wear bifocals. You know, then your eyes get dim and next next door neighbor came over the other day and Really depressed, he said, the doctor told me I have cataracts. Guys about the same age as me. He said they're beginning to progress. And probably in ten years I'm gonna need uh an operation for them You know, and you notice the things that are aging, those things that you you used to count on and you thought, I take pride in this, you know, and the wrinkles come and you keep trying to iron 'em out and cover 'em up and everything else, but it doesn't work and the aches the pains. Well, I didn't need to hear this this morning, you know. Got arthritis, probably the weather really helped a lot too, you know. But you see, what the gospel is saying is that's all part of living in this realm of sin. But the resurrection body is going to deliver you from all of that. And when Jesus comes and you and I are raised up with him. Because of his resurrection, we will have a body that will never age again. It will be restored to resiliency and to youthfulness. And you and I will never know again any loss of our faculties and powers and abilities, of our appearance or anything else. The resurrection body is an imperishable body. Do you believe that? If you believed that, it would make a difference in how you live this week. The second thing that Paul describes of this body is that he says that it's a glorious body That's the second description. It's a glorious body. There is no ugliness in it. Look at verse 43. He says it's sown in dishonor. It's buried, it's planted, sown in dishonor, and it's raised in glory. What is it that you most dislike about your body? I would venture to say that most of you, if you're answering that in your mind now, are probably saying something about your appearance. As we get older, it may be less about appearance and more about something that's not working right. But for most or many of us, it's going to be something about your appearance. I got fat thighs, you know. I got a big nose. I'm too tall. Too short. Don't like my face. Don't like my hair. Something about your body that you say, you know, if only I could change this. Why did God have to have a sick sense of humor when he put that into me, you know? I mean, I can't have humor with other people. This is my body we're fooling around with, you know? And so we have things that we struggle with. You know the Bible says in Isaiah 53, too, concerning Jesus Christ, that he had no majesty or comeliness, beautiful appearance, that we would be attracted to him. Think of that the next time that you believe that Jesus can't identify with your feelings about not having a movie star kind of body. The Bible says that Jesus didn't look like a movie star. And yet it describes in Luke chapter 9, when he was transfigured with Moses and Elijah, he was given a foretaste of the resurrection body. And in that resurrection body, Luke tells us that he was so glorious that the disciples could hardly even look at him. But what's even more important to you and to me. Is that that glory was shared by Moses and Elijah? It was not just a transfiguration and a glory unique to his being creator. But it was the glory that was true of the resurrection body. They could hardly look at Moses and Elijah. It was a glory and a beauty that produced awe to see it. I think of C. S. Lewis's statement in his book, The Weight of Glory, where he says. It is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses, and to remember that the dullest and most uninteresting person that you can talk to May one day be a creature which if you saw it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship. Think of that. The next time you talk to a brother or sister in Christ and find them to be very common and hardly worth your notice, Jesus is going to transform their body. And your body as well, into something so glorious and beautiful that it will produce awe in you to see it. You will have a beauty more glorious than anything on the cover of glamour or GQ. And yet, that kind of beauty is going to be a whole different dimension of beauty. It's not going to be a self-conscious beauty. Not going to be the kind of beauty that will need to spend hours in front of the mirror primping and making sure is just right I and some of you women might think, boy, if there's no mirrors in heaven and I can't fool around with my makeup, that's not exactly good news, you know. I mean I kind of enjoy that. But I think what is so wonderful is to realize that the beauty we're going to enjoy is the beauty of each other. And that's going to be a reflection of the beauty of our Lord Jesus. It's going to be an unself-conscious beauty Of a whole different dimension. Why do I say a whole different dimension? Because I think that's at the heart of what Paul's argument is here. He's saying you look at a tulip bulb And you say, Ah, you know, it's a nice bulb but you know, I don't know many people that display tulip bulbs on their counters or mantles or tables or you know, you come out and you say, Look at my backyard, I'd like to show you my tulip bulbs Not much to look at. But Paul says you sow that bulb and out of it comes something, while it's continuous with it, is a beauty of a whole different dimension. God doesn't just sort of you know sand the tulip bulb down and take off the rough edges and maybe shellack it and give it a better coating. He transforms it into a whole different dimension of beauty. And I believe that's a clue to the kind of beauty that you and I are going to have in our resurrection bodies. Somehow it will be enough consistent with our bodies that it will be identifiable as Jesus was. But the nature and the transformation of that beauty will be so radical that it will be like a plant compared to a seed. It will be like looking at tomato seeds. I have a bunch of tomato seeds and I plant them every spring and I look at those seeds and it always amazes me. The seed, you know, that big And out of it's gonna come a vine twelve feet long by the end of the summer. Forty-fifty tomatoes on it, each of them a couple pounds of peas. I like to brag about my tomatoes too Hey, listen, I got it. 46 tomatoes died this past uh Monday, I think it was. And I pull put them in my cold frame and One degree too low. Fourteen of them survived. Forty-six of them died. I had to plant a whole bunch of them again. You look at those tiny little seeds, so fragile, you know, one degree, that's it. But then out from it comes something totally different. Totally transformed, and think of the taste of it and the productiveness, the fruitfulness of it. That's the way with our bodies. Those bodies are going to be radically transformed, glorious in their beauty. Not the dishonorable bodies that we see now. There will be nothing about that body that you will be displeased with. It will reflect the glory of Jesus. The third thing that Paul says to us here, he says it's a body that's sown in dishonor, it's raised in glory. And then he says, thirdly, that it's a body sown in weakness and raised in power. So the third thing is that it's a powerful body. A powerful body. No limitations of weakness. Sown in weakness, raised in power. Think of Johnny Erickson, a woman who, for thirty-three years Has been captive to a wheelchair as a quadriplegic since her diving accident where she broke her neck in 1967. Written a number of books that many of us have benefited greatly from. Johnny Erickson cannot move a single muscle below her neck. That's weakness. She can't comb her hair. She can't brush her teeth. Totally dependent on others to do almost everything for her. And yet, when the Lord Jesus comes, Johnny's body is going to be a body without a limitation. A body of power. My body, your body, when it is the resurrected body. Is going to be more powerful in comparison to your body right now than my body and your body is now in comparison to Johnny's as a quadriplegic. Do you understand that? Compare your resurrection body with your current body. There's a bigger difference than the difference between your body and Johnny's right now. God says it's going to be a body of power. Jesus could move swiftly through great distances, go through walls. Now there was no limitation except that of a creature. Confined to that body. A body of power. Great, think of Carolyn. Carolyn is a woman who has a perfect mind, but her body has cerebral palsy. Her head lolls from side to side uncontrollably. She drools constantly. She tries to make herself understood to people, and most of what she says you can't understand. No muscular control, looking foolish, with her mind sharp and bright, able to write poetry, she's trapped within a body of weakness. Ashamed. And yet Carolyn loves Jesus. And because she loves Jesus, she is able in a unique way, before she gets that resurrection body To honor Jesus by her joy, her sense of humor, and her love for life. You and I have a unique capacity to honor Jesus by faith at this point before we get those resurrections. bodies, just as Carolyn is able to do. Alright, think of thelma. Ethelma is a woman with ALS, commonly called Lou Gehrig's disease. Some has already progressed from being able to walk about just like you and me to only being able to walk on crutches To being able to only walk in a wheelchair or be confined to a wheelchair, ultimately she will be immovable. Lugarig's disease turns the body into pulp, and yet it leaves the mind totally alert until the person is not able to move a single muscle and simply waits for death. Soon Thelma will not be able to swallow. She will not be able to turn her head or do anything except to wait to die. But Thelma knows Jesus. And Thelma loves Jesus. And Thelma says, yes, I become scared when I think of the days and the months ahead. Reduced capacity. And the fear of just waiting to die. But I ask great Jesus for grace just for today, one day at a time And he gives me that grace to have joy and contentment one day at a time. But oh do I look for that resurrection Body, that body that will be sown in weakness and raised in power, when he'll restore to me all of the faculties and all of the abilities, and far beyond anything that I ever had before. That body will be a body of power and a body that I can enjoy with no limitation. For some of you that are suffering various kinds of disabilities or have heard of news of diseases that you're fighting in your own body, or those that you love This is the promise of the gospel. This body is a body of weakness. But one day it's not only going to be a body that won't die, it will be a body of power. I think of Rick. Rick is a fellow who is totally paralyzed. He's paralyzed because one day as a teenager in high school he got into a fight. And another fella hit him and his head hit the gym floor. And from that day to this he is not able to move anything. The only thing he can move is his eyelids. He can blink. That's the extent of his movement. And one day Johnny Erickson went to visit him in her wheelchair. Because Rick loves Jesus. And she went to have some fellowship with him. And if she went to talk with him, he couldn't respond back, he couldn't smile, he couldn't do anything. except blink his eyes. And he has a word board where he can blink about left and right and various things and over a great period of time he can spell out words in order to try to communicate. But as Johnny began to talk to him, she began to reflect on heaven and the new bodies that Rick and she would have, bodies of power, because Jesus had conquered death. And she said as she began to talk to Rick about that, he couldn't wait to do anything on the word board. He just began to flutter his eyelids as fast as he could. And his mom said, That's the way he shows excitement and laughter. All he could do was flutter his eyelids and say, I understand how I'm looking forward to heaven. Isn't it a shame that it's people like Carolyn and Thelma and Rick and Johnny who think most about heaven? And who look forward most to that body that will be like Jesus? You and I don't think about heaven very much. We're too concerned idolizing and caring for these bodies that do function so well. And yet, if we could just get outside of that temporal, confined perspective and see, in fact, how confined we are. And what freedom there will be in those new bodies and what we will enjoy in heaven! How much more content we would be, how much more full of joy and hope and peace we would be If we simply thought about and longed for heaven and the coming of Jesus more. That leads to the last point That is that these bodies will not only be bodies that will never die, that will have nothing lacking in appearance or power and ability, but they will be spiritual bodies. That is, they will not sin. Verse 44, Paul says, It is sown a natural body, but it is raised a spiritual body. Now that phrase, a spiritual body, does not mean that it's a non-physical body. The contrast is between natural and spiritual, not between physical and spiritual. Jesus' resurrection body was clearly a physical body. Mary clung to it Thomas held it. He put his hand in Jesus' side. It's a physical body. Rather, what Paul is saying to us here is that it is a body in total submission to the Holy Spirit. It is a body controlled by the Spirit. We talk about spiritual people as those who are spiritually mature, who are controlled by the Spirit. That's what Paul is saying here. It is a natural body. It is subject to selfish natural desires. But in that day, it's going to be raised a body totally controlled by the Spirit and His desires. In that day when you and I are raised with Jesus and we go to be with him, his will and your will will be identical. You will want to do exactly what Jesus wants you to do, and you will be able to do it perfectly. Your will and his will will be so united that they will be one. You will love him with a perfect love. You will love your brothers and sisters with a perfect love. There will be no tension about your will. But on the one hand I'd like to do this, but on the other hand I feel guilty and so I think I ought to do that. There will be no such feeling. What you want to do will be spontaneously, perfectly loving. And so there will be no guilt. There will be no tension. There will be no drives within you that you want to quench and fight against, but your body will be a body entirely controlled by the Holy Spirit. What an experience that will be. To love perfectly and to enjoy doing it with inexpressible joy. So what? This Easter morning? As you think about that, three things you see in conclusion. First of all, make sure that that hope is yours. Oh, how sad for you to sit here and be as if a person who looks at a feast. Through a dining room window that others are enjoying. And yet you can't come in and enjoy it yourself. If you've never given yourself by faith to Jesus Christ to take your sin. And to change your life as only he can do because you can't do it. You're not good enough in those things that you do or try to stop doing to please God. Only Jesus and what he did. And his suffering on the cross, taking your sin, is going to be sufficient. For God to forgive you and to transform you and to give you the inheritance of this resurrection body. If you want to have it, it's yours. But it's yours as you give yourself to Jesus Christ. Make sure that you know that this is yours this day And don't just look at this as an Easter to come and say, well, it's nice to just go and to see the flowers and to remember that there's some hope and some good news. Make sure that good news is yours. And the second thing is if you have that good news, rejoice in it. Believe it. Believe the body that you're about to inherit just a short while into the future, in comparison with eternity, just the blink of an eye. Whatever pain you're feeling in your life this morning, brother and sister in Christ, it doesn't compare with the hope that you have of that resurrection body that awaits you. Believe it and rejoice in it. And then thirdly, as you think about that, then present your body as a living sacrifice. In gratitude to Jesus for what he has done. Remembering that he has said that that is your reasonable act of worship in Romans 12. That out of his mercies that you realize this body is a body that belongs to Jesus. And I'm going to live in this body not just for myself and for the temporal, but I'm going to live for the eternal. I'm going to live with eternity in view, and I'm going to present this body to him as a body for him to control and to use and to make what will glorify and honor and please him. The thanks that you can give to him for the joy of the hope that you have is this week to let him use your body to honor himself. Let's pray. Lord, we want in the quiet of this moment right now to give ourselves afresh to you. Perhaps some for the very first time to ask you to take our sin and to give us life Not in anything we could do, but only in what Jesus has done. For some of us to believe it, and not to feel sorry for ourselves and the suffering and the pain that we have. But to believe the gospel and to find our joy in the good news. And then to present ourselves in this moment to you as a living sacrifice. In Jesus' name, Amen.