Continuing together as we work through the book of First Peter, in the series Living the Resurrection, Life and Faith in the letter of First Peter. We come this morning to the passage that we've been looking in the last couple of weeks. This morning, however, we're going to be concentrating on chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to the letter of 1 Peter 1, beginning in verse 22 through 2. 3. If not, you will also see the scriptures projected for you. Hear now God's word. Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth, so that you have sincere love for your brothers, love one another deeply from the heart. For you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God For all men are like grass, and all their glory is like the flowers of the field. The grass withers, and the flowers fall. But the word of the Lord stands forever, and this is the word that was preached to you. Therefore, rid yourselves of all malice and all deceit, hypocrisy. Envy, and slander of every kind. Like newborn babies, crave pure spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow up in your salvation, now that you have tasted a few. That the Lord is good. Will you pray with me? Lord, you are good, and your love endures forever. So by your Holy Spirit With this word that has been read, we pray that working together with the living word, that you would increasingly display for us the beauty and the grandeur of Jesus Christ. Christ and his gospel. We ask you, Lord, that you would work to make us a people That long for you, that crave the very word from your mouth, because we have seen that you are good. Show us this morning your goodness. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. This morning together, you'll see in your outline, we're going to be looking particularly at verses chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. It works nicely for my outline this morning, but let me say that these verses 1 through 3 you'll see uh is the fight for growth, the food for growth, and the foundational truth. But it works this way. I'm going to get to verse 3 as my third point, but you need to understand that verse 3 is the foundation. And that's where I want to drive us to is to show how God shows us his goodness and that we can taste of him through his word to see that he is good. And once we have tasted of this goodness, we also recognize then that we have the food for growth. which gives us the tools to fight for growth. But let's begin looking at as it has been given to us, chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. Beginning with the fight for growth. Let's look at verse 1 of chapter 2. So when he says, therefore, he's building on what he has just said, which is the word, the word, Logos, that has been preached to you. That is, the word of the gospel. The good news of Jesus Christ, presenting through Peter's words, the preaching of Jesus Christ himself, his work. And the gospel is that Jesus Christ has come to save us from our sins. Well, what a sin. Very simply, sin is rejecting God as Lord and seeking to be our own gods. By our choices, by our pursuits, by our pleasures, by our ideas, it is the functional, practical, spiritual, intellectual, emotional rejection. of God as King. But Jesus Christ came to save us from the consequences of just that very thinking. That has caused brokenness in our own hearts, in our natures, in the world, between us. And so what he has announced is this word, this gospel which has been preached to you. He says, therefore, now, now that you have heard this word, therefore, he says, rid yourselves. Of all malice, all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, slander of every kind. He is talking about a fight That what is necessary for growing, progressing as a Christian, to grow in one's faith, in one's trust of the Lord Jesus, to follow him, requires a fight. And so you'll see there it is, we have seen, we have met the enemy, and he is us. Now that's not the original quote. The original quote was from and since we're celebrating two hundred years of the war of the war of eighteen twelve, you did know that, right? Okay. The War of 1812. It's one of the most important wars, believe it or not, for our country's history. But in the middle of it was the battle for Lake Erie. where Colonel uh rather Commander Perry wrote in a very famous dispatch to what would be one of our future presidents the words which is, We have met the enemy, and they are us. But 200 years, not 200 years, but a few hundred years later, there will be a comic strip By Walt Kelly, called Pogo, from 1948 to 1973. And Pogo was this porcupine. And in 1970, on Earth Day, there was a poster. This poster featuring Pogo, designed by Walt Kelly, and he took that original quote from Commander Perry and turned it in, we have seen the enemy. And he is us. Now it was on Earth Day. I don't know if you knew that we still had an Earth Day way back in 1970, but the the image was a cartoon of Pogo standing in the midst of trash that was contaminating the earth. And uh he had written a number of books. It would later become a a book of comic strips, but this was a a key idea for Walt Kelly. I've not read much of him. But in an earlier book, he wrote the following words about humanity, he says, of human beings. There are traces of nobility, gentleness, and courage that persists in all people. Do what we will to stamp out the trend. So too do those characteristics which are ugly Now, why do I bring up that quote? I bring up that quote because of the nature of what Peter is telling by way of command. Coming out of the gospel, that these Christians that he is writing to ought to be about. They ought to be fighting for growth in ridding themselves of these things. Now notice again these words. Malice Meaning the palpable display verbally, physically, emotionally, of anger towards someone else. Malice. The second word is deceit. Lyme Thirdly, hypocrisy. Trying to pretend to be what we are not. Slander. Now the word slander there could be taken in its technical term, which is lying or the spreading of lies about someone else which are untrue. But it could also not just be the spreading of lies about someone else, it could also be about ways in which we disparage other people and their character or their person or their activities. It could be through facial expressions. It could be through a tone of voice. It could be through sarcasm. Now, here's what's interesting. What I found so interesting about these things, which he says, we ought to rid ourselves of if we are Christians. Is that notice none of them are from the outside In other words, none of these come about in the life of a human being because of something external. Oh, sure, something external may cause them to come out, but nonetheless, they are starting somewhere very personal. That is, in the human heart, in the seat of our desires, in the seat of our emotions, our wills. This is not taking someone else's life. This is not stealing from someone else. This is not committing of adultery. Though the Ten Commandments make very clear that those are external sins, but they also have an inward reality. These, however, begin with an inward reality. For what is malice, except an angry response and a desire to hurt someone else Oh, we may say, well, they made me do it. Oh no. You respond to what they have done in that way. The same is with deceit. No one made you lie. It is a matter of response in a situation where telling the truth will cost you. And so you consider the cost being too great, so it is better to cover it up. Because we don't want our true selves to be seen. Hypocrisy. He's saying this, you recognize, to those who've become Christians. Being careful of pretending to be what we are not, pretending to be mature when in fact we're immature, acting as though we have it all together. Using spiritual jargon, but in reality, we have not applied the gospel to ourselves. But envy. Envy is very different. Envy is not just like jealousy where we want something that someone else has. Envy is a little bit even, it's even harsher than jealousy. More harsh than jealousy. It's more harsh because of this. Envy is not just that you want something what somebody else has. Envy is that you don't think the other person deserves what they have. Do you see the trend? It's very subtle, but very powerful. The enemy is not out there. Sin is not just out there. Sin is in here. And he says, rid yourselves Because the word has been preached, because you have submitted yourself, if you're a Christian, to the gospel of Jesus Christ who came to save us from our sin, from our hypocrisy. And malice and slander and envy. Because he has come to do this and announced himself as the gospel itself and living it out in flesh and blood. Dying on a cross and being raised on the third day. Because this has happened to you, he says, therefore, you ought to be about ridding yourselves of these things. What that tells us is it is the process of growth. And it requires a search and destroy mission. See, when Peter is speaking to those who have been redeemed, Notice he's using something very interesting when he says these words. Rid yourselves of malice and slander, but he bases it on the therefore. In other words. These are folks who have already received the gospel, meaning that the process of ridding ourselves of these things is an ongoing search which requires throughout the growth of the Christian life, we never can say on this side of Jesus Christ's return that we have arrived You see, the Christian life begins with dealing a death blow by God's word and the tools that He gives us. Which is his spirit and word, by dealing a death blow to what we might call shallow expressions of sin. Things like foul language Things like, may I say it, things like giving ourselves over to lust. Now, how can I call lust a shallow thing? It is because what's underneath lust? See, lust is the external expression. My desire for something that does not belong to me, that God has not given to me, and I desire it more than I desire God. That's an external expression. of an inward reality. An inward reality is I want. And the process of the Christian growth is dealing a death blow not just with the shallow expressions of sin. But what Richard Lovelace calls in his book the new departments of flesh that opens up as we mature as Christians. He writes this. He says, the lifelong process of mortifying sin, getting rid of sin, ridding ourselves of it, involves a gradual detection process. by which the particular forms in which sin expresses itself in our lives, our characteristic flesh, are uncovered to our view. Some of this discovery of sin occurs early in our Christian lives, but the subtlety of indwelling sin is such that many of its deeper roots remain under the surface of consciousness. Where they will continue to distort our lives if they are not uncovered later. New departments of flesh open up in our lives as we mature. And he repeats one of these. He says this, he says, even conversion to the Christian faith itself opens up the possibilities for new departments of sin, like spiritual pride. in gifts, achievements, envy of the spirituality of others, a gluttonous dependence on spiritual experience Which cannot reconcile itself to an obedient walk of faith independent of sight, the gravity of self-interest Which naturally operates in our prayer lives whenever we move out of the light and walk in the flesh. Those are powerful things And as I began to think about these things, I began to see how my prayer life operates? How much of my prayer life is centered on my own self-interest? Or how much am I praying for the good of others? Not that praying for myself is a bad thing, or that I should feel guilty about it. But I recognize that I ought to be in this process of spiritual growth. I should be fighting, searching, and destroying the vestiges. of sinful self-interest, of pride. And oh, may I say it from one of the most beautiful passages of Jeremiah. Allowing the word of God that tells me the heart is deceitful above all things, who can understand it? is to bring my mind and my heart to that verse and saying, Lord, I recognize in the very heart and life that you have given me, Is my own ability to deceive myself as to my spiritual progress. Lord, by your grace and by your power, by your word. Give us, give me the desire to fight for growth. To recognize that I need to lay aside the blame that I lay on others or my external circumstances. for the sinful patterns that have erupted in my life. And give me single-eyed focus on a search and destroy mission. to uncover not just the shallow expressions of sin, but the subtle ones of self-interest and pride. It is a fight for spiritual growth, but that also requires the food for growth. Notice what he says. Therefore rid yourselves of all malice and deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander of every kind. Verse 2, like newborn babies. Crave pure spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow up in your salvation You'll see in your outlines, I've given the two words there. The food for growth is both pure and spiritual milk. Now, what's interesting is I I want to just say by way of outset and looking at this verse that the very ability by which we carry on the fight Only happens. The only way we can deal with search and destroy missions, the only way we can recognize that the enemy primarily is in our own hearts, our own sinful natures. Is by giving ourselves and craving that which explores that reality, that exposes those inward realities, and that is the pure and spiritual milk. Now, key, milk. This is one of the only places in the New Testament where milk is seen as something not belonging to early Christian life. Paul and the writer of Hebrews talks about milk as being that which new converts take in, but grow up into coming and eating the meat of spiritual maturity. But here Peter talks about milk as being the very thing that the Christian needs for life. The milk that he is talking about is the Word of God. Now I'll establish that in just a moment. But how he describes this milk is pure and spiritual. The word pure there is a technical term that Peter has employed there, which was used in only its technical, typical ways, which was among trading merchants. Trading merchants used this word pure to be able to determine that which they were trading was unadulterated. That the products that they were selling, the products that they were buying, had to have the ability to determine whether or not it was pure. Do we not understand that? Every time we go to the grocery store, particularly those who love organic materials, those who need to eat organic foods, we look for what? We turn to the Ingredients. Those of you who have peanut allergies know exactly what I'm talking about. Those of you who are afflicted with a peanut allergy, if you don't Go to that product which is guaranteed not to have any residue or even been in the same factory as peanuts. You know what's going to happen. So you've learned the hard way why it matters the food that you're taking in is pure and unadulterated from peanut residue. And so Peter is saying that the Christian is to long for that which is unadulterated, pure. It's not full of deceit, does not lead us towards malice, but exposes the truth. It is pure. And I believe that what he is talking about here is the whole counsel of God, the whole revelation of God from Old Testament to New Testament. That what the Christian ought to long for is the pure revelation, the truth of God as it has been given. And why do I keep saying the word? It's because of the second word that he uses. He says, pure and spiritual. Now, the word translated, spiritual there, stick with me, is logicon. Which comes from the word logos. Now it means the reasonable word. So what he is saying here in essence is that the Christian ought to crave, may I say it, be addicted to Long for, develop a taste for, take in the pure, unadulterated truth of what? The word of God, which is the milk. You see, the word spiritual there trips us up. We hear the word spiritual in the 21st century. And we think of it as like an emotional sort of not really tangible thing that we experience. In fact, we primarily think of spirituality as something to be experienced, maybe something to be pursued But the word spiritual here has a weightiness to it, has an incredible tangibleness to it, which is logos, word. And notice how many times he mentions word in the preceding verses. He says, For you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through, meaning God's work to bring out salvation has come through the living. and enduring logos, word of God, which compared to the passing glory of man, which will ultimately go away and die. Is the word Lagos of the Lord that stands forever. And then he says, and this is the word logos that has been preached to you. And so he says, therefore rid yourselves. Well, we can't rid ourselves of these things unless we give ourselves to, long for, crave, be addicted to, the pure, unadulterated Logicon milk, spiritual milk, the word of God, which is God's food, as Rick Belavo was explaining to us this morning. Let me say this. You can never separate the Lord and the Word You see, Ed Clowney in his commentary on this very book says it this way, much more eloquently than I do. He says, the word of the Lord constantly presents the Lord of the Word. Let me just repeat that again. The word of the Lord constantly presents the Lord of the Word. You cannot have faith in Jesus Christ and simultaneously not be in his word. But neither can you be in the word and not allow the Lord of the Word to apply it. Merely reading it will not save you. But merely claiming Lord is Savior and not reading the Word also does not fit He says the pure spiritual milk is that which we ought to crave. But let me say this again. The word spiritual there is not a disembodied, unintellectual Emotional experience. It is an intellectual life of the mind, not mind without the heart. See, we often think of the mind now, right, as the computer up here in the top of our head. Some of our computers aren't working as well as others, I recognize. But we have thought of the heart and mind as being separate. That is a very 21st century way of thinking. That is not the way the biblical writers understood it. The mind and the heart go together And that is, therefore, that when we take in and crave the spirit pure spiritual milk of the word, means that we engage it with the mind and the heart, the heart and the mind. And we take it in and we say, Lord, by this word, deconstruct and reconstruct my intellectual life, my will. My desires according to your purposes. That is the food for growth So walk with me. You can't be about the fight for growth without the food for growth. And you can't have the food for growth without the foundational truth. You see I could end with the second point and say, well, there we go. Fight for growth. Here's the word. Go home. Read it more. Read a lot of it. Develop a taste for it. Get addicted to it. And say yes and amen. But I could do that without ever leading you to Jesus. You see, the reality is, we don't just need the fight for growth. We don't just need the food for growth. We need him, the foundational truth. The foundational truth is: how then does the Christian grow? The Christian grows exactly as this word tells us. Let's go back to the word. Look at verse 3. It says, I'm sorry, verse 2, like newborn babies, crave spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow up in your salvation. Now that you have tasted. That the Lord is good. The foundational truth is this: that God has given us his gospel and grace. The gospel is this. The gospel is not about what you do, it's about what he has done. Were I to have left you at point number two, and we called it a day, You would have been easily deceived into thinking that our spiritual growth is dependent on what we do. It is not. It first begins with what he has done. Because the word there Verse 2, so that you may grow up in it, into your salvation, is in the passive voice. What does that mean? That means It's what God is doing in you by His Word. Are we to give ourselves to the Word? Yes and Amen. Are we to fight for growth? Yes and amen. But it is done only because the Lord is the one who has begun the process. It is the gospel. It is Jesus Christ by his Spirit coming in And working by the good news of the gospel. It isn't just something that happened back there, it is something that we must give ourselves to daily. It is coming to the Lord. daily and sang, Nothing in my hands I bring, but simply to thy cross I cling. That is what we do. But even that doesn't happen unless the Lord comes and works. You see, the very prayer which we prayed for Finley Piper this morning. Is only made effective, not by my praying it, but by the one who hears it. Not by these parents, though they love Piper and they will teach her the word. They will model the faith for her, but they will only do so by what God has done first. And it is Jesus Christ and his work. And I love this word. Verse three: now that you have tasted. The word when we hear the word taste, what do we think? We just put something on our tongue and like, okay, I've tasted it. That's not what the that's not the the word Greek the word in Greek has much more full. It means savoring it. It means a simul assimilating it. It means ingesting it, enjoying it And so he says, now that you have tasted that the Lord is good, he's quoting from Psalm 34. And Psalm 34 declares such wonderful things. And it says this in Psalm 34. By the way, Psalm 34 is one of the backbones of this very letter from Peter. He quotes from it two or three times. And in Psalm 34, even as we read it last week, he says, My soul will boast in the Lord. Let the afflicted hear and rejoice. Glorify the Lord with me. Let us exalt. his name together. I sought the Lord, and he answered me. He delivered me from all my fear. Those who took who looked to him are radiant. Their faces are never covered with shame. Verse 8, Taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him He's quoting directly from it. See, you can't taste that the Lord is good unless you've taken refuge in him. You can't take refuge in him unless you see that he is the source of the gospel, the gospel itself. Jesus Christ. But he also gives us grace. It is not just the announcement of what God has done, it is his grace. And by grace, I mean the sustaining strength. The power to come to him, the power to walk And in Psalm one nineteen, we hear these words He says, Oh, that I love your law, I meditate on it all day long. Your commands make me wiser than my enemies, for they are ever with me. I have kept my feet from every evil path, so that I might obey your word. I have not departed from your laws, for you yourself have taught me How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth. I gain understanding from your precepts, therefore I hate every wrong path. Do you hear what he's saying? He only hates the wrong path because he has taken in the word. He only knows that the Lord is his refuge because the word tells him so. He only knows that the Lord is like honey because why? Because the words from the mouth of the Lord taste like honey. They are wisdom. And it is this the very grace, the very strength by which we fight for grace, fight for growth, and the very grace by which We have food for growth. The grace is the word. This is the power. The Holy Spirit does not operate outside of partnership with the Word. The Word does not operate outside of partnership with the Holy Spirit They must be sought together, for the Spirit does not take from that which is his own. He only takes that which has been given. It is the word. And let me say to you, brothers and sisters who profess the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, there is nothing more available to us than the Word. In this day and age. We have it on every possible device. We have it in every possible translation. Every kind of study Bible is at our calling. But do you know what? Not only is it more available than in any other I imagine generation that has ever lived on the face of the planet, I will also say, as I know my own heart, nothing Can distract me more from the word than the life that I lead. Everything, and let me say this as a passage. Pastor, please pray for the pastoral team here. Do you know that nothing is more distracting from myself being in the Word than ministry itself? Because guess what? You will never be able to reward me or recognize whether I'm spending time in this word. What you will reward, what you will see, what you will praise is what you see in public. You will see us visiting. You will hear us praying. You will hear us preaching. You will see us teaching. You will see us doing all the pastoral stuff. But ladies and gentlemen, let me say to you from a pastor's heart who is as given, as easily deceiving myself, I cannot do it without this word, and neither can my team. My colleagues have fallen away from the faith. My colleagues in the gospel have fallen away from their marriages. Colleagues have fallen away from the gospel ministry, had been defrocked. Why? Because of their sin? Yes, but where did that begin? It began somewhere in the deep crevices of Monday to Saturday. In the wee small minutes when nobody else is looking, when I'm giving myself over to the busyness of ministry as opposed to the one who is behind ministry. Pray for your elders. Pray for your pastors as you would want us to pray for you. Do you feel if you're a Christian, I'm gonna ask you, how distracted are you from this word? If I'm going to be blood-dead honest with you this morning. I am as distracted by my email list, my to-do list, my wonderful things that God has given me in my life, and how easy it is. How easy it is. To give myself to ministry before I've given myself to this grace. So I say to you, as a fellow distracted follower of Jesus Christ, I pray for you. As I ask you to pray for me. Pray for Pastor Flora. Pray for Pastor Halley. Sorry. Pray for Robbie Pennington. Pray for these elders. That we would crave the pure and spiritual milk of the Word. For here we will see that the Lord is good and He sustains us. Let us pray for one another Let's do that now. Let's pray. I pray for my hearers this morning. I pray for those Father who profess in the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. As they walk by faith, Lord, I pray that by your Spirit and the word which you have given would be that which pursues us. And may you make us aware by this very word the tyranny of the urgent. The things that scream to us for attention. And we do not give ourselves to the pure spiritual milk of the word Lord, I pray, by the same word, give us grace and strength To give ourselves to you. And may I say, may you give us, Lord, an addiction to your sweet honey of the word. For there we will meet the Lord. And I pray, Father, for those Christians who've been so distracted. But who have not been in the Word, I pray, Lord, may you call them back to it this day, this very hour, this very moment, and may they long for it and fill them to the full. With the truth of your word. I pray for those who are not followers of Jesus Christ. Much of what I've said this morning, Lord, may be alien to them, but I pray that what they would see. Is Jesus Christ, who is so good and so gracious, who loves us and has given all that we need for refuge and strength. We thank you for the forgiveness and we confess to you, Lord, our sins, and we ask you for forgiveness for the ways in which we have denied you as Lord and denied your word. But may we take it in by the same Spirit.