I pick up from Philippians chapter two and verse twelve. Therefore, my dear friends, as you have always obeyed not only in my presence But how much more in my absence, continue to work out for salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you to will and to do, to act according to his good purpose Do everything without complaining or arguing, so that you may become blameless and pure, children of God without fault in the crooked and depraved generation. Did you shine like stars in the universe as you filled out the word of light? In order that I may boast on the day of Christ, that I did not run or labor for nothing And even if I am being poured out like a drink offer on the sacrifice and service coming from your faith, I am glad and rejoice with all of you. So you too should be glad and rejoice with me. I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you, Son, that I may also be able to be cheered when I receive news about you. I have no one else like him. He takes a journey of interest in your welfare. For everyone looks out to his own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. The unit of Timothy has proved himself because as a son of his father he has served with me in the work of the gospel. I hope therefore to send him as soon as I see how things go with me. And I am confident in the Lord that I myself will come soon. But I think it's necessary to send back to you Epaphrodis, my brother, my fellow worker and fellow soldier, who's also your messenger, who needs them to take care of my needs. But he knows for all of you and it's distressed because you heard that he deserved. Indeed he wasn't. No must I. But God have mercy on him, not on him only, but also on me, to spare me sorrow upon sorrow. And therefore I am all the more evil to send him. So that when you see him again you may be glad, and I may have less anxiety. Welcome him in the Lord with great joy, and honor men like him, because he almost died for the work of Christ. risking his life to make up for the help that you could not give to him. So far God's word Now let's give our attention to what the Spirit would say to us through. In a relating, obscure rural town By the name of Mystery, around the year 30 A. D. , there was born to a Greek father and a Jewish mother a son. The mother raised this son. In the religion, the faith, and the hope of the Old Testament. And then around the year 47 or 48 A. D. , when this son was likely in his late teens There came an evangelist to this backwater town of Lystra, and that evangelist said that the Messiah had come and had fulfilled all the Old Testament prophecies, a Messiah who was a Nazarene carpenter. And who had died for sinners on a cross and had risen again as Lord of the universe. That fellow gave his life to the Messiah, Jesus And some short time after that, he saw the evangelist stoned in his hometown and left for dead. He helped the evangelist But he began to follow with him and accompany him in his work of declaring Jesus as the Messiah. Sometime after that, he began to work with the evangelist, and he began to get involved in more and more people's lives himself. He began to take on various assignments of ministry. But the evangelist discipled him and trained him for the work of ministry. He prepared him to minister in people's lives. But every time this young fella took on an assignment, it seemed that the assignment was over his head. It always seemed that the Lord was calling him to do something that he felt inadequate for, that he felt too young for, too inexperienced for, not prepared for. Did you identify with Timothy? Did you hear his story? If you've ever felt that way But the Lord is calling you to do something. He's calling you to be involved in some work of ministry, something in someone's life that you just don't feel prepared for. You just don't feel adequate for it. And I'd like you to pay close attention to the life of Timothy and hopefully find some encouragement in a person who can surely identify with you in all that you have felt. The last couple weeks we've talked about how the New Testament says that we as elders are to prepare you for work of ministry and pastoring with us. And for the work of ministry and teaching with us. And perhaps you have thought as we talked about those kind of things that, well, I just don't know what to do. How can I do this that when I don't know how to start, I don't know what to do with people. Well I've told you if that's what you're thinking, then we already have the answer. There is a course and seminar coming up beginning this Friday. It will be designed simply to help you to get that kind of information, that kind of skill, that kind of understanding, that kind of experience. And so if you're still thinking about that, if you think that that's what you need, then be sure that you take that before the Lord and ask him to show you how you can work out your schedule to be able to get that training. Perhaps as I said earlier this morning, you don't want or you would not be able to take that kind of assignment on, but you'd like to meet with someone, be able to find out what you do. Many of us don't know how to to help other people in their walk with Christ because no one's ever really helped us personally. Well then you could fill out the uh boom there and say, I'd just like somebody to help me But perhaps beyond either of those things you simply say, I just don't feel adequate. I don't feel secure enough to be able to do that. I feel like I'm not an extroversion. You need to be the kind of person who just easily puts themselves out to relate to people in doing that. I just don't feel adequate. I want first to look at Timothy, because there is a person, a person whose name is given to two New Testament books. He was the very inadequate person by his own background and training. We so often hear of Timothy as the one who worked with Paul as his right-hand man, but I think we assume that Timothy must have been a highly gifted. skilled and capable person. And we think that if we know anything about him, he must have been a person with whom we could never identify. And I think that's entirely not the case. And I'd like to show you this morning, take out the bulletin outlines and help you to follow along, to see that in fact Timothy is someone who I think you could identify with very well. First of all, consider his analysis. adequacies. Timothy came from a mixed home spiritually. His father was not a believer You know nothing about his father except for the fact that the New Testament says he refused to have Timothy circumcised. That tells us something. The New Testament tells us But all the spiritual training was from his mother and from his grandmother. And so his father, who should have served as priest in that home, the one to raise Timothy up in his spiritual training, did not take that responsibility. And Timothy was left without the father figure as a spiritual role model. Perhaps his father mocked his mother's training. Have you ever been in a home where you've seen the mother, as I have, try to administer discipline or try to impart spiritual values, only to see the father laugh at those values, to see the father mock themselves. feminine things, childish things, things for women and old ladies. And so the son grows up in a kind of tension between what his father sees as worthwhile and what he is told by his mother. Perhaps Timothy experienced that kind of tension in his own home. Further, Timothy came from a mixed home ratio. His mother was Jewish. His father was a Greek, according to Acts 16. 1. And we know from that culture and from a lot of other things the New Testament tells us of how those two races despised each other. Now, whatever brought his father and his mother together, we don't know. But their love for each other, at least at one point, seemed to overcome all those obstacles. And so they married But it's very likely that Timothy would have not been accepted by the Jewish community because he was half-breaked. And so they would have had a lot of trouble with him. They wouldn't have viewed him as a Jew. The Greeks, of course, despised the Jews. And so the Greek community wouldn't have accepted Timothy, because they would have looked at him as a Jew. And so it's very likely that Timothy grew up not really being accepted from his background in the community that he grew up. It is not like Columbia, where you have much more openness to this kind of thing. But Timothy probably grew up feeling a great deal of pain and rejection by the kids that he played with and by his friends. Besides that, add to the fact that Timothy had weak health. He was a kind of a sickly kid. He was sickly even as he grew up to be into his manhood. Paul says to him in 1 Timothy 5. 23, not only that he should take wine for his stomach problem, but for his frequent ailments. Harry Timothy had a number of problems of sickness. He just was not a slow bill type. And when you think of all the traveling you find him doing in the New Testament, this guy would probably hang it over the rail half the time. He was a guy who just had a Had a lot of difficulty with his health, not a very robust sort of character. It's interesting too to notice in that that continued to be his problem throughout his life. Paul never says And so we're going to lay hands on you and we're going to claim your healing once and for all. He continued to the end of at least Paul's life To continue to be plagued with recount. And so you have an example there of how at least that, as we say in other cases, that it is not God's intention to simply heal Timothy. The Sarajan, as I mentioned before, he was drawn and inexperienced to all the things that he did. Every time he received the task, it seemed like he wasn't ready, he wasn't prepared for it. His personality was very timid. Well, then he had some indication of that in the way he responded to things. He was not an ex-biver. Probably a guy when a rather foresaw in it, he would say to them. Timid Timothy. In fact, he was so timid that when Paul sent him to Caul to go to the church there, he says in 1 Corinthians 16, 10 and 11, guys, please go easy on Timothy. He's not like me, you know. I mean I'll come charge you right in there and I'll give you, you know, blow for blow. But go easy on Timothy, Paul says. Because uh he let that take it Please don't give them anything to fear. Go easy on it. He's Timothy. In 2 Timothy chapter 1 In verse six, even after Timothy has been in ministry for a number of years, Paul says to him, For this reason I remind you to fan and defame the gift of God, which is in you through the lay on of my hands. But God didn't give us a spirit of timidity, Timothy. But a spirit of power and of love and of self-discipline. Now Paul didn't say that because he knew that that was not at all Timothy's problem He's addressing Timothy where he thinks he needs to be encouraged. And so he says to him, Timothy, God didn't give to us that spirit of committee. But he's given to us a spirit of power, more than self-discipline. So Timothy would say, Don't be ashamed to testify about our Lord. Do you ever feel ashamed to testify about the Lord Jesus, in the situation God places you at work or in your neighbors? And you think, I don't think anybody in the New Testament ever identified with that. All I read about is their boldness and their going out, you know, and they're taking the world by storm. And yet Paul says to Timothy, the one whom he chose. To be more than anyone else, his successor in ministry, and he says, Timothy, I'll remind you again, don't be ashamed to testify for the Lord Jesus, or ashamed even of me as his prisoner. Paul, the guy that Timothy follows, he's in jail, he's in prison. And there's not a great deal of prestige in Timothy's reputation and in the profession that he's chosen. Paul has to remind him, there, and a number of other times in that letter, don't be timid. Don't be ashamed of Timothy. And to make matters worse Timothy apparently received a number of experiences of failure and rejection in his ministry. He was to have all that Timothy needed was a little acceptance, you know, maybe a little encouragement, a little help along the way. And you say, uh, you know, I I have felt a great deal of inadequacy. I feel a lot of insecurities in my attempt to to minister on the Lord's behalf, to tell people about him, to minister to my brothers and sisters here in the body. But at least if I'm encouraged and affirmed, I can do it. Timothy didn't always receive that. In fact, it's interesting that if you look at Paul's two letters to the letter to the church at Clark, in the first letter, Paul says I'm going to send Timothy two, chapter four, verse seventeen, and he talks about how we've got to go easy on chapter sixteen. And so Timothy appeared and pent And in the next letter, Paul says, I got Timothy with me, and I got Titus with me, and I'm going to send you Titus this time. And what does that tell you? Maybe not much. But I wonder if perhaps it doesn't tell us a bit more galactimic. If you look at Titus, you see in contrast a fellow who is probably a lot more robust. Read the letters to Titus. I mean, Titus is able to take on the Cretans, and you know what kind of folks those were. They're pretty tough characters, as Paul writes about them in his letter to Titus. And so he sends Titus to tackle them. And the second time he said, Timothy, I'm not going to try it with you again. I'm going to send Titus this time. What do you think that did to Timothy's security, to his confidence? He goes to Carl, and the next time Paul has to say, well, get us on Titus. Timothy, you stay here Even after Paul sent him to Ephesus. So Paul gave him the charge of the church there. And he writes to him at the end of his life after Timothy's been in ministry for a number of years. Paul writes to Timothy, Timothy, I want you to be aware, this is chapter 1, verse 20. 1 Timothy, chapter 1. In 2 Timothy, he writes about Hermenaus and Alexander. I'm sorry, it is 1 Timothy, then live. But it is, he writes about Hermioneus and Alexander in 1 Timothy 1. 20. Who have rejected Timothy's ministry. And Paul says he hands it over to Satan to teach him not to blaspheme. In 2 Timothy, then in chapter 2, he also talked about others Who have rejected Timothy's ministry and he says, Don't follow with him, but be gentle, and instruct temptation. And there's a number of references that you read Paul as you think of those letters where Paul's talking about those who don't receive his ministry, those who are going to stand against him. W And a fellow who has a personality like Timothy, the fellow who tells him when I said goodbye to you, you know, wept. And he just cried. And he says, I was moved by your tears. It must have really hurt. And so you see in Timothy, a person who I think it'd be difficult for any of us to say, Timothy, you couldn't identify with my people as an inadequacy There's a person who knows how you feel when God's called you to do something and you don't feel prepared for it. And I haven't titled this, Timothy, the inadequate minister. I did not necessarily intend that to be a self-description. You see, I'm not necessarily talking about me. I could talk about myself as an inadequate minister. The fact is that God has called all of us here in the body to be ministers for Jesus Christ. And it's comforting to know that here is a person, Timothy, who understands the inadequacies we feel. But now, having understood that, why in the world did Paul choose him? Why in the world did the Lord choose him to raise him up into such a position of widespread ministry? And I think the best answer to that is given to us in Philippians chapter 2, that we read earlier. From Philippians chapter 2, you see that Timothy had two prominent strengths. And those strengths outweighed all his weaknesses. Paul says in Philippians chapter 2 verse 20, I have no one else like him who takes a genuine interest in your welfare. Everyone looks after his own interests and not those of Jesus Christ. But you know that Timothy has proved himself Because as a son with his father, he has served with me in the work of the gospel. And so I hope to send him. He's the one, Paul says, that I choose. Timothy here shows two prominent strengths. Number one, a genuine concern for the welfare of other people. You see that in verse 20. He takes a genuine interest in your welfare. Compare that with verse 3 of that same passage where Paul had said, Do nothing out of selfish ambition, for they can see But in humility consider others better than yourselves. Consider their interests, their concerns, their good. And then the second thing that he says is that Timothy puts the interest of Christ before his own interests. Verse 21. Everyone seems to just look out for his own interests. Not those of Jesus Christ. But not so Timothy. Compare that with verse 4. Where Paul had said, each of you should live up to your own interests, but also the interests of others. And have this attitude. Which is the same as that of Christ Jesus. A person who looks out for others' welfare above his own is a rare person, isn't he? How many people do you know that you say you have lived in your experience that you could honestly say, this person seems always just to be looking out for the interest and the welfare of others. He has a real heart for people. She's always sensitive to what somebody's needs are And is able to pick them up even before their voice, because she has such a concern for people's welfare. God says, that's the kind of person that I use. The person with that kind of concern. But that concern is then linked up with that second characteristic. He puts the interest of Christ before himself. He has that attitude of Christ. And what was that attitude? Well, you remember how the gospel is described. Jesus is preaching and he's ministering all day in Mark I. And then we read that when evening time comes But all the town seemed to be gathered at his door, asking for his attention, to be healed, to have blooms cast out. People clambering all around. And does he say, I've put it up full day, I've had enough. I've got to rest. I've got to think of myself too, you know. Jesus puts their welfare before his own at that point. I'm not saying that we should totally ignore our own welfare. I'm talking about the attitude that says when there is that need. When the person sees that, but my first thought is, not simply how can I take care of myself But is the Lord calling me? Am I able to put the welfare of these people before myself? It's my concern to do that. And so the Lord Jesus takes that even. And he heals and he ministers. In fact, his brothers and his sisters, you remember, came some weeks later and they said, You're out of your mind. And they use a word which really means beside yourself. You're totally out of your mind. You don't even sit down to eat a meal in peace. And they feared for his sanity because of such concern. Matthew says that he looked upon the people as sheep without a shepherd, and had compassion upon them. When he read that even when his cousin, John the Baptist, had been beheaded and Jesus as a true man was grieved sorrowful, struck by the tragedy of the loss of his cu of his cousin by the cruel hand of Herod. And he goes out to grieve, and he goes out to To think about that. And the crowds follow him. But as he drive them away, the gospel tells that he teaches them. Then even when the evening comes and the disciples themselves are sick and tired and they say, send them away, Jesus says they're hungry. We need to feed them. And so it's with that incident that he takes then the bread and the fish and feeds five thousand on the hillside while he himself is in the depths of grief Looking not to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. And we have in the gospel the most amazing thing. A God, who is the sovereign majestic Creator, who puts the interests of his creatures Before his own. Never mistake the gospel record to think that Jesus Christ came down and did all these things for us just so he'd get a little bit more glory. He didn't need more glory. He already had all the glory that he would ever need. Jesus Christ came. And put aside his glory and took upon himself the form of a servant to die on a cross and take your sin and my sin The sin of anyone who trusts him as Savior and Lord, because he put our interests before his eyes, and never look at it. As if somehow the glory that he gains dismisses that as the motive. That's why he did it. So Timothy sees that. He sees what the Lord Jesus has done for him. And it's because of that that Timothy went with Thessalonica. He went to Thessalonica on his first assignment, probably only after he had been with Paul for a few weeks or at the most a few months. Thessalonica was a rough place to go. You remember that Paul and Barnabas had been spongy with Christma, so he had seen that And then when he got to Thessalonica, he saw a riot there. He saw violence. Paul wanted Timothy to go to Thessalonica because the church was suffering persecution. And he wanted for Timothy to encourage them and to see if they were standing in the physical, to bring back the report. Now how would you like that as a task for a relative living Christian? Go to the center of persecution and find out how the church is getting there, Timothy. A fellow perhaps in his twenties And so Timothy remembers that Jesus had put his interests, Timothy's interests, before his own. And so Timothy doesn't put his own interests first. He puts those of Jesus first. And he goes to Thessalonica. And Paul's so grateful for his ministry and the report that he brings back there. And later on, Paul says, now Timothy, I really appreciate what you did in Thessalonica. But you know, Timothy, there's problems in the colour. Timothy says on them. I know it was kind. Just when I need a vacation. Darry wants me to go to a place not only where it's not a place here where there's persecution, but the very church is eating themselves Uh they're fighting and they're squabbling and they're accusing and uh we're not very popular there right now. And Paul says, I can't go now, Timothy But the Lord will enable you. Give them a minister. And whose interest does Timothy put first? His own or the Lord Jesus? Timothy Davis to Carl. And whether he succeeded or whether he failed, he went, and he went faithfully. And so when Paul comes to the needs of the church at Philippi, he writes to the church and he says, I don't have anybody like Timothy. Everybody else, when it seems like they come right down to it and the rubber hits the road, they're going to put their own interest first. Not Timothy, he says. Here's a man who's really concerned for how you're doing. He really cares whether you're walking with Jesus Christ or not. Do you have somebody who cares in your life whether you're walking in Jesus Christ? Is there somebody in this body But in some fellowship of the Lord Jesus Christ this morning that you are deeply caring. Somebody perhaps outside your family. But you deeply care whether they are walking with the Lord Jesus Christ, and they know you care. Also, such a person is rare Timothy's proved himself. He has seen that Jesus Christ has placed Timothy's interest before his own. And now Timothy says, I must place the Lord Jesus' interest before mine and those of his people. And so Timothy goes to Philippi and carries the work of Paul and the message and the ministry that he has for him there. Did you know that Timothy spent time in prison? Timothy Timothy. Timothy who had seen persecution. Timothy, who was a man who was not very bold from what we can tell. But when it came, The standing for Jesus Christ were going to prison. Hebrews 13, 33 says Timothy went to prison. And he was released. And he took up the ministry at Ephesus. Timothy, the country Bumpkin from Worcester. The unsophisticated fellow from the backwater Roman colony up in Galatia, 75 miles north of the Mediterranean Sea, north of the Isle of Cyprus. Timothy Into cosmopolitan, sophisticated ethics, totally inadequate, totally unprepared, it would seem, probably from his own estimate. Paul has to have burned him and encouraged him. Timothy, don't let them despise your youth. Timothy, God has called you to this ministry. And so you can trust him to use you. And so Timothy goes to Ephesus, and Timothy takes up that ministry. Whose interests does he put first? His own or those of the Lord Jesus? It's interesting when you read of Jesus' words to the seven churches in Revelation 2 and 3. Of the seven churches that the Lord Jesus writes to, the one he starts out with is the church that Timothy had led. at Ephesus. And it's that church that receives the warmest commendation from the Lord Jesus. It's the church at Ephesus, where Timothy has ministered, that the Lord Jesus says, I read your deeds, your heart work and your perseverance. I know that you can't tolerate wicked men and have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and you have found them false. You've persevered and have endured hardships in my name and have not grown weary. Nephasis is in many ways the result of the ministry of inadequate Timothy. Timothy, who God used, because he was willing to put the interests of Christ before his own. God used him And God can use you, and God can use me in all our inadequacies. If we trust him, As you see on the back, if you will be encouraged that God is a God who can use us as sinners in all your inadequacies, to put his interest before your own and to take genuine interest in the welfare of others. A mother, who was interested in encouraging her son in the piano, took the son to a conference, to a concert to hear the great concert theanist, Paderevsky. And as they waited before the conference, the concert, keep saying conference, as they waited for the concert to begin They found their seats toward the front, and the mother found a friend to talk to. And as she was talking to this friend, her son, unknown to her, wandered away. He was attracted by the big sideway up on the stage and so he went up there. And as eight o'clock drew to uh drew to that point and curtains parted, there was her little son, not Padarevsky. up at the grand piano, picking out twinkle, twinkle little star. Before she could go up onto the stage and retrieve him The master Paderevsky came to the piano, and he whispered to the little boy, Don't quit. Keep playing. As the little boy continued to play, he put his left hand around the sun and he began to pick out a bass part to supplement what he was playing. Then he put his right hand around the little boy, and he began to play a running obligato to fill in the rest of it. And as the people watched, They saw a little boy surrounded by a grandmaster making a beautiful work of art. That would suggest That's the way it is with you and with me, like Timothy's. In our inadequacies, in our stumbling, we pick out. Some little tune that seems hopeless in the lives of other people that we care for. And the Lord Jesus surrounds us. And he makes that simple little tune to begin to be a beautiful work. In the lives of others that we've cared for. Because we put his interests before our own. And by the grace of the Holy Spirit, We developed a deep concern for others. What excuses are you using this morning that the Lord wants to encourage you to put aside When you think of getting involved in the lives of other people, to share the gospel of Jesus Christ or to encourage a brother and sister in their room. Do you say, Lord, I can only pick out twinkle, twinkle, little star? I can't do very much. And the Lord says, like the little boy with his lows and his fishes, give me what you have And let me use it. What does this mean for you this morning? Ah, Lord Jesus, how we come to praise you this morning. If you did not place your interests first, you who were the God of the universe, who had no reason to have to give up your interests to come down for us. Come down into this simple world, this rotten and stinking, corrupted world That you might place our interests before your own. That you might become a servant That you might stoop and that you might get involved in the lives of lepers and prostitutes Because you were concerned for their welfare. Lord Jesus, how we thank you and praise you this morning that you have placed our interests before he run. And therefore we have hope in him. Therefore we have received forgiveness in Jesus Christ. Because we have been able to give our lives to you who have provided that great sacrifice for us. Lord, move us with that compassion. Lay hold of our lives, that if we see the needs of others, we might remember that you could use the Timothy and insecure and timid and sickly, inadequate, inexperienced timidly, to do a great work In your church. And surely then, Lord, you, who are the users of the user of Timothy's, can use us also. Help us, Lord, even now, as we give ourselves to you to place your interests Before um, Take us, Lord. And use us for those those works of ministry Those caring in the lives of others that we know, some who don't know you and desperately need to. And others who do know you and need encouraging need someone to care about their walk with you. Use us, Lord. Use each one of us. Because that honors and pleases you. We ask in Jesus Christ's name. 121. O teach me, teach me what it means. That cross uplifted high, with won the land of souls condemned to bleed and die. Lord, teach me what it costs to be. to make a sinner fold. And teach me Savior, teach me the value of the soul. In verse twenty-one As we reflect on the Lord's love for us, and his call to us to know and reflect that to others.