After several Christmases that we've spent in Luke chapter 1, actually beginning that back in 1979, Last year we began to look at Christmas through Matthew's eyes. Remember, we looked at the purpose of the genealogy, and then we looked at Christmas through Joseph's eyes. And we have been considering this past month the emphasis that Matthew places on Messiah four times, mentioning that it is Messiah who has come. We looked at what that means and the significance of the term Messiah. Now I would like to continue on, picking up at verse 18, once again as we did last year, to go to the end of the chapter. Matthew chapter 1, verse 18. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ, Jesus the Messiah, came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be with child. Through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. Because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord said through the prophet. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son. And they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, He did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and took Mary home as his wife, but he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus. Do you notice four times in those eight verses, Matthew. Bears testimony to the fact that Mary was a virgin when she bore Jesus. In verse 18, his mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together. She was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. Verse 20 After he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, don't be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. Verse 22, all this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophets. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son. They will call him Emmanuel, God, with us. Verse 24: When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel had commanded him, took Mary home as his wife, but he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. Four times in eight verses. Matthew mentions the fact of the virgin birth. But did you ever consider why the virgin birth, the significance, the importance, the implications of the virgin birth? Do you really believe that Jesus was born without a human father? Do you realize that if you believe that, nothing can ever be the same It's a staggering fact and has staggering implications for us if we believe that simple statement In fact, I'm curious because the virgin birth is something we hear about at Christmas and we take so for granted. How many of you can ever recall having heard a message on the implications or the importance of the virgin birth? Let me just see. How many have ever heard a message on that? Yeah, that's what I thought. Not very many. We generally hear that Jesus was born of a virgin, but its implications or its importance are something that we don't often think very much about. First of all, it's important to notice that when we speak of the virgin birth, we're actually speaking of virginal conception. The question is really: who planted the seed in Mary's womb? It's not a matter of the birth so much as the point of conception that is at issue. Another thing that's interesting about this and why you don't hear very much about it Is, did you ever realize that the virgin birth is only mentioned here in Matthew chapter 1 and in Luke chapter 1 and nowhere else in the New Testament? Luke doesn't make as much of an issue of it as Matthew. So of all the scriptures, this is the one passage that really emphasizes the virgin the virgin birth or the vir virgin virginal conception. Within a space of four verses, verses twenty to twenty-three, Matthew makes the point of the virgin birth three times. And each one touches on a foundational implication of the virginal conception for your faith. I would like to look at those three implications with you this morning as we prepare to celebrate Christmas. First of all, notice its implications on our view of Scripture. First point, its implications on our view of Scripture. The question of Scripture and whether it is absolutely trustworthy or not. Look at verse 22 and 23. Matthew makes a point of the fact that the virgin birth was in the fulfillment of prophecy. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. There are two questions that I think come to the surface from this. First of all, notice that in saying that this is in fulfillment of prophecy, in quoting Isaiah 7. 14, Matthew touches on a very controversial issue, and that is, as scholars have debated through the ages. Did Isaiah really refer to a virgin in that prophecy, or was he simply saying that a young woman will bear a child, and that within a space of four or five years from the birth of that child, Samaria will be destroyed. If in fact Isaiah was not speaking of a virgin, he was simply talking of a young woman. And Matthew has twisted this, he's taken it to distort it for his own purposes. then scripture is unreliable. It is simply a superstitious record of man, and we can throw it away. The issue is, can we trust Matthew when he says that the virgin birth was foreseen and foretold in Scripture as something that God would do? That was a very big issue to me in college. I had become a Christian just before going to college, went to the University of Pennsylvania and took naively there a couple of Bible courses. Now that's not a place I would recommend that you take Bible courses. The professors that I had were scholars of great repute. But they seemed unceasingly every day to have one thing in mind, and that was to destroy my faith. The professor of Old Testament referred to the little Israelite deity who was a cultic god and would constantly deride any kind of confidence in the scriptures. They would refer to the fact that Isaiah never intended for us to understand this as a virgin that he was prophesying. And I remember in those days coming to a crisis of my own faith, wondering, can I really believe this book? Can I really trust it? Can I rest my life upon it? I remember one day literally pounding my fists on the floor of my room, saying, God, if you can get me through this Trusting that this word is true, I don't see how I can ever doubt you again. It was a major crisis in my faith, a real turning point. I began to read all the things that I could read about Scripture and its origins and its reliability or the criticisms of it. And I found that one basic principle of the Old Testament prophecies were that there was often a twofold double meaning. I went into detail in this back in December 1992 on Isaiah 7, verse 14. So if this is something that's of interest to you, get the tape or look it up from back then. But just in summary, let me remind you of what the conclusion was back then. Isaiah is using a word here for virgin that is used nine times in the Old Testament. Eight of those nine times, unquestionably, it can only refer to a virgin. The ninth time it could refer to either, but probably intended to mean a virgin. Isaiah was speaking to Ahaz of a sign that God would give, that a virgin who is now a virgin will give birth to a son. And in a few years, before that sun grows to be able to discern good and evil, Samaria will be destroyed. Matthew takes That key word, virgin, translated in the Septuagint by the word Parthenos, which can only ever mean virgin. And Matthew says, what Isaiah was pointing to, the word he uses here to mean fulfill is a word which means to fill up. Matthew says the meaning of that prophecy was filled up when God sent the virgin who in fact had a child as a virgin in fulfillment of the prophecy that God would be with us. Emmanuel is mentioned three times in Isaiah 7 and 8. And Matthew says, this is the filling up of the intention of that hope that Isaiah has presented. A glorious fulfillment of prophecy. But there's a second question that comes here about Scripture. And that is the fact, that is the question of whether we can actually trust the record when it says that Jesus was the only man in history ever born of a virgin mother. To think that Mary as a teenager had a baby before she had any sexual union with a man. Can you really believe that? Can you trust as Joseph that when God says to you through this record, That Mary bore Jesus as a virgin, that what was in her was conceived by the Holy Spirit. That like Joseph, you can say, God said it, I believe it. And that's the end of it. You see, this is attacked and has been attacked. All through the 2,000 years since God spoke it, the attacks come, of course, first of all, from outside the church. The Jews, from the second century on, commonly asserted that Jesus was born of fornication. You have a hint of that, perhaps, in John chapter 8, in verse 41. Back then you remember Jesus was speaking of the fact that God was his father. And he's talking to the Jews about this matter and they get into a bait uh the debate about fatherhood and Abraham's their father and this and that and Jesus says, No, really the devil's your father because you're doing the works. of your father the devil. And their retort is, well, we are not illegitimate. John 8. 41 Scholars think that may be the first indication of what through the succeeding generations became a common Jewish teaching, that Jesus was in fact born Of adultery, of fornication. You have written in about 177 to 180 A. D. a work by a man named Celsus. Whose whole purpose was to debunk Christianity. And he says in that work the following. Listen to this. This was written around a hundred And 75 to 180 years after Jesus' birth. He says it was Jesus himself who fabricated the story that he had been born of a virgin. In fact, however, his mother was a poor country woman who earned her living by spinning. I don't know where he got that. She had been driven out by her carpenter husband when she was convicted of adultery with a soldier named Panthera. That's a common name for Roman soldiers. S She then wandered about and secretly gave birth to Jesus. Later, because he was poor, Jesus hired himself out in Egypt. Where he became adept in magical powers. Puffed up by these, he claimed for himself the title of God. That's the kind of thing that was circulated in contrast to the teaching of the early church. Or you have more recently a book that was published back in the middle 1960s. by a um Jewish scholar Hugh Schoenfeld. Do you remember the Passover plot In the Passover plot, Schoenfeld postulates that Jesus was simply the natural son of Joseph and Mary. He viewed Jesus as nothing but a master conspirator who thought that he could be the Messiah and purposely then try to fulfill the messianic prophecies A quote from that book, Schoenfeld says, There was nothing peculiar about the birth of Jesus. He was not God incarnate, and no virgin mother bore him. The church, in its ancient zeal, fathered a myth. and became bound to it as dogma. And so you see, this is not a light thing to say that I believe that Jesus was born without a human father. It goes against all human wisdom, goes against all teaching and common sense of the world. What's even more insidious, of course, is when the attacks come from within the so-called church, within those who call themselves Christians. John MacArthur in his book God With Us quotes from a couple of these. He says one influential theological professor The so-called Christian school several years ago concluded that it makes no difference if the virgin birth really happened. We can view it as a myth in the highest and best sense of the word, he said. Unfortunately, this has become a popular way of thinking. Another church leader recently called the Virgin Birth a story on the level of an Andy Cap comic. And that's okay, he hastened to add, because Handicap is true. He's true or an imagination, just like the virgin birth is true. What's insidious about this garbage is that it always takes unbelief and couches it in respectful terms, kind of like, well, it doesn't really make a difference whether it really happened or not What matters is the idea that God is with us. That's all that really matters. But of course the scripture is absolutely clear. Four times Matthew makes a point Of the fact she was a virgin. It was of the Holy Spirit. It was before Joseph had union with her. And the history of this is foundational to the truth of it. We live in a day where people don't out and out deny the authority of Scripture. In fact, so many archaeological discoveries have verified the truthfulness of Scripture that that's not so popular as it used to be. What now is done is to simply capitulate at little points that are difficult. What's called the slippery slope of unbelief. And so you take the scripture and you say, well, I believe the Bible is really true. And then somebody points out some very difficult historical apparent contradiction. You can't resolve it. And so you say, well, the Bible is true in faith and practice, but not necessarily true in history or science, maybe not Genesis 1 or some of these other things. And so I basically believe the Bible is true, but not necessarily in all points of history or in science. And then you find there's a difficult point of practice, the Bible's teaching on headship or divorce among Christians. or a matter of women elders or something else, and you say, well, the Bible was okay for its day, but the practice isn't necessarily binding today. And so the Bible is true in faith, but not necessarily in all areas of practice. And then you find that the truths rub, and they don't fit with commonly accepted thinking. And so difficult doctrines of truth are jettisoned. And pretty soon you have nothing distinctive left. Brothers and sisters, if the virgin birth did not occur as historical virgin birth, we have nothing left of the truth of the gospel. This Christmas Dean and I were putting up Christmas lights and we, you know, I always says put up just three strings on these things and you know, you ignore that, you put up seven or eight strings, you know, so we have hundreds of lights around on our bushes outside And all but one string went out. And we traced every one of those lights. They were all good. So just because You know, just something about me. I had to find out what was wrong with that thing. And I pulled the plug apart. Didn't have a fuse in it, just one of those cheap little wire things And there we had 500 lights out because there was a 18 inch gap of melted wire inside the plug. One eighth inch was enough to blow the whole thing. If the virgin birth isn't true, everything else crumbles beyond it. Not only does it affect our view of Scripture so that when we say God says this, I believe it, I can stake my life on it. And therefore, when it comes to obedience, when it comes to the promises, I can believe them. But secondly, it also affects our whole view of the universe. That's the second point. It affects our view of the universe. The universe, in terms of whether we see the universe as closed or open. Now, what is meant by a closed or open universe? It's very simple. A closed universe is a universe in which matter and the laws that govern it is all there is. There is nothing else. Period. The universe is ultimately impersonal. It simply runs by a bunch of laws. An open universe is a universe which is not complete in itself, but beyond the universe, there is a transcendent God. who is able, according to his good pleasure, at any point to invade and to transcend the laws that he has created for his own purposes. That's an open universe. And what you have at stake here is whether the universe is open or closed. Look at verse 20. The angel says to Joseph. Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. This is not something that is happening according to the natural laws of conception. God has set those laws aside and transcended them so that the Holy Spirit has planted his seed inside Mary's womb. This is a classic statement of an open universe in which nothing is impossible with God. Be absolutely clear, this is not referring to parthenogenesis. Parthenogenesis, which occurs in silkworms and uh occurs in uh frogs, in rabbits, and honeybees. It's simply the cloning of the female to produce a genetically identical duplication of her. Always females. And always genetically identical. That is naturally possible. What Scripture is speaking of here is something which is naturally impossible. Mary as a virgin had a baby by the Holy Spirit. And that, brothers and sisters, is the hope every time you pray. That God is able to answer that prayer by intervening and doing what is impossible for you to imagine being done. This week, some of us will have difficult times with family who don't share our faith and love for the Lord Jesus or the way that we understand Christmas. We'll be in difficult situations. We may be grieving over those in our own close family who cannot share the faith and the love for the Lord Jesus and shudder to think what would happen if he were to return this week. And our hope in our pray is that the God who by the Holy Spirit conceived Jesus in Mary's womb is able to answer your prayer and my prayer. At any time that he wishes. We can trust him. All things are impossible or are possible with him. Thirdly, finally, our view of the virgin birth affects radically our understanding of Jesus. It determines our view of Jesus. Whether he's eligible to be my Savior and your Savior or not. Notice that he's given two names in the span of these verses. In verse 23, he's called Emmanuel. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son. And they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. That's Isaiah speaking of Messiah And Messiah had to be a mediator. We saw that in the earlier verses of Matthew where he speaks of Jesus as Messiah. The Messiah was always a mediator. Bringing God's word to man, in interceding by sacrifice, excuse me, in prayer, or as a king, ruling in behalf of God But a mediator must always identify with both parties between whom he's mediating. If he can't identify with both parties, he may be an ambassador, but he can't be a mediator. If he only identifies with one party, then he holds their interests. Therefore, for Jesus to mediate as Messiah between God and you, to bring us to God, He had to represent both parties. He therefore had to be both God and man. And so Jesus, we see by the virgin birth, is one in substance with God, his father, and one in substance with Mary, his mother, bringing the two together in one nature. Unconfused, indissoluble, both fully present in one human being. Do you ever stop to think of that? Omniscient, omnipresent God joined in one body is Dick read from Max Lucato. the staggering implications of what God did in bringing forth his son through Mary. And finally, B in that is that the second name Jesus is given here in verse 21 is the name, of course, Jesus. She will give birth to a son. And you're to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. Give him the name Yeshua. Joshua, the deliverer. Name means deliverer or savior, because he really is our Savior. You see, in order for Jesus Excuse me, in order for Jesus to be Savior Two things have to be true of him. Not only that he is identified both with God and man, but in terms of sin. He has to be both fully man in order to represent us. But he can't be man with sin. Now, how are you going to get out of Adam's race a man who is not born in sin? Apparently in Scripture, the sin of Adam is transferred through the line of the Father's seed from generation to generation. So what your mother has been telling you all these years is really true. You do get your sin from the Father. You got it from your father and his father and his father, and it transmits on down through the generations from father to son to father to son. And what God has done here is to give us an incredible solution to how there could be a second Adam who, being fully man, could bear our sin. And bring us to Himself as a new race. He joins supernaturally the seed of the Spirit without sin. to a girl, a teenage Jewish girl, joining the two together so you have fully man and sinless man able to bear your sin and my sin. It is because of the virgin birth that Jesus is eligible to take your sin. You can't believe in Jesus as a Savior unless you believe that he was born of a virgin. It all hangs together. And so do you see, brothers and sisters, this is the good news that's being told by Matthew. That this word is true. You can trust it when it says that the Holy Spirit came upon her. And that a virgin bore Jesus. That this world is open to a sovereign God who is able to intervene at any point to accomplish his purpose, and therefore you can trust him. And you can rest your life with him. And that this womb of Mary bears Jesus, born sinless man. Eligible to take your sin, to carry that to the cross, and to die for it, bearing the full weight of the penalty of God, so that you and I could be forgiven and this Christmas. Celebrate a new life that has been given to us by Jesus with whom we are joined in a new race of people destined for heaven because of him. You see, since the virgin birth, nothing has ever been the same. And nothing is the same in your life or in my life, if we really believe it. Do you believe it? Let's pray. God our Father, examine our hearts now. As we ask ourselves, do we really believe that you, Lord Jesus, were born of a virgin? Do we really believe that? For if we do, it makes all the difference in all the world. Our view of your word We can trust it. Our view of this world, that you are in control of it to accomplish your purpose. We can trust you that you hear us and that you're able to answer our prayers. You're able to deliver us from every circumstance. Because we're never trapped as victims within a closed universe. And Jesus is eligible to take our sin. And we who are trusting you this morning, having confessed that sin, and asked you, Lord Jesus, to be our Savior. Have been cleansed and forgiven and given new life. Because you, Lord Jesus, have taken that sinfully. Oh Lord, cast away the doubts. In each of our hearts now, banish them, we pray. That we would believe with all our hearts as you were born of a virgin, and therefore nothing can ever be the same.