Well, it is uh now uh what we call Christmas Eve Eve. We're coming right down to the time of the celebration of the birth of the Lord Jesus And for those of you who are visiting, welcome, as Rick said. But let me tell you that through this Advent season What we have been doing is meditating on the infinite chasm. I didn't uh I didn't start my little timer here, and so we're gonna be in big trouble if there we go We've been meditating on the infinite chasm between the honor that is due to Jesus Christ. As God Himself who has come in the flesh above all, remember Isaiah 52, 13, see my servant will act wisely, he will uh succeed phenomenally And he will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. In Hebrew, you say something three times over like that means the highest possible. Or you remember in Luke chapter 1, we saw last week that the angel said to Mary, You will be with child and give birth to a son, you're to give him the name Jesus, he will be great And called the Son of the Most High, the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. And so we've seen the difference between the exaltation, the honor that he is due, and how he humbled himself To be despised and rejected, humiliated , tortured, even disfigured so that he appeared inhuman on the cross under the curse of God. To bear your sin and my sin. And so Isaiah goes on, just as many who were appalled, astonished at him. because his appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man, and his form marred beyond human likeness. Because he will sprinkle many nations, so kings will shut their mouths. Because of him, for what they were not told they will see, and what they have not heard they will understand So as we approach this time of the anticipation and the celebration, the meditating, the thinking about Jesus and his coming I want to come to a text that's very familiar to us in the Christmas story, Luke chapter 2, verse 12, in order to see once again his profound humiliation But also to see in this story how near to you that Jesus Christ wants to draw this week. Luke chapter 2, verse 12, a text which you kids know as well as we adults, the angel said to the shepherds, This will be a sign to you. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. What a familiar text that is. And yet you think you know everything that is intended for you to understand out in that text about Jesus? Well, um I want to look at that and uh see if there's maybe a couple other things that God has for us. What we see as we kind of just read over it quickly in the Christmas story And in order to do that, you need to understand that the word sign, the angel says this will be a sign to you. The word sign has two meanings. The word sign is first of all used to tell you where something is. This way to Columbia, you get off 29-108, you know, this way to Clarksville You come down here, if you drive out of the parking lot, you look across the road, and there's a sign that says Centennial Park. And so you see that sign and you say, well, okay, that's where the park is Tells you where something is. The angel says, you'll find the baby, and here's the sign, he's going to be lying in a manger. Most of the babies in Bethlehem aren't going to be lying in mangers, but there's going to be one that is. And it's kind of like saying, you know, you get down to Fourth and Stable Avenue, and that's where he is. It's a sign to tell you where he is. But the word sign can also refer to a symbol representing an idea. It's used in that sense also. So that you look across Centennial Park, you see the sign near Centennial Park, it's a park of Howard County, and say, okay, well that tells me that Probably there's going to be some recreational facilities in here. Maybe I can shoot through a few hoops or play tennis, you know. There's going to be something for sports, gonna be some open space. Um it's a county park. Probably won't have to pay. Get in there and uh says Centennial Park. Wonder what that means. Probably something to do with the centennial that prompted this thing, dedicated on a centennial of something in Howard County. The sign, in other words, tells you not only where it is, it tells you something about what it is And so Jesus' miracles through the Gospels are called signs because they tell you something about what He came to do His miracles weren't just arbitrary demonstrations of power. They were healing because Jesus came to heal. They bring life from death because Jesus came to bring life They show his power over demons because Jesus came to abolish Satan's kingdom and establish his kingdom. So the miracles are signs because they tell you what Jesus came to do. And I believe that when the angel said, This will be assigned to you, you'll find the baby wrapped in claws, lying in a manger, the angel didn't simply mean that's where you'll find him. The angel also meant The fact that he is in a manger is going to tell you something about him. That's significant, that fact that he's in a manger, because Luke says that three times. This is not just something that, you know, by the way, happens to be in a manger. In verse 7, she wrapped him in claws and placed him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn Verse 12, this will be the sign to you that you will find the baby wrapped in claws, lying in a manger. Verse 16, so they hurried off. They found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger. I would like to suggest that there are four signs, four things that you learn about Jesus because of his lying in a manger. And uh you can see if you can tell these to your mom and dad afterwards. The first is that he was humiliated. That's kind of obvious, isn't it? We all know that, that Jesus was in a manger because there was no room for him in the end. He was humbled in that. John 1. 14 tells us that the Word, the eternal word, became flesh and dwell among us. In 2 Corinthians 8. 9, he who was infinitely rich became poor. And so when you think of God, the Creator God, who owns and has made all things, becoming flesh, taking on a body That degree of humiliation is so profound that whether he was born in a palace or a pigsty doesn't really matter a whole lot. But it does emphasize to us that he was humbled. Here it is, God who becomes helpless. How do you comprehend that? How can you begin to get your mind around what it means for God to become a helpless baby? Some years ago there was a film called Whose Life Is It Anyway, starring Richard Dreyfus, and he played a quadriplegic in that film. That means a person who's paralyzed from their neck down. And in the film it shows how he is absolutely helpless. Cannot do anything for himself. A nurse has to move him. She has to move his arms. She has to turn his fingers. Absolutely helpless. What does it mean? For Jesus, who was the eternal world word, who created worlds and galaxies, to be hungry for his mommy's breast, and to only be able to cry when he 's hungry, and absolutely be dependent on her to feed him What does it mean that God in the manger poops his diapers and he can't even change himself? I know I'll get some gray slips on using that word afterwards, but I use that word purposely for us to catch something of the impact of the fact that he was so helpless. Basic functions of life. He was dependent as a baby for somebody to take care of him. And so to help us to feel that, the angel comes to shepherds, whose occupation ranked somewhere up there around used car salesmen in that day. My apologies to any of you who may be used car salesmen, but Uh that's kind of where they were at. Um and so they come to this dirty manger and I guess used car salesman is an honest occupation potentially. You see, it's the abuse of it, but The same way with shepherds, you know, it was an honest occupation, but most shepherds were pretty unsavory characters. And Jesus shows that he's humble because The message about where he is is given not to the royalty, not to the Jewish leaders, given to these despised shepherds We 're then told where they can find somebody who has come for people like them, because they say, Messiah born in a manger? That's the kind of messiah I can relate to. Not only was he humbled and humiliated, the God of glory being born in a garage of a motel, but he was also, secondly, rejected. And of course we're aware of that. We see that um Isaiah fifty-three tells us in verse three, that he was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and familiar with suffering, like one from whom we hide their face, our face, he was despised and we did not esteem him. And that was right from his birth. Remember, Ezekiel contrasts the true and the false. Uh excuse me, that's that's next I flipped down. Luke tells us that when uh Mary and Joseph came into town. Now they arrived at the inn and we s read that they had to go to the stable because there was no room and a lot of us picture his innkeeper, you know, and he's at his desk and he's saying, Oh, sorry, we're all full up. Uh I don't think that's was that way. I've described to most of you in the past that I believe that what that was was what is called a con in the eastern countries. Uh it was simply an open enclosure when there was overflow capacity for the hospitality of people of Bethlehem and because of the census there was just this piles of people coming in of the line of David and so there was this open area, it was enclosed, and you kind of found your own spot. And you kind of settled it down, you claimed that spot. And then there was the stable out in the caves for the animals. Justin Martyr, who lived in that area, was very familiar with it, less than a hundred years later, tells us that Jesus was born in one of those limestone caves. So we have a pretty good idea that that's uh reliable. And so um surely Jesus I mean uh Joseph pleaded with the people there, could you move over and make some room? You know, my my wife is here and she's gonna have a baby, could you know, could you Kind of make some room there. Could we fit in here somewhere? And my guess is they probably detected his rural Galilean accent. And uh saw his dirty jeans and said, Why'd you go out in there by the cave with the animals? No compassion, no respect, looking down on somebody because of their accent, because of their clothes And so the gospel is teaching us the heartlessness, the prejudice of people who have no compassion even on a woman about to go into labor. He was rejected The manger is a sign of that rejection at his birth. Rejection that he bore for you and for me. Thirdly, the manger is a sign that he was the shepherd. It was a sign that he was the shepherd. Who's told about the sign? Well, of course, it's shepherds. Shepherds are out on the hill. caring for their sheep. And what's the manger for? Well the manger is to feed sheep in an enclosure. That is sheep when they're in the shelter. Now the shepherds are out on the fields watching over their sheep, and I don't believe those were ordinary regular run-of-the-mill shepherds that sheep were used for lamb chops and wool. These were most likely temple shepherds because Jerusalem and the temples just five or six miles to the north And these sheep then would have been used for the morning and evening sacrifices as well as any other sacrifices of people who came to offer a substitute for their sin. Every morning one of these sheep would have been taken up to the temple. The priest would have laid his hands on that sheep, as we talked about in Isaiah fifty three. He would have confessed the sins of the people And that lamb would have had its throat cut, and it would have been a substitute for the sins of the people. These shepherds were appointed shepherds to take care of the sheep. And we read in Psalm 23: The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not be in want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the quiet waters. Jesus is the shepherd. He's the true shepherd. Now get back to Ezekiel. Remember in Ezekiel, the Lord contrasts the false shepherds and the true shepherds. He says to the false shepherds, You have not strengthened the weak or healed the sick or bound up the injured. You have not brought back the strays or searched for the lost. You have ruled them harshly and brutally. And then he says of the true shepherd that he is going to send, I will save my flock. I will place over them one shepherd. My servant David, that means from the line of David. And he will tend them. He will tend them and be their shepherd. You're a sheep that needs a shepherd, don't you? Don't you need a shepherd? I do. Somebody to take care of me. Somebody who's there for me and all the stupid things I do wandering off where I shouldn't go and one who cares for me tenderly to feed me, bring me back You need a shepherd. And the manger is the sign that this one who comes is the true shepherd. He's where the sheep go for shelter And there he is. But finally, and to me the thing that's easiest to miss, but the most exciting about the signs here, is that the manger is a sign that he was the Lamb. He was the Lamb. This will be assigned to you. You will find the baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. Why do I say it was the lamb? Well, there's three ways that Three significant lamb that we see in the manger Where sheep feed. First of all, he was the sacrificial lamb that I described as the morning and evening sacrifice that bore the sins of the people. These shepherds raised their sheep to be used as sacrifices. And so Isaiah 53 speaks of that lamb. Who he says was pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep Have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of you, me. Remember, we put our names. In those verses, we looked at them a couple of weeks ago. And so these shepherds come to see this one in the manger. And they're reminded of the lambs that they take care of. That are used for sacrifice. Not only is the lamb used for sacrifice, there was the lamb, remember, on the Day of Atonement, that was the scapegoat. And the manger reminds us that Jesus is the scapegoat. On the Day of Atonement, not only would the one lamb have all the sins confessed on it, and then it would be taken and would be slaughtered and its blood would flow. And there it would make atonement to God for the sins of the people. But the other lamb, another lamb was sitting there And the priest would have confessed the sins over that lamb, and then that lamb would be driven off with sticks and kicked and set off out of the camp and into the wilderness. And that lamb was the scapegoat. That lamb wore away Isaiah and the. Leviticus uses the beautiful Hebrew word Nasab, which means to lift up and to carry away a burden He would take away the sins of the people, drive it off into the wilderness where some wild animal would eventually get it, and the sins would be gone. Jesus takes your sins so that they're gone. He takes them so that you no longer bear the shame. They're no longer there. He hasn't simply atoned for them, he's removed them. But the last picture is the one that I find here, is the most pointed And speaks to our hearts perhaps in the most powerful way this morning. Jesus is the Paschal Lamb. The lamb that was the paschal lamb, lamb paschal is just another word for Passover. The paschal lamb was the lamb that was eaten at Passover time. Where God's people would remember his deliverance of them from Egypt in its bondage, slavery, hopelessness. The fact that God had called them out of that slavery to be his own people, to bring them into a land of peace and prosperity, a picture of heaven. But essential to that picture, we're told in Exodus chapter 6, is the relationship that he would establish with them. God says, I will take you in Exodus 6 verse 7, I will take you as my own people. And I will be your God. And then you will know that I am the Lord your God. Who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians? I am your God. Now, what's that got to do with a manger? Follow me closely in this. What's a manager for? Now uh why don't we try this this time? Uh You see it there in your bulletin outline, so I'm going to read the question, and then you, including you kids, you read the answer. Alright? What's a manger for? Create angel. What did Jesus come to do? Create angel. Where is Jesus? Why You catch that? Why is Jesus in the manger? Because he feeds his sheep with himself. You remember in John chapter six When Jesus had fed the people, five thousand of them, with bread because they were hungry They ran around the lake to follow him and they said, We want some more bread. And Jesus said, You're just looking for me because you want your stomachs full. Boy, you don't understand the bread I have to offer And so he says in John chapter six, in verse thirty-five, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry. He who believes in me will never be thirsty. Then verse 37. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away. Now, what does it mean to come to him? How intimate a relationship is he talking about? You come to him and say, Thank you, Lord, for taking my sin. Thank you to it's good to know that you're there and are able to provide uh our daily bread and a job and the things that we need for our family. Occasionally rescue us from some emergency He goes on in verse 53. And he says, I tell you the truth. Here's what I mean by come to me. Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you will have no life in you. Pretty shocking. Holy cow. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is real food, and my blood is real drink. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me, and I in him. There's this connection you see, this union Just as the Living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so the one who feeds on me will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven. What's he talking about? In Luke chapter 22. Do you remember the suppers, the night on which he was betrayed, just before he died for us? He took bread and he broke it and he said This is my body, which is given for you. Take it, eat it, feed on me. What's Jesus saying here? He's saying that Christianity is not simply a cognitive ascent To certain facts about the gospel. It's not simply a matter of do you agree that you're a sinner and need a savior? Yes, I agree to that. Nobody's perfect, and especially me, oh, I need a savior Do you agree that Jesus is God's Son come in the flesh to die for sinners? Yeah, I agree. I believe that's true. Do you believe that his death was sufficient for your sin? Yes, I believe that. Do you receive him and believe on him for eternal life, confessing your sin and coming to him? Yes, I need him. I need to come to him and be forgiven. Then he goes further. Do you feed on him? I want to tell you that's something That we Anglo Americans, even us reform types, have a hard time with The mystical union of the soul with Jesus Christ, where your relationship with him can be described as feeding on him. What does that mean? I've told you a number of times that I I love Christmas music and I have lots of CDs and I just play them every chance I get all through from Thanksgiving right on to New Year's This week I was listening to one that I you know I can I can't say one of my favorites because you know I say that about half or more of them, you know. But this is one from the Clare College Singers directed by John Rutter from Cambridge And um it sneaks in a hymn among all the carols that's really not related to Christmas, um, but it's one that I have loved through the years. And it's called Jesus Christ the Apple Tree. And as I heard that hymn while I was eating breakfast, my soul was so stirred because the words are so tender and intimate. How many of you have ever heard that hymn? That's better in the first service. We had one in the first service. Got three or four in this one. It's not a very familiar hymn. But let me give you just a couple of the stanzas. Uh his beauty doth all things excel. I wish we could have this sung. Uh Tom and the choir did this many years ago, I believe, and it's just uh so moving. It's a beautiful beautiful tune His beauty doth all things excel. By faith I know, but ne'er can tell. I can't describe it to you. The beauty of Christ that my soul has seen. The glory which I now can see in Jesus Christ, the apple tree. I'm weary. With my former toil, here I will sit and rest awhile. Under the shadow I will be of Jesus Christ, the apple tree. This fruit doth make my soul to thrive. It keeps my dying faith alive, which makes my soul in haste to be With Jesus Christ, the apple tree. Now you may be thinking, Al, I think I follow a little what you're getting at in feeding on them But what's this business about Jesus as an apple tree? Is that some weird Renaissance image that somebody thought up? No It's straight from Scripture. You know what the Bible calls Jesus an apple tree? And I hope to expand on that someday if I ever get to my series on the Song of Solomon. Because it's in Song of Solomon chapter 2. It's the words of the beloved, the bride, as she thinks of her lover. And remember when we looked at Song of Solomon before, it's a picture of both earthly romantic love between a man and a woman. And how that love reflects the love of Christ and his church. So there's a dual image going on throughout the whole book. And in chapter 2 and verse 3, the bride, the beloved, says, Like an apple tree, among the trees of the forest is my lover, among the young men. I delight to sit in his shade. Now an apple tree in that culture was an erotic image. And so she goes on developing that image. I delight to sit in his shade, and his fruit is sweet to my taste. He has taken me to the banquet hall, and his banner over me is love. Strengthen me with raisins, refresh me with apples. A couple more erotic images we'll get to someday. For I am felt with love, his left arm is under my head. And his right arm embraces me. That did your Christianity I believe that that is what is hinted at when the angel says. Here's the sign. You've got to find them in a manger. Because he's going to feed his people with himself. In other words, Jesus Christ wants a far more intimate relationship with you. They can only be described in terms of passion, then you want with him He longs to embrace you. He longs to have you feed on him so that whatever your circumstances this week, you can say But it's okay. I'm feeding on my Jesus. And what does all this mean for us? Four simple points in conclusion. Number one I pray this will increase your confidence in God. As you see that Mary and Joseph historically are moved from Nazareth to Bethlehem and they come down there and without any thought about the theology and all the meaning of the gospel, They come to this cave and they say, where are we going to put our baby? What's soft around here? There's a manger. It's got some straw in it. Stick them in that. And God coordinates every detail of history to accomplish his purpose. You know he's doing that in your life? Ephesians 1, verse 11 tells us that he ordains all things, every detail, in what comes to pass. And so as you see the details of this story brought together, that you would be confident that God is in control of your life. And that's such a comfort, isn't it, at a time when we still are under terrorist threats. The fear of what's going to happen if Osama bin Laden is ever captured or killed, what will happen here? to know that God is in control. And that's particularly important for us as Americans who tend towards such arrogance to say that, boy, we showed them, didn't we? I mean, look what we've done to Al-Qaeda. And we don't know. We don't understand how dependent we are on the God who protects us. But that God coordinates every detail of life. See that in this story. And you'll also, secondly, increase in your confidence in Scripture to see how God brings together all the themes of the gospel. Writers who have written hundreds of years apart to bring together from the sacrificial system of the Old Testament From the song of Solomon and its intimacy to the pictures of the gospel of Jesus Christ who feeds his sheep and has himself placed in a manger. In order to speak to you about that, you know something? You're only going to find the deep truths that God wants to whisper to you about as you yourself meditate on Scripture this week. Get into it and meditate and think about it and let your confidence in God's word grow so that you understand that I don't I've never exhausted Scripture if I understand it on this level. I need to go deeper and deeper and deeper to get the rich truths. And thirdly, let me ask you, personally, is Jesus your sacrificial Lamb? Have you come to realize your need for Him to substitute for your sin, your disobedience, your shame? And know that he is sufficient to take all of that away. And if you have any question or doubts about that, put it on the gray slip. And when it's put into the offering, just say, contact me. I want to know more about Jesus, relationship with him, however you want to state it, so we can get back to you. But then finally, once again, let me state What is to me the most powerful, passionate point of this message are you feeding on Jesus this morning? In all of the hectic pace of this season and all that you've gone through and all that you've done, is your soul thriving because you're connected with Jesus Christ? Not just knowing the facts of the gospel, not just being able to assent to them, but saying, I'm feeding on my lover. I have a relationship with him such that whatever else is going on in my life, whatever fears and threats Health problems, job problems, family tensions, difficulties. He's making me hunger for him all the more through those disappointments. And I'm feeding on him. And you know what? He's enough. Roy and Rebel Heshin, in a profound little book called We Would See Jesus, state that there is a wonder to the gospel that is so unlike anything else in life. For with us it is always the need that seeks the resource. When Jesus came, He Was the resource seeking the need? It is not the hungry seeking for bread, but it's the bread seeking the hungry. Not the sad seeking for joy, but rather joy, seeking the sad Not emptiness seeking fullness, but rather fullness seeking emptiness. And it is not merely that he supplies our need. But he becomes himself the fulfillment of our need, of your need, of my need Do you believe that this morning? Then come to him. Come to him and feed to your soul's fullness. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, truly you are most glorified by us when we are most satisfied in you. Open our eyes that we might see the sign of the manger, that Jesus is the one who feeds his sheep with himself. And beyond all the other circumstances and what seemed like bungling and rejection and lack of compassion and last minute thought Was the sovereign control of the Father placing you in that manger as a sign to us that you want to feed us with yourself? You want to remind us in our aloneness that you are with us, that everything is okay. For you, Lord Jesus, have placed your love upon us, have forgiven us of our sin, and are with us to never leave us. That you give to us your power to protect us, and we are safe in you. We are safe in the shelter of your embrace. And we are lavished by your love. We come to you with a promise that You long for us to be with you, to behold your glory, and to come to that wedding feast when you will ravish us with your love. In a way that we can't begin to comprehend now, and we live in the hope and the longing for that day. Oh Lord Jesus, open our eyes. That we might see what it means and experience this week feeding on Jesus. Amen