It is one grand eternal Sabbath. It is a resting, but it is not an idle, inactive resting, but it is, you see, totally unstressful It is not driven. It is a resting. It is a delightful activity. About you folks is that the Sunday after Christmas, you are tired. The holidays where are you at? The shopping, the rapping, the visiting You know, all the stuff that you've gotta do, the baking, um you know, and then uh comes Christmas And then you've got the sales after Christmas and the returns and all the people that you visit. You know, Christmas season, December is like kind of taking your regular schedule and then you add about thirty hours a week of stuff more to do, you know. It's no wonder you're tired. I I asked my next door neighbor a couple days ago how she was doing. And she said, I'm tired. I'm recovering I said, really? From what? She said, Well, I had my husband's family here for a few days. I said, Oh really, how many was that? She said, twenty. You know. So uh the Sunday after Christmas, you're tired. Amen? See? You're too tired to say amen. You make my point. I remember last year we had a pastor, a friend of mine, and his wife came to uh worship here the Sunday after Christmas, and uh he's a charismatic pastor, so as soon as we'd start any songs, you know, he'd start clapping and moving and he'd look around and Nobody was clapping or moving. They'd finally just stop, you know. After about three or four times it is he didn't bother anymore, you know. And I thought, gee, what a time to visit with a Presbyterian congregation. I mean e you know, it wasn't exactly a jumping group, you know. So um I figured last year that the Sunday after Christmas is a good time to preach on rest. Now do I get any amens. Uh, you know, and you can't look at rest in the scripture without soon bumping into the idea of Sabbath. So I thought I'd preach on Sabbath rest Now I did that for two reasons. Number one, because it's a teachable moment. I figure you're all interested in hearing about that. Secondly Uh because it's the threshold of a new year. And so as you plan and think about the new year, you think about changes, you think about things that will give you a little more quality of life or something you think would be a good thing to change or incorporate into your life. And I figure this is a good time to think about how some of these principles might apply to your schedule and lifestyle. So I want to try to cover in just one sermon some basic principles. Got a lot of questions afterwards about the Sabbath, but I can only cover some basic principles of Sabbath, but that has the advantage of getting to the core issues. the heart issues and not getting bogged down into the details. It's a very controversial topic, but I would like to look at it through the window of Mark chapter 2 In verse 27, you remember the situation there was where Jesus and his disciples were going through some grain fields, and you remember that Uh Jesus and the disciples were picking the heads of grain and they were eating them. And the Pharisees landed on them and they told them that they were violating the Sabbath because they had a specific rule against picking grain. uh and eating it on the Sabbath. Uh all these rules that they had to hedge around the law. And you remember Jesus uh responded to them by telling them about the incident where David and his companions were on one occasion Extremely hungry, they were fleeing from Saul, and they went to the tabernacle and ate the bread of the presence, which was forbidden for anyone but the priests to eat in Luke 24. Abiathar gave it to them because he judged that preserving life was a higher priority than preserving the bread. And Jesus uses that to illustrate this principle of priority, and he says in Mark 2, verse 27, the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. In other words, he has the authority to declare how the Sabbath is to be observed. But his point is about priorities. In other words, he's saying the Sabbath is God's gift to man. The Sabbath is a gracious gift that God has given. So when we pick up this subject and begin to look at it, it's important, like everything else in Scripture, that we see it in terms of gospel. not simply in terms of law. We see it in terms of relationship rather than simply of rules. I would like to suggest that you look at the Sabbath As God's Christmas gift to you from this past week for 2004 It's his gift to you, not a burden to make life less pleasant, but rather it's a release, it's permission to rest, because he knows that you need it. sometimes even more than you know. Um you ever think about how kind God was to give us Sabbath? He could have said, work every day. You know, heaven's coming. Got plenty of time to rest there. Burn out, don't rust out. Just keep moving. Be productive. But he didn't do that God gave to us the gift of Sabbath. So at this point, let me share with you, to put this in some context, very briefly testimony, personal testimony of my spiritual pilgrimage in this whole issue of Sabbath. Some of you may identify with some of this I remember that I was brought to Christ in an independent Baptist church, and I don't recall ever hearing a message on the Lord's Day or Sabbath or Sabbath principles. uh in the many years I grew up in that church, the years that I went there. Um the only thing I knew was anything of their stand about Sabbath was that out in the uh parking lot where we play basketball, there was a sign that said no basketball playing on Sunday. That was it. That's all I knew. All right, so whatever goes on on Sunday, you're not supposed to play basketball, but I don't know what else you're supposed to do or what it's about. Uh but the way they dealt with it was very clever. They just filled up Sunday with activities. So you'd start with Sunday school and then you'd go to morning worship. You'd take a brief break to go home for lunch and they come back and there was usually something going on. Then it was a youth group or campus and careers in late afternoon. Then you went to the evening service and then after the evening service we'd all go out and we'd eat and hang out together for a while. So you basically filled up the whole day by doing various church activities and I figure, well I guess that's what you're supposed to do. Well, but I didn't have any there wasn't any sense of principle about that. Well then I went to seminary, and it was a reformed seminary, and so at that seminary I was introduced to the Westminster Confession and uh found that there were uh in the Westminster Catechism, larger and shorter catechism in the shorter catechism. which you have, by the way, in the back of your red hymnals, but I won't have you turn to it right now. There are six questions in the shorter catechism on the Lord's Day or on the Sabbath, the fourth commandment. Let me read to you just two of those questions and answers which are get to really the heart of what the reformers Uh this was a whole group, not just one one just Presbyterians. This was a whole group of uh pastors, theologians uh in the days, the generation, a couple generations after the Reformation. It got together and put together some teaching on this stuff. And uh question 60 says, how is the Sabbath to be sanctified? The Sabbath is to be sanctified by a holy resting all that day, even from such worldly employments and recreations as are lawful on other days, and spending the whole time in public and private exercises of God's worship. except so much as is to be taken up in the works of necessity and mercy. Question sixty-one, what's forbidden? in the fourth commandment. Fourth commandment forbids the omission or careless performance of the duties required, in other words, see question 60. And the profaning the day by idleness or doing that which is in itself sinful, or by unnecessary thoughts, words, or works about our worldly employments or recreation. Well, a lot of stuff there. I remember responding, reacting to that, thinking it seemed uh rather overly restrictive, confining, um, but at least it got me thinking about what um the Lord's Day was all to be about. Then I went to the third stage you see there of reacting. In Syracuse, Kathy and I went to a very conservative church, a Reformed Presbyterian Church of North America. It was a great group of people, but uh these folks uh really tried to follow the Westminster uh catechism teaching like that very, very literally. I remember um visiting a dear couple that we uh we love there, kind of like spiritual parents for us. And um we uh popped in uh one Sunday afternoon, they didn't know we were coming, just dropped by. And uh the man met me at the door and practically fainted on the door. His eyes sort of got widen and he you know he sort of reeled and and I was worrying, oh, what was he into? That nobody knew about It turned out somebody in the family was vacuuming. He thought I was the preacher coming to check. And uh that didn't exactly endear me to how to observe the Sabbath. And so I just found that myself reacting more and more against uh legalistic uh rule keeping for what it what this was all about. It I Started studying, thinking about it more. Book I found particularly helpful was a book edited by D. A. Carson from Sabbath the Lord's Day. It has a lot of interesting historical and biblical studies in it. A lot of things certainly written on it. I'd like to think that I have come in the fourth stage to where I am now to what I would like to think of as balance Everybody thinks of themselves as balanced, of course. I but what I would like to say that I hold now is um that I am seeing the freedom of Sabbath which is fulfilled in Christ, and yet that the day is still distinctly a holy day A day that uh is a gift from God of rest and restoration. The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath, and that's still true. And uh so what I'd like to do is to um is to turn you to that fourth commandment in Exodus 20 and uh and say that recently as I've been looking at this more, I've been been enjoying unwrapping that gift that I believe the Lord has given to us. And I want to offer to you some basic principles and just some ideas to get to the heart of the issue here. in uh the fourth commandment which you have in Exodus chapter twenty in uh verses eight to eleven, this is what you read, and you know, this is the core of it, so this is all we have time to look at. But What does God say? Well, remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh is the Sabbath. The seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. Or it you shall not do any work, neither you, nor your son, nor daughter, nor your manservant, your maidservant, nor your animals For the alien within your gates, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them. But he rested on the seventh day. Therefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day. and made it holy. The most basic idea to this commandment clearly is the idea of it being holy. You see that at the beginning and you see it at the end. Remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy. Last verse, remember therefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. So the best way to get a handle on this in just a few minutes to get to the heart of the issue is to see three ways that this is made holy. Three ways that the that the Sabbath is holy. The first is that notice it is holy to the Lord your God. There's something very clear and specific about that, not just holy in some abstract sense, it's holy to him. He says in verse eight, remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy. Verse 9, six days labor, do all your work, but the seventh is the Sabbath to the Lord your God. That to me refers to worship. And that's the first blank you see. Why worship? Well, because to be holy to the Lord means it's an offering to Him. It's something that you offer up to him. And you see that in the Old Testament, the corporate worship. uh was on every Saturday, the seventh day. Uh all of God's people joined together to worship. It was the climax of the week where they brought together their shouts of praise and worship to him, but it wasn't just corporate, it was also private. And you see that balance of both the corporate And the private in Psalm twenty-seven, for instance, in verse four, one thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. And to seek him in his temple. Seek him in his temple with God's people. But all the days, uh in all of my activities, I want to gaze upon his beauty. I want to worship, I want to adore him. Yeah, if you love the Lord, you take time to do that, don't you? Uh however rushed you try to spend some time, I hope. I mean I Can't imagine a Christian who would go for days or weeks and just ignore saying, I'm never open my Bible, don't pray, don't worship. So there are those times, but but those times are so rushed, aren't they? ten, fifteen, twenty minutes, you turn on a tape in the car, try to listen to a Christian station. You know, we try to get these little ways that we can extend those precious few moments of quiet that seemed to go so quickly. And perhaps you think while you're having that time, I you know, Lord, I've only got a little bit of time here, I just want to kind of get right down into this and worship you real quickly and, you know, while the kids are napping and out playing or doing something, you know, and it just really hard. Someday I would just like to be able to have some time a little more relaxed, you know, and just be able to think about you, but that someday seems to be so hard for us to come by, doesn't it? I remember back when I was with University, um I had a conference where um I would um take the students, uh it was a weekend conference, and Saturday after lunch I would say, surprise. You're going to spend the next three hours alone with the Lord. You know, you get these looks of horror. What in the world am I supposed to do in three hours with no headphones and you know go nuts And uh so then I would uh describe, give some guidance, you know, here's what we're gonna do. And um you all he got is uh a Bible, a pen, and a piece of paper And uh I have to give them some guidance they'd go out off into the woods and uh call 'em all back together after three hours. And I the first time I did that I was really scared what they were gonna do, they would all run home or something or get together in groups or you know, mutiny. But I found out that um after three hours they generally came back and said, Wow, that was really neat. Man, I'm just kinda getting started. I couldn't believe the three hours went by so quickly. And uh so then we would talk about the the richness of that, what happened. And uh generally somebody would say something like, ah, it's really great, you know. I wish I could do that more often, you know, just to bad I'd have to wait till my next conference to come. You know, did you ever think that maybe that's why God gave you Sunday that you would just be able to rid some of the other things that you normally do and take two or three hours and just be alone Now some of you are thinking, yeah right, you know, like Sunday you think I can take two of the Well, I mean if you're a family, you got little kids, you you uh spot each other, you know, husbands and you know gonna give you a couple hours now, take the kids and Wives take the kids for the husband. You work together so that you're each able to do that. I I remember doing that with my wife and You know, I mean believe me, the the kind of wife you get back after you do that's m it's worth it. A little more peaceful and rested. So, you know, it's worth working at it to plan how you can do it Because if we don't do that, if we never get those periods of time of quiet, more than just 15-20 minutes, but measured in hours, not minutes. Then gradually Jesus seems to be more to us like a project manager seeking to get the greatest productivity out of us than he does a lover who is wooing us. And that's so sad. We um rush around, we just d uh seek to um Be productive and busy and we miss those times of quiet. I remember after doing this with the uh students Betty Rushing, who was a undergraduate student at Frostburg at that time, I don't know if Hugh was on one of those conferences where we did this. He he's nodding yes. Betty was so impressed with this. I think she and Vern did this on their wedding day. It took uh three hours before they came together for the ceremony to have their vows. Uh it's a very rich practice to be able to uh work into that. But the problem is That we tend to approach Sundays so mechanistically, so legalistically, we think of Sunday as when I go to worship, Most of the time, you know, if I don't have something else I gotta do, I'll get to worship and um and it you know and then I can check that off and then go do what I want to do the rest of the day you know, shopping tours, you know, watching TV, doing everything. You know, 'cause I got all this stuff I gotta do. So, you know, we kind of pair it down. Well what is what is really necessary? Well Middle hour, that's optional, you know, you don't need to do that. God still you know, he's pleased enough if I just get to worship. And worship me I don't have to be to the whole worship. I get there ten, fifteen minutes late. Still counts, you know. I got there. It's so mechanistic. Uh I remember um a friend of mine having this conversation where he and I were both laughing about this, but it really drove the point home. He was a Jewish fellow and um Uh we still hang out together. And he uh was saying that uh although he worshipped as one congregation, it was another congregation, it was a very conservative, very small congregation And in the Jewish congregations you have to have a minimum of ten adult males to count as a worship service. Got nine, done count So he says every once in a while they wouldn't get their quota and they'd call him up on a Saturday morning and they'd say, Hey, could you come on down so that we can get the worship started And so okay, so he'd go drive down. And all he needed to do was be there for just some little portion of the service. So he said they would have somebody spotting down 29, when they'd see him coming down the road, they'd say, okay, start. And you know, because it'd take him another five, ten minutes to get to the park where it but that's okay. All he had to do was just be there for a portion and it counted. You know, and we think, oh, that's so silly, but how many of us had that kind of a view that, you know, Sunday is just kind of checking in so that I cannot feel guilty about all the other stuff I want to do And then we wonder why we don't cultivate a heart that loves Jesus more. You want to love Jesus more in 2004? How's that for a mano? Love Jesus more in 2004. Cultivate a heart. that spends time with him. And God has said, I know you need the structure to do that. He has given you Sunday, the Sabbath. To be able to say, I'll take the normal things, set them aside, because I just want to focus. This is the Sabbath to the Lord. It's worship. Secondly, notice it's also rest. He says, Don't do any work. Um he says uh not only you don't do any work, but he says uh you know six days uh you work But on the seventh, you don't work, neither you nor your son or daughter, your manservant, your maidservant, even your animals, your alien within your gate. In other words, everyone under your authority is to be blessed with this gift. Those that you have authority to free up, free them up so that they are able to do that. Uh God rested, so you rest. That's the principle. I remember a friend of mine heard a friend of hers bragging about her son, saying, uh, he's a wonderful boy. He's just so driven. That's what she actually said. And you know, we think about being busy as being important. If you're not busy, you're not important. So you know, and the compliment you give to each other is saying, Well I know you're very busy, but you know we think, Well of course I'm very busy, you know, I'm important And and that that has the insidious effect of getting us addicted to our own adrenaline so that we begin to function thinking if I'm not busy, something's wrong Now, Sabbath is to undercut that fleshly world notion. Sabbath is God's gift, his permission to rest and to play. God says, here's one day you don't work constantly. Here's a day you stop, you cease. In fact, the root of the verb, the word sabbat, is to cease. You stop. And you just relax and play. Now here's where I differ from my Puritan ancestors on this and some of the things that you read in that catechism. Where they speak of the Sabbath is to cease from recreation. And best I can determine, that's based on Isaiah 58. Where the Lord talks about the fasting and the fast that I've chosen, and he talks about the Sabbath, and he says, in the Sabbath you uh cease from your own pleasures And uh the problem is what Isaiah is talking about there is not throwing a frisbee. He's talking about oppressing the poor. The pleasures he says that you have is in making all the money you can make and using people to get that and oppressing them. So you look and you say, All right, Sabbath over, get back to work. And that's the pleasure he's talking about. I don't think it has anything to do with restricting recreation. I think it's a wonderful thing for us to play together as a congregation, as families, to cease working and to enjoy the delight of playing before our Heavenly Father. Now, um, you know, we can pour all kinds of things into what that playing is, and there are no laws about that, and I don't want to inflict any laws on you But let me just raise two questions. And uh, you know, I can get in trouble on this because it's some discussion Um between uh first and second service. See, they get it they get the opportunity to react, uh you guys are all gonna disperse, we won't interact. But let me just raise the question uh about shopping. That's always one that comes up on this. And um this I don't think there's any law that says uh you you can't shop on Sunday. There's a lot of principles are involved in it. But the only thing I want to raise is um the question of what it does in terms of your restoration, of just kind of backing off from that hectic piece. Sue Klein in um uh an issue of discipleship journal that was uh had as its feature uh Sabbath Rest said this that I thought was uh uh a very interesting observation. She says, I'm still unclear about what Sabbaths may come what my Sabbath may come to look like But little by little I've been unwrapping Sabbath's gifts, first same kind of idea. The first gift was freedom from commerce. Now I admit that it was the easiest change to embrace, because I'm not very fond of shopping. That's a woman writing that. For that reason, I didn't expect the benefits to be significant, but they are To walk into a store for even the most necessary items means subjecting myself to the siren song of You Need Me Too. Wouldn't this look nice, taste nice, sound nice, smell nice? You're gonna kick yourself when you get home if you don't buy me now. How restful it is to silence those voices just for a day. How spacious my soul feels when it isn't confined to the narrow aisles of a department store. Just a thought. The other one about TV. Get in deeper trouble on this. But um The only reason you I raise the question of T V, no rule against I come to your house someday, got the TV, you know, s which you all up there's Harris, you know, the Sabbath police are here. No, yeah, it just misses the whole thing. This is all about our hearts. The only reason I raise the TV, and you might say it's easy for you to say, because I don't particularly relax by watching TV. Don't turn me on. I don't turn it on. We have a mutual agreement, all right? But have you ever heard anybody say, I watched four hours of TV yesterday and boy am I refreshed. Yeah, really? TV is more numbing than it is restoring or refreshing. So you might want to just consider what would it be like if you just said, I'm just going to fast on TV for a month, you know, and just do something else. You know, what are other things you can do? It's the things that cultivate your soul, your love toward Jesus. I'll get to talk about one or two other things in a couple minutes. But, you know, just to see in a month what happens. And if you say it didn't make any difference to me, fine, feel free to go back. But just think about what does it do What what enables you to rest? To really rest. Some sports for some guys particularly would be unrestful because they're so competitive. Others it's very refreshing. So this is a matter of the heart. It's not a matter of laws of what you do. Third thing, and this gets again to the heart of it, is the reason for Sabbath. The Lord says there. Why do we do it? Verse 11. He says, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth. The sea and all that is in them, but he rested on the seventh day, so rooted in creation. Interesting that um the Ten Commandments are repeated in Deuteronomy, which literally means second law. So a lot of things repeated just before they go into the land. And one of the things is the Ten Commandments, and you have the fourth commandment, almost identical, but one significant change. And that is the reason. The reason in Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse 15 is quite different. For there you read, remember that you were slaves in Egypt, and that the Lord your God brought you out of there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God has commanded you to observe the Sabbath day. Nothing about creation. It's all about what? Redemption. It's about God redeeming his people out of Egypt. That tells me that Sabbath is about reflection. That's the third word. Worship, rest, and reflection. It's to think about the meaning of creation and redemption. Hebrews chapter 4 develops this idea in terms of the Sabbath in terms of how Christ fulfilled it. And it tells us there that the true Sabbath is resting from our own works to try and gain God's approval by pleasing Him with what we do, and rather resting in Christ's Finished work, his work on the cross and walking out of the tomb. So the real the essence of Sabbath is heart resting in Christ It's resting in him. And Hebrews tells us that the final rest is the rest of heaven, the eternal Sabbath rest of our souls, where we will no longer strive. and be stressed. But right now the Lord has given us the that day as a sign. A sign and it's kind of like a sign and a seal of sacramental. It says, here is something that you can't see to make it tangible here and now. You can experience the first fruits. Ephesians 1, 14, you know the Spirit gives us first fruits. of the new age, of the salvation to come, and we had the first fruits of that rest in determining I will rest. I'm going to rest by faith. Today and stop all that I have to do. Now, the Old Testament Sabbath was the climax of the week, seventh day, because the Lord rested from creation on the last day of the week. That's changed in the New Testament because Jesus rose on the first day of the week. But think about it, the first day of the week is the eighth day of the week. That is, it's the beginning of the new week. It's the beginning of the new creation. So the idea of Sabbath is if you look back both to what has been done and what is coming, the hope of what is to come. And and the specific sign of that is you do that week by week. You look back and you say, okay, I'm going to look review last week. What did I do last week that I regret? What what separated me from Christ? What seemed unproductive? What do I regret? Then I bring that before the Lord. Lord Just help you to learn from that. Christ has died for that. You've borne it, you know, John read from that. You know, the it is well with my soul, my sin not in part, but the whole is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more. And you rejoice in that on Sabbath. And I look forward and I say, I commit the next week, and I say, Lord, what about this week? What do you want me to do? All the things I'm worried about, the things I'm angry about, stressed about, Lord, I want to offer them to you. Because you see, practicing Sabbath is an act of faith. It takes faith to stop and say, this project is due, I've got to get this done, but I'm not gonna do it, I'm not gonna be in bondage to it for these next few hours. I'm going to trust you, Lord, that the world can go on, the kingdom can go on without me. You know? That can happen. And so you stop and you say, I'm going to play, I'm going to think, I'm going to learn, I'm going to get quiet. You know, ultimately, we need quiet in order to hear his voice. You can't hear the Lord's voice in noise very easily. So you stop and you reflect on those questions and you think about the hope of Christ. And you you cultivate your heart. You can't even love him. And so you seek him. Lord, give me that heart that rests in you and that loves you. It takes time, it takes the determination that you that you seek him for that John Ortberg says that one of our great curses is we are addicted to our own grandiosity. Things can't go on without me. Say no and practice that rest. Sue Queen, in that same article I was just quoting, Talks about William Wilberforce, who was in the cabinet parliament of England back in the nineteenth century, was a major force for the uh anti-slavery movement which he headed and uh was successful in changing history through that. She says at one point he was in the running for an important cabinet post and he became consumed with the prospect of holding such influence. For a week he could think of little else. But then came the Sabbath. And in his journey for that Sabbath day, he wrote these words, quote Blessed be to God for the day of rest and religious occupation wherein earthly things assume their true size. Do you need a day of quiet so that earthly things return to their true size? Then as you think about 2004, let me suggest that you think about how you might want to build in the rhythm of work and rest. The Sabbath principle, the gift that God has given to you, that you might by faith be restored week by week in setting aside those normal activities. Not a law. Don't make it a law. Don't think in terms of law. What you shall not, what you shall, but think in terms of grace. Whereby you replace something that you have freedom to do with something that's even better, as Wayne Koch talked about at the Lord's Supper. The awesome, expulsive power of a superior affection, that would you do because it's better In your love for Jesus, and in living sanely in peace rather than stress. Sound like a good idea? Ball's in your court now. Let's pray. Lord, we do. We want to know more about living peacefully. Especially after we think about this holiday, Lord, and all we've been through and we think this was insane. I'm never going to do this again. On and on and on. Lord, um, we can think about next year. Well right now we have next week. And Lord, we we want to stop this insane pace that some of us have been living. We thank you that you have given to us the gift of Sabbath. And some of us, Lord, have really been kind of trashing it and abusing it, thinking very mechanically, thinking very self-centered. And as always in your word, you say, This day is for you, and you are for me. And so as we take what you've given us as a gift and center our hearts on you, we find the greatest satisfaction. And the greatest enjoyment. Teach us what that means. Lord, we want to offer ourselves to you to discover that, to unwrap that gift that you've given to us, and to love you more as we do it. Give us grace, Lord. Give us grace to even begin to enter into that activity which we can only do by faith. We pray, grant us that faith, the vision for it, in Jesus' name. Amen.