Part of the Columbia family for this season, Greg and I. And um today we're continuing in Second Timothy. I think we the last several Sundays Craig has begun that the series. We're in the second chapter now. And um let me read this text. We're gonna look at at Chapter 2, verses 14 to 26, as the second chapter comes to an end. The ESV translation is what I'm using today. There we are. Verse 14. Remind them of these things and charge them before God not to quarrel about words which does no good, but only ruins the hearers. Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth. But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness, and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus. who've swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They are upsetting the faith of some. But God's firm foundation stance bearing this seal. The Lord knows those who are his, and let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity. And when a great house They're not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies. You know, they'd be that they'd read quarrels. And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance, leading them to a knowledge of the truth, and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him. to do his will. God's word. Let's pray. Father, I pray you use this portion of our of of your word to To challenge us, to encourage us to walk more closely to you, to serve you more faithfully, to draw us to yourself. We'll give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen. Now history is full of very aggressive leaders who dominate and conquer their neighbors. For some, even a vision to dominate and conquer the whole world, some of these leaders of, you know, Alexander the Great, the Prophet Muhammad, Joseph Stalin, Adolf Hitler. More recently we we've seen a very aggressive Islam and Russia and even now China with the world on the horizon, wanting to to to aggressively take over the world. Jesus also had a world vision to expand. But he had a radically different method, didn't he? His method was not to not not to militarily or politically control territory. No. His strategy was to spiritually control hearts Followers of Jesus Christ, likewise, we have a mission. We have a vision that also involves the whole world. We see the Great Commission. Right in the bulletin. Go make disciples. Baptizing. Teaching. You know what that commission begins. I love the way it begins in the paragraph. It begins that he called them to a mountain and they worshiped him. It begins with worship. And then he says, Go make disciples and baptize and teach. And then it ends, I'm with you always, to the end of of the of the nation of of the of of time, of the end of the the age. It it ends with their trusting the one who was with them. Worshiping, trusting. And as we worship and trust, what do we do in the meantime? We make disciples. That's what it's all about. Two thousand years later, each of us who believes in Jesus Worshiping him as the Son of God is challenged to participate in God's ongoing disciple-making mission. Now what is making disciples? It's influencing others to believe in Jesus, to worship Jesus, to rest in him, to grow in him, to obey him To proclaim Jesus. And some are gifted to especially cross the barriers and boundaries of land and sea, of language and race. Missionaries, career missionaries. Some is career, even tent makers, the Apostle Paul. Workers who relocate on a job to be an ambassador for the kingdom of God Some are gifted to influence crowds. Crowds. Big crowds, maybe small crowds. Some have the ability to lead even smaller clusters of people Community groups, small groups, Bible study groups, various arenas, but outside the church walls or inside the church walls. And some are gifted with the ability to just have a deep personal one-on-one contact to reach individuals. And that's okay. All of us have our callings, but all of us is called to influence others to make disciples. See, this is a passage of a of the apostle talking to a pastor who he discipled, and so you who aren't aren't leaders, you can say, well, this isn't for me. Well, time out. No. This is for all of us. All of us are called to fulfill the Great Commission. And so the basic question as we go through this text is, what is your calling? What is your calling? What does healthy disciple making look like in your life? Who has God put around you with the responsibility and the privilege of displaying the love of God and the power of God? Is it children? Is it grandchildren? Is it families? Is it your neighbors? Your old friends? Your enemies? Think about where you work and where you live and where you play. Who has God put around you? Who has the sovereign God put around you? Who needs to see and hear about Jesus from your life? So they might become a disciple and grow as a disciple and then make disciples themselves. So Paul, you see, is a disciple-making apostle. First century is he's an elder, an apostle elder. And he sends Timothy, his spiritual son, this He was in Ephesus, the city of Ephesus, to continue God's disciple-making process there. And this probably takes place a couple weeks before the apostle gave his life as a martyr. Paying the ultimate price by the Roman Emperor for his loyalty to Jesus, proclaiming the message of Jesus. God makes disciples through people, through his people. And the church is in fact a group discipleship process. The church is to be the visible reflection of the invisible Christ to an unbelieving world. Now in chapter chapter 2, which Craig talked about last week, just a little bit of review here to get us up and running in this chapter, Paul has been encouraging Timothy to be strong in God's grace, be strong in the grace that's in Christ Jesus. Verse 1. To disciple faithful men who become future disciple makers. The crossing of F-A-T, fat. Look for fat people. Faithful, available and teachable people. And there's obviously the need for men and for women to be strong and lead various levels of church ministry. Verse 2 is the the a particular calling for men to step up because there's future leaders there among those men. Paul gives three pictures, metaphors, pictures, of those who would leave. The soldier, the athlete, the farmer. These jobs take discipline and faith and teamwork, and so does disciple making. And he says, be strong in grace because grace is always connected to Jesus Christ. So in verse 8, he reminds them, remember Jesus. Don't just think about this task of discipleship. Remember Jesus. See, it's all about him, pointing people to him. The gospel of grace is always about Jesus. Don't forget that. Stay focused for the sake of the elect, God's people, that they might be saved to the glory of God. Paul continues there. Grace. Grace is always connected to Jesus. We need to forget that. They think of grace, oh this is God's benevolence, God's love. It's connected to Jesus. Many forget that. Dietrich Bonhoeffer, the great martyr from last century, said talks about, he contrasts cheap grace and costly grace. Cheap grace is the grace we bestow on ourselves. Cheap grace is the preaching of forgiveness without requiring repentance, baptism without church discipline, communion without confession. Chief grace is grace without discipleship, grace without the cross, grace without Jesus Christ. He's right there. Paul says be strong in grace. Remember Jesus. Then in verses 8 to 10, he talks about because of his commitment to Jesus and the grace message, he's suffering. He's in prison. Again, he's about to give us life for that message. But he does it so that the elect might hear. So then that brings us to verse 14. Paul is continuing then to exhort Timothy about the vital role of leadership of influence influencing others. The things he says here have implications for not just ordained leaders, but for all who are disciple makers who influence others. And so my title. Is the godly disciple maker. The godly disciple maker. Think of your life. I'm sure there are a small percentage of exceptions, but the norm is that God used disciple makers. In your life. A parent maybe. A Bible teacher. A preacher. A friend. To proclaim the word to you. In a healthy church, the work of outreach and impact upon an unbelieving world is not merely the responsibility of professional Christians. But it's also the responsibility of the people in the pews. That's so important to hear that in this season of Columbia's Church where you don't have a professional Christian pastor. The ministry goes on. To you. Timothy is certainly to be the lead disciple maker, but not the only disciple maker The slogan is true. If Jesus is your Lord, everybody is either a missionary or a mission field. If Jesus is Lord, everyone is either a missionary or a mission field. God makes disciples through disciple makers who influence others for Christ. We're going to look at three things. The teaching and his structure structuring around the three other pictures that he gives here. Again, he's talked about The soldier, the athlete, and the farmer. And then he's had a little uh talked about some things. And now he's coming to a fourth picture. And verses 14 to 19. 14 through 19. Look at verse 15 here. Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a workman who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth. The disciple maker is an approved worker or an approved craftsman. The word for rightly handling is the word for cutting straight. It's an interesting word. Jesus was a carpenter and he worked with wood. Paul, a tint maker, worked with animal skins. Whether you're working with wood or working with animal skins, if you want to make quality stuff, you gotta cut it straight. Amen? You gotta cut it straight. Essential tools. Essential skills, rather. This points to the discipline and the skill that's needed by disciple-making people. Who are encouraged, in fact commanded, to rightly handle the word of truth. The word of truth. Skillfully, carefully, patiently doing the job. The idea of approval carries the notion of an inspector or supervisor who comes to evaluate the quality of the craftsman's work. We ultimately want the approval of God, not just others, right? We want to hear on that day, well done, good and faithful servant. And this is said in contrast to those who would argue over words, or the false teachers of the scriptures who distort it, handle it inaccurately, and are not approved by God. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. John 17, he said, sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth in his prayer to the Father Beware of those who would say that Jesus is the truth, but I can't find the truth in all the Word of God. So, they might argue. Since Jesus is the truth, I will only follow the things that are in red. Now, some of you don't have physical Bibles, but in old Bibles, the words of Jesus were in red. Okay? Do we do that on the online Bibles? Usually don't. But that was the old that was the idea. Since we really since Jesus is the truth, we'll just look at the red stuff. And the other stuff is kind of secondary truth. We don't want to worry about the words of David and Moses and Peter and especially Paul, they would say No, the Bible is is more than that. The Bible is a record of events and wide words of men. And then we have Jesus that gives us some authority. That's wrong. No. The Bible is God's perfect word. Jesus Christ and God his Father have anointed writers to give us the truth. There are personalities there, yes. But what we have is the truth. Psalm 19, 7. The law of the Lord is perfect. You know what he said? In 1 Peter 1, the grass withers, the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. God has given us the scriptures And we're to rightly divide, rightly handle this word that he's given us. We're having the the pizza with the professors after worship today. One of the purposes of our of this of Metro Baltimore Seminary is not just to prepare pastors, it's to prepare Christians to be to go deeper in God's word. So if you're interested in just thinking about Should you uh come to the pizza and the pastor thing? Think about it. Even if you're not thinking that you're called to be a church leader If you want to grow in your faith, we have the our first year is basically what we call uh uh just a bottle where you get stronger in your faith. And then the second and third year, build upon that for those who want to go deeper in ministry. But I give that kind of commercial right there. The actual dictation here is to keep the teaching that leads to godliness as the goal. Look at verse 16 and 17. Avoid an irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness, you see. Their talk will spread like gangrene What is godliness? It's being like God. Being good, righteous, holy, and living, loving. The word is used 16 times in the New Testament, 11 times in 1 and 2 Timothy. Interestingly, that's on Paul's mind as he's coming to the end. That leaders would be godly. Words matter. Back in verse 14, remind them of these things, charge them before God, not to quarrel about words. Okay? Words. Here in 2023, that might be the most difficult thing in our passage. Words. We argue about words. What is an evangelical? What does it mean to be woke? What does it mean to be racist? What does it mean to be a woman or a man? What is reproductive health care What is a mother? Isn't it just a birthing person? Words You get the point, don't you? It's tough nowadays to have any productive conversation without first saying, well, what are we talking about? Let's refine our terms before we get to arguing. Keeping a civil tone sometimes is not easy. We need to listen before reacting. Words matter. And for leaders, words in a pulpit or in a Bible study, words matter. She says here about these two gentlemen, Hymenaeus and Philetus, their words will spread like gangrene. Homer Kent commentator says gangrene is a disease in which bacteria enters a wound or injury and destroys the flesh. So if false teachers are allowed to enter, their corrupting doctrine will spread from that opening, find pasturage among the unspiritual and unsuspecting in the congregation. The contamination which had infected the teachers would spread to others. That's why Paul is warning here. Hamenaeus they have swerved from the truth. They've said that the resurrection has already happened. Now, Hymeneus is mentioned in 1 Timothy 1, verse 20, back earlier. It may be that there was an issue with this man Hermioneus, and maybe he repented, we don't know. But now he's got another partner in his madness. Okay? A different man So here we are again with Hymenaeus and now Phileas. They've strayed from the truth, they've swerved from the truth. And they're upsetting the faith of some. Re alert to how doctrine affects people. The two heretics that are mentioned there had discouraged the flock with their false teaching about the resurrection. Now think about this. Doesn't Ephesians say that we were dead in our sins, trespasses and sins, and yet God raised us from the dead spiritually to be seated with Jesus Christ? The Bible says that. Ephesians 2, 1 to 4. And we believe that. But we believe also that this spiritual resurrection of salvation is not the only resurrection that there is in the Bible. When we die, Jesus will take us to be where he is. Jesus was resurrected and we will be resurrected. Our bodies. There is not just a spiritual resurrection. There is a physical resurrection. And apparently these heretics, these guys were denying the physical resurrection. This was probably an early form of the Gnostic heresy. Gnosticism states that the body is not important. All that God cares about is the Spirit. So folk in Ephesus were rightly upset because these false teachers were rejecting the idea of bodily resurrection. Now now again, so Paul is is is warning is encouraging Timothy to take these doctrines seriously. These core doctrines, the resurrection, don't let people just minimize them and spiritualize them. These things really happen. Now you might hear some people say, I don't care about doctrine. Doctrine divides. I just care about following Jesus. Sounds good, doesn't it? Here's a question. Which Jesus? When you ask yourself which Jesus, you have to understand that that there is there are doctrinal implications to which Jesus You're gonna follow. Jesus who's just a good teacher. Jesus who just one day did some miracles, supposedly. Or Jesus, who is the Savior, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, who will come again to judge the quick and the dead. Which Jesus Darynot church, sally in the church, many who will look at the scriptures and deny The historical, physical, literal accuracy of many of the incredible events that we see recorded in Scripture. It's very dangerous. These skeptics often have an anti-supernatural bias as they look at the scriptures. Reject the virgin birth. Oh, it couldn't happen. You know, things like that. They reject the idea that Jesus really did miracles. They deny the idea that he is alive in heaven even today. They reject the idea that Jesus is coming again for his church. We'll return to judge all humanity. Basically, they have this anti-supernatural bias, these assumptions. They don't trust scripture. Beware of teachers like that. They had no sense that some things in Scripture were more central to the gospel and other things that believers can disagree on and still enjoy fellowship together. They mangered on the minors probably. They looked at cer maybe a certain script a few scriptures and just pulled them out out of proportion Godly leaders, godly disciple makers don't do that. They understand that which is core essential and that which is secondary and which we can even disagree on Verse 19, the text continues, God's firm foundation stands bearing this seal. The Lord knows those who are his. Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart. from iniquity. He describes God's church as a firm foundation, as a two-sided seal. He makes allusions to Numbers chapter 16, where the sons of Korah rebelled against Moses against God. There's a two-sided field. The divine side is this. The Lord knows that are his. Then there's a human side. That everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity. There's this there's that classic tension, the classic tension of scripture. God knows his own We're called to pursue godliess. God's activity, our activity. Both of these are true. Both are characteristics of those who are truly elect. One of my favorite passages about the pre-essination election and being chosen is in the book of Romans, chapter 9 and 11. Paul gives detailed argumentation for those two doctrines. For the doctrine of election. In chapter 9 and chapter 11. If you have time, read those chapters. But what's more important, probably as important, I shouldn't say more important, as important is what's in chapter 10. Which tells us whether we don't know who the elect are. And so we're called. Chapter 10 is about missions, about calling on the name of the Lord that we might be saved. It's sam it's it's this that that passage is sandwiched by election. But that passage is there. And I love the way Paul Apostle Paul did that in those three chapters. So we have that tension here in this passage as well. In our 21st century, there's two theological dangers that I want you want us to be alert to. One is a progressive gospel. This is a false gospel that really minimizes all of Scripture. It twists things. It's a progressive gospel that has that looks more at the culture than at the scripture. And then the second distortion of our day is what I would call a prosperity gospel. Not my title. Oh, it's the prosperity gospel. This minimizes the soul and just looks at the body and talks that godliness is having stuff, having more stuff, prospering, is a sign that you're right with God. Be alert to those two movements, the progressive gospel and the prosperity gospel. We are to contend for the faith, Jude tells us, the book of Jude. We're not to quarrel for the faith. We're not to quarrel about words. In the end, God's people are to trust the all-knowing great shepherd. of the flock. We're cut it straight. Stay in the word. Remember that theological error has practical and eternal eternal impact on people. Second, we're vessels. Verses 20 to 22. This gets at the heart. The heart. We're vessels. In the homes of people with means, there were various kinds of vessels. Gold, silver, wood, and clay. He says, in a great house, people with means is what he's talking about. Gold and silver vessels were for eating special meals, right? Common vessels such as wood and clay were for all kinds of other usages, common usages. They were inexpensive and even disposable. They were used for hauling garbage, even waste, before they were discarded. Maybe you're familiar with a Christian contemporary band called Jars of Clay. The name comes straight from 2 Corinthians chapter 4, where Paul says, we have this treasure, the gospel, in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. This gospel is in jars of clay. We are vessels, he's saying. Look, God does miracles. God does many things directly, but God does more things through people. Through people. A high percentage of what God does in the world, He does through people. Now, that there's a big problem in one sense for us. God solves it, of course, but God's people are all recovering sinners, aren't we? We're recovering sinners The Lord wants godly leaders who can help them recover as they recover. So leaders must must pay careful attention to their own hearts, guarding their own heart. Guarding their own lives carefully, taking heed to God's process of sanctification in their own lives as they help other sinners recover. A clean vessel. Just just this morning, actually, I was uh doing something I do all the time. I walked past our China cabin. We have a China cabinet. And many people have China cabinets, and I have to confess, I walk by it all the time and never look in it to see what's in there, because it's just my channel, it's a China cabinet. We don't use that stuff I looked in there and there's a picture of our wedding. That was over 40 years ago. There was a mug. There was a nice glass butter dish. We have other butter dishes. We never use that one. There are mugs. We never we have so many mugs. We don't use those mugs. They're just there. I walk by them every day. You know, in in your home, maybe like you you have good stuff in a China in a Chinese habit. Maybe you use it occasionally. You have the stuff you use every day. Even have some plastic wear or paper plates. Different things for different occasions. Paul is suggesting here that it's not how fancy the vessel is, it's how clean the vessel is. You wouldn't want to eat on a dirty plate, would you? If you had a choice. If it's all you had, you'd do it, right? But if you have a choice, you want to eat on a clean plate, right? It's not how skilled you are, how smart you are, how rich you are. God is not limited by these external things When he seeks an instrument to use for his kingdom. What God is looking for is holy people. People who want to live for Jesus. People who are committed to pursuing godliness. People who are eager to follow the word of God, who are quick to repent when they don't follow the word of God, that's what God's looking for. That's what God is looking for. Look at verse 21. Therefore, if anyone cleanseth himself from what is dishonorable, he'll be a vessel of honorable use. Cleanses himself. John Stott says this. What we are to avoid is not so much contact with such men as their error and their evil. To purify ourselves from these is essentially to purge their falsehood from our minds and their wickedness from our hearts and lives. Purity, then, purity of doctrine, purity of life, is the essential condition of being serviceable to Christ. So Paul is reminding Timothy that what matters is that you're a vessel fit for honorable use. Set apart as holy, useful to the master. Now in verse 22, Paul describes what it means to be clean. What does it mean to be clean? Look at it. Flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace, along with those who call on the Lord with a pure heart. Interesting. Interesting. Flea is an interesting word. In the Greek it's the word flego. We get the word fugitive from that word. Flea, fugitive. Think that visions of Harrison Ford in a movie there comes to my mind as I as I say that. Fugo, fugo fugitive. But uh flea, run But it again reminds me, think of Joseph in in in the book of Genesis, fleeing from part of our life in that temptation. But he doesn't just say flee. He says you don't just flee these things, but you pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace. You're not just running from something, you're running towards something. And you're running along with, he says, along with others who call on the Lord from a pure heart. It speaks of mutuality, of accountability. There's important contrast here, you see. Keep on fleeing, keep on running, keep on pursuing. And this highlights the importance of genuine fellowship and accountability. Small groups in the church should not be only for Bible study or for prayer support or for fellowship gatherings for food or fun or places where unbelievers can see believers doing life together. It should not shouldn't be just be for all those things individually. It should be for all those things together. It's the folks you're doing, church, you're doing life with. Along with camaraderie. Camaraderie. A picture of a of a marathon race. You've seen a marathon race. Usually when it's if it's a major marathon, when it starts. Gobs and gobs of people are at the starting line, right? You ever notice that? They're just gonna go, well gosh, how do you get lost? You get lost in there, would you? Then as as miles go on, they begin to scatter. There's more separation. And after the what the 26, 28th miles? I can't remember. 26, 28. The winner usually by himself. Interesting. I was thinking about the Christian life. You know, the Christian life is not to be lived by yourself. We need each other. We need others alongside us as we run this race. But normally the Christian life it ends, we're alone. It's just us. God calls her name and time's up. But meantime on this earth We're to pursue God along with others who calling, who desire righteousness, faith, love, and peace. And so they're calling on the Lord for his help, for his grace, for his strength to live this life. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. David in the Psalm said, create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. We to be committed to being holy vessels that God can use us. So carefully, prayerfully, watch your life. Repent. Trust His grace. Be filled with his spirit. You need him. It's the vine and the branches, as we heard in the scripture. Any church that desires to be effective must have leaders. who are repentant and actively seeking holiness. Well this the last picture again the picture's in this chapter he's talked about a soldier, an athlete, a farmer, a craftsman. of Thessal. The sixth picture is simply the servant, the Lord's servant. Read verses 23 and 24. It says, have nothing to do with foolish ignorant controversies. You know that they read quarrels. And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome, but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil. correcting his opponents with gentleness. I agree with many commentators that as Paul writes to Timothy, this term servant is a technical term for minister. Minister, in the Greek, there's a common root there. But again, it has specific implication for those who are who are not professional ministers, but are just ministers in the body Because as I said, all of us who know Christ are missionaries. As servants of God, we should be kind rather than quarrelsome. In verse 14 and 15, the quarreling over words was set in the context of doctrine and theological precision. And now here in verse 24, as you look at the context The focus is on our relationships, particularly as we're as we're doing personal ministry with people, encouraging someone who's wrong. Be trying to win them back to the truth. A leader must have good relational skills. He doesn't just have to know the Bible. He's got to understand how to deal with how to work with people. The disciple maker, as a representative of the Lord, must patiently correct those who are wrong. They should not be eager to get into a fight with people. When there's disagreement, their first instinct must be to understand and hear and listen, to find common ground, if possible, and to kindly, gently seek to teach that which is correct. Servant, a servant of peace, a reconciler, the Lord's servant. Verses 25 and 26. Correcting his opponents with gentleness, God may perhaps grant them repentance, leading to a knowledge of the truth. And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him to do his. Will. Verse 25, Charles Erdmann says this. It's significant that Paul does not say that the men who oppose the truth are merely to be answered or to be convinced. They're to be brought to repentance. Paul indicates, as in Christ, that there's a moral element in faith and unbelief. When the gospel has been clearly presented, when its message has been clearly presented, then to turn from divine love and holiness and light is to convict oneself of having something evil in the heart. or in the life. See, m ministry is about not just getting c convincing people of the truth. It goes beyond that. It's about convicting people of sin. The scriptures do that. And so he says here, uh calling them to repentance. Again. Ministry is not just about renewing the mind. It's repentance of the heart. This is what this is what the the leader understands that. And so Paul's driving that home. Usually leaders who have a great fall in their lives have a streak of eye disease. Eye disease. And I don't mean this kind of eye. I mean that kind of eye. They're stuck on themselves. They want attention. They want to be served. Jesus didn't come just to be served, but to serve. And he was Lord. I will never forget years and years ago, some of you probably weren't born yet, in the late 70s, one Saturday night, hearing the initial news about a cult in Guyana. about a dude named Jim Jones. Some of you are old enough, you remember you know where I'm going with this. I mean, the in the incredible story of that that came through that Saturday night of rumors that almost a thousand people had ritual suicide because of what this guy told them to do. Some we know tried to run and were shot. Jim Jones, he started out okay, seemingly okay in Indiana. Then he was exposed. So he said, I gotta get out of here. He ran to California, Oakland, another ministry. Things got hot there. He was exposed. He said, let's go to South America. Went to South America, Guyana. Almost a thousand people drank the Kool-Aid that day, killing themselves. To go to paradise because of what this one man, this crazy religious leader, asked them to do. That's not just a problem of of his of his theology or his politics. That was something going on in the inside. His heart wasn't right. He was not serving the Lord. He was committed to being served by others. Very sad story. Tragic story. On my wall, above my desk, there's a plaque. From my parents who are now deceased. And I read it occasionally. It's not like my China cabin. I do actually read this. I do look at this occasionally. It has my name, my full name, the date of my ordination, March 3rd, 1991, and it says, these simple words, son. To God be the glory. Humbly trust God and serve mankind. Love mother and dad. That's all it says. And I look I read that occasionally and say, okay. They got it right. That's what it's about. And that's what I strive to do in a simple way. to not be popular or all that. Just to answer the call that God's given me to love his people, serve his people, and and and find more people for the kingdom. It's great a great hymn I learned in Varsity. Unfortunately, it's not a very popular hymn. I'm going to read the words to you. Empty, he came as a man to our race, equal with God. Yet forsaking his place. Humbly he served in our world. Humbly he served in our world. Lowlier still. He was willing to die, nailed to a cross while the people passed by. Bravely, he died in our world. Bravely, he died in our world. Raised by our God for all men to revere, given a name that shall stand without peer, honored as Lord in our world, honored as Lord in our world. Then there's a fourth verse. Give us that mind that refuses to claim even our rights. Make our outlook the same. humbly to serve in our world. Humbly to serve in our world. Well the last verse the last verse, they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him to do his will. Tony Evans says, what we need to understand is that what happens to people, including you and me, has in it something larger. Spiritual warfare is that conflict being waged in the invisible spiritual realm that's being manifest in the invisible physical realm. That's what Paul's getting at here. This spiritual warfare going on as in these interactions with someone who's refusing the truth as you as you gently, lovingly, prayerfully try to persuade that they may come to their senses. Opposition in the area of false teaching is primary the primary way the evil one destroys the church This means we must not only teach, but pray for the Lord to bring repentance to the hearts of those who are opponents to the gospel. We influence others. By love, kindness, compassion, sensitivity. And these relationship skills are vital if you want people to be to hear you. Fulfilling the Great Commission is not just about truth. It's about relationships. So Paul says to Timothy, and to all leaders, love the flock of God. Love them enough to listen to them carefully, to teach them, to correct them, to pray for them, that they might live correctly and think correctly. Well, Alistair Begg summarizes this whole text this way. To make disciples, we must be careful to maintain clear teachings, clear teachings. Maintain a clean heart, a clean heart, and maintain courteous relationships. Teachings, heart, relationships. Jesus had a world-conquering mission. A world-conquering mission. And he had a strategy that goes on and on and on to make disciples, to tell others, who will tell others, who will tell others. Are you a disciple? Are you following Jesus? Have you repented of your sins and said, Lord, I want to follow you. Thank you that you died on the cross for me. I couldn't do it myself. Couldn't take care of my sin problems myself. You did it. I trust you. Are you a disciple of Christ? Seeking to walk in repentance with him. Are you committed to making others disciples of Christ? Following the affirming the Great Commission in your life, God makes disciples through disciple makers who influence others for Christ. Jesus, of course, is the perfect workman, the perfect craftsman. He's the inspector in one sense who approves the other workmen. Jesus, of course, was a perfect vessel, wasn't he? Who would convict him of sin? Of course, he is the Lord's servant. Isaiah called him the suffering servant In seventh grade, I believe it or not, I could run real fast. I can't tell, but I ran track in seven I meet the track team Now, making a track team was was was important, but don't d you know, I wasn't a star. In fact, I d I d I you know I I I'd ran in the in the fat the quick race into sprints, but I was second straight I didn't I hardly ever ran. But what I did do, what I was allowed to do, was to be be the third leg in the in the relay that goes around, you know, relay goes around year four. You know what a relay race is. I you know, the fast guy is fourth. The second fastest guy is second. What can I say? But the co the the track coach always told us that there's two important points, two two very important places in the race with the it's won or lost. The first is the starting blocks. You know they have these blocks you've got to push off real fast. And um, particularly in the sprint races, that's really important. You have the starting blocks. You've got to get off to a good start. But the second is the passing of the baton. And you have to practice. Now again, I wasn't the first. I didn't have to worry about the starting blocks. He was never going to pick me to be a starter. But so I have to practice, you know, this passing of the baton. If you if you've ever watched um racist, you know, the guy who's receiving the baton has to slow down, but he has to run, but not run as fast as he can. Because the guy who's giving the baton to him has to pass it to him and and the key is Do it in such a way that it doesn't drop. If it drops, you're toast. You're not gonna win if you gotta go you gotta stop and pick up the baton So the coach just rammed home to us, make sure, you don't want to come to a stop, but make sure there's a smooth transfer of the baton That's what Paul's trying to say to Timothy here in this book, in this chapter. He's saying, the things that I've passed on to you, pass them on. Pass them on well. To fat people who won't drop it. Faithful, available, teachable people. And then in the fourth chapter, he's going to say this. I have fought the good fight fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. You, disciple maker, you influencer of many, of one. You have a baton. You have a baton. You have this treasure, this gospel that Christ has given you. To whom are you handing it? Are you doing it carefully, intentionally, prayerfully? That's the call today. That's the charge today. Let's pray. Well, thank you for this portion of your word, how it still speaks to us as we want to follow you. We want to follow Jesus Christ in our day. I would pray for anyone who is who doesn't have a baton, because they're not a disciple yet, that you would bring home to their hearts the simplicity of the gospel, that we come to you with all we are. And hand it to you because really what we have is nothing without you. And then we say, Lord, take my life. Use my life. And then we then we influence others. Help us to do that. Help us to see Those around us who we can pass on your truth and your love to. But use this word here at Columbia as we seek to be faithful to you in Jesus' name. Amen.