Turn with me to the Gospel of Luke chapter eight. This morning, as uh Elder Wayne Coke had uh mentioned, I'm going to be preaching from the parable of the sower, which begins with verse four. Luke chapter 8. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your word, for the Bible. Lord, we thank you that your scriptures are true. And Lord, that they are accessible to us in whatever language they can be translated into, and that you are pleased to reveal yourself to us through them and in them. Lord, we thank you that every word of them is inspired and inerrant and utterly reliable in a world full of spin and propaganda. Lord, you have spoken And we have peace. Almighty God, as we come to your word this morning Lord, help us to rightly value the hearing of your word as it is read and bless it to us. Father, the preaching that follows the reading of your word. Lord, in as much as it is faithful to what you have said in the scriptures, Lord, make it also useful and a blessing to us. Out of your great mercy, Lord, we lift these prayers up with confidence in the name of Jesus. Amen. Luke chapter 8, beginning with verse 3, the Word of God. And when a great crowd was gathering, and people from town after town came to him. He said in a parable, A sower went out to sow his seed, and as he sowed, some fell along the path and was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it And some fell on the rock, and as it grew up, it withered away, because it had no moisture. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it. And some fell into good soil and grew and yielded a hundredfold. As he said these things, he called out, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And when his disciples asked him what this parable meant, he said, To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God. But for others they are in parable, so that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. Now the parable is this The seed is the Word of God. The ones along the path are those who have heard. Then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved. And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy. But these have no root. They believe for a while, and in time of testing fall away. And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature. As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bear fruit with patience. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, this is a parable that occurs in all three of what we call the synoptic gospels. Those are the gospels that are kind of with the same view. Sin, S Y N, Optic like optics. Uh Matthew, Mark, and Luke are very similar. And for those of you who have spent time reading them over the years, you've noticed that a lot of them overlap in a lot of different ways. John, the fourth gospel That's a different one. So we talk about the three gospels and then the one gospel, and together they give us this beautiful testimony, a unified picture of an amazing Jesus. But as we look at the Gospel of Luke and this representation of the parable of the sower, in some respects it's unique when it's compared to the other two versions of it, and it's almost certainly reflecting the same moment. And we're not at all surprised if we discover in heaven that he preached this parable on many occasions. I've been here for almost I've been here for a year and a half now. And How many of my sermon illustrations have I reused? How many times have you heard about lacrosse? And ground balls. And growing up. And eyesight. That's right. You know, there's a sense in which uh preachers like Jesus are wont to use similar statements again and again. For example Let him who has ears to hear hear. Now, how many people in the Bible do you think say that? One. How many times does Jesus say that? A lot. And if you were to think of a catchphrase, great radio preachers have their catchphrases. A frontrunner for Jesus' catchphrase would be: let him who has ears to hear, hear. And it's based upon some ideas that we find in Isaiah and in rabbinic literature, but it's never put the way he does. You see, when Jesus says it, and we're going to get to this in a moment, it is an invitation. To not simply hear, but to listen. We have different words for hear and listen. For example, I can hear someone talk And can tell you, well, I I heard, I say this to my shame, I heard my wife talking Don't know what she said. I wasn't listening. And guys don't try to pretend I'm alone in that. And women, it is entirely possible that you hear your husband's talking, but it's like the Charlie Brown adults. And you didn't listen. You don't know You see, they didn't have two different vocabulary words for that in Aramaic. And there's a sense in which Jesus is saying to him who has ears to hear, listen. Pay attention. Understand. With a good or sincere and noble heart, receive Luke's version of the parable of sower is by far the shortest, and he focuses us very tightly. When he gives the interpretation, he doesn't talk about who the sower is at all. He simply says the seed is the word of God. And the soils represent those who, hearing , responded in particular ways because of particular circumstances. But notice that in every case, each soil type herd Look at what he says, beginning in verse twelve. The ones along the path are those who have heard. Verse 13, and the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear. And moving down, 14, as for the what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear. Verse 15, the good soil, they are those who hearing the word. See, in a sense, all of us hear the word, at least all of us who have been here. We've heard the gospel declaration that Jesus Christ is the Son of God from all eternity who came and lived a perfect life in our place, taking on our humanity completely and fully, that he who did not need to, nor did he deserve to die, could die in our place to pay the penalty for our sins. so that we who believing on him, repenting of our sins, might have life and be forgiven, reconciled with God, assured of heaven. That's a simple statement of the gospel. And if by chance you had never heard it before, you've heard it now. But did you listen? Why did Jesus speak in parables? We might wonder at a couple things about the ministry of Christ We might remember why he had this messy and a secret, why from time to time he told people, don't tell people what has happened. Don't tell people that you were healed. Don't tell people. And Jesus Orchestrated divinely the rolling out of the nature of his ministry before the eyes of the watching world during that three-year period in ways that are very mysterious to me. He was sovereign, he was in control. But why did he speak in parables? That even those who gathered, and remember, even when we looked at the Sermon on the Plain in Luke chapter 5, people came to hear him. Why did he then speak in parables that require understanding, interpretation? When Jesus says, to you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God, but for others they are in parable, so that Seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. That's a reference to a passage from Isaiah. I'm going to find that verse right now and read it for us. It is in Isaiah. Usually I have sticky notes in here, but I was so worried about pronouncing a certain name. Well, here we are. Isaiah Chapter six, verse nine. Ah, yes. Isaiah says, And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then I said Isaiah speaking, here I am, send me. And he said, Go and say to this people, keep on hearing, but do not understand, keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Now, isn't that something? How would you like to be given a job where the person who gives you the job says, you go tell these people, keep on being exposed to the truth, but being Profoundly unreachable by its certainty and clarity. Keep on being dumb. What a job. And Isaiah wasn't the only one to get a calling like this. Ezekiel, one of my Favorite prophets from the old testament. He got a calling on his thirtieth birthday on the banks of the Kabar, a canal in Babylon, where he sat and he wept on a day he should have and would have been having his first experience serving in the temple. And he's told he's going to have a ministry and be utterly rejected, and that nothing will come of it. The people wouldn't pay attention. He told that right out of the gate. You ever had a job like that? It's amazing to me that in times of the judgment of God upon his people, he gave them prophets who came. Knowing that the people would not understand. And the message of Isaiah indeed was during a season of his ministry: keep on hearing, but don't listen. Jesus speaks in parables, but notice what he says. You see Jesus did not come to bring judgment. He came to bring mercy. And he comes, and he fulfills the deepest desire and need of those who are hearing but not understanding. And he says For those of you who have ears to hear, listen , understand. And I'm speaking in parables in fulfillment of this great prophetic instruction of God to speak in a way that requires a deep reflection. What some theologians today call spiritual imagination. Where you internally have to connect some of the dots and draw the lines. But the difference between Jesus and Isaiah is Isaiah is coming to speak of God's judgment on the nation and of their upcoming captivity, the certainty of it And Jesus has come to speak of the complete and final redemption that He Himself brings. And so while Isaiah says Hear, but don't understand. Jesus is saying hear and understand And think about this. And here in the Gospel of Luke, it's very clear that Jesus gives the interpretation at that very spot. Today and next week, and the week after, and I know I'm not breaking away to do a special Father's Day or special end of summer sermon. I'm going to be preaching on the next two passages of Luke next week in the following. All of these occur at the very same venue, the same event, the same towns and towns, crowds and crowds have gathered. Jesus is saying this perhaps in front of the largest crowd he's had to date. The words describing it, multiple towns, many crowds, bigger than the Sermon on the Mount or on the plain. And here he's coming right down to it. And in front of everybody, when the disciples who are probably in the front row say, What are you meaning? What is this about? He tells them. He tells them this is about how we respond to the word of God. And how do we? There's four types of hearing. And this parable would have invited the crowds and crowds, the towns and towns of people that came to hear Jesus. It would have invited them to consider what kind of a listener They were. And I hope that this morning this invites you and me to consider what kind of a listener are we. Consider the first type. Now, the parable is this: the seed is the word of God. The ones along the path are those who have heard. Then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved. Now, it's interesting. Two things are interesting to me about this parable. Jesus was intimately familiar with the rhythms of agricultural life. Everyone was. It was an agrarian society. And the way they did farming was a little bit different. They didn't have seed drills and plows and discers and all kinds of other things. They The typical way they did it, and I actually read an academic paper on this to prepare for the sermon. If you wonder what your pastor does, he really likes to geek out in the office. There were two different ways of doing it, depending on the specific location within the Jordan River Valley, and the article offered no explanation for why one was used and the other wasn't. Some farmers in that day would have their acreage, or it wouldn't even be an acreage, it would be usually less than an acre, and they'd walk it and they'd scatter seed and then they'd plow it. Others would plow it and then scatter seed. But either way, the scattering of seed happened by hand. They didn't have seed casters or seed drills or anything of the sort. And then, depending on where it landed, it was or was not immediately available for birds to eat. When I was a boy we had a garden plot over in a farm that has now been developed into some part of uh the Athleton Village Center. They used to rent out little like ten yard square acres to families and my dad was a farm boy from Minnesota We had a garden plot. We learned a lot. I learned that you don't throw rocks at cars. Very sobering day in the life of a nine-year-old Bobby Bjerkes. The car was not my parents. I also learned the importance of watering and weeding and planting. And I learned the importance of not planting watermelons because they get stolen. When Jesus tells this parable, he starts with the seed that doesn't ever even germinate but gets eaten. Then he talks about the seed. that sprouts and dies because it has no root. Then he talks about the seed that grows up but can't quite mature because it's being choked And then he talks about the seed that experiences the entire life cycle of the plant. And he does it in ways that would have made perfect sense to someone who is familiar with all of the fields around them. The farmer scatters the field, the thorns are a reality, the places where there's rocks and the roots can't go down and the moisture can't be obtained by the plant and so it parches and dies. All of these things would have been Everyone knew that. Everyone knew everything he was talking about. And every day of their life they'd be walking along, seeing plants in some various state of exactly what Jesus had described. And every day of their life they would have been reminded, that's kind of like what Jesus was saying. Would that we, every time we saw a plant thought back to this parable and were given that Holy Spirit pause to think, how do I listen? You see, the hardened listener is the one who's like on that hard-packed dirt where that seed drops and it doesn't sink an inch into the soil. No amount of rain is gonna let that seed get underground. It is prime for the picking, the plucking, the robbing, the taking, the eating. And we are told here that then the devil comes and takes away that word. From their hearts. It can't get into their heart. That they may not believe and be saved. A very sobering picture of people who are so calloused against reality that it's as if their soul is shielded by Teflon and is utterly resistant. To the Word of God saying, you are a sinner who desperately need forgiveness. You are a human who need divine help to please the Lord. You are irreconciled with your Maker, and you need peace. Some of us have so hardened our hearts in believing on the dignity and sovereignty of man, our ability to be a God unto ourselves. our idea to kind of existentially determine for ourselves what's right and wrong, our idea to reinvent ourselves without any respect for the God of nature and grace. We're hardened. And we live in a culture that is hardened. And kids, you're growing up in a world that is hardened against the reality of this bigger spiritual truth that shapes stars and galaxies and mountains and oceans and people God has spoken. May your heart be soft. May you receive the word and hear and listen. But the second type of soil The second type of hearer is what I would call, based on this parabolic description, the shallow listener. And I want you to notice when Luke gives this parable, there's a lot of emphasis on prepositions. He very specifically uses a different preposition for each type of soil, each type of listener. The hardened word, the hardened listener, we read that the word falls along the path. The shallow listener, the word falls on the soil. The divided listener, the word falls amid the other seeds that fall. The sincere listener has the word fall into And I want you to think for a moment about how these different prepositions give us a different sense of how the word, when it's spoken, relates to you. Does it just fall alongside you because you're so hardened that it can find no purchase and kind of bounces? Or does it fall on you and then kind of rests there right on the surface, but you're so shallow That you have no roots, you don't grow in it, you don't progress, so you receive it. And notice this is very sobering. The one on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy. But they have no root. They believe for a while and in time of testing fall away. These are people who hear the word and say, that's awesome, Pastor. I want to give my life to Christ. I want to receive, accept, and rest on Him alone for salvation today. But there's no root. There's no vital supply of the spiritual moisture necessary to provide growth. And so in time of testing, they fall away. Something bad happens. Trouble comes by. And all of a sudden their faith can't sustain them. And they repudiate their profession And choose to listen to other words, other voices. Difficult times challenge faith But we pray for and labor for a faith that will overcome even times that are difficult. The shallow listener hears and only accepts the fact that if I can quote from Revelation chapter 1, we are co-inheritors of a kingdom. and a fellowship. But notice how in that last great book of the covenant We are told by the Apostle John, the beloved of the Lord Jesus, that we are fellowship partners In the kingdom and the suffering and the patient endurance that are ours in Christ. If you think that Jesus has just come to give you an abundant life and everything you ever wanted, And then you discover that health, wealth, and prosperity are not yours for the having, and that maybe God has ordained that you live in a difficult season of history And suddenly it's not acceptable anymore. Because ultimately what you wanted was the health, wealth, and prosperity, not the relationship to the maker of heaven and earth. The divided listener, we find described in this verse. As for what fell among the thorns, fell among other types of plant varieties They are those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature. I'll think about the hearer who listens and, like the others, receives, makes profession, if you will. And is growing up, but that seed is alongside other types of plants. And they have decided to take a sort of pot puri, sort of a smorgasbord approach to their spiritual life, and say, well, I like what Jesus said, but you know what? I I also like what this guy said and that person said and this individual said and what that religion teaches. I also like, you know, secular humanistic materialism is a lot of fun. Can I get an amen? But it's a short lived sacharin fun that does no good to the body But you know, when we are divided and our loyalties about ultimate truth and direction for life are divided into 15 different compartments, one of which is Jesus and his words. We're a divided listener. And how often is it not the case that spiritual fruit gets completely choked out because these other things have grown up and they're not the beautiful wheat stalk? or the corn stalks, as they called them back then, even though it was not anything like modern corn. The plants that took out that good stuff, nothing like them. They have thorns. They give no sustenance. They provide no shade. If they're burned in a fire, they crackle without providing heat. Useless. There are hardened listeners. They're shallow listeners. They're divided listeners. And then Jesus describes what we may call the sincere listener. As for that in the good soil, they are those who hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart. And bear fruit with patience. That word patience can be translated endurance or perseverance. And it doesn't mean that they bear fruit suddenly, or all at once, or quickly. It doesn't mean that you bear fruit without dealing with the temptations of competing plants and ill-becoming seeds that sometimes nestle into the hearts of Christians. It doesn't mean that your taproot is as deep as it could be or should be or ought to be. It doesn't mean that you are never parched. But it does mean that that word has been hidden in your heart sufficiently that the devil may not pluck it away. And it has been received such that you do believe and you will be saved. And you will overcome the thorns. You will overcome the drought When the difficulties of your life come along, you will struggle and you may even fall. You may need to be restored, but your faith will wavering never disappear. This is not a picture of Christian triumphalism that says the true Christian never struggles. I learned that in a garden plot long ago. My parents were trying to engage us in life lessons And they offered us 10 cents per pound of whatever produce we grew, and we each got, out of that 10 yard square thing, or however big it was, we each got 10 square feet My older brother grew watermelon. They all got stolen. The devil came along and stole them right off of the hardened path. My youngest brother grew okra and peanuts. None of that got stolen, and none of it was edible. My mom had no idea what to do with either. And boy did we try, much to the chagrin of the Birkis boys. I, on the other hand, if I may say so, have always been smarter than my brothers. I chose to grow things that I knew mom liked to make that weighed a lot. I went with Squash in Zucchini. And listen, I was like an eight-year-old boy. I was buying lots of G. I. Joe dolls and bicycles when I was a little kid. Harvest was a payday for me. But there were lots of infestations of what were called at the time potato bugs. Japanese beetles. There were a lot of droughts where I had to go there and carry a gallon jugs of water from the water tank all the way, have to walk about a hundred yards to put it on my zucchini. That's a kinny was not able to grow without tending and caring and weeding, weeding every Saturday morning. I learned a lot there. I've also learned a lot in life You are a Christian plant who have heard and you have received with joy and you have had experiences of growth. You need watering. Make it your business to be in church on Sunday morning. Make it your business to be in a community group. Find a group of men or women to gather with you and water your life with their testimony, their encouragement, the accountability that they offer. You need weeding. Things are gonna land in your life and take root in your flesh and grow up. The desires of this world are gonna attack you. You are gonna struggle, guys, with everything from pornography. To marijuana. Girls, you were going to struggle with everything from pornography to marijuana. And those things are going to take root from time to time. And you are going to need by the grace of God to have a good and thorough weeding. That too is part of being a Christian. And that too is being a part of the church that exercises care and discipline for your soul. When we come and we help you pluck out those weeds. And fight those fights and experience the triumph of grace and the victory of faith. Sometime you'll need to be exhorted to with sincere and noble heart take hold and cling fast to the hope offered in the blood of Jesus in the empty tomb. And you're going to have to be reminded to wrap your fingers tight around the cross because this world is trying to pry you away from Jesus, the Lamb of God, who takes away his people's sins. You're going to have to be reminded to be patient in bearing fruit. You know, I've pastored three different churches And if you were to take a human perspective, and I gotta tell you honestly, I've been here a year and a half, I'm shocked you hired me. Stunned. By human standards, my ministries were not successful. They weren't And I've learned to patiently labor to try to bear fruit, with the deep hopes that God would bless in his time, not mine. I have learned as a parent that in trying to cultivate their lives so that they can receive and grow in the gospel, that is a lifelong affair. And I've had to watch as years go by, and deep fear and frustration corners my heart. The trusted Lord, these are your kids given by grace to us to raise up in the fear and admonition of the Lord. And your timeline is not mine. And I have watched God's faithfulness unfold in different ways. Way slower than I would have liked. Amen. And some of you have had to carry longer, harder timelines than I have. Be patient. endure in bearing fruit. Sometimes the fruit that you produce, that you offer to your spouse or to your kids or to the church will go unappreciated. Endure in bearing fruit. Don't stop. Because you bear fruit for the glory of God, not the pleasure of man or the appreciation of others But in every way, remember that joy with which you first received the Lord, the Word of God, and don't forget that first love. Reflect on it. Remember it. Push your root down deeper. Be aggressive in pulling the weeds in your life And grab tightly the Word of God. There is only one thing I should really hold on to without an open hand. I have learned to hold almost everything with an open hand, but not this. The Word of God is to be held onto tightly as if everything else is suspect. And it is a faithful guide to knowing your God and having peace with Him and life everlasting. What kind of soil are you? What kind of listener are you? Are you hardened? By the grace of God, I would commend to you and command you to yield. Yield to the God who made you and is utterly holy and magnificent, from whom you are permanently estranged, apart from one possibility That Jesus Christ himself take you in hand, pay your debts, and claim you as his own. Are you shallow? I would commend to you and command you, take your salvation seriously. Your life matters. God would do great things in and through you, whoever you are. Are you a divided listener? I would urge you to embrace the life of one of those dogs that has to wear a cone around its neck If there was a way I could force you to engage with God in and through the scriptures in fellowship with his people. and not be distracted and pulled away by the thousands of other magnetic draws of this world. I would do that. So I would command and I would commend to you focus. Let the exclusive authority in your life be the God who speaks in Scripture And a sincere listener, hold fast. Hold fast And join me in speeding the day of Christ with prayer and spreading the word of God with witness. Amen. Almighty God, we give you thanks in prayer for the ministry of Jesus, which comes as a blessing, not a judgment. It brings life, not death. It is not harsh, it is so very sweet. And Almighty God, we pray that you would give us soft hearts, deep roots, exclusive attention, and very tight fists when it comes to your word. Make us a garden of delight in which you can walk with us by your Spirit in the cool of the day and in the heat of the afternoon. Make us yours, O God. And Lord, for those who are here and wrestling with what kind of listener they are, what their relationship is with you, O God, I pray that you have mercy. We understand and know that ears that hear and eyes that see, the Lord God has made them both, O God Almighty. Speak, Lord, and your people will hear. Speak into the ears and the hearts. Open the eyes of such as we are. That we might know that you are the God who made us, redeems us, forgives us, owns us, and delights in us. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen.