Well this Friday and uh Saturday, twenty or more of us men from Columbia Presbyterian are going to be joining with fifty-five or sixty thousand other men. Down at RFK Stadium in DC for the Promise Keepers Conference. First one for this area. It's been full since March. In April, uh over 72,000 men turned out to the conference in Detroit, and just a couple of weeks ago, nearly 73,000 men showed up at the conference in Los Angeles at the Coliseum. They expect about a half a million men at 13 different conferences this year. And that's for a movement that's only five years old. Clearly, this is something that is a movement whose time has come, and we see God doing a new work in our day among Christian men in this nation, a deep and powerful work. And so in connection with this, we are looking at God, the ultimate promise-keeper, and we're looking at his promise to our families. Particularly to us as men, but to parents concerning our families, in Psalm 112, the promise is in verse 2, His children will be mighty in the land, the generation of the upright. will be blessed. In fact, that's uh we've been focusing on that so much. Why don't we say that together? I'll read it one more time and then let's see if we can say it together to have that promise in our hearts. The his children will be mighty in the land, the generation of the upright will be blessed. Let's say it together His children will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright will be blessed. That's a terrific promise for those of you who are parents, isn't it? Because remember that word blessed means that they will be in God's kingdom. They will be saved. They will go to heaven. They will be trusting and following Jesus through their lives. We demonstrated that through the use of that word in the rest of Scripture. Remember that being mighty in the land doesn't mean they're going to have some real estate in Palestine. It means that they're going to be mighty in God's kingdom. The land speaks of his kingdom. And we demonstrated that from Scripture too, to show that Our kids, we should expect to go beyond us, particularly for people like Kathy and I who are first-generation Christians in our families. We should expect that our kids will go beyond us in their walk with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we should be people who should resist the discouragement, that's kind of a survival mentality today that says just hope you kids will hang on and Get them through uh as they grow up to not abandon the faith, but rather that we should believe that they will go beyond us, and that we should be people who are full of faith because we have God's promises to claim. Amen? And I hope we met. But the I mean cut you off guard there, right? You didn't quite expect that coming. Well, there goes the notes too. So we should be people who are uh full of faith, trusting this promise, but then you remember that last week we called attention to the fact that uh there are conditions, as there are in all of God's promises There's something there, a condition either we fulfill or the one that he fill fulfills or has fulfilled. And in this case, it is a covenantal promise. It is to us It is to the kind of people who are described in verse 1. Praise the Lord. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his commands. Now that's describing not how to raise kids, I reminded you, but it's rather describing what kind of parents we should be, we should seek to be. Our goal is not Simply to raise godly kids or kids who will become godly adults because that's what they choose to do. We can't control that. But what we do control is the kind of people we become by the power of the Spirit. And so this verse does not say how to raise kids. It simply describes what kind of person is able to enter into that promise of verse 2. And you see a twofold intertwined condition there. It's the kind of person who fears the Lord and who finds great delight in his commands. Two emotional statements, not simply cognitive, not something we do primarily, but it's talking about our attitude, the attitude of the heart. We fear the Lord, we find great delight in his commands. Intended to spend only one wait week on the matter of fearing the Lord, but after I got into it I realized there was so much there and so much um openness to misunderstanding in this. I'm glad for the feedback some of you gave from last week because this is a very difficult topic to talk about the fear of the Lord. It's so infrequently discussed today, even though there are hundreds of references literally in scripture to it That it's very easy for us to misconstrue what I'm saying, to stereotype it in terms of hellfire and brimstone kind of preaching or law versus grace or all the rest of those kinds of things. But the Scripture presents that the person who fears the Lord is blessed. It's a person who finds blessing. And why is that? Because the Scripture says that the person is blessed who's in touch with reality. And the foundation of that creator-creature, sinner, savior distinction is one that is basic to our relationship with the Lord. And so we saw last week that there are three things we need to learn. You notice you have the same exact bulletin outline as you did last week. We covered point one last week. I'm just reviewing that now and we'll cover point two. uh the rest of the time. But just again to continue to review, we saw last week that we are to learn, the fear of the Lord is something learned, a number of references, Deuteronomy 4 and others. to that is uh something that we learn and basically I would boil it down to three things that you and I learn about God that gives us a biblical fear of him. One is that he speaks with sovereign authority. And you remember the picture in Exodus 20, as the people came to Mount Sinai and God gave them his law The mountain trembled. It was with smoke. There was thunder and lightning. There was the blast of God's own trumpet. And God spoke so powerfully that the people said to Moses, Please you speak to us what God's saying. You know, could you interpret? Could you be in between? Because when God speaks to us, it scares us to death. In fact, Moses says it scared him to death in Deuteronomy. And so we need to recognize that when God speaks, he speaks with a sovereign authority. And we understand that he is a God, secondly, who hates sin. He has a fixed abhorrence of anything that is in defilement of his character. We need to understand that. We need to see that and and uh realize that in our day, in a day that plays with sin and compromise with it so glibly. And then thirdly, we saw that we need to realize that he has an intimate knowledge of our hearts, all of our thoughts, our intentions. He knows exactly what you are thinking right this moment. He knows how you're responding to this. He knows what your thoughts and your intentions are. And when I realize Therefore, in summing it up, that the fear of the Lord involves a continual awareness that I am thinking, speaking, and acting in the presence of a holy, just, almighty God who hates sin. That is the biblical fear of the Lord. It is the foundation of biblical faith. And so I was trying to make two points. One is that The person is blessed who fears the Lord because they're in touch with reality. They see what the true God is like. But they're blessed because that kind of fear drives us to faith. It produces faith in our lives. It produces faith because you recognize that if this is the way God is and you understand your heart, you recognize that any efforts that you make to try and please this God in your own character, by doing things just kind of keeping what the Bible says, doing the best you can, you know, trying to Do the best job of loving other people and being a nice person, all the rest. These things are so absurd to meet the standards of such a just, holy, perfect God who hates all sin that you give up And that giving up is the best thing that you can do, because then the gospel comes and it says, see Jesus as we see him. You see this cross, this pulpit in the shape of a cross to remind us whenever we hear God's word, come from this pulpit. that it comes because I stand behind the cross. And I address you as one who stands behind the cross. And you look and you see that cross and you see Jesus there. And all of a sudden he who seemed irrelevant to you is kind of a nice thing Nice to know that I'm going to heaven if I accept him and the rest of that. All of a sudden you look and with desperation you say, I need someone to substitute for me in behalf of my record before God. And so you look at Jesus, and all of a sudden now Jesus is the spring of fresh water. He is life. And you run to him, you embrace him by faith. And you learn that to live in the fear of the Lord is to live daily in a faith that says, I stand only before God in the work that Jesus completed on my behalf. And because he completed that perfectly, I don't stand in terror of the Lord, but rather I can approach him as a child. Not because I deserve to do that, when I think of my life, when I think of what I've done. When I think of what I continue to do, then I realize that I should deserve the most exquisite tortures that his almighty power and imagination could contrive. But I don't suffer a bit of that. Because Jesus has died in my place. And all of that wrath has been poured out on him. I heard that, amen. It was a little weak amen. Somebody felt that. We realize that God has judged him in my place, and therefore do you see why living in the fear of the Lord produces the blessing of a biblical faith? It's a faith that rests consciously daily in the finished work of Christ. Again, I hope that that comes across. Because that that balance is imperative for us to understand. Otherwise we will get into a law mentality. Yeah, the fear of the Lord is good. We need to hear more of that, you know, and there's kind of a sense that, boy, God's out to get us, and boy, we need to know more of that today. You know, and uh is a kind of a a a legalistic uh severity to that, or you say, Well, you know, I really wish you wouldn't talk about that so much. Uh, you know, isn't the gospel talking just about love and And peace and we're children of God and so we kind of diminish and we need to see the bit the Scripture calls on us to hold both these things. The fact that God can at any moment decide, He could, decide to punish us as our sins deserve, and the only thing that keeps Him from doing that And is the fact that he has pledged himself by covenant in Jesus Christ that those sins have been covered and therefore he cannot go against his promise to punish us. But it's only because of his promise, you see. It's not because we don't deserve it. I hope that's coming across because that's the foundation of this promise. And so I want for us to see that. I want uh perhaps Hebrews 10 and 12 are the are the best balance of that. that you see in the New Testament. Because in Hebrews chapter ten you see this idea that we uh are uh the the gospel comes and says that God has judged our sin, therefore the veil of the temple has been uh torn. Jesus comes so that we have full assurance to draw near in confidence. You see, without fear, our conscience is cleansed. and that we can draw then in intimacy to him. Then he goes right on a couple of chapters later in Hebrews chapter 12, and he picks up on this idea of the fear of the Lord. in uh when they were standing before him at Exodus, uh excuse me, at Sinai in the book of Exodus. Look at Hebrews chapter twelve, verse eighteen, if you have your Bibles open to that or just follow along. But in Hebrews 12, the author says, Now you have come, not come, excuse me, you have not come to a mountain that can be touched That was like Sinai, and is burned burning with fire, to darkness, gloom, and storm, this was what Sinai looked like, to a trumpet blast, or to such a voice speaking words to those who heard it. That they begged that no further word be spoken to them because they could not bear what was commanded. Even if an animal touches this mountain, it must be stoned. The sight of it was so terrifying that Moses said, I am trembling with fear. That's quoting from Deuteronomy. But you now contrast, you and I in the new covenant under Jesus, you have come to Mount Zion. Not to Mount Sinai, but to Mount Zion, that is to the heavenly Jerusalem. The city of the living God. You have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly to the church of the firstborn, whose names are written in heaven. Here's all these saints gathered around us. Then he says You have come to God, the judge of all men, to the spirits of righteous men made perfect, to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. Jesus' blood sprinkled is what is our conscience, is what cleanses our conscience and makes us right before God. Then he says, see to it that you don't refuse him who speaks. If they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, how much less will we if we turn away from him who warns us from heaven? At that time his voice shook the earth. But now he has promised once more, I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. The words once more indicate the removing of what can be shaken, that is, stuff on earth. That is created things so that what cannot be shaken, that is his kingdom, will remain. Therefore, since we're receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful So there it is, the intimacy, the joy, the thankfulness. And so worship God acceptably. How? With reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. I again I submit to you, if you want any passage that gives you the best balance of what I'm trying to communicate, is Hebrews chapter 12. It starts with our eyes fixed on Jesus who has suffered for us and it's this balance of the awe and the reverence. Remembering we don't come to Zion, we come to Sinai excuse me, not to Sinai, but we come to Zion, to the heavenly Jerusalem But we remember always that our God is a consuming fire. Now, how does that affect our families? Well, what I was trying to show, Is that this promise together, blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his commands. We'll look at that in June. His children will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright excuse me, we'll look at that uh next week, the the delight. His children will be mighty in the land, the generation of the upright will be blessed. There are a number of scriptures that connect the fear of the Lord and the benefits of families I mentioned to you last time about the one in Psalm 25, read that, and there was others. For instance, Psalm 128. Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine within your house. Your sons will be like olive shoots around your table. Thus is the man blessed who fears the Lord. You see this again and again in Scripture, this idea of the connection between the fear of the Lord and God's blessing on our homes. But now we still need to ask, and least I try to ask in this, what is the observable connection? What is the observable connection between our fear of the Lord and what happens in our homes? And remember for those of you that don't have kids or are single that we're talking here about our first family, our corporate family, the covenant community of God. So we all have kids in the sense that we are part of a community where there are kids that we are uh invested in and uh there are also principles here that are for us that don't even pertain necessarily to the promise of families but God's blessing on our own lives But what's the connection particularly? I'd like to very quickly point out what I see as seven connections or effects of the fear of the Lord in how our families, how we raise our kids, and how our families are directed. The first of those, and these are real quick, is not a seminar on families. We wanted to go into more detail. We'd have to sit down and be able to discuss it, but I'm just giving you here some principles from God's Word very briefly. The first is that we would because the person who fears the Lord requires respect for his authority. So we require respect for our authority as parents. Because that's what's reflected in our fear of the Lord, we respect his sovereign authority, and he has delegated that to parents. And therefore, we take authority seriously. We realize that the first commandment that God gave in human relationships was to honor your father and your mother. That's the commandment with blessing. And kids must, you kids have to learn, may not like it, but the fact is that you need to learn to obey your parents in order to learn to obey God. You can't say that you'll learn how to obey God and not learn how to obey your parents. Their two are intimately connected because God's first commandment to you was to honor your parents. And so that that would turn into the rest of the commandments with blessing in your life. And so we realize that there are consequences to sin. We don't bypass that. We don't ignore that. And Proverbs 23 is still in the Bible, it's still God's Word, whatever our culture, whatever legislation, whatever the Um United Nations is saying, Proverbs 23, I remind you, says in verse 13 and 14, Do not withhold discipline from a child. If you punish him with a rod, he will not die. Sound like he will sometime. You're sure that this kid is going to perish, but uh God's promising you that if it's rightly done, we're not talking about abuse, we're not talking about gun and rage, we're saying if you punish him with a rod, he will not die. Punish him with a rod and save his soul from death. And so there is this principle that when we speak, there is a certain line, and that line can't be crossed without consequences. In our own home, this is not just just scripture, but the way we practice this and our kids can tell you about it and uh look back on it with fondness. We sort of kid about it now, but there was always the ritual, you go to a certain place Get out the paint stick, you know, it was affected, didn't hurt, uh, you know, it stung, but it didn't uh have any uh, you know, great uh uh pain that was l lingering very long to it. But there would always be the count. Two things always preceded the punishment. How many, Dad? You know, and there would be the number, three or four or whatever it was, you know, if it's five. Five, oh no, you know. I mean that must have been the great transgression or something, you know. But there would be, you know, the number first of all, and then I would say, now you tell me why I'm doing this. You know, I'd already told him enough but You know, they had to say, well, it's because I did this or this. All right. Now I'm not asking whether you're sorry about that right now, but there it is. I'm even gonna look at them while I'm doing this And there would be the pass down and we, you know, whack, whack, whack, and we go through that. And then after that, there would be the attempt at the embracing and the reconciliation, you know. Okay, are you sorry now? Well, you know, you say that's a poorly timed question, you know. But there would be times, yes, yes, and we you know we'd try to get back together and then hopefully there would be an expression Before we could really be reconciled fully that yes, I'm sorry that I did that. We would discuss it and it would be the the uh assurance that I love you, this is why I did it. But there had to be the the sense of the respect of authority. Now, you know, I'm not going to defend every detail of that, but the fact is that when you look through scripture, you see Manoah and his wife And they had this fellow who was a strong-willed child. My hand Dobson would have had a ball with him. Uh and he grew up and they decided this kid, we just can't handle him. And so Samson, when he grew to be a man, was a man who was strong-willed. indulged his lusts, and finally God said that he accomplished more in his death than he did with his whole life. He was a kid who had not had his will crossed. He never learned the fear of the Lord and the respect for authority. Well, you take Eli, a man who in many ways was a godly man, but the Bible says he never crossed his children. He thought that they were cute little types, and so he never crossed their will. never denied them anything and they grew up thinking that everybody owed them and they became priests and they abused in the most wicked way their a privilege of the priesthood in the tabernacle till God finally cursed them and Israel suffered as a result of their sin. And Eli was a broken man because he realized he had never taught them respect for authority. I had a a boss once, Dr. Alexander at University, used to say, I can give you a fairly good prediction of how a kid is going to turn out by just by watching them interact with their parents. And if I see respect for their parents, then whatever else is going on, my mind's somewhat at ease. But if I see a disregard, this kind of view that we have today, question authority, there is you know, in the classroom or the culture in general, no sense that somebody has authority over me that I must submit to. And then things just become chaotic. David, because of his guilty conscience, never taught Amnon and Absalom to respect God's law. And so because he was weak in his carrying through on that, one raped his sister and the other murdered his brother. And so we see the heartache that unfolds from this. The person who fears the Lord has that sense that I am under authority and there must be respect for my authority that God has given me, not power and control, but God's authority. in my family. Now, real briefly, then the second thing is that we will spend time in the Word together. The person who fears the Lord will spend time in the Word with his kids. Why? Because Deuteronomy chapter 31 Deuteronomy chapter 31. In verse 12 and 13, we read, assemble the people, men, women, and children And the aliens living in your town, so that they can listen and learn to fear the Lord your God and follow carefully all the words of this law. God says, bring them all together, we're going to read the law. Read it to the kids so that they will learn to fear the Lord. Their children who do not excuse me know this law must hear it and learn to fear the Lord your God as long as you live in the land you are crossing the Jordan to possess. And there it is, you must learn it how by hearing God's word, and so as we read the word together, the kids learn the character of God. that he is tender and gentle as a shepherd, that he is also severe as a monarch, as one who is in sovereign authority, and they get a rounded picture so that they like us are driven to a biblical faith to hide in Jesus. And not take casually the fact, well, God says it, but so what? But rather there is that respect. I remember hearing about Charles Spurgeon's conversion. And uh you don't hear very much about this, but this man who God used mightily uh uh in in nineteenth century as a preacher was a kid. He would hear his mom read scripture and she would pray for her children And one day after reading scripture, she prayed, Lord, and he she was not he did not uh she did not necessarily she wasn't praying as for his benefit, but he heard her, overheard her Lord, if my children don't come before you, then may I be among the first to participate in their judgment, to vindicate your honor. Spurgeon says, holy cow, my mother prayed that? She's more concerned for God's honor than my well-being. And when he heard that, he realized I better get right with God. And that was the first of serious concern for his own salvation, because there was the realization that God's word would be vindicated. And he had a he gained a more biblical view of what God was like. We must spend time in the Word if we're going to teach our kids of uh an accurate picture of God in his full nature. Third thing is if we fear the Lord, we will model living under authority. We will be people who model it. It's not about enough a matter to teach it, or to demand it, or to require it. We must model it There are three authorities we all live under, parental, church, and state. And most of us live under a fourth one, which is the employer. And it's how we model that to our kids that will teach them more about authority than anything that we say. Particularly when we are not being observed when we can get away with it. How what is our attitude towards speeding, for instance, you know? As much as you can get away with, you know, you calculate, well, I'd probably get away with 66 miles an hour, you know, because the odds are, you know, or whatever it is, however we look At living under the authority of the state. Our kids pick that up and they pick up in that, is authority something to submit to or is it something to try to get around? Or to take an even more difficult one that I even hesitate to mention, the authority of the church. It always looks at us self-serving. But the fact is that Hebrews 13, 17 is in the Bible. It's not something I stuck in there for my own benefit But in Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 17, we read, Obey your leaders and submit to their authority. They keep watch over you as men who must give an account. Obey them so that their work will be a joy and not a burden, for that would be of no advantage to you. Now There is in that implicit, we certainly are not going into the details of all of what's involved in obeying the authority of the elders of a church, not saying when they tell you to buy a Ford, you buy a Ford or something like this or where you live or what job you take. It's talking about moral, spiritual authority and the application of the principles of God's Word. But the fact is that for many of us Well, I mean, I just have to put it to you. How many of you here are under the spiritual authority of some local body? And if you're not, you expect your children to be under authority, but are you modeling that in the way that you live within Christ's body? Or, let me uh maybe it's safer to quote from someone else here. From J. R. Lucas in his book, The Parenting of Champions, he says this. It's just amazing how people can wander from church to church, picking and choosing, disregarding what's difficult, it's always easy to obey when we're told to do something we already want to do, never obeying or submitting to anyone, and then expecting instant obedience from their own children. Some parents openly criticize, even tear down church leaders in front of their children. Some people have even quit being part of any church family. So what happens? In the church, many leaders start compromising and stripping Christianity of its biting truth so that people won't be offended, that is, convicted, and leave the church, that is, rebel. Spiritual growth is sacrifice for numerical growth. The leader's work becomes a burden, and their labor cease to be a value or advantage to you. Church becomes entertainment even as it and the culture dies. Or we have people who are modeling for our kids that we live under authority because we fear the Lord, because we respect his authority in our lives. We're the fourth matter. If we fear the Lord and find that a blessing, we will model a dread of all sin in our own lives. We will model a dread of sin. We will not have a casual attitude. When we read something in Scripture, by the way, the second reference in that, my mistake should be 2 Chronicles 6, not 1 Chronicles, 2 Chronicles 6. verses 30 and 31. But the first reference in there that you see, Proverbs chapter 8, verse 13. Shhh says this, to fear the Lord is to hate evil. I hate pride and arrogance, evil behavior, and perverse speech. Do we model that for our kids? When we see sin, blatant sin on television, do we comment on it? Do we say, Boy, that that really bothers me? When you hear people using the Lord's name in vain, when you hear an utter disregard for God's laws and how people should treat people sexually and in other ways, injustice. Did we see? Do th do we model not only a a hatred for that, but in our own lives a dread do we ever share with them? Boy, you know, God's word says this, and I want like anything to do the opposite. But I'm struggling, kids. Let's pray together for dad, for mom. Because we don't want to displease the Lord. We love him. And we realize that his authority is over us. Let's pray. Because I don't want to have to obey this. But I'm I'm under the authority of God's word. And so y there's there's this struggle and they see, boy mom and dad take this seriously. They're not perfect, but they're taking seriously. They're struggling with this, trying to learn how to please the Lord, how to live under his authority. We'll get into more of that in the delight next time. Then finally, uh not finally, but the fifth thing is that we will evidence that our concern is always what does God think Before we ask the question, what do people think? The fear of the Lord is a very freeing thing. Galatians chapter 1 In verse 10, very convicting verse for me. This is a powerful verse. Paul said, Am I now trying to win the approval of men or of God? Or am I trying to please men If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a servant of Christ. The fear of the Lord frees us from the bondage of pleasing people. Because once we understand the fear of the Lord, we realize the first thing I need to ask is what does God think of this? I remember when I was studying this, I was at a general assembly of our church, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, and that morning As I was studying this, looking at the fear of the Lord, I was convicted that I was thinking that day, what are these guys going to think of what I say on these issues? And I began to realize to my own shame I was more concerned for their opinion to gain their approval than I was to gain God's. I was more concerned what they thought about me But when you and I come to recognize who God is, that we think and act in his presence, and that what really matters is what he thinks. So we're trying to please him, not the people that are around us. then life becomes much simpler, doesn't it? You don't have all these competing demands of well, but this one would like this and that one might like like that and how am I going to please this person and also keep that one happy Missionary who was in China some years ago, things were very uh difficult in this area where this these Christians were living. And they had undergone severe persecution fearlessly. And the missionary asked one of the pastors, one of the leaders of the church in that area, how are you able to undergo this? And the response was very swift. He said, We have learned there is one person to fear, God. And once we fear him, we don't fear men. You and I feel that way? Do our kids pick up that there is one person who mom and dad are primarily concerned what they what he thinks And that's what God thinks about what we do as a family. And what other people think, we're concerned about that, we're sensitive to it, but it's not what controls our decisions and what we do. And then the seventh uh sixth thing that follows from that is that we will evidence a security that comes from the rightly directed fear. We recognize that blessed is the person who fears the Lord, and because of that, there is the freedom. Verse 3 of that Psalm says, wealth and riches are in his houses, righteousness endures forever. Then go down to verse 6. Surely he will never be shaken. A righteous man will be remembered forever. He will have no fear of bad news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in the Lord. His heart is secure. He will have no fear. In the end he will look in triumph on his foes. When you and I live with a consciousness of God's presence in our lives as the primary thing, then there's the security that he who gave not who withheld not his own son but delivered him up for me so that I would be delivered from his wrath. How can I fear whatever can happen in my life? God is for me, who can be against me? And so there is a security in living, in the recognition that I am under his care and his control. And because of that, there is a security that whether I hear that there are cuts at APL or whether I hear that my business is folding or cutting back or whatever it is, downsizing. or health concerns or anything else, there is the recognition I live under the hand of my God. And he who hates my sin Has judged that sin in Jesus, how will he not then with him take care of me and give me all the things that are needed for my welfare? And I can trust him. Difficult In many cases, exercising of faith. But it's the fear of the Lord who puts it in, that puts it in perspective, and our kids see that security. Mom and dad are trusting what God will do rather than trusting how they're going to work it out on them for themselves. And so 1 John chapter 4 says that there is no fear in love. Now some people say that means we shouldn't fear the Lord. But if you look at that passage, you'll see that the fear that's talking about is the fear of condemnation. And what John is saying is, once you are delivered from the fear of condemnation, 1 John 4, 16 to 18. Then your love gives you a security that draws you close to the Lord, living by faith in that love. As soon as that wavers, you're going to drop back into fear because you recognize whom you have to do with. But there's going to be the love when you're secure in what Christ has done for you. And then finally the seventh thing is that in June we're going to see a important connection between these two Psalms, uh Psalm 111, Psalm 112. But just look at that last verse of Psalm 111. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. All who follow his precepts have good understanding. To him belongs eternal praise. Then the next verse, Blessed is the man who fears the Lord. In fact, Proverbs 1. 7 goes even further and says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. And so the fear of the Lord is the foundation. of all wisdom. And so when we are concerned for our kids' education, we realize we can't just trust the public schools to give them the education without our input. Because the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. And therefore, if they're going to learn anything in the right biblical perspective, it's got to come from the foundation of the fear of the Lord, of who He is, the creator, creature, Savior, Sner, Distinction. And that travels through everything that we're doing. Well, I wanted to close with an illustration from talk shows today, but I'm out of time. And so uh If one of that illustration about that, uh just talk to me personally and I'll give it to you. But uh let's take these thoughts, these ideas, and bring them to the Lord now. Lord, we want to just close here in our time by recognizing that if we did not have Jesus, then we would be people who live in terror. Because you know our hearts, you know us through and through. And you know what we're like, and you hate sin. And you are sovereign, Almighty God. We thank you so much, Lord, for the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus that has freed us from that terror. And Lord, we pray that for those of us who are parents, that even so imperfectly, as I think this past week of the many ways that I have not Done these things as I ought to have done them. Nevertheless, Lord, you've been gracious to me and to my family. You have been a good God to us. Lord, we pray that we might cleave to you, that you would work in our kids, and we pray for the kids, Lord, that the kids hear now, that they might see The difference that the fear of the Lord in a healthy way makes for us as kids as we grow up to be able to see what difference that makes to us and to our home in our home. We bring those homes to you and ask for your grace and your mercy upon us. In Jesus' name. Amen.