But the most glorious and joyful morning that ever dawned in all of human history was ushered in with deepest grief and tears. This is no more, nowhere more highlighted than in the life of Mary Magdalene that Easter morning. That's uniquely recorded in this 20th chapter of the book of John. Peter and John have gone to the tomb. And they have found it empty. And now we have in this account of John 20, verses 11 to 18, the very first recorded words and appearance of the resurrected Christ. Let's relive it and benefit from it in our own hearts. Let's pause for a moment to pray that God would teach us from this portion of His Word. Let's pray. Lord, deliver us from slipping into simply the seasonal sentimentality of Easter. That we might grasp the reality of what actually happened that morning 2,000 years ago. That we would be able to enter into Mary's experience and identify with her. That you would make us aware in a whole new way. That Jesus has actually risen. And what that means for us. Teach us. Have your way in this Holy Spirit. Do your work now, which I can't do. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We know very little about Mary Magdalene or Mary from the town of Magdala, except that before she met Jesus, she was truly a new age woman. Mary had dabbled with the occult. She had fooled around with her crystals and her pyramids and her harmonic convergences, till one day she found herself in over her head And Mary became possessed. A woman possessed not simply by one, but by seven demons. A woman who was immersed and in bondage to the occult. A woman who was wretched in her bondage. Mary was a very contemporary woman. For at this very morning there are some in Columbia and Howard County. Who were into the same thing that Mary was into and have found themselves in the same kind of bondage. Don't look at Mary as an anachronism. She's very contemporary That was until the day that she met Jesus. Luke chapter 8, verse 2 tells us that Jesus had pity on Mary. And that he cast out the demons, and that he healed her. And in doing that, Jesus did what only Jesus can do. For only Jesus has the power to change a life like that. Only Jesus can cast out demons. Only Jesus can change your life and my life. This morning, perhaps you say, uh, maybe he could change Mary, but he can't take care of my problems. He can't change my life, all the things that I've twisted and messed up. Are you in a worse situation than having seven demons possess you? I doubt it. But Jesus could heal Mary. And Jesus can heal you and change you this morning if you come to him, if you acknowledge your helplessness, and if you realize that his promises are true because he is the risen Savior. I invite you to think about what I'm saying about Mary. And if in the course of this you find yourself strangely drawn To find out more about that life-changing power of Jesus Christ, I'd ask you, sometime during this message, just put your name on a piece of paper Rip off part of the bulletin outline, whatever you want. Put your name, your phone number, and just give that to me as you walk out the door, as you leave. I'll call you this week and we'll talk About how Jesus Christ can change a life, even your life, as he's changed my life and many of us here in this room. Jesus changed a witch to make her into a tender servant. For from that day in which Jesus cast out those demons, Mary was utterly devoted to Jesus Christ. For the next several months she traveled with the disciples, attending to their needs and attending to Jesus' need with a number of other women who traveled with him all the way from Galilee, ultimately down into Jerusalem. In fact, Mary was one of the very few who went with Jesus all the way to the cross. Do you know Mary Magdalene, as well as a couple of the other women, were the only ones who watched Jesus die among his disciples? The only man was John. But Mary John 1925 tells us, watched him die on the cross. And as she saw him die, she saw all her hopes. And all that she looked for die with him. Mary is a confused woman. She can't reconcile how this one who could so change her life and who promised to be the Lord of life Promised to be the Messiah, the one who is to usher in God's kingdom as the king, that this one could have died crucified. on a cross and be buried and gone and take all his promises with him. Have you ever been so confused? Have you ever thought, how can Jesus really be who he says he is? And yet all this twisted defeat in my life, I can't reconcile my circumstances with the promises that he's given. Neither could Mary. The problem is for Mary and for you and for me is we haven't looked far enough into God's purposes. You see, you need to enter in to Mary's grief that morning if you're ever going to appreciate the significance of the resurrection. For not until you enter into your feelings of what it would be like for Jesus to have died and to have been buried and to have never risen But to think that because of that you are still in your sin, and there is no hope of ever escaping that. There is no hope to ever making out sense in the meaning of life. There is no hope of Jesus ever coming back as Phil has sung for us. There is nothing to look forward to except to somehow try to work out the pieces of the meaning of life yourself in your guilt and your despair. It's not until you and I feel the significance Of what it would have been like if Jesus was in the tomb and had never risen, that you can begin to appreciate the joy of Easter morning. And not only is Mary deep in her grief and in her confusion over this one who had changed her life, but now seems to have abandoned her in death. But she's also found that grief intensified by the fact that even his body is gone. Now, why is that so much worse? For one thing, it's it's like that time at a funeral when one that you love so much is in that casket. And the lid is finally closed on the casket. Do you realize you will never look upon that face of that loved one again? There's an utter, irrevocable separation. But beyond that, for Mary, there was taken from her, robbed from her, that one last opportunity to demonstrate her devotion to the one that she had loved so much By anointing his body. Even that has been taken from her. No wonder we read in verse eleven that Mary stood outside the tomb crying. Sobbing her heart out, weeping, until she finds there's no more tears to weep. Confused and grief-stricken, Mary is weeping outside the tomb. But it goes on. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white, seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head And the other at the foot. This is the first time she's noticed that there's two angels there. And I believe it is a profound comment upon her grief. That these angels do not say what angels almost always have to say when they greet a human creature. And what is that? Fear not. But Mary is so absorbed in her grief that she is oblivious to their glory. All that's on her mind is Jesus. And so they don't even need to say to her, Fear not. Ponder these angels for just a moment as they sit, one at the head and one at the foot of where Jesus had lain. There they sit, pondering the place where their Creator had lain. The one that they had worshipped for thousands of years Their God in a grave. What must those angels have felt as they looked And considered the fact that their Lord and their God had so recently lain there dead in that tomb. To realize that this one had been slain by mere mortals, willing To be so slain out of love for these rebellious human creatures, how they must have wondered at their God in a grave To what lengths will he not go out of his love for these mere creatures? They must have wondered. And there they watch. And they say only one thing to her. We have it there in verse 13. They asked her, Woman, why are you crying? I believe that probably they were thinking, we'd do anything in the world to trade places with you. We would give all the bliss, all the power, all the status that we have. To be able to be a creature that could say that the Son of God has given his life for me. That you, Mary, have been adopted as his own daughter. That the God before whom we worship and bow day and night, that God has given his life because he has set his heart on you to such an extent. Why in the world are you crying? Of course, Mary takes the question at face value. She doesn't see anything of any other significance in it. And so her answer is a simple answer. They've taken my Lord away, she said. And I don't know where they've put him. They, the defilers, have taken my Lord. Do you notice that? She still calls him Lord What devotion, what devotion to Jesus, what love and what loyalty to not be ashamed to call this one who is a despised, crucified criminal. Her Lord. She'll call him Lord for whoever wants to hear it. She doesn't know who she's speaking to. But she says, that was my Lord. What's happened to him? What have you done with him? Oh, that I had half the loyalty that Mary had for Jesus. How that must have warmed Jesus' heart to know that though he's risen, she doesn't know him. All she knows is that her heart is still loyal to him, and she doesn't care who knows it. If my loyalty for half of that of Mary's this week, how much bolder I would be before people that I come into contact with that care nothing for Jesus Christ, and I don't know what they think of him. But you and I are intimidated, aren't we, by the fact that someone might think that we're foolish, that someone might think strange things about us if we identify with this Jesus This Jesus, who's the cause of a national holiday in our country, and yet we're still ashamed to bear his name on our lips, aren't we? But Mary wasn't. She said, that's still my Lord. What have you done with him? What have you done? And yet they don't answer. Rather, we read in verse 14 that at this she turned around and saw Jesus standing there But she didn't realize that it was Jesus. You see, it's not the fact of resurrection that gives us joy. But it's awareness of the fact that Jesus is risen that gives us joy, isn't it? Jesus is risen, but Mary's not aware of it. And so there's still no joy for her even seeing him, for she doesn't recognize him. Why doesn't she recognize him? Well, part of it's her state of mind, but I believe part of it also is because he is so changed Because even though he is in the same the same body still, his whole nature has changed. He's no longer the Jesus who says, I have a baptism to undergo and how distressed I am until it's fulfilled. He's no longer the Jesus who says that I am overwhelmed with sorrow even unto death. He's no longer the same Jesus who said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? But this is now the Jesus who has risen and is satisfied with his finished work. He's the Jesus that Isaiah said saw his work and was satisfied with it. He's the Jesus Who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and now is risen in glory. This is the Jesus now who stands before her with such immense satisfaction and glorious radiance of his being. Imagine what it must have meant for Jesus to know at that point, I have gained an eternal heaven for a vast number of people, irrevocably. I have finished my work perfectly. It is done. Now all there is is to gather them to myself until the end of time. And to build that place for them, to be with me forever. What radiance of his being there must have been, in addition to the resurrection body. And Mary doesn't even know that it's the same man And so she looks at him. And verse 14 says he stands there before her. And then in verse 15 He states the first words of the resurrected Christ. These are the very first words Jesus spoke after his resurrection. He simply says to her, Woman, why are you crying? Who is it that you're looking for? What tenderness you see in those words? And so he comes to you and he comes to me. At times when we're in our grief, in our confusion, and he says to you, Why are you crying? Who are you looking for? Who you really looking for? Who? Notice Her brave response at the end of verse 15. She says, thinking that he was the gardener, sir. If you've carried him away, tell me where you've put him, and I'll get him. Now, how is one woman going to carry a bloody corpse of a man who weighs more than she does? But somehow love will do it. But I don't care. Just tell me where you've taken him. I'll come get him. I want to have him. I want to be able to anoint his body properly What devotion and what love you see in that. This whole passage speaks simply of the love of Jesus for Mary and of her love for him. A love which is light years from anything which Hollywood has ever portrayed. Then, in verse 16, you have that love expressed in just two words. One word from Jesus to Mary, and one word in response of Mary to Jesus. Verse 16, Jesus said to her. Mary. She hears that name She hears that as no one else has ever said it. You know they say that communication is just a fraction of the words that are stated But that the majority of communication is through tone and body language. Can you imagine the tone? And the body language of Jesus, as he said that one word, literally, Miriam, in the Aramaic. This was the Jesus who had uttered that same name when he cast out those demons. This is the Jesus who spoke that name in peace, forgiveness, and acceptance of her. Do you ever think about how Jesus says your name? How does Jesus speak your name? Does he say your name with exasperated tones of disappointed? Does he say your name in some neutral mechanical way? Or do you imagine that he never says your name at all? How does Jesus say your name? He does, you know. Your name is engraved upon him. He knows your name, and he loves your name. How does Jesus say your name? Right now, for just a moment, I'd like you to imagine Jesus speaking your name. As you come to him in all of your grief and your pain, imagine Jesus now meeting you And speaking your name. How does he do it? Imagine that. How would you respond to him? Jesus is shaken, jolted from her grief. If all of a sudden she realizes by the speaking of that name who this is, no one has ever spoken her name like Jesus. And so her immediate response is, Rabbonai! And Mary is jolted from her grief to recognize that Jesus is alive and he's glad to see her. Can you imagine the body language of his gestures of welcome to her and her astonishment and delight in seeing him as the risen Lord? Why? Have you ever asked yourself, why did he first appear to Mary? Not to one of the inner three, Peter, James, or John. Not even to one of the twelve disciples. Not to any man who any Jew in that culture would have said certainly deserved the first appearance. Why does he appear first to Mary? To a low-life woman who was the scum of that society, a demon-possessed prostitute. Why? To marry. I believe the answer is simple. Because it was Mary who needed him most and sought him most. And you see in this something of Jesus' nature It's not status, worldly importance, or any other thing that determines who Jesus responds to. He responds to those who need him and who seek him And Jesus loves you just as much as he loves Mary. And he loves Mary just as much as he loves the Apostle John. And if you seek him in your need this morning, he will meet you just as quickly as he met Mary. For that's the kind of Savior He is. And I'm so thankful that Mary sought him out, so that that would encourage me that Jesus didn't choose to necessarily go to the apostles first. But to Mary, because of his love for her and of his awareness of her need, what would it have meant to her To have seen that Jesus was alive and glad to see her. I remember one night last year when I was sleeping. I had a nightmare In that nightmare, I saw in the most vivid way imaginable my son Dean sentenced and executed before my very eyes. It was so vivid that I broke out into a cold sweat and woke up shaken. That next morning I went to Dean and I grabbed him and I embraced him. You know, he's wondering, hey, what's so special about this morning, you know? But morning, it's so good to see you, you know. Because I thought I had lost him. And there he was Can you imagine what that was like for Mary? I thought I'd lost him. I thought he was dead. And now here he is. And he's glad to see me, and he's alive, and all that I've trusted him for has a foundation, and I can trust him with everything in my life. How she must have embraced him and clung to him And I think it's if you understand that, that you understand those strange words of verse 17 that sometimes give us trouble. See, in verse 17, Jesus says to her, Do not hold on to me For I have not yet returned to the Father. Go instead to my brothers and tell them, I am returning to my Father and your Father, to my God and to your God. I used to wonder about that. That sounds kind of harsh, you know. Here's Mary, and she's so glad to see him, and she comes and she runs to him and he says, Don't hold on to me It just doesn't fit. But when I relived the passage, all of a sudden I realized what was going on. She'd probably be been hanging on to him for five or ten minutes, you see. She just won't let go. And she case hanging on and hanging on and hanging on. And she's practically suffocating him, you know, she just won't let go. And Jesus is finally saying, because you can translate the Greek the same way, you can translate it, stop clinging to me. You see. Stop clinging because I haven't returned yet to my father. Go tell my brothers. You notice that note of compassion there. Those that had abandoned him, he says, go tell my brothers. But that must have meant to them to hear that the Lord still called them brothers. Go tell my brothers that I'm returning to my father. Now why does he put it that way? Why didn't he simply say, Go tell them I'm alive? Why does he say that I'm returning to my father? Well, it's because of one of the themes that's very important to John that he picks up and he follows through his whole epistle, his whole uh gospel. And that is that the pre-existent Christ came from the Father to accomplish a work of redemption. to purchase a people for himself. And when he had completed that work and said, as John uniquely records it at the end on the cross, it is finished. So then he can return to the Father. And John says this four or five times through his gospel, this idea of I'm going to return to my father when I'm finished. And so you see, this is a code word to the disciples. He's saying, it's finished. I've accomplished everything I set out to do. Go tell my brothers. That it's all done, I can return to the Father. And in returning, I'm going to prepare a place That I talked to them about just the other night when we were around that Passover Supper, that place that I'm going to prepare for them to come and to receive them to myself. Because my resurrection body is simply the first fruits of a resurrection body that you all will have for eternity. So now we see a transformed Mary. Verse 18 tells us Mary Magdalene then went to the disciples with the news: I have seen the Lord! And she's so joyful. Can you imagine entering to her feelings, brothers and sisters, of what this was like to have understood that Jesus is truly alive? Remember? It's not the fact of resurrection that gives us the joy. It's the awareness of resurrection in our own souls, is what gives us the joy on Easter morning. It's a transformed Mary. I have seen the Lord. That which will give you and me joy this morning is an awareness that the record is true. That Jesus really did appear to Mary. She really did see the risen Christ. No hallucination. No ghostly appearance. Nothing that anyone made up in their minds. He is risen. And therefore, you and I serve a risen Savior that we can trust with all of our problems. And look forward to to return, to bring us to Himself forever and ever in that eternal kingdom. And this is a message that everyone should know. Go, Jesus says. Go. Tell them. Tell them the good news that I have risen, that I've returned to my Father, and that my kingdom is being established. In the mid-1950s, a British pastor by the name of W. E. Sangster found a certain tightening in his throat and a dragging in his leg. He went to the doctors and they diagnosed it as a rare disease that would produce irreversible muscular atrophy until death. But Sangster didn't give up. With renewed zeal he threw himself into the work of the Lord. He wrote articles, he wrote books. He established prayer groups all over England. His prayer through that time was, Let me stay in the struggle, Lord. And when people would remark on his pain and his intense suffering, his response was, I'm only in the kindergarten of suffering. His voice went, his muscles went, he could barely hold a pen. And on Easter morning, just a few weeks before his death He wrote a letter to his daughter. And in that letter he wrote these words. It's a terrible thing to wake up one Easter morning with no voice with which to shout, He has risen But it would be still more terrible to have a voice and not want to shout. You and I have voices. And we can shout. He is risen. Amen. Let's shout it together. He is risen. Amen.