Amen and amen. The love of Jesus is deeper than we can ever imagine. We turn this morning to hear the invitation. Of Jesus himself to the kingdom. This week we're in the book of Mark But let me explain there's a twofold reason why we are in the book of Mark, chapter one. I will return to the book of Acts next week, but the reason is this. Last week we were together looking at Mark chapter 11. where we see the newly converted Christians who are both Jewish and Greek in the city of Antioch, and it is there. As the grace of God was abounding, as their lives were being transformed, as they were declaring the person and work of Jesus Christ, the gospel itself They were changing and their neighborhoods were changing, their lives were changing, and that was evidence of grace in their lives. It was at that place that they were first called Christian. And if you were here last week, the thing which I said was to be called Christian, which was a name that came from the outside, this was not a self-designation. It meant that they began and they lived their lives and the goal of their lives was Jesus. And that anything else added on doesn't belong, though it may be important, it is not Jesus. And so this week I wanted to go a little bit deeper in what it means then to be Christian. What does it mean to begin, to live, and to end with Jesus Christ? And so we turn to the words of Jesus. The second reason it is born out of the fact, and I will do so throughout this sermon, share with you the ways in which God is working in my life. the things that he is showing me. Last week we served as a host church to the navigators in the region and through 3D Movements, which is an organization working with the navigators to work alongside churches to equip them. To the ministry of discipleship. And so we spent a great deal of time talking about these things, and in and through these verses, God was speaking mightily to me. And so I wanted to share that with you, recognizing that it is a bit of a risk, but I am not the focus of what I'm going to say here, but I want to share with you what God is teaching me. With that in mind, we turn to Mark chapter 1, verses 14 to 18. Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God And saying, the time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me this morning? Heavenly Father, I pray now that by the power of your Holy Spirit , Through the words of Jesus recorded for us in Scripture, that you would speak to us in this moment, in this time. Drawing us to yourself, but not leaving us the same. We thank you, Lord, for this morning. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. So in these verses, you'll see in your outline I've given you there, we will see three things There is a definitive moment, and that word you see there is a transliteration of the Greek word translated time. It is the word kairos. And it was a definitive moment, a definitive time that Jesus came and he announced what he did in this chapter of Mark. Secondly, there is these two imperatives, repent and believe. And in these three points in this passage, we will see the invitation of Jesus. But also the challenge. We can never have just one or the other. We might want just invitation, but not the challenge, and some are more desiring of the challenge, but forget the fact that it is only by the invitation of our gracious Lord that we participate. But I want you to see all three. And we begin this morning, then, in these first two verses, fourteen and fifteen, of this definitive moment. It's talking about a precise time and space. And it says now that after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God. This is the good news, literally saying. The good news of God. We don't know all the details there. Mark sums it up for us. Mark is the fastest taste gospel of before. And here he does not break out all the details, but we know from the other gospels that Jesus was teaching what he was coming to do, the good news of God. And then he says, and saying, the time is fulfilled, the Kairos moment. This moment has is the fulfillment of the promise. And what I want you to see is the first part of this definitive moment, this kairos moment, it is this. This is an unambiguous act of Jesus. In that he is saying, right now, this moment, he's beginning to preach, and in this part of his public ministry, as he launches it, Though he's around age 33, he is saying the kingdom of God is at hand. And when he says these things, he's doing this. He's saying, right now, God is speaking. More than that. God is not just speaking a set of propositions or ideas God has is and has, as I stated last week and I'll echo it again, he has moved into the zip code. He's come in and he's been made incarnate. God has tabernacled. God has taken up residence. God is not just infinite. He's imminent. And Jesus is demonstrating that God is saying, I am his son. He has moved in. This is unambiguous, and he is then saying Come. He's inviting. And that's the second part of this definitive moment. This announcement of the gospel of God, which itself is a heralding of good news, he then says, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. So not only is this definitive moment an unambiguous act of Jesus saying, hey, God is speaking, and he is speaking in the flesh. God has moved into the neighborhood. He then says the kingdom of God is fulfilled. The kingdom of God that is used in parallel with the gospel of God. This is not, again, just a bare set of ideas or propositions or doctrines. He's saying that I have come into the world to speak the good news And when he says the kingdom of God is fulfilled, he's saying this, that Jesus is both ruler and reigning in this new kingdom. And when he is announcing it that the kingdom of God is fulfilled, he is inviting you and me. Into that kingdom. But again, it's not abstract. He's inviting us into relationship For the gospel is that God made himself flesh and blood, that God so loved the world that he gave. And so he gave his son. His son is the king, the ruler, and the one who is reigning. And he's inviting us. But the question is, so that we don't miss something, what does that tangibly mean? What does it look like? What does a definitive Kairos moment in time look like? It looks like what we see just a few verses later in verse 40. If you have your Bibles, please turn there. If you don't, I'll read the brief passage. It is just three verses. Mark chapter 1, verses 40 to 42. A man with leprosy came to him and begged him on his knees: If you are willing, you can make me clean. And filled with compassion, Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man. I am willing, he said, be clean. Immediately, the leprosy left him and he was cured. All of that is everything that I just said in a moment in time in this man's life. First, it is the unambiguous act of Jesus announcing that the good news is not just abstract principles It is that God has come into the world to do something. And therefore Jesus, as both ruler And the one who reigns in this kingdom is inviting this man into the kingdom. Because that kingdom turns the kingdom of the world upside down and inside out. What do I mean? It's because this man who suffered from leprosy was considered by all who were around him as unclean. And in that kingdom, in that world's thinking, that those who were unclean made clean things and clean people unclean. So no one touched him. No one cared for him. No one would get near him. Because the unclean made the clean unclean. Jesus, as an unambiguous act that God has moved into the neighborhood, announces the gospel and the kingdom not as abstract principles but as a relationship. invites this man and this man comes. Notice, it is not how we often speak about responding. I don't know if you've ever used the phrase I know I have where we say, invite Jesus into your heart. That phrase is never used in Scripture. What I want you to see, who's doing the inviting? God is. Jesus is the one doing the inviting. The man simply comes in his weakness, in his uncleanness, and he begs. And he says, if you are willing, if you, Jesus, are willing. Make me clean. And watch what happens. The world is turned upside down. Finally, for the first time in anyone's history or knowledge, a clean thing made an unclean thing clean. That is what it looks like to recognize the ruling reign of the kingdom of Jesus, of God who's moved in to this moment and this time and this space. Finally, Jesus, as the Son of the Living God, the only clean human being who took on flesh ever to walk the face of the planet. is now coming in and is saying, I am clean. I will make you clean. And he would do this unambiguously through the cross. You see, Jesus, to make us clean, didn't just dismiss the holiness of God. He didn't just ignore our sin, our uncleanness. Rather, Jesus took on our sin. He took on our uncleanness. He satisfies the holiness of God. satisfies the justice of God, and he doesn't ignore our sin, he takes it on, which enables Paul to say, he became sin that we might become the righteousness of God. God. The clean has made the unclean clean. Now what does that look like for us? I want to say to you and argue to you that this moment, surely as I'm announcing this word, which is not my word, but it is the word of the living God through Jesus Christ. That this moment, this morning, this minute, this hour, is a Kairos moment where Jesus is saying through these verses, these words, something he wants you to hear. Let me ask it this way. In the last week, the last two weeks, have you experienced Existentially anger, anxiety Restlessness, an open door. Thank you so much. I heard wind going through here. Thank you. Restlessness. A sleeplessness. Because there's something eating you up inside. I maintain to you that that precisely could be a moment in time When as you're experiencing that anger, that anxiety, that difficulty, that trial, whatever it may be , It may be that moment precisely that God intends for there to be an open door for you to enter into the kingdom and the rule and reign of Jesus and bring it to Him. It was in this man's life, his leprosy was not just a side point. It was not a coincidence. It was this man's uncleanness. No one would touch him until this moment. And he says, Are you willing? And I ask you, are you willing this morning to come with whatever God is teaching you in your anger In your busyness, in your avoidance or ability to try to escape things, whatever may be going on, are you willing to bring it because Jesus is willing to receive it? It doesn't matter whether you are a Christian or not. The invitation is to all of us. The invitation to the Christian is as long as you walk with Jesus, this invitation is not a past thing. It's a constant daily thing. How do I know that? Because this is what God is teaching me. At the end of last week, my Kairos moment happened. Just as we were beginning this great seminar on discipleship, it became, I became, acutely aware. Of how much I believe I have failed as both a husband and a father in spiritually leading in my home I felt that powerfully. And see, I had wrestled with this. I I'm an idea person. Maybe I've never been diagnosed with ADD. Maybe that's it. But I constantly have ideas popping off in my head. Even while I preach, I have to suppress ideas. It's just who God made me. But my problem isn't ideas. I have a lot of ideas, but what I end up doing is I have Maybe some thoughts about how to employ that, but here's what I do. I'll go, well, maybe tomorrow. Maybe this weekend. Maybe next week. And yet I was wearing and feeling, not because anyone was putting it on me, but because as I was reading this passage, I was asking, what is it What is this moment? What am I learning right in the midst of this seminar about discipleship? Am I do I know how to even disciple my daughter And I felt a keen sense of inadequacy, and I think that's a gift. And God was saying to me, inviting me Am I willing to bring that inadequacy, that failure, that sense of burden that I'm wearing on my shoulders and my heart? Am I willing to bring it to the only one who can take my sin? And make me clean. And so I say to you, as I share with you my own life, I'm not calling you to do something that Jesus hasn't already called me to do. But I know this. That since that moment I began the process of asking, what are you teaching me? What are you inviting me to do, Lord? And there began the process of hearing this word in my life. The king, the ruler. Jesus was inviting me to bring it. As I say to you and ask you, what are these verses? And what is Jesus saying to you? What is he inviting you to bring? If you're living and breathing, there's something. I'll leave that to the Lord. But the invitation is there. And here's the beauty. He knows it all already. In fact, he desires for this to be a divine appointment, an intersection between his incredible, beautiful, powerful grace. to meet wherever it is that you are. So let's go further If all Jesus did was invite us, but never challenge us, then that makes his grace cheap. Nor can we have just challenge without grace. They're both. Jesus' grace is extravagant, as Barbara Duguid writes in her book, Extravagant Grace. But it is a grace that will never leave us the same. So let's look at the challenge. The challenge he gives there is not just that the kingdom of God is at hand. He then says these two imperatives, repent and believe. What does he mean? He means this. Are you willing to come into the kingdom? To come into the kingdom means That repentance needs to take place. That repentance in the kingdom of Jesus Christ is a part of the culture of that kingdom. Because we all come in inadequate. We all come in not by our works, but by his. We come in by his cross, not ours, and yet he invites us. into that came in to do so means repentance. So when he says repent, I think there are three things. First, we need to observe. Make an observation. What is God speaking to you, as I said in these verses, but specifically, as you are experiencing anger Pride, fear, defensiveness, trying to escape Trying to cover up lust, lying , theft. These are not things that are out there. As you experiencing these things, and a whole host of others that I could name, what is it that he's calling you to do? Observe it. Look at it. And then ask the second question. Through the process of reflection How is this thing, this area of my life, this pattern, how is it shaping my life? How is it keeping me from relationships? How is it hurting relationships? How is it affecting my work life? Whatever it may be, beyond observation, needs to be the reflection. This pattern is not happening outside of my life. It's happening intricately within the different communities that I'm involved in. Your nuclear group of friends or family, whatever the case may be. In your neighborhood, in your work, in your play, whatever it may be, these things have an effect. And the process of repentance is not only observe, not only reflect, but it's a third, and that is, and this is the process of what you've heard. Repent means to turn from and to turn to. Biblically speaking. I'm going to use a different word. I'm going to use the word discuss. Here's what I mean. The process of repentance means to turn from and to turn to, that is, to turn to the Lord your God and begin talking with your Lord about the area that you're being called to repentance in Are you talking with God about the area where he may be calling you to repentance? But there's another way that it also needs to take place. Find someone else in the journey with you. And if you don't have that person, pray for someone. Talk to someone if you're a part of this body, if you're a regular attender, if you're a visitor. We would love to direct you to someone who can talk with you. Because as we confess to God, we're also called by the Scriptures to confess our sins to one another. We need others along in the journey with us because no one becomes a Christian through Jesus Christ as an individual who remains an individual. You're called into a body of people. The process of repentance is observing what is this doing in my life? What is it doing to my relationships? How is it shaping? And I reflect on that reality, and I then need to begin the process of discussing it with my Lord and my Savior, asking for forgiveness. But also talking with someone else who's in my life. So see, here's what God is doing in me. As I began to experience this thing that God was showing me in regard to being the spiritual leader of my home and discipling my daughter. I did begin the process of discussing it. I began the process of discussing it with my friend Peter Floyd, who's giving me good advice. I began the process Of sort of discussing it with God. I'm just going to put my heart out. I'm sort of discussing it. Like I I knew there are things that I need to be doing. And again, I have a lot of ideas, and I might put them into play maybe for a day or so, but then I feel frustrated that I failed to do it. And so then I stop talking to God about it, because I feel bad about it. You see, I'm not coming into the kingdom. I'm not hearing the invitation. But then there was another key part of that discussion. I need to talk about it with my wife. I didn't do that And so last Sunday I came here and I I shared with you, is my life something worth imitating? And then I said Is my family something a family some other family might want to imitate? And then I said no. And what I realized at that moment, as my wife shared with me, is that I dragged her in And I heard her in that process, and I left you with the impression that perhaps my wife or my daughter had failed when that was not What I was trying to communicate. But see, there in that moment, God was teaching me I needed to repent and I needed to ask forgiveness of my wife whom I hurt. Now, husbands. I say to you, is there anything more difficult, and I'm going to say this boldly, than a w than having your spiritual pants down by your ankles with your wife? She knows you better than any other person on the planet. Is there any more difficult of a person to confess to? In fact, I'll maintain sometimes it's easier to confess to the Lord than it is to the person who we share a bedroom with But that was a moment for me. And what I saw in that moment wasn't just that I I need to be careful what I say from the pulpit. That's just behavior modification. But there was something else deeper. And that deeper thing is the one that God has made me is that, and I know perhaps Pastor Tim and Pastor Jeffrey Rick probably feels the same way. When God is teaching me something, it's like I'm electric, like my hair is on end, right? And I'm ready to share it. But sometimes I share things before they're fully baked. And when I do that, I hurt others. And I need to spend a little more time allowing that to bake with my Lord in reflection, in observation, in discussion with my Heavenly Father. These are the things that God is teaching me. There are many things about which this week I have been in the process of repenting of. What might be Helly calling you to repent of this morning? But the final imperative is believe. Repent and believe To believe isn't what so often we make it in the Western world. We think belief, we think intellectual hoops that we have to jump through. But when we say we believe something, we are actually talking about action, not just intellectual reflection. Belief is to be called into action. So here it is to turn from sin to the Lord, confessing But then also believing. When he says, repent and believe in the gospel, he's saying, to act then out the gospel. What does that look like? It looks like this, I think , is to begin the process of planning. What do I mean by planning? This. Something you need to stop doing, and there's something you need to start doing. To believe in the gospel means I stop making excuses for myself and I start taking responsibility for my actions. I stop allowing the smartphones and all the noise in our lives Having rule and reign, and I start allowing the Lord to have more reign and rule over my time and my mental reflection and my heart space. I stop going to that website And you start by talking with someone who can keep you accountable so that you won't go there. But even that is not foolproof, is it? Believing in the gospel means it's this. There is something today. Today that you can act on. That's the second part of belief. It's one is the plan, something you stop doing and then you start doing, but then today you can act on something, and that is this. We as Americans are really good at building up these great plans. We think weeks in advance, months at a time, years. What are your resolutions for the year? But I'm wondering. Because today is the day that the Lord has made. Maybe there is something I just need to stop worrying about tomorrow or this week or this month or this year and start saying, Is there something I need to stop doing and start doing today? Today. Is there someone I need to seek out to walk this journey with me? Is there someone who can help show me what does it mean to hear from Jesus through the scriptures? What is God asking you to believe in and to act on today? But I want to be very clear. At every stage of this From the invitation into the kingdom at the defining moment of this hour, this day, and through the repent and believe. It is all begins, is empowered by, and it ends by grace. We cannot enter the kingdom without grace. We cannot repent and believe in the kingdom without grace. It is his grace that invites us, his grace that empowers us, his grace that goes with us. It is by grace alone. And this same Lord. Invites us to drink deeply of that grace I want to share with you this closing quote from Robert Ferrar Capone, who passed away last year Who is writing and reflecting on the doctrines of grace that came from the Reformation? He wrote this on October 31st on what is sometimes known as Reformation Day. October 31, 1517, Luther would nail the 95 Theses on the church door at Wittenberg, where he was hoping to bring reformation to the Catholic Church, but a whole different thing happened. But underneath it all were the doctrines of grace that he was learning from the scriptures. And Capone writes this and reflects on it and he says this. The Reformation was a time when men went blind staggering drunk because they had discovered in the dusty basement of late medievalism a whole cellar full of fifteen hundred year old two hundred proof grace. Bottle after bottle of distillate scripture, one sip of which would convince anyone that God saves us single-handedly. The word of the gospel, after all those centuries of trying to lift yourself up into heaven by worrying about the perfection of your bootstraps, suddenly turned out to be a flat announcement. that the saved were home before they ever started. Grace has to be drunk straight, no water, no ice, and certainly no ginger ale Neither goodness nor badness, not the flowers that bloom in the spring of super spirituality, could be allowed to enter into the case. He 's saying, no amount of our goodness, no amount of our badness. Could ever merit before a holy God grace. No amount of super spirituality or great plans could ever earn for us an ounce or a drop of the blood of Jesus. Because it is all two hundred proof pure gratuitous grace And it is Jesus who this moment, this second, invites us in But he will never leave us as we came in. And he also challenges us. This is what the Lord is doing in my life. What is he doing in yours? Come, Lord Jesus Come and make your word by your spirit real to us and speak to our hearts and our minds, inviting us to participate. In the gospel of God, the kingdom of God. Lord, we pray that you would enable us by your invitation. To drink deeply of this wonderful grace that makes us new Lord, we are all works in progress, but we know that you have a plan, a time, a moment for us. So, Lord, speak, for we are listening. And help the teacher. In Jesus' name, Amen.