We turn now to the book of Acts. We were last week looking at how the gospel was moving out of Jerusalem into Samaria. Bringing conversion, challenging the hearts of people with the offer of Jesus Christ. We now will spend the next few weeks. Taking an intermittent break with the missions conference, that we will be looking at how and in what ways the Lord brings conversion in particular people's lives. And this week we're looking at this Ethiopian eunuch, and we will look at the conversion of Paul, and then we will also see Cornelius. And what we see is the fulfillment of God's promise that the gospel would go out from Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the world. And it is a beautiful picture of who God is and the means by which he does this. And he's calling us. To consider, I believe, this question. If the gospel has progressed from Jerusalem Through the anointing and the calling of the apostles with the beginning of the early church, and has now reached this church on this Sunday morning, September 14, 2014. If the gospel has progressed to this point, what is it calling you and me to do? How is it to progress to the innermost parts of our hearts? How is it to challenge us to change us? It is not by chance that any of us are here. This is part of God's pursuit of you and me. What God is doing this morning. Just as surely as we see. God's pursuit of this Ethiopian eunuch. Let's go now to God's word as we hear, as the gospel goes forth, indeed, how it goes to Africa. Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, Rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert place. And he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Kendasi, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship, and was returning seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. The Spirit said to Philip, Go over and join this chariot. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, Do you understand what you are reading? And he said, How can I unless someone guides me? And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now, the passage of the scripture that he was reading was this. Like a sheep he was led to the slaughter, and like a lamb before his shearer is silent, so he opens not his mouth. In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth. And the eunuch said to Philip, About whom, I ask you, does the prophet say this? About himself or about someone else? Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this scripture, he told him the good news about Jesus. And as they were going along the road, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What prevents me from being baptized? And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord carried Philip away, and the eunuchs saw him no more, and went his own way, rejoicing. But Philip found himself at Azotus. And as he passed through, he preached the gospel to all the towns until he came to Caesarea. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we thank you for this portion of your word. For it is your timing, it is your word, and by your Spirit will you open our eyes and our ears to receive the good news of Jesus Christ. All the way down and in every part of our lives. We thank you, O Lord, that the gospel left Jerusalem And has come all the way till it reaches us, even here. Help us, Lord, then, as we look at your word and by your spirit, show us, Lord. And help us to hear, for we are listening. In Jesus' name. Amen. In this passage, we see a beautiful narrative. It is a narrative of what happens as the Lord brings about the gospel, despite the persecution, brings about the gospel to go forth. And therefore, he seeks and pursues, according to his divine pleasure and goodness, he pursues particular people. We'll see that as you see in verses 26-31. And then we see as a part of that divine pursuit, this Ethiopian eunuch has led to a series of questions that drives the narrative, and that is questions. All center around the centrality of Christ, particularly the atonement of Christ. And then thirdly, how the gospel progresses from there. Ultimately, it has progressed, at least as far as we are in human history, to this morning. And as you will see for good reason, I'm going to say this, you're going to see why I'm saying this as we get into this story, and that I believe, according to the scriptures, by God's authority and by his spirit, together He has brought together by his providence the fact that all of you are sitting here this morning, this morning, and no other morning, but this morning. And I happen to be preaching this particular word. That I have prepared for this morning, but the Lord has a word for you. And it is nothing other than the Lord taking his gospel to progress to such a point that it's reaching your ears. My heart, your heart this morning. And the question is: what are we going to do with this gospel? What are we going to do with it? How will we r are we to respond? Because a response Is indeed what we are called to. This is not a seminar of good ideas. This is about life, heart-changing truths. Because of the person of Jesus Christ. So let's go. Divine pursuit. Verses 26 to 31. There's no doubting in these early verses that we see that the first mover is God Himself. It is God who is the one who is about divinely pursuing those to whom he will draw to himself. And it is God, without a doubt, this passage demonstrates, along with so many others, that it is God who directs this encounter. God is always the first mover. Even though there is human responsibility, I have been called, because as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I've been called to share my faith And then God's unique narrative in my own life calling me to the gospel ministry. I have a human responsibility to preach and minister the gospel in the name of Christ wherever it is that I go and wherever it is that I live and whatever it is that I do. That being the case, even though I have human responsibility, I am not the one who first came up with the idea. God was God is the creator of all things. God is the one who looked at our sin and our brokenness and has given us his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And through that Son He has pursued these two men at the center of this narrative. And who are the ones that the Lord has pursued in this story? First foremost, it's Philip. Philip believed on the Lord Jesus Christ as a Jewish man. He was converted to Christianity and following in the way of Christ. He was sent out as a part of the ministry of the gospel as it broke out in the early church, called to be an evangelist, an apostle, sending forth to the nations the gospel itself. And he goes forth and he preaches. And what the Lord instructs him to do, he says, by his spirit, he says, go, rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. That road would have put Philip somewhere about 80 miles south of Jerusalem. This was a major trading route. This would have been the major route where people would have reached Jerusalem for worship. And here he says, Rise up and go toward this particular area in Gaza. And he says, And there was an Ethiopian eunuch, a court official of Kandasi, Queen of the Ethiopians, and he says, Okay, go and join this chariot. Now one of the things that we learn uh within the uh first century Judaism, we know this was a unique act that the Lord was calling Philip to do. He's brought Philip to himself, a converted Jew. Now he's making him that into the hands and feet of Christ, his life no longer belongs to him. He's sending Philip out wherever he shall send him. And Philip goes. But he calls Philip out of his comfort zone and calls him to do something that is unusual. Okay, yeah, going to Gaza, not necessarily unusual. But he tells him to pursue this chariot. Now, this chariot would have been on the move, traveling south from Jerusalem. This would not have been just a single small chariot with a single horse. This would have been a large chariot. I'll get to that in a moment. Which means there would have been more than just one person aboard. They would have been moving at a pretty good pace. In other words, he was asking Philip to run after this chariot. And we know from the parable of the prodigal son that in fact, the historical background, Jewish men did not run after other people. That would have been an unusual act, much less he would have been running as a Jewish man in Gaza after a chariot in which he knew no one. And yet the Lord calling him to himself, turning him out to go on a mission to pursue an unknown chariot. Can you imagine? You can almost picture it with your mind's eye. He's running on sand, running up alongside. Just at that moment, as he's running alongside this chariot, he overhears Someone inside reading a scroll, a copy of the prophet Isaiah. Now, who's this other person involved? This other person at the center of the narrative to whom the Lord is pursuing is this Ethiopian eunuch. Being a eunuch was not uncommon, but it was rare, certainly, among Jews. In fact, it was completely unheard of and looked down upon But in the broader world, particularly in places like China, all the way into Mesopotamia, this was a regular practice, and sometimes it was used as a practice for and on slaves, because it was believed they would make male slaves more controllable. But there was also another group of men who would willingly become eunuchs for the sake of service. Of a higher purpose. To give their whole lives, not building a family, not building a kingdom for themselves, but serving someone else. And in this case. This Ethiopian eunuch was serving at the highest echelons of power in Ethiopia. Now we know that from the time in which Ethiopia he would have been in Ethiopia, particularly under this queen, we know that likely he would have traveled Upwards of a thousand miles, because where he would have come from was somewhere around what is today northern Sudan, just on the border with southern Egypt and along the Nile. And he was a person of great power because eunuchs were seen as being very faithful. They were not building lives for themselves. They were given and entrusted with great power. This would have been akin to what we might call the Department of Treasury, except that this man had far more power than anyone has in our government from a financial standpoint. He himself was very wealthy. He would have traveled in a large chariot. He would have traveled with at least a couple of guards. And at least more than two horses. And at least someone riding the horse and someone directing the chariot. We also know that he would, while in Jerusalem, he purchased a copy of Isaiah. That was not unusual during the first century at all. Multiple copies. We have uncovered through archaeological treasures multiple copies of the book of Isaiah. He had enough money to purchase this. And because it was a long journey, now he's a good bit south of Jerusalem. He's found his way, if not all the way through the book of Isaiah. He's certainly somewhere in the 50s Because that's chapter fifty-three from which this quote is taken. And right at that moment, as he was reading this passage, like a sheep, he was led to slaughter it like a lamb before its shearer is silent. He so he opens not his mouth. In his humiliation, justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth. It's at that moment That Philip sent by the Lord running alongside this chariot says, Hey, do you understand what you're reading? What that is saying to us, for the observant hearer and the observant reader, that God Knew exactly what was going on inside that chariot. He knew exactly the time in which he was calling Philip to pursue that chariot. He knew exactly that he had equipped Philip to explain the good news. He knew exactly what was going on in the heart and the questions of what was going on in this man's mind. And so I say to you, God is the divine pursuer, and he knows exactly every thought you have in your mind, even at this moment. And he has sent me as a servant to deliver his word, and his spirit will apply and bring about questions in your mind and your heart that he has for you. But know this God is pursuing you this morning. And he means to make a kingdom of his own. And you see what he's doing. There are a couple of things that we see in this passage. One, isn't it interesting if we compare this Ethiopian eunuch With Simon that we looked at last week. Simon was a person who used to have great power, but then when the gospel was being preached, no one paid attention to him anymore. He becomes a believer, was baptized. He seems to be a believer, but what he tries to do is he tries to, with money, purchase the power of the Spirit in hopes that he can return to that center of attention. He was a person who once had influence, lost it, and now wants it back again. But then when he's admonished by the apostles and says, You need to repent, you need to forsake of this wickedness. He simply says, Will you pray for me? He has a very passive response. Now compare that to this Ethiopian. What's interesting about the Ethiopian is he is a man of great power. You can't get any higher. He has great wealth, great independence, great freedom. Great responsibility. And yet, eighty miles south of Jerusalem, he stumbles on these verses And he says, Who is this? And what's interesting is instead of looking for power He brings about a question regarding who is this lamb who is slaughtered? He's looking at the weakness. What is going on in the heart of this man? What we see is that the Lord is reaching right in And he's making a community and a body out of a very diverse people. And he's drawing this man to himself. Something's missing. And he looks at the weakness, and he brings Philip to put his finger right on it. That the weakness of God brings about the salvation of men. And isn't it a beautiful thing that after the gospel leaves Jerusalem, breaks out of the Jewish community Now is making a community out of people who were foreign. This man was black. Philip was a Jew Could they be any more different? Could it be any more beautiful? Pastor Charles Is a Presbyterian minister in sub-Saharan Africa. I was born in Charlotte, North Carolina. And I'm a Presbyterian minister. We preach and believe in the same Jesus. We put our trust in the same word, have been baptized under the same triune God name. And we have received the same grace from the same cross. Do you see how God breaks down barriers? Do you see what God is doing? And do you see how he takes Philip out of his comfort zone? How is he calling you out of your comfort zone? Are there chariots you need to chase? Are there people to whom you need to take the gospel? Are there people you need to be asking questions of? That look very different than you, but whom God has placed in your life. God's about building a beautiful kingdom. What might He be doing in you this morning? But isn't it a beautiful thing that in the middle of this, after we see the divine pursuit, what we also see is this: we see the centrality of the gospel in verses 32 to 38. What is so beautiful about the fact that the question that this uh eunuch asks in saying Who is this prophet talking about? Is he talking about himself or somebody else? And then this beautiful, simple Explanation, verse 35. Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this scripture, he told him the good news about Jesus. We had read for us a good portion of this scripture. This makes up a good portion, chapter fifty-three of Isaiah, makes up what's called the servant song. It begins in the previous chapter, 52, verse 13, and goes to Throughout 53. And what this tells us is that Philip starts with this passage, and on that passage, builds to Christ to show Christ as a fulfillment. The prophet was not talking about himself, but he was talking about somebody, oh yeah, someone else. Someone completely and utterly other. Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And what's interesting is we don't know the exact words that Philip used. But we do know this: that beginning with this scripture. He began to preach the good news. What does this scripture point us to? It points us to the centrality of Christ, but more particularly, this passage points us to one particular thing about Christ. And that is his substitutionary atonement. I'm very grateful for Professor Roger Nicole. who I never got to sit under as a student, but who I had to make myself a student of because I went to a different seminary. But he's written tons of things and has impacted so many different professors and teachers, some of my own, and so many different pastors today. Because of what he has done in regard to the substitutionary atonement, he's brought into very vivid illustration exactly the glory of the substitutionary atonement. What do I mean? Dr. Nicole always used this one illustration to discern and to teach this atonement, about which 53 and 52 of Isaiah are all about. That the work of Jesus Christ as a lamb who is led to slaughter is the diamond of the gospel. And like a diamond that we hold in our hands. begins to refract the light because it has different facets in it, but it's still the same diamond. We can look at it from different directions, but still the same diamond. The same is the case Dr. Nicole would teach with regard to the substitutionary atonement. For throughout the scriptures we learn a couple few things about the nature of this atonement. Consider these, if you will. One of the ways in which the gospel is talked about is in terms of relationship. That God through Christ reconciles sinners to Himself. It's relational language The atonement also has within it ceremonial or religious language. In other words, he was a lamb led to slaughter as a sacrifice for sins. That's ceremonial language. There is also the language of the marketplace. That is, that we through the work and blood of Christ are redeemed. We've already sung of that this morning. Redeemed, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. In other words, that's language of the marketplace that we were the lost things of God, but have been purchased by his blood, bought back and brought back from captivity, from sin. And that payment was paid in full. That is redemption. That is marketplace language. Another way the atonement is talked about is in legal language Meaning justification, that this is a grand court, and before a holy God is judged, Jesus Christ could put all of us before his righteous throne and pour out his punishment and wrath. Except Christ came in in our place to receive the just wrath that was due to us. And because he did, we are declared righteous for those who believe in Christ. It's legal language. But there's also the language, if you will, of Christus victor. It's military language that Christ on the cross defeated sin and death. And on the third day he rose again. This is a picture of what Christ has done. And so all of these facets, relational, ceremonial, marketplace, legal, military, all of it is about one thing at the heart of Of God is what seems to the world the most weak thing that could ever be. God came down and took on flesh, and Christ died for sin. The Lamb of God was led to slaughter so that we might receive. Receive life. I want us to think about this for just one moment. God became man and Christ to reconcile you, to justify you To bring victory for you, to heal you, took on our sin, and he was cut off From the land of the living. Redeemed, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. What is so interesting about this passage is why perhaps It is most important for this particular person, this Ethiopian eunuch, to hear it. In the process of preparing for this Sunday, I did a study of although it brief, because they're not mentioned very much in the scriptures of the of eunuchs themselves, and they're not mentioned very much. But in the Old Testament we learn this, in Deuteronomy, that no eunuch was allowed to go into the temple in Jerusalem. I don't know if you heard that. No eunuch was allowed to go into the temple in Jerusalem. Now I know some of you are going, yeah, so what, Pastor? Okay, so walk with me on this. You mean to tell me that this Ethiopian eunuch, who is very likely at least convinced of the God of the Jews Got in his chariot, traveled for days upon days to go to Jerusalem to a temple that he was not allowed to go into. He buys a copy of Isaiah, gets back into his chariot to travel home. And in the process of studying their presence in the scriptures, I landed upon something that I had not seen before, and it's Isaiah 56. Just three chapters later, we have no evidence as to whether the eunuch made it this far. But it's not unheard of that he would have. Consider these words. But let no foreigner who has bound himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely exclude me from his people, and let not any eunuch complain, I am only a dry tree, for this is what the Lord says. To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbath, who choose what pleases me, and hold fast to my covenant, to them I will give within my temple. its walls, a memorial, and a name better than sons and daughters, and I will give them an everlasting name That will not be cut off. You wonder. Had he read that Remember what passage she asked Philip about? Here's what it says again. Who is this one? He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and is as a sheep before her shears is silent. He did not open his mouth By oppression and judgment he was taken away, and he cannot speak of his descendants, for he was cut off. From the land of the living, for the transgression of my people, he was stricken Do you see that God, by his particular pursuit Sent Philip to deliver a word that was particularly for this man, and he says, Who is this? And Philip begins with this passage, and he says, Says, let me tell you about Jesus, who is a lamb in our place, whose blood brings about our redemption, who was cut off. So that we can receive a name that is better than son or daughter. Do you see, my friends, if you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ? This is the inheritance you have received. You are better than sons and daughters. You are beautiful in the sight of the living God. Because of the substitutionary atonement of Christ. He represents in his flesh Us as human beings. But on that cross, Jesus didn't just generally die. He died particularly For this Ethiopian, and I can say in the name of Christ, I have no idea your hearts, I have no idea of your life, but I'm called by the authority of Scripture. He died for you. And his word to you this morning is, I can give you a name that is better than son or daughter. Because of my son, who was cut off for your transgressions. Do you believe Do you believe? The lamb that was slain. And then we have the progression of the gospel. The Spirit leads Philip to continue to preach throughout Gaza. He sends the eunuch after he is baptized. He is left rejoicing. We don't know if he took the gospel back or how he took the gospel back to Ethiopia. But you're here. I'm here. The gospel progressed, and you're here. And so I have a question as the gospel has progressed this This morning, I want to ask you a very simple question first. Imagine in your mind's eye, if I gave you a pen and a paper, I'm going to ask you, can you list for me? How many people that are presently living on the planet that would be willing to die for you today? And then start the second column. How many people living on the planet would you be willing to give your life today? One final column. How many of your enemies do you think will be willing to die for you? How many of your enemies would you be willing to die? Because Christ, while we were yet his enemies, Paul said. He died for us. By his atonement, he makes us leaving enemieship, becoming friends of the Most High God. He has died for you. And in so doing, he means to make us a people. So full and overflowing with the gospel that we are ready, along with Philip, to say, Lord. Send me. To whom would you send me? To whom am I to serve? To whom am I to take this beautiful gospel? For you died for me. And oh how I love to proclaim it. Amen I end with this conclusion. That not only are we to consider how the Lord may be wanting to send us, To share this gospel in word and deed, I also think it begins by going to the very center of our lives. And I to ask these And to consider these series of things. And I end with words that are better than my own, Gavin Ortland, who wrote this conclusion while reflecting on this great doctrine. This great work of Jesus Christ, this person, he says this. The atonement is the kind of reality that, if accepted By us all must also take us all in. It will have all of us We can either reject it or allow everything to be submitted to it and be redefined by it. It is a truth too great to be set along other truths, too great to be incorporated into a broader system, too great to be moderated by other considerations. God incarnate, crucified for me, all my ego, all my pride All my measuring of reality, all my intellectual pursuits must bow to this truth. Lord, I surrender all that I am to you. Let me die to myself and find life in you And in quoting the words of Paul, may I never boast except in the cross of Christ, through which the world was crucified to me, and I to the world. Let's pray. Before the throne We bow before you, O Lord, this morning, our heads in humble acknowledgement that you have sent your Son as an atonement for our sins. That you died for us, the lamb that was slain. Lord, this being the truth of God, being the person of Christ We bow before you all that we are, that we may die to ourselves and surrender ourselves to you That we might receive not only salvation, but a calling to take this gospel forth. We thank you, O Lord, that you took the gospel. To Africa. We thank you that you brought it here this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.