Thank you, worship team, for that. Great is thy faithfulness, O Lord, unto me. Beautiful reminders as we get ready to go into our final week in Hebrews chapter 12. Before we begin, I would like to just say, first of all, my name is John Song. I am the pastor of youth ministries here at Columbia Presbyterian Church At this time, we would like to dismiss children age four through first grade who attend children's worship. They will have age-appropriate worship together, and so we would like to dismiss them at this time. The rest of you, you are with me. No matter what your age We have intentionally spent this time over the last three weeks in Hebrews 12, 1 through 2, because this is a momentous turn in the book of Hebrews. The writer of Hebrews so far, if you've been with us over the past year and a half or so, has been painting this picture of who Christ is. And so Christ is this better prophet who is who's better than the angels and those messengers that proclaim the truth, that this this confession that we have to hold on to. Christ is this better priest. Um as we've been discussing in our time, talking about the the priesthood of Macchizedek, however you say it, right? Um that the high priest, that Christ has made payment for us, he's the better priest, he's made the ultimate atonement. for our sins through his precious blood. But in Hebrews 12, we now see what is now known as the third office. of Christ. His kingship is going to be demonstrated in these passages. And so we've been unpacking what all of this looks like. Pastor Randy last week spoke of of Jesus as the author and perfecter of the faith. That the obedience of Christ, his passive and his active obedience, allows us to go to Christ in our weakness and call upon his mercy on our lives. So this week we get to hone in even more carefully on the second half of verse 2 in this passage as we look at both very heavy And themes to rejoice in here today. So for the last week, let us read these two verses. Hebrews chapter twelve, verses one and two. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely. And let us run with endurance The race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him Endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. This is the word of the Lord. Pray with me. Father, we we call upon That strength, the name of Jesus. Lord, who will give us ears to hear, hearts to receive the truth of this word Lord, your Holy Spirit, that will proclaim your truth, not man's wisdom, to us right now Lord, we long for this Christ to be real here in this service to us. We long for us to not listen to the lies that we are told by the world around us and by the thoughts inside of us that our shame defines us. Lord, let us look to this Christ in your holy word today. And in Jesus' name, everyone said. Amen. Well, have you ever thought nowadays, in the age that we live in, that it becomes incredibly exhausting to hold an ordinary opinion? Now I'm not just talking about the serious philosophical and religious political opinions. We know those have always been hard to hold But I'm simply talking about just the the ordinary, everyday opinions on life. I think it's been a little bit exhausting. as as we just sort of interact with all of these opinions each and every day. And let me explain this a little bit. Um if you don't think that it's become polarizing to hold ordinary opinions, let's let's play a little bit of a game here right now. I'm going to say just a couple of words or phrase and some of you will realize what the debates are surrounding you and hopefully this will be a little bit fun. Um but these are things that in which holding an ordinary opinion is is now used against us. It it sort of says everything about you and who you are and it's used to to shame you into a certain sort of uh posture or position. So Uh let's try this. You all ready? Here we go. All right. This is gonna be fun. Hopefully it won't traumatize anyone right now, but we'll see. Alright. Alright, so here we go. Ordinary opinions. Alright. The appropriate pronunciation of GIF or JIF. Ordinary opinion, very controversial, exhausting to hold on to, right? Um the last two Star Wars movies The proper use of the Oxford comma. Laura Orianni. Using a double space after a period, which apparently is now a huge thing. I don't I don't I don't get it. Cream and coffee, right? Ordinary opinions. And in all of these, right, because we've all felt it. the the feeling of of sort of shame. Now now these are fun and and to talk about and it's fun to kind of get into these camps and It's it's fun and poking in front of other people. You know, oh you like cream in your coffee, what's wrong with you? You know, that kind of a thing. But um these things don't really mean too much. But but when they're stated, suddenly these groups come together, they they formulate, they they sort of come into these two camps of shame givers and shame receivers and And then you've got people on the outside who don't care about the debate and they're ashamed at everyone shaming each other, right? And and and suddenly we we begin to start to unpack what is being said here at the second half of verse 2 when we see the word Shame. What does it mean for Christ to despise the shame? Shame is used as a very powerful weapon. It's used to justify all sorts of behavior. It's used to justify all kinds of sins. It's the shame and the not shamed. It's the disgraced and the dignified. I think what shame does is actually really a form of dehumanization, isn't it? It's a form of control over an individual. They're told who you are, what you are, what you believe, what you think, what you've done is less than human. You are not worth as much as the person next to you. They're being told that whatever pain and rejection they feel, you're supposed to feel that because The one enduring shame, the one who is is impacted is less than the one who does not have. Shame is real. And its effects are devastating. A researcher on the topic of shame and vulnerability, Brene Brown, who has studied this topic for 10 years, uh, puts it like this. Shame is understood as the fear of disconnection. Shame is understood as the fear of disconnection. Is there something about me that if other people know it and see it, when they see it, they will believe that I am not worthy of connection? She goes on to say that shame is a focus on self and guilt is a focus on behavior. Guilt is saying I did something bad. Shame is I am bad. Guilt is I made a mistake. Shame is I am a mistake. We see this all throughout the pages of Scripture. Shame in scripture is is Adam and Eve realizing they were exposed, realizing that they were seen. Shame is the removal from the community of God in Scripture, being cut off from the Israelite tribe, being unclean, being being contaminated by everything that shame touches. Shame is is Tamar and is crying out after her experience. With Ammon, the sign of ultimate humiliation, crying out, where can I go to remove my shame? Shame is in the Psalms. The songs that we sing. This is a shame of calling out to God, not to leave his people, despite their shame of their sin. And even for the calling of God to invoke justice Just to shame the enemies of God, to see God's justice and his vindications. So shame is real. And it has all these things that that to unpack and all these different facets. So what is the reality of shame and how it affects us here today. What happens to those of us who feel shame? What are the effects of shame? Justin Holcomb, a pastor and theologian who has uh taught courses on sexual violence and sexual assault, and Lindsay Holcomb, his wife, who is also works at a Sexual Assault Crisis Center as a crisis intervention specialist, writes in a book called Rid of My Disgrace, which is It's just a wonderful book to read, very pastoral for anyone who wants to think through thoughtfully on how to deal with victims and how to help those who've been hurt by this from a from a gospel centered perspective. He writes that victims of sexual abuse are filled with shame that leads to a host of physical and psychological damage. This is the power of shame, as he writes in the research has shown of what shame does to victims. I'm going to read each one of these things in full in full because I I want us to grasp the weight of what shame This is the effects of shame. Self-blame, heightened these are all heightened, right? Heightened sense of self-blame, guilt. Embarrassment, anxiety, stress, fear, anger, confusion, interpersonal problems, denial, irritability, depression Despair, social withdrawal, numbing and apathy, detachment, loss of caring, feelings of isolation and alienation, restricted ability to express emotions, nightmares, flashbacks, headaches difficulty concentrating, negative self-image, loss of self-esteem, emotional shock or numbness, erratic mood swings, feeling powerless, disorientation, OCD, panic attacks, body memories, loss of security, extreme dependency. Impaired ability to judge the trustworthiness of others, various phobias, hostility, aggression, change in appetite, suicidal ideation, hypervigilance, insomnia, or other sleep disturbance. decreased energy and motivation, exaggerated startle response, eating problems and disorders, self-mutilation, substance abuse or abuse, compulsive behaviors, shock, impaired memory, and post-traumatic stress disorder. This is the power of what happens when the worst kind of shame is realized upon those who experience it. Shame is real and it is everywhere. What is tragic often in in our in our in our in our best intentions to help people and to counsel people who are dealing with the problem of shame is that we are told that what they need to do is to fix themselves. I mean, do you see the irony of that statement? We are telling people who are dealing with a host of issues surrounding their shame that they aren't good enough. And they need to be ashamed of their shame to deal with it. And this is the tragedy of many of the self-help things that we try and do for ourselves, isn't it? We try to tell them that the solution simply relies in the next technique or method or book or TED Talk to find your way. So what hope does the Word of God bring to us in light of all of this? Hebrews 12, 2, the second half of this, reminds us of Jesus enduring a cross. For the joy that was set before him endured the cross. Now that alone, by the way, should give us some unbelievable comfort and joy in the way that God Himself, Jesus Christ, fully God and fully man, relates to us. For those of us who deal with the effects of shame. Jesus endured the cross. And with that comes all of this shame and victimize, brutal victimization of all the evil and the vile that was done in the nature of the crucifixion. And think about the very public nature of the cross was designed to demonstrate the lack of humanity of the one being tortured. The Romans called the crucifixion the death of a beast. That was the name that they gave, the crucifixion. Theologian F. F. Bruce writes this: To die by crucifixion was to plumb to the lowest depths of disgrace. It was a punishment reserved for those who were deemed most unfit to live, a punishment for those who were sub-human. From so degrading a death, Roman citizens were exempt by ancient statute. The dignity of the Roman name would not be besmirched by being brought into association with anything as vile as the cross Jesus experiences this. And yet in his shame he is completely innocent of all of it. Shame is real for Jesus, even though he has no reason to feel guilt or shame. He has not committed any sin. He has not done anything wrong. He is acted upon horribly, but he is not to blame for the actions that are being done to him. I want you to think about it. Let me just just unpack this here pastorally and and just counseling, because I know that We have people in our congregation that are that are dealing with physical, mental, psychological abuse and the effects of it, and the effects of that change. So let me just offer this Okay, now the research does say that if you are a victim of these horrible acts, that um many times the one who is abused often tries to blame themselves for the actions of the perpetrator. Blame themselves for the actions of the sin that were done for them. If only I wasn't there. If only I was strong enough. If only I had just spoken up What is the greatest comfort? Let me tell you what the greatest comfort is. We have a savior who experienced shame and yet was not guilty of it. And so for you who have experienced this, know that the abuse and the pain that you experience is not your fault. Can I encourage you with that here this morning? It's not your fault This is very personal for me. Um I uh I grew up um with the intensity of uh of bullying growing up, um, in very strong and and severe ways. Um And uh I'm unpacking a lot of it and and how it's uh related to me in life, but uh but a lot of that bullying was actually done uh within the church. Um and I always told myself I blame myself for for what had happened to me. You know, if only I was charismatic enough, then they wouldn't have treated me that way. Um if only I was strong enough to fight back, if if I if if only I just didn't like nerdy things, you know, maybe they couldn't pick on me so much. You know? Um maybe if I just was into what all the cool kids were into, then none of that would have happened. It's my fault. We're looking to Christ. We see a shame that is real, but he is guiltless. And that should free us all in here in this room. To know that the actions and the sins of the perpetrator are not your fault. Now how can I say that? Why? Because shame is despised when Christ goes to the cross. Shame is despised when Christ goes to the cross. Again, I am in debt to Justin Holcomb's book on this Rid of My Disgrace, which outlines this so beautifully. This is what he writes He says, despising the shame means that Jesus was not controlled by the shame that he endured. The good news of the gospel is that Jesus disregarded the shame of dying by crucifixion, and in doing so also took our shame upon himself. Jesus willingly suffered the most shameful death, and this exposed the extremity of sin's shameful consequences and the despicable character of our humanly devised shame. Amen. The verb here is is despising. Right? He is despising the shame that is being brought upon and how? How? How is he doing He is despising the shame by sharing in it and bearing our shame of sin, taking the wrath of God for our shame To vindicate us. This is the good news of the gospel, isn't it? Christ's humiliation on the cross. And his as as the larger catechism writes of he as he bears the weight of God's wrath, as he endures the pain, the shame, the cursed death of the cross. is actually the greatest irony because in this humiliation of Christ, this supposed disgrace on him as he's hanging there This means that was used to dehumanize Christ, to call him a beast, to make him feel lowly and less than human. This would be the means that Christ uses to spit in Satan's face and redeem a people that was once cut off and bring them to himself. The glory of God 's exaltation is found in a crucified Jesus What a great comfort that is. What a great joy and love that we have in this Christ. You see, you see how much better this is than to simply tell someone that they need to try harder or to to think better, to to to love more deeply to remove shame. I mean those things are not bad, right? Let me be very clear. Those things are are helpful, but those things are limited because they are fragile. Because their foundation is fragile. We are broken by shame. But if our foundation for our trust and hope in the midst of our shame is the persevering Christ. The one who despises shame on the cross. The one who takes the best shot that shame could give and turned it into a position of glory. Then we have an eternal hope that all of us can rest on, that far outweighs any kind of remedy or help the world can give to us. This is the king on the throne, where the humiliation leads to his exaltation. And we stand and we see that shame is defeated because we have a king over all shame. Now, when I talk and speak about the exaltation of Christ, there is a phrase I need to sort of unpack before we understand Christ as King. He was seated at the right hand of the throne of God. And this is the phrase, right before despising the shame, which is the phrase, for the joy set before him, he endured the cross. For the joy set before him. Now I want to clear something on this on these words for the joy set before him because I think it's radically important connected to our understanding of Christ on the throne and Christ even in his suffering and his shame. So For those of you who who love exegesis and want me to say more Greek, this is for you, okay? And this is this is your time right now. All right? So here we go. You see, some of you might have grown up with a translation of Hebrews 12. 2 that says, Jesus renounced the joy and endure the cross. Rather than for the joy set before him, implying that if he renounced the joy, that Jesus somehow casts aside joy in order to complete his mission of suffering. That joy was something that he had to put aside. Something that he couldn't see because of the shame that he was feeling. Now they base that translation on the word used for the word for. In this passage for the joy set before him. They would say that that's translated incorrectly, should be renouncing the joy, because everywhere else in Scripture, um, almost everywhere else in Scripture The word for for, anti, is used as renouncing or set against. But the writer of Hebrews, we have to ask ourselves, is he trying to set up a false dichotomy? a false distinction between joy and shame. Now, if you have our church's translation, the ESV, you'll notice that it doesn't translate it that way. It says for the joy set before. And I think there's a good reason why the ESV might be right here. I mean, of course, I'm going to be biased, right? Commentators Speak on these verses. The conversation speak on these verses. Note that there, while there are many places where anti is used as against, in Hebrews it seems to be exclusively used as for. That's four. And in fact, for it to be against, if if if Jesus was renouncing the joy, that would seem to go contrary to everything that had been stated in Hebrews about the relationship between shame, suffering, and the Christian hope. For example, Hebrews 10. 34 talks about the joyfulness of the Hebrews to accept suffering when their property was taken. Why? Because of the joy that they could have, knowing that there's something ahead. Hebrews 11, 26, which talks about Moses considering the reproach of Christ greater than the treasure of Egypt, and he was looking to the reward. Again. Right? Not disting ourselves, not saying that joy is rejected, but actually in anticipation of joy. In anticipation. Of seeing our fulfillment over suffering and shame. Hebrews 13, 13, and 14, which we will talk about later, which speaks of it of seeking a city that is to come, and that is our hope for enduring the reproach. In other words, rather than Jesus setting aside joy or renouncing the joy, the writer of Hebrews seems to suggest all throughout the book that he is looking at the joy set before him. He is looking to the cross and seeing the joy that is laid out for him. He's looking to his exaltation as king where he is seated at God's right hand. This is how shame is defeated. This is where we come to this faith that Jesus is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Now now just to explain some terminology here for those who who may not be uh aware of what what it means to sit at the right hand of the throne, uh this is The place of highest favor. This is the place of highest favor with God the Father. This is the opposite of shame, the polar opposite. This is a place of worthiness. This is a place of honor. This is a place not just of confirmation, but but validation. Of all the sufferings and trials, of all the effects of shame that Christ has borne your bath, the seated at the right hand of throne is a place in a position of power and glory. A place of no powerlessness, a place of no humiliation. And this, by the way, is the exact position by those of us who are by faith alone and grace alone united to Christ, this is the place that we are promised to stand as well. The exaltation of Christ is proof that shame never will have the final say in our lives because our union with Christ, we already know where our final position is. As Christians and believers in Him. Ruling and reigning with Christ is often not a talked-about theme because it almost seems arrogant to suggest the idea that we will be participating in the heavenly work that Christ Himself is a part of, isn't it? I mean, and that's maybe also the effect of shame. Shame has has told us an identity. You will be ruling and reigning with Christ. Oh, we can't accept that. We can't embrace it because who we are is certainly not someone who would be seated at the right hand of God. God the Father. But this, by the beauty and the promises, this is who we are. We are co-heirs with Christ. We are no longer defined by the shame of our sin, by the shame that has placed us for confessing all the wickedness and evils that we've done. We are no longer shamed by our circumstances or by people or by verse ideologies or the false wisdom of our age, but we are vindicated, freed. And imperfect fellowship and enjoy an in position of highest favor, not because we are worth it. Worthy, but because we have a worthy author and perfecter of our faith who has made us and called us worthy. This is the beauty of the gospel. I'll end with this story. I promise. I know when preachers say I'll end with the story and then they you know. But anyways, I'll end with the story. In twenty twelve, um a freshman uh by the name of Justin Galagos entered into the track and field program of Hart High School in Santa Clara, Clarita, California, looking to join the school's cross-country team We've been talking about marathons and races for the last two weeks, so why not? You know, let's just keep it going, right? There was simply one thing that both the family and the school had a concern about with Justin entering into the cross-country program. And that is that Justin had cerebral palsy. The condition left him with a gait and a stride that was often awkward and and difficult. Uh he he would fall over and over and over and over and over again in his first week of running. And and and this was coming to a point where the coach was wondering if if he could actually make it or not. Justin's knees and elbows took a beating. He would have cuts and scrapes and bruises, and um he would even have his his parents would put knee pads on him to cushion his falls. Um, think about wearing these knee pads while you're just running and and the shame that would be palpable, the shame of falling, and the shame that is real that he had to deal with. But see then a funny thing started to happen actually with Justin. Um Justin got up every time he fell. Justin did not let the shame define him or strip him of who he was as an image-bearer of God. And he he started setting goals. He started saying that even though I would finish dead last in every race, I would have goals that I would I would set for myself. So by the end of his freshman year, he was running eight minutes and thirty seconds in his mile. Uh by senior year he had cut it off by a full minute. Seven thirty. He then exceeded that and went to seven minutes and fourteen seconds for the mile. And he set a new goal of six minutes and thirty seconds. seconds. His story, as word got out, was was an inspiration to his town, city, and school, and and eventually it made national headlines. Justin, um Would would run and towards the finish of the race the opponents of the other team and families would would clap and cheer for him as he finished each and every single race. And every single race he finished faster, stronger, still with a gait in his run, but with better technique, much stronger. This caught the attention of his dream school, the University of Oregon. And they offered him a position on the university team and when he couldn't afford it, the communities and the people who heard the story paid for his first two years so that he could run. But perhaps the most beautiful part of this story is what happened this week. The world's largest major sports apparel company who offers sponsorships and contracts to professional athletes around the world, they heard Justin's story. And decided to prize him by offering, for the first time ever in its history, a professional athlete contract to Justin for his efforts They wanted to support his dreams to perhaps one day compete in the Paralympic Games. And there's this moment, the video is online, and you know they just encourage you to watch it. If you're looking for like a good cry, right, just just just watch it, right? Just a good, good cry. Watch it. Um there's this moment where Justin doesn't know what's going on. And the the the person announces his name as the one who would be receiving this professional athletic contract And there's this moment where despite everything that he's been through involving his cerebral palsy, despite everything that all the shame that he has in this in in talking and in speaking, all the shame that he has in finishing dead last in every single race. Right? He's he's validated and he's given the seat of honor. Just then he he starts there's this one moment where he starts weeping uncontrollably and you know it's it's It's a good cry. There's fluids coming from like every part of his face and you know, it's just it's just a good cry. Um and the the best part about this is that the contract giver at one point says to him, We want to let you know That in our eyes, you're just an athlete. Not defined by anything else, not defined by your you are just an athlete. Translation Your shame doesn't define you. Christ is your hope. Christ is the one who defines us. He has despised the shame of the cross and bore your shame so that you would rule and reign with him. This is the joy that is not renounced, but is set before us to walk. In this thing that we call life together as the body of Christ. This is a joy that we get to sing about and rejoice in here and now. So why don't we pray together? Father, we thank you that the effects of Our shame is removed when you despise the shame of the cross, when you will remain obedient to the end, when you saw the joy that was set before you And you endured the greatest humiliation so that you would be exalted and lifted high. Father, may this precious hope of the gospel give us grace today. For those of us who are in the mode of self-condemnation, who blame themselves, for all that has happened and and who who are are struggling and wrestling with the effects of sin in their own life. Father, I pray that they would know that there is forgiveness for them. That you condemn them no more, that you forget their sins as far as the East is from the West, that nothing can separate them from the love of God. Father, help us to renounce Satan's lies. He tries to tell us that we are something that we are not. Help us to fix our eyes to the author and perfecter of our faith, Jesus Christ. It's his name we pray all of these things. Amen. So let's think about that. Let's all stand together