Many have asked, how do I like having two services? It's really great. It's great because I can redo things I didn't like. And uh so this morning, let's turn back to the letter of First Peter. And uh so we turn this morning to First Peter, we're gonna be finishing uh chapter three this morning, we're gonna be looking specifically at Uh first Peter chapter three, verses eighteen to twenty-two. Last week we looked together at uh Verses 13 to 17, specifically looking at the glorious call of the Christian, that is to give an account of the hope that the Christian has finding salvation through Jesus Christ and being ready to give a reason for that hope. And because of the work of Christ and because of his grace No one ever deserves his salvation. Therefore it comes as a free gift. And because it comes as a free gift, That changes the way that the Christian is to interface and to engage those who don't believe. It is with a new respect, with a gentleness. And the passage closes in 17, verse 17, talking about how it is better to suffer for doing good than for doing evil. And that is that when the Church of Jesus Christ and those who profess faith engage those who don't believe in giving a reason for the hope of salvation in Jesus Christ, it is done with a gentleness and respect, even though that may cause persecution. But that in so doing, that when Christians are persecuted for gently and respectfully declaring the work of Christ, That in fact that persecution will be turned on itself and will become ashamed of itself because doing so in gentleness with care and respect. Is itself worthy of respect. But he acknowledges that there is suffering that will come. Peter acknowledges it'll be suffering that comes for doing good. And I didn't say this last week, but the suffering that comes is the denial of self, of looking to Christ, proclaiming him and not ourselves. Recognizing that when we proclaim him, we may not have the respect, the honor, the acceptance in the world. But we die to that desire. And we live for Christ. That is modeled, the great, the glorious call of the Christian is modeled after the glorious call of Christ. In this, that it is Christ who is the ground of everything that the Christian does, of every Christian proclamation And so what is told to us here is the glorious call of Christ as being the ground, the motivation, the very content of the message of the gospel. And so what you will see here this morning in these verses is in fact the glorious call of Christ. Hear now, 1 Peter 3, verses 18 to 22. For Christ died for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. He was put to death in the body, but made alive by the Spirit. Through whom also he went and preached to the spirits in prison, who disobeyed long ago, when God waited patiently in the days of Noah, while the ark was being built, In it only a few people, eight and all, were saved through water. And this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you also. Not the removal of dirt from the body, but the pledge of a good conscience toward God. It saves you by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at God's right hand with angels. Authorities and powers in submission to Him. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Father, we pray, and I pray on our behalf this morning that by your Holy Spirit you would give us weak eyes for things of no account. And give us great clarity for the truth of your word. Help us, Lord, to see you. In this word, to hear you in it, but most of all to be changed by this truth for your glory. Help us to see the glory. of Christ. In Jesus' name. Amen. So let me just open by saying um Something that I say with some comfort, and I ask also for your patience. Martin Luther, one of the early reformers, some of you may have heard of him. Said when he looked at this text and actually preached to it, he said the following thing. I have no idea what Peter is talking about. So if Luther said that, me of a lesser mind, have no problem in saying, I've had great difficulty, even though I've preached this text two or three times over the years. I still look in wonder as what in the world is Peter talking about? So I ask for your patience. But also let that be a reminder that no pastor, no preacher stands before you and can say Thus saith the Lord, unless we look directly at Scripture, and my hope this morning is not in myself, but in the Spirit. But I do believe He's given us A clear word, and that clear word is seen in Christ Himself. Let's look at the work of Christ. Let's look together also at the deliverance through Christ, and finally the glory of Christ. So together, let's look first at the work of Christ. Look together as we see in verse 18. He declares in the opening words, For Christ died for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. So he begins in this section of looking and pointing these Christians that he's writing to to the work of Christ, and it is first his death. And then secondly, we see at the latter part of verse 18, where he says, He bring you to God, he was put to death in the body, but made alive by the Spirit. So he looks at two parts of the work of Christ, the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ. Now let me say, I I don't believe necessarily that that Peter had this in mind, but as I see it, together with the with the trajectory of the New Testament, with the message of Scripture, I see Christ in here, portrayed here in his death and resurrection as two things that can never be separated. In his death, Jesus is showing us that he is the great high priest. And in his resurrection, that he is the great king. That is what we've already sung this morning. Behold our God. Behold our God seated on the throne. Come, let us adore him. It's also the same song that speaks of the sacrifice of Christ. Christ is never just King. He is never just a priest. He is both together. Now let's look at this work of Christ and why that matters. And let me put forth why it is, in fact, so scandalous. So together. I've already said that a number of times. Here we go. The death of Christ. Verse 18, you'll see when he says that Jesus dies for sins once for all, he means by for all, meaning forever. That is, it was one death, one time in human history for sins, and it does not have to be done over and over and over again. It does not have to be reenacted to make it fresh and new. That when Christ died, as I said a couple of weeks ago, that as Christ died and as Christ was raised, remember that we worship a God. the triune God, that the scriptures note that for him there is no past, present, and future. All is now. God is not bound by time. That is why when Jesus says it is finished, meaning it doesn't need to be done again. There is nothing any human being can do to make more effective the work of Christ No welling up of emotion, no act of religious devotion will make the work of Christ more effective once and forever. Why? Because Jesus is the high priest that replaces all the priests. that replaces all of the sacrifices of the Old Testament that needed to be done over and over again. Why Though, does Jesus need to die for sins once and for all, the righteous for the unrighteous? Why? It is because Peter, in his day, and I stand before you in my day to declare that the problem That Jesus was coming to solve is far deeper than the Greek philosophers during Peter's day could ever have imagined. And it is far deeper than any psychologist or philosophers could ever imagine is the reality of human brokenness and sin. You see, Jesus did not come as high priest to simply offer us a way of new virtue to somehow give us a path of self-improvement. Jesus did not come simply to give us a better way to pursue life, to be a better people. No, Jesus had to come as a priest to die, as the great high priest to deal with the central problem, and that is the human heart. Peter did not necessarily draw attention to this, but as I was unpacking the the death of Christ here, the righteous for the unrighteous. I want to give you some practical connection with the actual ministry of Jesus. And here it is Mark chapter 7. There are others, but Mark chapter 7 is a great place to go. Here I want you to see how all of it comes together. Jesus as high priest, Jesus offering his life. The righteous for the unrighteous, and how deep the problem is. Here, Peter is, or rather, Jesus is teaching a crowd. And a part of that crowd are not only his disciples and his followers, a part of the crowd are also the religious leader, the priests, and Roman citizens, even Roman soldiers. But here, the primary audience as he's teaching this is in fact a first-century Jewish audience. And here's what he says. Jesus again called out the crowd to him and said, listen to me, everyone, and understand this. In other words, hey, everybody? Get this straight. This is what I have to say. Nothing outside a man can make him unclean by going into him. Rather, it is what comes out of a man that makes him unclean. Okay. I want you to just for a moment, if you can, in your mind's eye, picture that this entire audience here is full of first-century Jews who were taught from time immemorial that what comes into you does make you unclean and what comes into you makes you clean That Jesus, as with the audience of a Jewish people and Jewish leaders, and Jewish priests, is now coming as the high priest is saying, These things you've heard from these priests. The things that come into you make you unclean, not so. He's now coming over here and saying, I say to you It's what comes out of the heart that makes you unclean. Now this was such a scandalous statement that Jesus actually didn't further explain it in public. His disciples were completely dismayed. Because in just the verse later it says, after he had left the crowd and entered the house, his disciples asked him about this parable. And Jesus says, Are you so dumb? Are you so dull? Do you not get it? No. He he asked and he says, Don't you see that nothing that enters a man from the outside can make him unclean? For it doesn't go into his heart, but into his stomach, and then out of the body. In saying this, Jesus declared all foods clean. Ladies and gentlemen, who are the only people in first century Judaism and in all of Judaism that can say all foods are clean? The priests, the law, Jesus is now saying, I am He I am the high priest. I am the fulfillment of the law. I am the one who has authority, and I tell you the problem is really deep. And he goes further. And he says, What comes out of a man is what makes him unclean, for from within him out of men's hearts come evil thoughts. Sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, malice, deceit, lewdness, envy, slander, arrogance. and folly. All these evils come from outs in from inside and make a man unclean. Jesus is saying, the problem isn't your behavior. The problem isn't out in the world. The problem is in your heart. And when Peter says Christ died once and forever. The righteous For the unrighteous, I want you to hear in that the incredible priestly ministry. What did the priest do? The priests would take the sacrifices of God's people, take them into the Holy of Holies, and to offer them As a sacrifice for sin and forgiveness would come, but it had to be offered over and over and over again. But Jesus as the great high priest comes to deal with the central problem of the human heart, and Jesus comes and he offers himself as that sacrifice. Jesus in our place. The righteous for the unrighteous. And what does the text tell us? In 1 Peter. It tells us that in fact that Christ died righteous for the unrighteous to bring you to God. You see that when Jesus dies as the one who is righteous for the unrighteous, what is he offering? Himself. And what Peter is saying is this is so great. I stayed up late last night because I was so excited. Okay, this is what's so great. What's so great is That when Jesus offers himself to the Father as the divine Son of God, holy and pure, that he is presenting you. That we believe that we have salvation and union with Christ by faith. So when Jesus offers Himself, He's offering you in your place, so that when He's raised from the dead, You are given to the Lord. The righteous for the unrighteous. You are now declared clean before a holy God. Let me ask you, Christian, if you profess faith, what guilt do you bring in the doors this morning? What more do you think you can do to earn God's forgiveness? Friend, let me tell you, there is nothing you can do to receive forgiveness except to receive it as a gift. And if you are not a Christian, what I want you to hear that the deepest problem you have, don't let any Christian church ever Play this on you. It's not about do's and don'ts. It's about something far deeper. It's the human heart. And when you're honest, when you're deeply honest with yourself and you're looking in the mirror, you know. You know the desires and the motivations in the world that makes it broken isn't all just out there. I know you know it because I believe that the Holy Spirit reveals it to you. The problem isn't here, and I can't do my own heart surgery. We need the high priest, the righteous for the unrighteous. But he goes further and he says, Oh, but by this same He was put to death in the body, but made alive by the Spirit. That is the resurrection. He's speaking of the resurrection. And what I want to say is we looked at the high priest in his death and offering a sacrifice once and forever. Here we have now he's king too. And he's victorious over sin and death. Now, why is that so important? It is so important because we must remember that when we think about resurrection, like, isn't it great? Jesus was victorious over sin and death, and we think about life everlasting. But what I want to do this morning is to remind you that the resurrection of Jesus Christ, just as his death happened in the flesh and the body, he was raised. In his body as well. It happened in the midst of human history. Not in the hereafter, not in the sweet by and by, but in the crucial Circumstances of human history. Okay, so what am I getting at? What I'm getting at is that Jesus is coming, being raised from the dead, is now saying through his resurrection. There has been a war. I gave myself, and now I'm being raised from the dead. And I am the victorious king. The war has been won. And I want to strip from us this idea, this cute little fuzzy thing that often we put around Easter. Easter is the highest, most wonderful day in all of the Christian church, but it's been coated with so many things. And I'm fine with Easter eggs, it's oh whatever. But let's put it this way. Let's remove all the fur and softness of the resurrection and understand what it is. It is a declaration. of the victory in the war against Satan, against sin, and our chief enemy, that is the consequences of sin, and that is death. He is king. But let me say to you that if it happened in the midst of human history, he means for his death and his resurrection. to have its way and working out in your life in the midst of your human life right now. Not waiting to The day in which Jesus will return, which we said we will see him face to face. Yes and amen. But ladies and gentlemen, he's not waiting for that day to change you. He means to change you right now. Jesus coming as high priest and king means he wants to put out of our hearts false gods and false idols. of success and whatever it is we run to for our own little salvation. He wants to take whatever things you have enthroned in your heart this morning and to remove it. And that is painful. And when I'm honest, I like my kingdom, thank you very much. I like to think of Jesus as, okay, well, the resurrection is coming. It's true, it's coming. But, you know, I can just kind of, me and I can just kind of get along with my own thing here. But as if I looked at this text, what I hear piercing through my brain and my heart is, Randy? Church, I didn't come to make you feel happy. I didn't come to make you feel forgiven. I came to make you new. In your thoughts, in your work, in your motivations, in your relationships. He's come as conquering king But he is a good king. And he means to deliver us. And that's where Peter takes us next That in fact, the work of Jesus Christ is also seen, as Peter describes, in the deliverance through Christ. And this is where it gets kind of interesting, right? Let's look together, where he says these things. He says at the end of verse 18, he was put to death in the body, but made alive by the Spirit, through whom also he went and preached. to the spirits in prison, who disobeyed long ago when God waited patiently in the days of Noah, while the ark was being built, in it only a few people. Eight and all were saved through water. Whew. Okay. Here we go This describes by way of pointing back to what God did in the days of Noah What he is doing now through Christ. But what he tells us here is, he's linking it to what Peter will say in his second letter, chapter 2, where he describes Noah as a preacher. He describes Noah as a preacher of righteousness. And I believe, along with quite a few other scholars, that what this verse is referring to Is that God's patience is demonstrated in this that Christ And that Spirit of Christ was working through the preaching of Noah, the preacher of righteousness, during his generation. Where the souls of men and women were locked in the prison of their unbelief, their hard-heartedness, and their rebellion, where they ridiculed Noah, they questioned whether God was real, they didn't believe him, they didn't take his warnings, yet God was Patient. Because God's desire is to deliver people from their hard-heartedness and their rebellion and to deliver them to new life. And so Christ, through the Spirit, was preaching through Noah to that generation And what we see is, he says, that in fact God did save. God saved them through the water. So that very water, which was also a vehicle of judgment on the disobedient generation, was also the same means of deliverance. To salvation for Noah and his family. Stay with me. So in God's patience Now, in our generation, and the generations since, the hundreds of years since Christ's birth, ministry, death, and resurrection, God continues to show his patience. Through the preaching of Christ and his gospel. And when you receive that message for your own, you are to be baptized. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Now watch the parallel. The flood was the means of deliverance for Noah and his family. Now the water of baptism is also the means through which we see the salvation of the Christian Do you see? I know it's hard. It it it's crazy, but I really believe that what this is what makes sense of the text. And he's saying they were saved through the water, and this water, that is baptism, verse twenty-one, symbolizes baptism that now saves you also. But by it he doesn't mean that literally you have to be baptized to be saved. He doesn't tell us that. But he he he goes into what in fact this baptism is. It's not a removal of dirt from the body. What does he say? He says it is the pledge of a good conscience toward God. It saves you. That is the baptism. That water, you are saved through the water. Why? Because it is a picture of the resurrection If Jesus was raised from the dead, victorious over sin and death, that the Christian who is baptized God is showing his patience by the preaching of Christ and his death and resurrection. Therefore, in baptism, we are delivered by this water because it is in the ground and on the ground of the work of Christ. Because it pictures what Christ has done. But notice what he says, that what the deliverance through Christ is Uh show deliverance from through Christ shows us God's patience, but it also shows us the pledge. Now this idea of pledge, what does it mean? It means this, that when those who were baptized gave a pledge, gave a commitment, their commitment and their trust not in themselves, Notice it says the pledge of a good conscience. What that means is it is an honest confession when one is baptized that our faith, our trust, is in the death and resurrection of Jesus. It gives us a new way of thinking, a new way to trust, a new source of power. That the deliverance through Christ comes through his death and resurrection, and that is what is pictured in baptism And those who profess faith ought to be baptized. Because in doing so, they are showing in public their pledge. Their commitment that it is Jesus who is their salvation. Do you see? But this text goes on to show us not just the work of Christ and the deliverance through Christ, but it also shows us the glory of Christ. Look at verse 22. I'll begin reading it in 21. It says, It saves you by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven. And is at God's right hand with angels, authorities, and powers in submission to Him. So he finishes this interesting text by taking us right back to the resurrected king. The King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And what does he say? It is Christ who is seated in heaven at God's right hand. And notice what he says, with angels, authorities, and powers in submission to him. Here is where we also need to find great refuge in the glory. Now, some of you who've perhaps been a part of this church for many years have heard this. But I want to say it again in the event that some of you are not from this church or perhaps you haven't heard this, but I want to say this again. The reason why Peter declares this is because he's trying to remind these Christians. Who are in the midst of persecution and suffering, that they are in a battle. And this battle is not against flesh and blood, but it is against the principalities of this dark world, as Paul says. In other words, it is a spiritual battle with Satan himself. But let me say something about Satan and angels and principalities Satan as a fallen angel, and because he was a fallen angel and an angel itself, is a created being. Satan does not have all power. He does not know everything, and he is not everywhere present. And I want to remind you this morning That the one who is seated at the right hand of God the Father is the one who is all-powerful, all-knowing, and he is everywhere present. And because he is seated on the throne, everything else in human existence, everything else in the cosmos, everything else, both seen and unseen. is itself under the submission and authority of Christ. So that means to Peter's day and to you There is no circumstance. There is nothing and no person or authority or power that can ever Take Jesus off the throne. What do I mean? There is nothing that can remove you from his love. We have just sung this morning. It is well with my soul. Sorrows like sea billows roll. Whatever my lot, meaning whatever my circumstances. God has caused me to say, It is well with my soul. And as I said to the first service, I want to say to the second, as I look out into the eyes and faces of those who are here this morning, I'm going to say, I can lock eyes and faces with those who know exactly because you are tempted this morning and have been tempted to say, it is not well with my soul. I am feeling quite defeated. It is well. Ellen, it is well. Fathers and mothers who worry about your children, it is well We cannot change one heart. We cannot believe for our children. But Christ Is the Lord. There is no relationship that the gospel doesn't have something to apply this morning. There is nothing that you are facing in circumstances that is not overwhelming. It may be overwhelming to you, but it is not overwhelming to your Savior. So I invite you this morning to declare again. And Tim, can we is it o can we close it as well with my soul? Can we do that? We need to sing this again, and we need to sing it as the church who was saying. I need to sing this to myself because, Lord, I'm feeling overwhelmed. But you are not. Because Christ has died once and for all, the righteous for the unrighteous. And has been raised by the body, victorious over sin and death, and is seated at the right hand of the Father. He is our hope. Let's pray Heavenly Father, I ask that by your grace and your mercy, by your spirit and word working together this morning, I pray that you would pierce this room and the hearts of all who are here. And a part of this body. I pray, Father, that you would speak to them, that you would not enable them to rebel against it, but that you would speak to them a word of truth and hope. And assurance that it is well with my soul because Christ is the King. In Jesus' name, Amen