Good morning. Well there's a few people away. It's a rather unsettling morning with the uh theater being destroyed. And uh people not being able to sit in your normal seats. I'm sure some of you are probably wondering what's going on as the rest of us are, and I'm sure others of you are saying, Why did they take my seat But this morning we're going to look at a fairly serious topic. We're going to look at 1 John 1, verses 5 through 10. But I want to begin with a story. For you see, on May 6th, 1980, at about 1:30 in the afternoon, And a young woman named Carrie Leitner, an adolescent resident of Fair Oaks, California, was walking on a bike path to her church fair. A drunk driver swerved onto the bike path and hit Carrie with enough Forced to throw her 125 feet. She died a few hours later in a hospital. The driver of the car was later caught. He was arrested. He turned out to be The most recent of which having been two days before he hit and killed Cherry Leitner. Once he'd been Arrested, Carrie's mother Candy, felt relief. The person responsible for the death of her daughter would face the consequences of his actions. But in conversation with law enforcement officers, Candy Leitner was told that the laws dealing with drunk driving were weak. And that judges and juries had very poor records convinced Convicting drunk drivers, even those who had killed. The man who killed her daughter was indeed convicted, was sentenced, but only to a very short period of time. Nothing at all in line with the consequences of his action. Mrs. Leitner realized that the society needed to come to Society needed to be made to face the reality that the consequences of those who choose to drive drunk Value their freedom above the lives of those that they endanger. Her work to force society into this realization led to the creation of a group Mothers against drunk drivers. And on this one issue, in the last decade, we as a society in general have come a long way toward accepting the reality of our sin. But God wants us to know this morning that drunk driving isn't the only serial sin. As a matter of fact, God wants us to realize this morning that everyone Every sin is serious and has terrible consequences. To say that we need to listen to his voice. This is the message we have heard from Him and declare to you. God is light, and in Him there is no darkness at all. If we claim to have fellowship with him, yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live by the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his son, purifies us from all sin. If we claim to be with Without sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just, and will forgive us our sins And purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar. And his word has no place in our lives. John is concerned as he writes the churches around Ephesus to deal with the consequences. And one of the things that John has to point out to these churches is that the consequence of sin Is a cavernous distance between humanity and God. A distance which is an impassable barrier. Creates a chasm, and that's the first point, between God and humanity. John begins by using the language of light and dark to give us an emotional emotional response. He says God is light. And we acknowledge that light can't exist with darkness. We're attempting to But the truth is that they cannot exist in the same space at the same time time. And we can acknowledge the physical properties of that, but we don't want to acknowledge in our hearts the spiritual reality. You see, we don't want to admit that light standing for both holiness and illumination and truth can't exist With darkness, imperfection, impurity, failure, sin. Because if we concede that point, we have to acknowledge that we are separated from God. There is a distance between us personally and the God who is. And John wants us to struggle with that. He wants us to Realize that. He wants that to change us. And he so clearly wants that that he changes the grammar. He could have simply said in the group Greek, that God is lighted. There is no darkness. But in the Greek he says, there is no darkness, no way, no how, never. He adds words And structure to make it abundantly clear that there can be no mixing of God as light in our darkness They are forever separate. Now we might look at this as an issue of God's unkindness. We might look at this as an issue of God's inability to call Compromise? Compromise today is a very positive word. We all like diplomats who can compromise and bring about peaceful reconciliation. And I think at times I myself even long to think that God might be a bit of a diplomat. That he might look at my sin and say, well, that's not so serious. I can comp compromise on that one. We'll sort of forget that it's okay. But what John's pointing out by his very language is that light does not compromise. Life's essential characteristic is that it is light. God as a holy God is essentially holy and cannot compromise. It is not a Possibility and it's not a lack of love. It's not that God is unkind. God is God. In verse 5, he says, This is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you, God is light. See, John is trying to point out we're in a difficult situation. Situation, there is a chasm. There is God who is light, and we live in darkness. In verse eight, he says that we If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves. In verse 10, he says, if we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar. In verse 6, he says, We claim to have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness. We lie. John 's pointing out that there are sure consequences to sin. Consequences which, as Jay has said this morning, our society does not acknowledge. And we are very much a part of our society. But the tension that we must live with as Christians is that there is a chasm. For you see, the man who struck Sherry Leitner. No matter how he denies the consequences of his action, no matter how he belittles the choice that he made to drive while he was there. Cannot change the fact that Carrie Lightman is dead. The consequences of his action and the consequences of your actions are real reality. And you can't change them by denying them. The consequence for us is a gap between us and God. Now why does John write this? John 's writing this because, like today, the church who was trying to For the most part to deny the consequences of sin. Those are the next two blankets. Mankind for the most part denies the consequences of sin. There had arisen excuse me, there had arisen in the churches surrounding Ephesus a new teaching. This new teaching denied that sin is a problem. For you see, it said that by even focusing on the issue of sin, we We were in the wrong area. Salvation isn't a salvation from sin or from the consequences of sin. Salvation is understanding who we really are. The people who were giving this new teaching were saying that we really are spiritual beings. And there is a world we seem to live in, which is this material world, but it's not really real. It's imaginary. It's illusion. It's pretense. And that to think about the issues that we seem to struggle with here is to focus us on a world that isn't real. What we need to do is get beyond that. What we need to do is come into spiritual reality and acknowledge that we really live on a different plane altogether. And that knowledge, specifically the knowledge that we are spiritual beings, is the key to salvation. That as we begin to control what we think, we will control what appears to be real. And that what appears to be real is is in So that sin, which is just a matter of living on this lower plane, isn't even real. It can't be the problem because it's not even real If you want to correct sin, just think differently. Think other things into this illusionary reality. Is gone. Today we hear things like think peace. We hear things like think of a better world. And as we all come to this higher consciousness, And as we all come to think effectively on one issue in one way, the world will be changed. You see, the teaching that was going on then is very, very similar to the teaching that's going on. on today. Both of them deny sin. Both of them say that we, in essence, are the creators. For we can create and share Shape reality. And salvation is not an issue of overcoming your sin. It's not an issue of coming into relationship with a personal, real, identifiable God. For your God. And as you change your thoughts, you change reality. The Bible says The Bible says there is one creator, and he is God. And to usurp his position is the sin of Adam. And to follow this teaching, John says, is to fall into He points out that not only do we deny our sin sometimes in the forms of this new teaching, which for those Those of you who are concerned is called Gnosticism. Don't try and spell it. It's a nasty word. But even if People in the church were beginning to succumb. And they began to deny the reality and the consequences of their own sin, so that he felt it necessary To say, if we claim to have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live by the truth. Christians sin. We who have a relationship with God sin. Please don't compound your sin by Denying the consequences of it. Do not treat it lightly. Everyone here in the congregation, I'm sure, knows people who would love to claim a relationship with God. Who will talk about knowing and loving God, but in their lives, having made the claim to have fellowship with God reveal that they live in the dark And I'm not I'm not trying to point a finger at you this morning as as we talk. I'm not speaking of trivial Small sins, although God may be. I'm speaking in this particular category of people who claim to know Jesus, who claim to know God. But have no concern for their behavior whatsoever. And when I talk with them, many of these people that I've spoken with, I'll ask them Have you come to the place where you know for certain that if you were to die tonight you'd go to heaven? And they smile and they say, Yes. Of course I know that. I ask the follow-up question and I say, Well, if you were to die tonight and you found yourself before God at the gates of heaven and he were to say to you, Why should I let you in? The smile disappears. They begin to puzzle. You see, most people are too polite to ask that question. I've never been accused of politeness. I'm not being accused of politeness this morning. It's not just an issue of a false hope. For you see, there is an answer. There is an answer that God will accept. But these people, the ones that I'm thinking of, in many cases That I've spoken to have no answer. They may fumble and say, Well, God loves me. How do you know that? Well, I'm really working hard at pleasing God. Okay. You see, they don't understand the relationship they can have with God Freely through Jesus. And they don't understand that as that relationship takes place, they are different creatures. And we'll get to that in a minute What they do understand is that they have a hope for eternal life, and they don't care how they live now, because God isn't going to punish them. There are no consequences for what they're doing. Reminds me of a story. It's too bad George isn't here this morning. He'd like this one. George collects snakes. This is a story of a man who collected snakes. He bought a little white mouse to feed one of his snakes. He brought it home and he took it over to the glass. glass cage that could have served as an aquarium, but instead served as a container for the snake. The snake was asleep on the wood shavings in the bottom of the container, completely Oblivious to what was going on. The man took the mouse and lifted it by the tail and gently placed it into the container. The mouse realized that he was in a serious predicament He looked over and he saw this snake. And he realized that this snake probably would soon wake up and realize that he was there and he wouldn't be there. there very much longer. So this mouse did what he could. He went over to the snake and he promptly buried the snake with the wood chainers. Then he went over to the far corner of the cage and shivered, awaiting the time when the snake would wake up. You see, he thought that perhaps by covering the snake he might cover his His situation. By burying the snake, perhaps he might escape. But the mouse was still in the very same danger that he He'd been in ever since he'd been placed in that cage. He'd not managed to d change the outcome. He'd not managed to even delay the outcome. In fact, he possibly had begun the meal. even quicker by even messing with the snake. We're in the same dilemma. We face a fate that we cannot free ourselves from. Especially not simply by denying that it's kind. Our fate is not that of being eaten by a snake, but our fate is that of judgment. Judgment God is going to deal with since You see, John says that these people are deluding themselves. We lie and we do not live by He goes on to say in verse 8, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. And in verse 10, we make him out to be a liar, and his word has no place in our lives. John is pointing out that the people who make these claims, the people who claim to be without sin, the people who claim to have fellowship with God in spite of their sin. And in spite of not having some way to deal with that sin, or falsely hoping for heaven. As he points out that the truth is not in them, as the word is not in the And instead of waking up like they hope in heaven, unless some Changes, they'll wake up in hell. Because you see, John points out that Jesus and God will judge sin. God Himself points this out in Exodus chapter thirty-four, where he says, I will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. That's not me saying that. That's That's not some judgmental Christian saying that that is God. I will by no means leave the guilty unpunished Now I don't know about you, but I feel a tremendous burden at this point. Because I'm a sinner. I am no different than you. And I am aware of my sin. So what do we do? What does it mean for me? Well, John is a gracious author. And his affection for the church shows because what he says is this the first thing you do is confess sin. That's the next point. Confess sin. What does it mean to confess sin? Well John says here, if we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves in the truth is not in us. If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just and will forgive us our sin and purify us from all unrighteousness. Claim we have not sinned, we may came out to be a liar, and his word has no place in our lives. The Greek term for confess , to confess is a religious term, and everybody's going to have some sort of an emotion. Response to that term this morning. And it may be right and it may be wrong. But what confess means when you look at it, when you study the meaning of the term, is this. It means to speak the same. from two Greek words, homo and logeto, which means the same speak. It's like homogenized milk. It's all made the same To speak the same. Well, who are you speaking the same with? You're speaking the same with God. He knows your sin. There's no question. He knows your sin and he knows the consequences. What you have to do this morning and every day is to admit to God what he already knows It's not going to change his love for you. It's not going to lessen him in his affection and his care. here. It's going to bring you into a right understanding of who you are in relationship to God. We have to begin to see sin as it is. It is ugly. It is extremely expensive. The sins are that God convicts you of, whatever sins you commit, whether it's in thought, in word, or in action, whether it's things that you do or things you fail to do. Sin is ugly. It is not to be trivialized, it is not to be accepted, it is not to be nurtured. No matter how pleasant it seems at the moment, it brings death. The Gnostics had begun to teach that sin wasn't a problem and it wasn't an issue. It wasn't something to be concerned about because it wasn't even real. It gave a tremendous release to the Ephesians and to the churches surrounding Ephesus because now they didn't have to deal with it. It's like a time when I was a church counselor at a church camp. We had a man from a seminary attached to the church that I was with come in. And talked to the counselors. And he had this wondrous message of peace, where he spoke of God's universal love for mankind. Time. And that the important thing in our proclamation to the people wasn't that they had a means Of relationship with God. It was that God had already saved them. And if you had friends that that weren't Christians, all you had to do was convince them that God had already saved them. And they didn't need to change. If you had Jewish friends that you You'd been concerned about for so long. You didn't have to do anything for him except tell him of a loving father. And as I watched the other counselors Accept what he said. I saw this tremendous burden lifted from their shoulders. And I had to go back later and talk to several of them and say, No If he's right, the Bible's wrong, because the Bible says this. And if you care for your friends, you cannot, you must not Deny their need for Jesus. And I watched their world tumble. Because they had been given a false hope and the barriers lifted. Only to realize that it was false. We have to acknowledge the reality of sin, much like those in Ephesus. If you try to hide it from yourself or from God, you fail. You must get beyond self-protection. We must be Go beyond self-protection this morning and admit who we are. self- Sinners in need of grace. The second thing we have to do is to trust Jesus. The next blind. We must trust Jesus to take away our sin and our guilt. John tells us in verse 7: But if we walk in the light, as he And the light. We have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin, purifies us. There is a hope. That tension doesn't have to exist. And for many of you this morning it doesn't. For some it may yet. All of us need to know we must hate sin. God also tells us that God is the one who cancels sin. One of the things that we have to realize this morning is it's not a matter of how hard you work. You cannot Cleanse yourself from your sin. And in your own power you cannot prevent the sin that awaits. Any more than that mouse by burying a snake Prevented any of its fate. Unless the owner looks at that poor timid mouse, waits In the corner and lifts it out, that mouse will die. But the reality is you're not alone in the cage. There is a There is someone there who can lift you out, and that one is God. And he did send his son Jesus to do exactly that: to live, to die, to rise again. That you might die with him to your sin, and that you might rise with him to fellowship with God, for it is possible to walk in the light. It is possible to have that relationship with God, to have that fellowship. But it's only possible as Jesus the Son lifts you from the cage. The third thing, and perhaps the thing that John is most concerned about this morning in this particular text, is that we live A new life. For those of us who have been lifted from the cage, we may not return. The wondrous truth is we don't have to. In Galatians five, Paul Tells us that it was for freedom the Christ to set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. But in being lifted from that cage, you are lifted from the stain of your sin. You are given the power and the freedom to live a new life, a life uncharacterized by sin Not a denial of the consequences of sin, and not a denial of the reality of sin, but a freedom, a whole new plane of existence that allows you. To live as new creatures. And this morning, if I were to leave you simply with thinking that you can be freed and continue in the sin that you have , And enjoy a relationship and fellowship with God, I would be telling you to live the life of verse six, claiming a fellowship with God and living in darkness. That's not The case. He wants you to live a life of freedom. Will go on and talk about the assurance that we have from chapter two of that relationship with God, and he continues to point out, as a foretaste of that message, that it is those who obey You see, this new life that you are to seek is characterized by obedience. And you only can do that obedience because God has given you Given you the power and the freedom from sin. Sin is no longer master over those who know Jesus. Sin no longer can be your master if Jesus Jesus is. But it's no longer a a situation where sin is inconsequential. You're not a slave to it, you're not stuck in it. You can't escape it because the power of God dwells in those who are his children. In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 20 through 24. Again it's Paul speaking. He says, You, however, did not come to know Christ that way, speaking of the deeds of the sinful nature. Surely you heard of him and were taught in him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. You were taught with regard to the former way of life to put off your old Self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, to be made new in the attitude of your minds And to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. You see, you have a choice. You can put off And put on. Or you can live in darkness. And it is not you that has the power to transform yourself, it is God. And he has said, I will do it. He says of those who are in Christ that they are new creatures. The old is passing This morning, as Jade mentioned, we need to yearn for the new. We need to yearn to see the power of God working in our lives. And working beyond our lives. Do you recognize the sin that you commit? If you do, do you hate it? Do you entice it? Do you admit to God that you need his forgiveness? Do you delight in the fact that this morning He has cleansed you from your sin and from the guilt and from the stain and the blemish? If so , Are you comforted by the words of Jesus when he says, He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me. And I will disclose myself to him. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, it is a sombre message. That you have given us. But it is a wondrous truth of grace. And I pray for me and for all Those here that this morning we would know a delight in grace that you have shown us our sin and our need for Forgiveness, that you have not only shown us that and left us in misery and fear, terror of what awaits. But you have given us forgiveness. You sent your son Jesus, who has loved us with an everlasting love and drawn us to you That as we trust in Him and in His finished work, you give us a relationship with yourself and a new life. Where we might live in the light. Lord, lead us this morning. Lead us as we continue to worship, to know our sin, and to forsake it. To turn from it, acknowledging the horrible reality of what it is. And draw us to yourself. Open our eyes that we might see truth. You might see sin as sin and see you for yourself. God us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen It's crucial that we know him that we believe. Lord, work through us. And as we become more secure in that knowledge of you, Lord, make that knowledge contagious. And help people to see that it is Jesus who saves, not a name. We love you. Help us to love you more. Amen.