We uh are continuing in a series in the uh parables of Jesus. And if you have a copy of the scripture, I invite you to Matthew chapter 18. We're going to be looking at uh a very vivid parable that our Lord um laid out for us. And uh it's uh in the midst of a uh series of teachings that Christ is giving to his disciples. We'll look at that in just a moment. I wonder if you've uh however ever found yourself like I often have, glued to the action of the big screen or the small screen. Or maybe you prefer the page turning uh novels that have uh you on the edge of your seat And in the midst of that story, you find yourself almost audibly crying out for the bad guy to get what's coming to him. You want him to be found out, stopped in his tracks, and in some Shakespearean or Scorsasian way come to a violent, bloody, humiliating end. Anybody? That's how I watch movies. That's how I watch TV shows. And when AMC finishes series, that's how I finish off series. That's what we do. We humans have this love-hate relationship with the idea of justice, or rather, I should say, our caricature of justice. We're nobly devoted to justice when it relates to someone else, especially someone whom we believe really deserves what's coming to them. But not surprisingly, we Tend to give a fairly good pass, and we're reluctant to demand justice as fervently when our own shortcomings are in view. Enter the idea of forgiveness. Well now we should be okay. The refreshing, hard-to-grasp concept that one could have their transgressions remembered no more never held to our account past, present, and going forward into the future. Forgiveness We're all for forgiveness as it relates to our own failures, but it also seems in this human heart of ours, we're not so easily forgiving. When the sins of others take center stage, especially when those sins have been committed against us, leaving pain and hurt and damage in their wake. We're so grossly out of balance, aren't we? The comfort that we can derive from God's word today is that As much as we're able to kind of acknowledge this out-of-balance capacity of our hearts for justice and forgiveness both, God knows us much more fully. Than we know ourselves. He knows the frailty of our frame. He knows our weakness in this area. He knows how easily our flesh wants to hold on. to grudges and resentment and bitterness take full center for us. It's something that plagues the human heart. God knows that. However, it is something, and this parable that we look at today is testimony to this. It's something that God has provided a way out from. It's something that God has done in Christ through his life and through his death and resurrection. to not only make it potential for God's people to be forgiven and forgiving, but For that to be an ever-increasing reality in the life of the church, in the kingdom of heaven. So we pick up in this parable series a parable on forgiveness and a parable on unforgiveness. I'm going to spoil the story for you right up front. Forgiveness has a place in Christianity. Those who believe in Christianity Christ are to be reflecting the forgiveness that they have graciously received through the life and death of Jesus Christ by forgiving others. That's the point of this parable. But unforgiveness has no place In the life of Jesus Christ, in his church. Unforgiveness has no place here. It has no place among those who claim Christ as Lord It has no place in the heart of the believer that says that they have been saved by grace alone, through faith alone. Unforgiveness, it doesn't belong among us. And that's also the truth of this parable. So stay with me though, because God has so much for us, us, in this Text today. I want to give you another, by way of introduction, just a fair warning. I've been I praying a prayer for myself as I've studied this, but I've also been praying it for the hearers of this sermon. And I want to be so bold as to read the prayer I've been praying for myself. Lord, help me to see more clearly the great debt that I owe you and to see what I justly deserve. Help me to see the impossibility of being able to ever satisfy your justice on my own. Help me to see and rejoice in the sinless Savior, substituting Himself in my place. Grant me repentance. Make my heart grateful. Display your mercy through me and grant me the heart to extend forgiveness to all. Amen. Can you imagine God answering that prayer? Can you imagine him answering that prayer in your heart? Can you imagine God answering that prayer in this church? Can you imagine God answering that prayer for his people in the church in this region, the Howard County churches, the state of Maryland, and on and on globally, the Church of Jesus Christ. Can you imagine? If we really grasped the great debt that we have been forgiven, what the church would look like. So we look at this parable of Christ. I want to read from Matthew 18 , beginning in verse 21. God's word for us. Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times? And Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy seven times. Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him, who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold with his wife and children and all that he had and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denera. And seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and they reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. So also, my heavenly Father, will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from your heart. God's word for us today. May God add his blessing to the reading and to our hearing of his word. So we have this parable, but it's in the midst of a teaching that Christ is giving. A parable, maybe you've heard this before, but The word parable comes from a compound word, para, which means to come alongside, so like a para legal comes alongside a lawyer and helps and assists. A parachurch ministry comes alongside the church and assists in its ministry. And bole, that means to to hurl or to throw. So a parable, a parabole, is that which is thrown alongside something else in order to bring clarity to that which is being taught. As often is the case, and we've seen this over the last several weeks, The context of this parable is key to understanding the content of this parable. The context here is all of Matthew chapter 18. In the very first couple of verses, the disciples are wondering who the greatest in the kingdom of heaven is. In verse 21, we just read that Jesus says That the kingdom of heaven may be compared to this, and the story follows. So the kingdom of heaven is in view. The disciples of Christ are the audience. The people who follow Jesus are in view here. The church of Jesus Christ, the kingdom of heaven, us who have believed, are in view. And so you see in the first verse of chapter 18, Jesus tells the greatest in the kingdom of heaven are those who have childlike faith. And remain with childlike faith in him. They are humble before him. They recognize God is God and they are creature. They submit themselves to him. They believe him at his word. They're dependent on him and they're glad to do so. Verses 5 to 9, Jesus describes how the children of God are to be protected from without and from within. In 10 to 14, we see Jesus describing the tender care for his children. One strays from the hundred, then the ninety-nine are left by themselves for a time in order to retrieve that erring one And in Matthew 18, 15 to 20, Jesus describes the reality of children living in this present age. We sin We need correction. And Jesus lays out a way in which his people are corrected privately, discreetly, one-on-one, then with two or three if repentance isn't in view, and then before the church, and then outside the church they're placed, if their repentance is not evident. And so in the midst of this teaching, our beloved representative, the Apostle Peter, who asked the questions that we want to have answered, is standing there with us, for us. If you think of a cartoon, maybe a picture of this, Jesus is laying out some heavy truths. And here's the disciples with their jaws agape. Wow, that's some that's some tall order for the kingdom of heaven participants For the body of Christ. There's a lot that we have to do. And I wonder out loud with you if Peter, listening to all these weighty truths of Christ, is all of a sudden realizing of a relational strain that he has with someone. Maybe, this is just speculation on our part, maybe Peter has in his mind's eye someone with who he is at odds with. And so a question comes to Peter's mind. And that question is the basis for this parable. Before we go any further, let me encourage you to hear this sermon With personal, relational interaction that you've had at the forefront of your hearing Maybe in that setting, Peter was thinking of someone that he was at odds with, and his question came to mind. I want to encourage you to think personally about relational situations that you may have been involved with, either in the past or presently. Maybe you're at odds with someone. Maybe they know it. Maybe they don't. Maybe you've been hurt by someone and you've gone to them and you've raised that to their attention. Perhaps someone has sinned against you, or Perhaps you have sinned against someone else. Notice how I said perhaps? Kind of gives us some wiggle room. The reality is we know we fit these categories. It's helpful to think about this parable in light of our present-day circumstance. My encouragement to you and to my own heart is to put these situations at the forefront and hear Jesus Christ. instruct. He has instruction for us all. Peter's question is simply put, it's based in Jewish tradition. In verse 21, after hearing all these things, Peter came to him and said, Lord, How often will my brother sin against me and I have to forgive him? As many as seven times? Peter is using the term my brother. See, that's the context here. Peter is recognizing that within the body of Christ, the followers of Jesus, the believers, the gathering, the ecclesia. The kingdom of heaven, within this grouping on earth, we sin against one another. And Peter says, How many times when my brother sins against me am I to forgive him? And then Peter being a a good Jewish student, probably even referencing possibly Amos chapter 1, verses 3, 6, 9, 11, 13. Maybe Job twenty thirty-three, twenty-nine. Places where God is depicted as three times he extends forgiveness, but for the fourth infraction he will not revoke his punishment, he says So the rabbinical tradition was that three times was a really good amount to extend forgiveness. Maybe it's the three strikes in your out rule. Okay, that's three, man, I've I I've forgiven you three, but dude, fourth time, we're done And Peter wants to know. Don't you want to know? I want to know. Is there a limit to this? Do I need to keep going back to this brother who persistently sins in this way and extending forgiveness. So Peter takes the standard rabbinical tradition of three, he multiplies it by two, and he adds one just for good measure. seven times the perfect number, the complete number? Did I do seven times? Jesus answers simply I do not say to you seven times, but seventy seven times. Now, Christianity is not if you don't have a prerequisite to have mathematics. What Jesus is using here is a hyperbole. It is a large number, 490. I had to get my calculator out. I spent all day yesterday doing all this math. There's a lot of math in this sermon. And half my kids are relieved to hear me say that Christianity does not have math as a prerequisite. But Jesus gives this answer that says, you say seven times, Peter, I say to you, seventy-seven times. Seven times seventy. This large mount, so that if you even started to keep track like that, you'd be exhausted. I mean think about it. The three hundredth time. The three seventieth time. 391st time. Where do you find that? And what Jesus is saying is forgiveness has no limitations. In fact, in Luke 17, Jesus uses the number 7 and says, if your brother sins against you seven times in a day and returns to you and repents each time, you're to forgive him. That's seven times in just one day. For the believer, Peter's question of how often should I forgive my brother who sins against me should sound nonsensical. This should be a ludicrous statement coming out of the mouth of a Christian. It's as ludicrous as saying, how often should I love my wife? How often should I nurture and care for my children? How often should I serve those in the body of Christ alongside me? How often, Lord? You see the nonsense there? And yet, when it comes to forgiveness, we want to hear an answer. Is it just seven? Because I can deal with seven I can probably grunt my way through to six, six and a half, and get seven out, and then I can write them off. I think that's how my heart works. And Jesus knows how my heart works and how your heart works. And he says, not seven, seventies. 77s. A lot. Limitless. So take yourself out of the mode of thinking like Peter for just a second. Like you're the one and I'm the one that needs to extend forgiveness. And put yourself in the mindset of the brother who needs to have forgiveness extended to him or her. Now we don't want a limit to forgiveness. We don't want there to be a cutoff. When we genuinely repent of our heart From our heart for sin. We want the grace that God has shown forth through the cross of Christ. We want that extended to us. We want that. That's the flip side of this instruction is that God knows his children are weak and frail. You, me, we sin and we need forgiveness. I hope that's a comforting thought to us. It's not an excuse to sin. It's not an encouragement to be lax in our vigil to pursue holiness, but it is a Comfort and extreme comfort to the believer who knows that they struggle with sin. The parable is structured by Christ in order to answer the question that Peter uh asks, and asks, I think, on our behalf How many times are we to forgive our brother who sins against us? And Jesus essentially says back to Peter, Peter, there are no limits to God's forgiveness. Forgiveness is not natural to you. It doesn't come by way of your own heart's strength. It never will Forgiveness is counterintuitive, it doesn't make sense. Many things about the kingdom of heaven are not going to make sense to you at first glance But as my followers, Jesus is saying, you shouldn't place limits on your extension of forgiveness because God places no limits on the forgiveness that He has granted to you in Christ. So Jesus says, therefore, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. He tells a story. Parable. He throws this truth alongside in the way of a vivid graphic story for our hearts to hear. You got in this story one king and a whole bunch of servants. The servants have different roles, they have different responsibilities, different functions, but the one king is one king. He's got one character. And we'll see that unfold as the story goes. Perhaps in the story the servants are the ones who gather taxes for the king And then made their payments when he came to collect. Whatever the case is, the main servant in the story, right up front, at the start of the story, he's brought to the king. The servant has accumulated quite a debt Just a note about the outline in front of you and the bulletin. I'm not those four points, they're really good points, but after I reworked this thing yesterday, I'm not gonna be drawing each of those points in some kind of orderly way. So we see this servant and he's accumulated quite a debt. Now, if you go to the USDtClock. org sometime later today I'm looking to see if you're going right now. You'll see this thing come up on your screen and it's numbers ticking away like Really fast. And it's a large amount. It's like sixteen, sixteen. That's what you should think when you hear this story This servant owes 10 ,000 talents. Now, a talent was equal to about 6,000 deneri. Deneri is a day's wage. I'm going to do the math for you. This guy owes about sixty million days wages. It's unpayable. It's insurmountable. It's huge. Someone gave me a great reference. They said, if you hold this up, you don't get the sense of how big this is. But in comparison later in the story, we'll see. Keep in mind this bottle of water. This guy has got a debt that he can't fathom. Sixty million days wages. And the king wants it paid. The king exacts his accounting, his reckoning. It's the day of that. And Jesus describes a servant as one who could not pay. Think about that phrase for one second. It's a debt so large that there's no way possible this servant can ever possibly hope to achieve payment. And so the order is given for him and his wife and his children and all that he had to be sold and a payment to be made from the sale. And I guess at this point the servant was probably feeling the effect of that accumulated debt. It's affecting himself, it's affecting his family, it's affecting all that he owns. And it hits him hard. The realization comes to him. He's got no possible options before him. He's got to settle this account to the king who reckons that account and wants a settling. And so that drives him to his knees, a posture of humility. He prostrates himself before the king. He's brought low, he humbles himself, he begs, he pleads, he implores with the king. Have patience with me. And I will pay you everything. It seems like this guy gets it. And yet I don't know if he really gets it. Do you just understand, sir, that that's sixty million days' wages before you? Sixty million Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. I don't think he gets it. But I do think he's a pathetic figure in this story. He owes a boatload of debt. He has nothing to offer, but he still offers. He'll pay everything. Somewhere in the back of his mind, he still believes it's possible. And Jesus records for us the heart of the king. See that in verse 27? The heart of the king in view, the first glimpse we see into the king's heart. We get two glimpses in this story. The first glimpse is this one. And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him. And forgave the debt. See, the heart of the king is that this guy before him is pathetic. He doesn't understand the great debt. This is too large for you, servant. You can't pay this back. And your offer of payment I feel pity for you. You don't understand the gap. And so the king extends grace. If he's good to be delivered from this debt, it's a deliverance that comes at the hand of the merciful King, not at the hand of the striving servant. And that's what happens. He releases him from the debt. He forgives him everything. Not because the servant made a compelling argument, not because the servant showed real moxy and said, I'm gonna do it. But because the king knew that he could not do it, he released him from the dead. Just like that. When the king has control of all that he owns, he is free to do what he wishes with what is his. And this king displays an incredible act of mercy and forgives the complete debt, all of it. Wiped clean the books. He's released. Can you imagine the euphoria that might take over your heart if that were to happen? Let's say that national debt clock is your mortgage. Interest rates, bah, bah, bah, constantly rising. And you go to check it, and you see a note. The clock is stopped. It's wiped clean white. There's no more numbers in there. And the note says, paid in full. You're done. Released from your debt. You feel that in your heart? There's a lift. Euphoria, elation. Cloud nine doesn't begin to describe where this guy should have been. Not only was it not going to be negative for him, they weren't going to be sold, they weren't going to be put into the debtor's prison, but it was going to be positive. He was released from his debt and he retained all his stuff. The plot, however, thickens at this point. This is a vivid story, and Jesus wants the Church of Jesus Christ to hear this is our hearts' possibilities. This is what we're capable of. Jesus continues the story for the disciples who are gathered at his side, listening intently on how far forgiveness extends in the kingdom of heaven. This servant doesn't seem to be getting it. He's been completely forgiven. Maybe he thinks he dodged a bullet, but it hasn't registered. He wants to pay back something. And so he is released from the king's presence, and he immediately goes and finds a fellow servant. We're all servants. A fellow servant. He goes and finds him. Owes him a debt as well. It's a real debt that's owed. With real teeth. It's really owed. In comparison to the debt that the first servant has just given, it's paltry indeed. It's pittance. As a fellow servant, they both serve the same king. They both represent the king who settles accounts rightly, the king who displays incredible acts of mercy and forgives enormous debts. This other fellow owes the first fellow 100 denarii, a hundred days' wage. This is where the bottle comes in. Let's say this is a hundred days wage and the Atlantic Ocean is the other fellow's debt. You can kind of see the comparison here. This is the debt that's owed compared to the Atlantic. And that's what's going on in this Fellow's head, this first servant's head. So what does the first servant do? Well of course he extends the right hand of Christian fellowship. He begins to recount the wonderful act of mercy that he was a direct recipient of at the hand of the kind and benevolent king. who is abounding in mercy. Not quite. In fact, not at all. He does extend his hands. But that's to grab the other guy around the throat and commence to throttle him. He's going to choke the life out of this guy Note the order of the events as Jesus describes them. There's a lesson here for me. He sees the fellow servant, he grabs the fellow servant, he proceeds to choke the fellow servant, and then he talks to the fellow servant. Then and only then, once he's got control of the guy, does he say, pay what you owe? Isn't that how quick we are? When that Lack of understanding of the forgiveness that we have in Christ. When we're just modeling through thinking that somehow we deserve to be here, and oh, here's this offense against me. We quickly judge, we quickly grab, we quickly want to choke the life out. Maybe not physically, maybe not literally, but we want that person to be in misery. We're going to hold them to that. That's what this first fellow does, this fellow servant. Pay what you owe. You owe me a debt. It's a real debt I intend to collect. It's mine. And I want it, my precious. That's where he's at. He can't see clear You see anyone that you know in this picture yet? Someone that you might see in the morning each day like I do I don't think the first servant is a guy with short-term memory loss. I think that's what what's going on here is that we have a guy who is blind to the great debt that he's been released from and he can't see his way clear. The second servant who owes 100 denera he realizes that's a real debt between me and him. It's a real obligation, it's a real responsibility. I really owe that, and I don't have that available to me. And so he's humbled before the first servant. He's prostrate before him. He begs and pleads. And the words come out of his mouth that sound vaguely, strangely, precisely familiar. Have patience with me, and I will pay you. The second servant doesn't say everything, though. He does use the same language. Have patience with me, I will pay you. We've heard those words. First servant offered to pay the king everything. But Jesus doesn't give insight into the motive of the first servant in the story at this point. He simply says. He refused the fellow servant mercy, and he had him put in prison until such time that this second servant could pay the debt. He refused the fellow servant mercy. Let those words ring in your ears, beloved. Brothers and sisters, fellow servants of the king, he refused mercy to his fellow servant. Now the other servants, this story continues. The other servants see what take place between these two fellows, and it greatly distressed them, Jesus includes in the story. It inc he includes the emotion, the visceral reaction of those fellow servants Perhaps they were distressed because they had heard of the kindness of the king, and what they just witnessed didn't accurately reflect the king that they served. Perhaps they were distressed because they too owed the first servant a debt as well. And his behavior was going to be personally, potentially disruptive to the kingdom. Perhaps they had concern for the first servant Who didn't seem to be grasping the mercy that he had been shown, and they knew that the king was the one who was best equipped to handle the situation. Perhaps the combination of all those perhaps is But whatever the cause, they felt compelled to go to the king and to report in detail all that had taken place. And Jesus gives us the second glimpse into the king's heart at this point in verse 27. Just like he did in verse 27, only this time the king's righteous anger is burning against the ungrateful servant. The unforgiving servant, you wicked servant, he says, all that debt I forgave you. Because you pleaded with me. I had compassion on you. I had mercy on you. I erased your debt I wonder if ringing in the ears of the unforgiving servant were his words at this point. He had just heard them spit back in his face, up close and personal, from the guy who was having the life choked out of him. And he realized, maybe, maybe not. The master delivered him to the jailers, it says. Literally, the word there is torturers, not executioners. Remember, this is a parable set in the context of how the kingdom of heaven, how fellow believers operate and interact with one another. This is not final judgment in view. This is body life in view. This is church basics. The king is serious about his character. The king is serious about the mercy that he extended because it cost him a great deal personally. The king's seriousness is reflected in the actions and responses of his servants. That's how the king is known throughout the land. God makes himself known through the lives, our actions and reactions of his people. Lives that are intended to bring him glory So it seems to be very clear then to conclude that the king has a right to expect that when a debt so large is forgiven, the servant's response should reflect that mercy as well. Do we believe that the king has a right to expect that when a debt so large is forgiven, the servant's response should reflect that mercy as well? Their first servant doesn't have a way to pay back the large debt, whether he's imprisoned or not. It seems illogical what the king is doing. This is the correction of the king. This is the corrective power of the king. He's disciplining this first unforgiving servant. He's being placed under the tormentors, the torturers. so that he might see again the great debt that he's for been forgiven. We don't get to see what happens with this first servant. The story, Jesus ends the story right there. The story, however, continues in your heart and mine. That's where we get to see this unfurled and worked out. He does continue the dialogue with Peter. The question that Peter asked in verse 21 is answered in verse 35. Jesus, in essence, is saying Listen, my heavenly Father takes very seriously his mercy and the costly nature of how forgiveness is purchased, namely the very blood of Jesus Christ. That's how serious God takes sin. That's how serious God takes sin. And the purchase of our forgiveness was at great cost to God. Jesus is essentially saying, I came to address the nature of your heart, which is in need of the forgiving grace that I bring in salvation, and in need of the transforming grace by which I am making you more and more like me. A God who forgives without limits. Mercy. Grace. Lavish grace We are those who are forgiven and being drawn to be forgiving. Forgiveness is not necessarily forgetting. We have a duty, an obligation to forgive, but forgiveness is not necessarily forgetting. I've been hurt by some on this planet that I'll never forget what they've done. Ever. Because it was painful. But that's not what forgiveness is. Forgiveness is choosing to remember that act no more It's choosing to not hold that to their account. It's dealing with them as if they never did that thing. That's how God deals with us. He takes our sin and he places it behind his back. He takes our sin and he buries it at the bottom of the ocean. He takes our sin and he says, I will remember this sin no more. The omniscient God never forgets. So forgiveness is not necessarily forgiving. Forgiveness is also not excusing a serious offense either. God doesn't take sin lightly, and neither should we. But God's people, we should be characterized by the same kind of mercy and grace that has flowed from him to us. The torturers mentioned here in the parable probably reflect the bitterness, the resentment, the malice, the rage, that stuff that wants to choke the life and joy out of our salvation when we hold grudge. The only prospect for one in under the hand of the torturer is deeper discouragement and self-centeredness. Saint Augustine said that resentment is like taking poison and hoping that the other person dies. Resentment is like taking poison and hoping that the other person dies when all the while we're being destroyed by it. We need this teaching at CPC. Not just because we're coming through a year that has had a lot of change, and that change has brought with it tension and relational strain. We need this teaching in the boardroom where the elders meet for session. We need this teaching in the staff room where the Potter 's House staff gathers weekly for their meetings. We need this teaching here in this room where you and I gather for worship. We need this teaching because our hearts are weak and frail. Imagine God answering that prayer that we would see the great debt that we've been forgiven and that that Rejoicing that comes from the heart that's been forgiven would flow through us to one another. I long for that. I want that for myself to be freed from that torture. And to be free in Christ. See, the understanding that we're to reach at the end of this parable is that each of us owes a great debt. The Bible says all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. None of us can pay that debt. The Bible says that the wages of sin is death That God has canceled the debt through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ on behalf of sinners like you and me. The Bible says the gift of God, the free gift of God, is eternal life. In Christ Jesus our Lord. So I want to implore you, as I encourage you to implore me, cry out to God for mercy. I don't know where you are in your understanding of Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. If you've walked with him for years, you need to cry out to God for mercy. Make us aware of your forgiveness, Lord Jesus. And maybe today you've never experienced that. You've never experienced the grace of God, the amazing grace of God, where there's nothing you can do. To settle that Atlantic Ocean sized debt, and God says, It is finished on the cross where the Prince of Glory shed his blood to cover your sin So he says, Come to me and rest in me. That's what Paul's talking about when he spoke to the Ephesian Christians. He said Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. If we have all that instruction from Paul and he leaves off that last phrase, as God in Christ forgave you, then all we've got is a bigger burden of stuff that we can't do. But because God has forgiven us completely in Christ, forgiveness full, forgiveness free. Then we can let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and slander be put away, along with all malice, and we can be tender-hearted to one another, kind, forgiving. That's what Jesus is instructing his people through this parable. Let's pray together. Father, please help us. We pray that you would cause us to understand more clearly the great debt that we owe. Our sin is a great debt. sinful people before a holy God, that that you have canceled that debt through the cross. And Lord, make our hearts aware because you say that we are to forgive from the heart. That's how you work, Lord. That's how you get the glory because we recognize it's not natural to us. We'll never do it So, Lord, make us more aware of your glory, your one, the wonder of your grace, and make us your people, where mercy and grace flow like rivers. In Jesus' name we ask We ask, Amen.