Please be seated. Well good morning, church. My name is Bob Bier. My name is Bob Bjerkes. I'm uh the pastor here, and it's wonderful to see all of you and Special welcome to any of you who are visiting with us today. This is a big Sunday in a way because we are beginning our summer series. This is the second summer I have been your pastor, and you know by now I hope that I take a break from whatever the big series is. So we can have a smaller series during the summer. People are traveling in and out, coming and going, and uh figure it would be a good chance for us to look at different issues or topics that might be significant to us that May not come up in the Gospel of Luke, which is our main series. So this summer we're going to be spending ten weeks looking at the doctrine of the church. What is the church? Why is it important? What are its marks? How do we know whether we're doing a good job of being the church? So we have ten messages, of which I'll preach seven of them. Three of them will be preached by one by Anthony Swan, who is our worship leader today. And two by our intern Edward, but we're going to take ten weeks to look very carefully at this concept of the church. And we're beginning by looking at the church and the kingdom of God. And in order to do that, we're going to look at a passage very significant to the history of this congregation, Ephesians chapter 1. So if you have your Bible, turn with me to Ephesians chapter 1. I'm going to be reading for us verses 15 to 23. The reason I mentioned this was very significant to this congregation, because for the first 20 years or so of this church's life. On the cover of all the bulletins, you had a reference to Ephesians chapter 1. Does anybody remember what it was? To know him? To know our hope, to know his power. And that was very much the motto or the mission or the purpose of this church for the first decades of its existence, to truly know God. To know the hope we have because of the gospel and to know his power at work in our life as we pursue the Great Commission. That's going to come up in the message today, but it won't be the main point. So I know some of you might think, oh good, Ephesians 1, we're going to get a revamp of all those messages from Alan Harris. No, you're not. So with that caveat in mind, let's go to our God in prayer. Almighty God, we come again to that part of the worship service where your word is read. And Father, we pray that the reading of your word would be received by us as rain falling on freshly mown grass, necessary for the next season of life, lest the sun burn it up. Father, we pray that we would be refreshed by your word and that it would accomplish its great purpose described in Isaiah, that we go forth from here With joy having peace. And so bless the reading of your word to us. Lord, if it takes us to a tough spot and agitates us and convicts us. May it also heal us and bind us up. But in all things, God, we pray that we might see something of you and the great salvation that is ours in Christ. And Lord, we humbly ask that you bless the preaching that follows the reading of your word. And as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, we ask your blessing on that as well. Or else make it quickly forgotten. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Ephesians chapter 1, beginning with verse 15, the word of God. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints? And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead, and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet, and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. This ends the reading of God's Word. But we are a confessional church. That means we have a confession of faith. If you want to know what we believe about a certain subject or topic. you can turn to the Westminster Confession of Faith or the Associated Catechisms, the larger and smaller, and you can see does That topic or that subject come up, and what does the confession say? You might think, well, aren't confessions unnecessary? And properly speaking, in many respects, yes, they're unnecessary. We have the Bible. But what does the Bible mean? How do we apply it? What parts of Scripture do we go to to get an answer to what question? That's where confessions come in handy because they're summaries of what churches or denominations or Christians believe the Bible teaches. We as a church used the Westminster Confession of Faith, which was crafted by about 120 pastors and scholars. In the late 1630s through the early 1640s in England by the Puritans. And it's a statement that has been used by Baptist churches, congregational churches, Presbyterian churches, churches around the world. And it's a wonderful summary of what Christians believe. It goes into far more depth than the Apostles or Nicene Creed. And we have an understanding, confessionally, about the church that often escapes our attention. The visible church, which is also Catholic or universal. Catholic simply is another word for universal. Under the gospel is the kingdom of the Lord Jesus. How often do we think of the church as the temporal manifestation of the eternal kingdom of God. It has often been said that Christianity went to Greek. Greece and became a philosophy, it went to Rome and became an institution, it came to America and became a business. And we think about the church in all those categories. We think of it organizationally, we think of it structurally, we think of it even in economic terms and marketing and advertising. We think of it in all these ways. How often do we think of it as what it is in its preeminent essential existence? The physical, temporal representation of the kingdom of God here and now. In order to unpack that subject and lay a good foundation for this summer series, I want to talk first about the kingdom of God. And what we mean by that, what the Bible means by that. Then we're going to talk about the kingdom of God and why Ephesians chapter 1 was selected for the text. And then we're going to think about things that we need to know because. of what the kingdom says to us. So first, what is the kingdom of God? If you were to ask me what is a kingdom, I might say, well, a kingdom is a is a place. A kingdom is a political structure. A kingdom has geographical borders. A kingdom has a set of laws. All those things would be true. But those things address the concept of kingdom as sort of a concrete objective reality. Now, the kingdom of God is such a thing. However, when Jesus Christ uses the term kingdom of God as something that is drawn near, or something that has come, or something that is among us, He is appealing to a more dynamic sense of the kingdom of God, which is also very relevant to the Old Through New Testament use of this concept of the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God is in this other sense the rule of God, the fact of his kingship It's not the place or the set of laws per se, but it's the reality that he is the king over you. So, for example, the kingdom of God is what is represented whenever I act as if Jesus is my king. I want you to think about that for a moment. You see, it's easy for me to say, well, the kingdom of God is the fact that God said thou shalt not steal. And in the New Testament, in the same letter, Ephesians, he says, those of you who are stealing should steal no longer. And work, so you have enough to share with those in need. Okay, perfect. So the kingdom of God exists wherever that rule exists. Not in this dynamic sense. The Bible also teaches that this whole world is under the control of who? Satan. Did you know the Bible teaches that? In Revelation, in the final consummation of Christ's kingdom, when Christ returns as the Almighty King of glory to finally and fully execute vengeance upon the kingdom of this world, singular, it is replaced by the kingdom of God. You see, that rule, thou shalt not steal, exists everywhere always. But does it exist in your heart? Do you carry that kingdom of God with you? Do you represent the kingship of the divine Savior who is the Son of God? That great lawgiver from Zion. Do you act as if you have a king? Do we act as if we have a king? Do we recognize that we are emissaries, ambassadors, not only citizens, but that we carry that kingdom with us wherever and whenever we are? Individually and corporately as the church. Where God is honored and obeyed by his Spirit The kingdom of God is present in a way that is not merely formal or objective. But dynamic, living, authentic, genuine. His kingdom exists where his rule is expressed. That's an idea that the church in every age struggles with Because we like things to be a little bit more formal, cut and dried, yes and no, signed a dotted line The kingdom of God is this huge concept throughout the Bible. The kingdom of God, together with the doctrine of the covenant of grace, are in many theologians' estimation the two great themes in Scripture. And the kingdom of God is this huge, tremendous, already not yet dynamic in which we live as citizens of heaven. Already not yet. Yes, Jesus comes because the kingdom was at hand. It is among us. It is what we preach. The gospel of the kingdom of God is what is preached over and over again by Paul and by Peter. But we are awaiting that final and full reality when Jesus Christ returns. In the meantime, the kingdom is very real, and we live in it and we are it. But we wait for that fullest expression. When finally all enemies are laid at the feet of Christ, and the kingdom of this world is utterly overwhelmed and replaced by the kingdom of God. In the Old Testament, the phrase kingdom of God doesn't appear. We have many references to the kingship of God to the fact that he is exalted as king, the fact that he is faithful and sovereign, as our call to worship this morning pointed out. But the kingdom of God as a as a phrase That's unique to the Gospels and moving onwards. They appeal to a rabbinic tradition prior to that, so Jesus was building on an understanding when he used the phrase, but he transformed it. The rabbis thought of the kingdom of God in all those objective concrete terms. Jesus made it dynamic and living. Jesus made it about the lived experience of the people of God, not the formal passage of certain mandates and establishment of boundaries. But the kingdom of God from Genesis through Revelation has always existed, and it's been expressed differently. The rule of God is expressed in the Pentateuch in the Old Testament, first five books of the Bible, sometimes called the Torah, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, the kingdom of God is manifest or observed through a family. A family that is called by God, called out by God, Abram in Genesis chapter 12. The word ecclesia, church in the New Testament is those who are called out from the world. This idea of being called out begins with just a family and a very tribal nomadic shepherding context. And it goes and it becomes a tribal affair with many clans, multiple tribes, in Egypt. where the Lord's people sojourn as slaves. And then it becomes a socio-political phenomenon that displaces and takes over whole cities and ultimately becoming a kingdom with a monarchy. A kingdom in the human historical sense. And then it becomes a people scattered throughout what we call the diaspora, the scattering of the Jews. after the Assyrian and Babylonian conquests in 700 and 500 BC. And then it becomes a church. Why do we say that so boldly? Why does our confession of faith insist upon it? Because Jesus comes bringing the kingdom with him. And whenever he refers to that which he is establishing, he says things like, And on this rock, the good confession that I am the Christ, the Son of God, I will build my church. And it is the church to which the King of Kings and Lord of Lords is given power to rule for or on behalf of. The Church. We will never understand how much the Lord Jesus loves the church. It is the church His covenanted people gathered together from both before and after the weeks of his time in Jerusalem. Those people for whom he bled and died, those people to whom he came to preach and offer himself, we will never understand. How deep and wide his love for that church was and is and always will be. Right now, we, Columbia Presbyterian Church, are one of many, many, many Physical manifestations of the kingdom of God where we live. The kingdom of God is not made manifest when good laws are passed. The kingdom of God is made manifest when the citizens of heaven flourish and multiply Do you ever think of it that way? That's the reason C. S. Lewis, following World War II, when there was a drive in the United Kingdom to create a Christian political party Put the Almighty Kabosh on it. It is so tempting for us to think the kingdom of God exists in power structures. and legislation when it exists in justification of sinners and sanctification of saints That's why the great mission of the church is always and ever, the language of our confession and the model of Scripture. To gather the elect evangelism and perfect the saints' discipleship. And there are many, many downstream effects of that in society. But the church is the kingdom of God. And the kingdom of God grows as the church increases. And all of the other wonderful and blessed downstream effects of that. Amen. Thank you, Jesus. But what happens when your favorite NFL team pays more attention to the quality of the commissary menu items than it does the quality of the defense? What happens? Come on, some of you are Washington fans, you know. Everything goes to seed And when we forget what is the kingdom of God and that we are the expression of it on this side of heaven. Everything goes to sea. That's an old farmer's way of saying it goes bad. So why did I pick this text? There are many texts that could have been selected to talk about the kingdom of God and church. I picked this one because it shows us the king as clearly as any other text in the New Testament. A little something about this text that you might not remember. I can't remember. I was a boy at the time. I can't remember how carefully the founding pastor of this church discussed this, but I want you to think about verse 19. The last thing that Paul prays Christians know, having the eyes of their heart enlightened, opening up, truly knowing by faith, not merely sight, this truth. Four words, in fact, the four major common words for the concept of strength or energy or power are used to describe what I'm about to read. Paul wants us speaking by the Holy Spirit, he wants the church to know what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his great might that he worked different word in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. The absolute, unmitigated exertion of the power of God Himself in raising Jesus and in making him King. The power of God in its fullness is on display in the fact that Jesus Christ is King Not only are there four words describing the power that God used to make it so But there's also the four words used in that Greco-Roman Hellenistic culture to describe authority overlapped on each other, underscoring this fact. That this Jesus, whom all the power, mightness, strength, and energy of God Himself put on the throne, has every single ounce of authority conceivable. Jesus Christ, your King By the indescribable power of an Almighty God, was placed far above all rule, authority, power, and dominion. And above every name that is named, in Ephesus, that's hugely important. I'm going to get to that in a moment Not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet and gave him his head over all things to the church. You see, God used every ounce of his power, the full extent of his wisdom, to install his son, our Savior, Jesus Christ, as King, giving him Every single shred of power that could be conceivably imagined, and he gifted this Jesus, our King, to the church, for the church. Guess what? The church is a monarchy. And we have a king. His name is Jesus. And is he ever something? And do we know him? Ephesians chapter one draws attention to the fact that Paul speaking by the Spirit of God makes this startling revelation of the absolute manifold power of God establishing Jesus and giving him with all power to the church. I came across several references in commentaries this past week to the fact that Ephesus was a bullied church. And I found that a little bit interesting because the word bully doesn't show up in academic scholarly commentaries from the 1900s. Never saw that word before. We came across it twice. The idea of being bullied has sort of come into the social consciousness, at least in the West, where who hates anyone more than they hate a bully? The idea that the Ephesians were bullied is defended in this manner. They were caught between the rock of Rome and pagan deities. That's the notion. Ephesus was settled. Many of the people settling there were were people who'd who'd mustered out after a career in the legions. Or they were caught there. They were the people that were left after there. It was a fairly recent city, although it was on the site of an older city, but it had a long history of being sort of stuck between Persia and Rome. As a Greek city, it hadn't fared particularly well. And they were constantly trying to appease every god imaginable because they were in the borderlands between all of these dynastic pagan pantheons. And they also had a secret God, whose name was not Artemis. You read about Artemis in Acts chapter 19. Such that the story goes according to these scholars who are writing, and I didn't have a chance to go back and find translations of this that I could access But they would not tell the actual name of their actual city's God to anyone, lest knowing that name they be given power over the God that supposedly protected them, who in the end of the day failed. And so when Paul writes to them and says, above every name that is named, even the name you won't share. You see, Paul is telling this church in Ephesus, even those secret names that you associate power with, even those things. Those things that have dominion over you at some deep transcendental level, even those things would cower before the authority of this one Jesus. And who is Artemis? That silly god worshipped in a temple that's going to fall down someday. And what is Rome? From time to time, I'll read different New Testament background books to talk about how careful the authors of the New Testament were not to challenge Rome to bring persecution upon the church. There is only one way this verse could have been read by the power in Rome. That Jesus is far above all Rule and authority and power and dominion, that leaves no room for Rome. None Ephesus is no longer bullied. Ephesus has to remember that they are, by virtue of the divine charter given by God to the citizens of his kingdom, they are free men and women. And their true home is heaven, as Jonathan Edwards recounted again and again to his congregation. And they are strangers and aliens here, living on behalf of and in the name of the most almighty, powerful being this earth has ever dared to imagine. Jesus Christ. Paul's prayer is that the church would appreciate these things. And stop living as if they're bullied in a secular world surrounded by pagan deities. that they would stop living in a way that reflects all of the pressures and the agendas and the concerns of a world that is materialistic through and through that is utterly intent upon pursuing pleasure and comfort and happiness now. I'm not just describing today, I'm describing Ephesus in the first century. with all of the philosophical influences of Stoicism and the pursuit of pleasure, Epicureanism. Because Jesus is our true King, and we are the kingdom of God, we can know these three things. And if you're setting your watch by the sermon, the sermon starts now. Here's the three points We would know God and have the eyes of our heart enlightened to truly know spiritually with the inner being. we would know our hope, our inheritance, and his power Phrasing that a little differently than Alan Harris used to, you old timers. But I'm simply following the grammar of the sentence. To know what is the hope to which he has called you. Hope is future. Hope is what awaits you. We're starting at the end. We're saying, dear Christian, do you know, you must know, surely you've heard of the hope that belongs to all those who have repented of sins and turned to Christ The hope of heaven which is in you, the New Testament refers to elsewhere, the hope that one day you will be in the presence of your God, and every tear will be wiped away, every disease cured, every sin forgiven and forgotten. And you will live like you never thought possible. And you will feast in the presence of your God. And you will rejoice on the banks of that living river. And you will play on the streets of gold. And conduct business near Ivory Gates. Your hope, dear Christian. is more than you could ever dare to ask or imagine. And it is the job of pastors and preachers to make that hope as clear and memorable as we can. Jonathan Edwards preached quite a bit about both heaven and hell, because he insisted on the fact that Christians, to truly be thriving in their faith, had to be thinking regularly about the end times. And his constant description of heaven was a world of love, where you will be known and loved radically and completely. And you will be free to radically and completely love everything that is right, and all will be right. Do you think on that hope? Or is your hope so relegated to the here and now? The psychological mood of this moment, the financial condition of your checkbook, the relative wisdom being expressed by your children. Your hope is not for health and wealth. Your hope is heaven, dear Christian, and your inheritance The Apostle Paul speaking by the Spirit of God Almighty puts us first looking at the very end And just like my old gym teacher, Mr. Shipwood at Schwansfield Elementary on Cedar Lane said, Bobby Gierkis, if you're going to stop falling off of that balance beam, you got to look at the end of it. You want to fall off of the Christian life and struggle? Stop looking at the end. Look at the end. Heaven itself. And then be mindful of your feet. You see, the inheritance is here and now The inheritance is what we received when Jesus Christ was crucified, died, was raised, and ascended, and gave gifts to men. And the description of the inheritance here is translated differently, but with two words overwhelming, either with glorious riches or the riches of a glorious inheritance. Do you ever think of yourself as fabulously blessed with an inheritance that is indescribable? Blessed now with an inheritance that has no equal in the entire cosmos? Paul would have you, citizens of the kingdom of God. Know that heaven is your true home, and you have received an inheritance that is rich and glorious. And haven't you experienced the fellowship of the Holy Spirit? The comfort of his love? Haven't you experienced the nearness of your God And is there anything on heaven or on earth that you could desire besides him? Are you not in the position of Asaph in Psalm 73? Your flesh and your heart may fail, but he is your portion, your inheritance. And earth has nothing else besides that you desire. Paul's great prayer is that we know where our home is, and that we know what we've been blessed with, and that we know That Jesus Christ is power and authority. Unimaginable. In Revelation chapter 1, John, the beloved disciple, in exile on the Isle of Patmos, he writes that picture of King Jesus caring for and calling home his church. And he says to Christians, I write to you, my brothers and companions, in the kingdom and the suffering, and the patient endurance that are ours in Jesus. You see, ours is the kingdom and the suffering. We are not the ones who have all the power right now, and thank God for it. But Jesus does. And therefore, when we suffer, we know how the end is going to be, and we patiently endure. Demonstrating the power of grace and the conviction of God's sovereignty. If we're going to be a church, that thrives. It's going to be way more than having a right administration of the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper. It's going to be way, way bigger than just having built biblical roles for elders and deacons. It must be built on this foundation of understanding that we, the church are the visible temporal manifestation, the showing of or the expression of the kingdom, the rule of God on earth, and that ours is a hope, an inheritance. And a king with all power who is for us, given to us. Will never leave us. Won't forsake us. He loves us. He's not ashamed of us, though we all merit that on our average days, let alone our worst. He is Jesus, and his banner over us is love, and his flag over all of the cosmos is power and authority and majesty But over you it is love. Do you have a king? Here at CPC, we have a king I tremble before him. And I'm in love with his message. And I would live for him And we as a church here at CPC, we have a king. And we love him. And we will tremble before him, and we will honor him and serve him, and we will live and die for him. And we will live and minister and hope and labor. Deeply desiring that first thing he taught us in prayer to be realized in our lives. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Help us, O God. To exalt your name here, even as it is in heaven. Help us, O God, to experience your kingdom here, even as it is in heaven. Help us, O God, to fulfill your will here. even as it is in heaven by the holy angels. If you do not have a King this morning and would like to know more of King Jesus, I would invite you to in the front For you, the left corner of the sanctuary. They're going to be members of our prayer team there. And they would love nothing more than to introduce you more completely to this king. But I would simply say to you, this King Jesus, he came and his message, according to the Holy Spirit and the gospel writers, was simply this. Repent, for the kingdom of God is near. You, no matter how great a sinner you might be, are qualified to repent. And Jesus Christ would hear that and enroll you as a citizen of his kingdom and be your king. Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. Lord, we are so tempted to think of churches as social institutions, business organizations. clubs, extracurriculars. Father, I pray that as we embark on this this voyage this summer looking at your church, Lord, I pray that you would help us to see your church. As that body of believers that fills up your body, O God, Jesus Christ, in such a way that angels and demons are in awe. And help us, O God, to be your church. We glory in your kingship Thank you, Lord Jesus, for being our King. Help us to live for you. We pray in your name. Amen.