And nearline is a very good example of a very simple-minded and focused person. After he had become convinced through four months of praying that God was calling him to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem as a place for God's people A place of security and safety, as well as a place for the Messiah to come, Nehemiah gave himself 100% to this project. He invested all his energies into it. He risked his life before our deserts in order to get there. Then he relocated 800 miles west to be involved in it. After he got there you remember how he mobilized all the people to get onto the wall. And then he resisted intimidation, ridicule, opposition, hostility, every kind of possible distraction. So that the project would go on. Nothing could stop the wall and me and my estimated too. So when you come to Nehemiah chapter 5, and you read that Nehemiah says, Everybody off the wall The project has got to stop. There is something more important than building a wall. We certainly ought to get our attention to say, what in the world would stop us? is committed as Nehemiah leased to it to say stop the project. And you see in Nehemiah chapter five what it was And in this is a very important lesson for you and for me as disciples of the Lord Jesus today. What happened, of course, is that some people came to Nehemiah With a bitter complaint against others in the congregation. Nehemiah chapter 5, verse 1, God's word says, Now the men and their wives raised a great outcry against their Jewish brothers. Actually, there were three groups that were coming to Nehemiah. The first was a group of people who were poor and didn't own any land, and they needed food. Verse 2, some were saying, we are sons and daughters, we're numerous. In order for us to eat and stay alive, we've got to have some grain. We've got to get some food The second was a group that were better off they had land, but the land was being mortgaged so heavily onto their eyebrows that they weren't able to get what they needed. Verse 3. Others were saying we're working through our fields, our vineyards, and our homes to get green during the famine. During some difficult times with crops But now everybody's working on the wall, so things are even worse. And then there's a third group of people who, because of the tax burden From the secular government, which you can identify with perhaps, or saying, we gotta sell our sons and daughters into slavery. I think they're pretty bad in the United States right now, but I don't think any of us have had to sell our sons and daughters into slavery for it yet, so you can at least feel better than the people that you see there in those four and five. We've had a borrowed money to pay the king's tax on our fields and our vineyards. Although we're of the same flesh and blood as our countrymen, and though our sons are as good as theirs, yet we have to subject our sons and daughters to slavery. Some of our daughters have already been enslaved, but we're powerless because our fields and our behaviors belong to others. Now you see, when Eli hears this, what his reaction is. You see that in verse 6. When Nehemiah hears his complaint, because we have a real problem within the congregation, he says, when I heard their outcry to these charges, I was very angry. I honored them in my mind, and then I accused the nobles of the officials. And I told them, you're exacting usury from your own countrymen, unjust, unwarranted. Angry of interest. So I called together a large meeting to deal with that, and I said, I called together a large meeting Everybody off the ball. We gotta have a meeting. This thing's important. Takes priority over what we're doing. He calls everybody off the wall to this large meeting. And then he says, as far as possible, we have brought back our Jewish brothers who were sold to the Gentiles. Now you're selling your brothers only for them to be sold back to us. How are they going to make a profit on this? They kept quiet because they could find nothing to say. No defense. So Nehemiah goes on. I continue. What you're doing is not right. It's not right. Shouldn't you walk in the fear of our God to avoid the reproach of our Gentile enemies? I and my brothers and I can also lend these people, money and brain, but let the exacting abuser be stop Hey, I'm lending money, are you lending money? But I'm not taking advantage of people in need in the congregation. In fact, verses 14 to 19 wanted to show us how Nehemiah not only didn't take advantage of them, Nehemiah as governor, appointed by Susa, had a right to test. Tax the people for his own salary and all his expenses. Unlimited expense account. Whatever he can get from them, that's what he can have as well And he says, not only did I not take a salary for this job, I had enough to live on, but I didn't need it, and these people were poor, and so I decided I would not take anything. But then he goes on to say, I spend 150 of them a day at my own table at my own expense. Now you think you have high taxes on a lot of house to feed, you know, to take comfort from the MIFI. Some of these people are selling their children into slavery and use the MIA. He's got 150 people a day at this table to feed out of his own pocket. So when Nehemiah says, guys, you gotta stop. This is wrong, he says it with a following. And do you notice the response to that in those two? He said that to them then Give back to them immediately their fields, their vineyards, their olive growth, their houses, and also the usury that you're charging them a hundredth part of the money, grain, new wine, and oil, a hundredth part. Probably means that they were charging 1% per month or 12% annually. And that's what Nehemiah says. These people cannot afford that. That is greedy, selfish, unjust, insensitive to the means of these people. And your response, verse 12, because here's a man who says, you know why I I'm not saying that you're going to do something I'm not willing to do. I've gone far beyond that. Verse 12, they say, we will give it back. And we will not demand anything more from you. We will do as you say. Isn't that amazing? Verse 8. No defense. Verse 12. We'll do it. No blame shifting. No excuses. They hear it? How many times have you ever seen when somebody confront people in power and say, you guys are sitting, you're acting selfishly, what you're doing in the world, you're not doing what God says to do. Right, I'll give you a thousand dollars, and then whatever it is, we'll give it back to them. But God was working in this situation And they did it. Nehemiah is not about to back off. He's on the roll. And so he says, okay, that's what you say. But we're going to solemnize it with a bound. Get the priests in here before these guys change their mind. So I summoned the priests, I made the nobles and the officials take an oath to do what they had promised. And then, just in case they miss the point, he then dramatizes the oath by saying, This is what's going to happen if you don't keep it. Verse 13, I also shook out the folds of my robe, and I said, In this way may God shake out of his house and possessions every man who does not keep this promise. So may such a man be shaken out. He's taken his rules like this. Make such a way that every man be shaken out. Who doesn't do this anything? What do the people do? They get caught up in this. Look at this, verse 13, still verse 13. And this the whole assembly said, Amen. And they praised the Lord. And the people did as they were. That's probably a remarkable story, isn't it? Of God's work in people who have sinned and wanted to make it work. And I believe in that story there are seven lessons for us as a congregation as we think about what God has us right now. So I'd like to track these with you for a few minutes. The seven lessons that you see from this. Now you notice that if you haven't been around or you missed a few or whatever a few words Those are the first five principles we've looked at in the book of Nehemiah, summed up We come now in these seven lessons to the sixth principle, which basically sums up the seven lessons of chapter 5. And that principle is that integrity among God's people is necessary to move ahead in ministry. Integrity is necessary to move ahead in ministry. Lesson one breaking this down. Broken relationships are a higher priority to God. than broken walls. Broken relationships are higher higher on God of broken walls. Look again in verse 7 DMI says, I ponder these charges, I accused the nobles and the officials, and then I called together a large meeting to deal with It says the projects can't stop. There's something more important than establishing a ministry center There's something more important than saints being equipped for ministry. There's something more important than all of us being mobilized for outreach and all the rest of it. That's the relationships in the Bible. This is not saying anything really very much different from what Jesus himself said. Remember in Matthew chapter 5, verse 23 and 24 Jesus says in Sermon on the Mount, therefore, if you're offering your gift at the altar and there, you remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your gift there in front of the altar First go and be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Jesus is saying, relationships are more important than worship. And so as you and I have come to think about the Lord's Supper this evening, as we come to take that. I wonder if God's not speaking to some of us to say his relationship in this body. The person that you're alienated from. The person you think has wronged you, like these people, or a person who you may be in the case of the noble, who believes there's somebody that's got something against you The Bible says you need to go, you need to make that going. It's so easy for us to think that the uh ministry uh is more important than making sure all relationships. And we can't have everybody as our best friend. But it's a difference between being able to overlook sin. And then after a while you try to do that and you find out you're not. And so this is something that you've got to face. You've got to, you can't ignore it. God speaking to you before we can go on. There's something that needs to be memory. I don't know what it is, I'm not thinking of anyone in particular. But if you find God speaking to you at this moment, saying, Yeah, there really is someone that I try and this body that I just can't none of my get along with I'm angry. I'm angry for something they did or I think that there's somebody here that I suspect maybe angry then the relationships are a higher priority in God than the break of laws. They have to stop and get this matter helping before they can go on in the project. Second often, in connection with that is the integrity of the higher priorities. Than activity. Integrity is a higher priority than activity. Look at verse 9. So I continue what you're doing is not right Shouldn't you walk in the fear of our God to avoid the reproach of our Gentile enemies? Let's basically, you and I tend to see activity is really more important than integrity in some extent. I mean, compared to the world, we're not so bad. I mean, our integrity is certainly better than we see in some of our neighbors or our friends. And there's a a danger that I find as I grow older in the Christian life, I'm older. And it's like, well the Lord, you know, I think um I'd like to make truce with some of my settings things. Maybe I need to cut myself some slack, not be so rigid about some of these things that I keep struggling with. attitude of controlling or desire to protect myself from some of these things that I see that are just matters in my life that I say, well Maybe that's just the way I am. You know, for me there's grace. God forgives. I don't live by the law. I live by the grace of given this of Jesus. They're gonna just back off and just settle that this is always gonna be part of the ignore. You might just do that And say to these guys, hey look, you know, look the way we do business around here, that's just part of who we are. How they've been doing that way as far back as they can remember. What you're doing is not right. Shouldn't you live in realization with the presence of God before we do it? So you and I need to stop. You need that Is there something in your life that you've come to terms with and you've kind of made a truth with it? And if you're really honest with yourself, you say, hey, I really think it's more important to God that I stay busy. I check off my lists and I have to stop and use it in that scene. I actually repent of it and say, God, I know that this part of my life isn't pleasing to you And I've been excusing it and I've been saying, but on the other hand I do this. Or but I'm not as bad as that person. Maybe stop. Sin has to be confessed. As soon as we begin to tolerate it in one area of our life like a cancer that rose and man Integrity is more important than activity. If you ever doubt that, what you mean by a thought? Stop the ball. You're sin How do we bother before we move on? Connection with that third lesson. God's virtual ministry means sensitivity to the need in our body. Look at verse 16. Nehemiah says, When I've heard their outcry and these charges, I was very angry Now, what's that tell us? Remember the first principle of cultivating a heart that beats with God's heart. We saw how Nehemiah, in those years in Susa, had been developing a heart that was sensitive to the things that were important to God. We saw how Nehemiah developed an emotional framework where he responded to a situation the way he saw that God would respond to. And so when Nehemad hears about these people that are being selfish and dreamy, dream, he doesn't respond intellectually, he responds emotionally. He hears that and he says, that's not right. Do you ever get angry at sin? Do you ever respond and find yourself saying, it's not right that these people are being treated this way? Particularly people in our body. You remember last week I talked about the fact that in order for us to continue on the wall effectively That we need to each be walking in integrity so that we don't get distracted by having to invest a lot of time and energy in rebuking and restoring sin. That's true. But we must never interpret from that that that means that where there are valid means in the mind But those needs don't have to be addressed. We just keep on building. And people fall through the cracks. Well, you know, you lose a few here and there. No, with Nehemiah, we don't know how large a group this was. But all Israel stopped because they said, here's a group of people that are getting wrong. That they're not only being ignored, they're being exploited. So whether it's valid means in our mind. We need to acknowledge this. We need to mobilize to minister to the body. We can't just say, well, let that for the deacons. Let that for the elders. Particularly if it's a material kind of dean. The deacons are there to take care of that. I don't have to worry about that. And if we see somebody hurting within our body, it's incumbent on each border. We always say, okay, what do you want me to do with that information? How do you want me to respond? In some sort of compassion or mercy, maybe just to let the demons know about God. Maybe it's a need, it's not so much of a physical need, it's another kind of need. But we need as a body to recognize that God's heart is sensitive to the need. You and I need to follow in Jesus, develop an increasing sensitivity to the needy also, if we're going to be able to move forward in the ministries of his causes. Next week we're going to hear in a body life about a ministry that's within our own body, appropriately called Nehemiah's hope. It was called that before this book series. ever got started to deal with needs in the body. Learn more about that. But we need to recognize that because that's what's on God's mind. The fourth lesson we see from this is that leadership requires definitive action to confront sin. Leadership requires definitive action in order to confront sin. And just look at verses 6 to 13 and see how Again and again, Nehemiah. After ye has thought about it. Notice he doesn't just blast away. Verse 6 I was very angry. Verse 7 saw the let them happy. No. Verse 7 says, I pondered these charges in my mind. And then I let them have it. Thank you. He might have got his back screen. He didn't just go say, oh well, this is what you said, okay, well, you know, I I got them all off. Here we go, roll off. Well That's a problem. But I think probably the bigger problem we tend to have is in playing politics You know this Nehemiah didn't do that. He didn't say, oh, okay, I hear what you guys are saying about how you are being taken advantage of and really treated. People aren't really caring for your needs in the body. That's a that's a ballot point, I understand. They deserve it to the news and he says, You know what these guys are saying? They say we're taking advantage of you're charging two and they say Yeah. Well it is people are always complaining. I mean you know one percent for months, we gotta live, you know, this one yeah, that's a good point too. I can understand that, huh? Yeah, you you guys are pretty good. Try to play both off, you know. I'm on your side when I'm with you, and I'm on your side when I'm with you. How often are we tempted to do that And so these two things are in great conflict, but we never really try to deal with each other. So we just want to be friends with everyone You notice Nehemiah doesn't negotiate. He doesn't say, okay, 1% tomorrow. I can understand. That's pretty hard. Hey guys, how about a half a percent tomorrow? Come on. Is that limitable? Can you accept that? Will you guys take it ahead? No. He says, what's right is right, that's sin, and he hits it on the basic level of principle. He doesn't try to just see what each one will tolerate. In order what what you know what's the minimum damage control? How can we kind of get this thing The United States doesn't even say, well, that's that's a real problem you guys have with this interest that you're being charred, sons and daughters and slavery. I'll pray about that for you guys, you know? And ask God that He's going to do something to help the other man. How many times somebody asks us about a problem? We see a real need in a relationship And we say I'll pray about it. What we really need is I'm going to kind of stall for a time and hope that you'll forget about this. If I just pray about it, maybe you know the thing just won't come up again. And if I can pray about it for maybe six months, pretty good chance that the thing will just die out, you know. Like Calvin Foolie said, you know, if you don't go out to meet problems, nine out of ten of them will be intercepted before they get to your desk. So, you know, we just use paradigm. But Nehemiah, when he heard this, confronted sin. Now I know that for most of you you say, I believe that confrontation is one of the gifts of the Spirit, and I don't have that gift. Many of us just believe, you know, I I just can't confront sin. I'm not gifted in confronting sin. Let me tell you something. If you feel like you are gifted in confronting sin, I don't want to deal with it. The people that like to confront sin are the ones I want to avoid. The person I'd rather be ministered to by as the person who hates to confront, but are driven to it by a necessity of caring for me and for The truth of God is it's displayed in my life and says, I really hate to do this, but I can't ignore it. And so you might tentatively raise questions In each other's lives because we care for one another. That's integrity. God uses that. Not the blasting, the pondering. And then I went and raised the question. We don't even all have as pure cut as we am I do. So we need to raise questions with each other. But there needs to be the willingness, doesn't it? If you're aware of some sin, something that's wrong that you see in the body, yeah, I'm not thinking of anything in the chicken. But if God has revealed to you something, because it's A concern for priorities of a brother or sister. You don't go and blast them away. If you do something, we talk about this, want to raise some questions And then do that in the spirit of the brokenness, of the sin that's in your own life, and the way of awareness, the God delight. Helping us as a body to grow and take it. Good lesson we see from this is that any repentance and reconciliation free the people to move ahead with Kingdom Projects. It's the repentance and the reconciliation that occurs because they're willing to deal with the sin. that frees them to move ahead with the ministry center and various outreach, various things that God has put on their hearts to do. See verse 13. People respond. Amen? And the people did as they had promised. They didn't just talk about They did it. So when you come down to chapter 6, verse 1, word comes to S. Mallet, Jemia, Gashem, Arab, the rest of our enemies, they rebuilt the wall and not a gap was left in it. The gates weren't in place yet. But the work had gone on. You see that people were now released. They could go on to do the work that God had called them to do. Because there had been repentance and reconciliation concerning the problems within the body. Was they ever dealt with definitively? God's Spirit was enabled to free the people to move on what He had called them to do. And so are you, in your own life, aware of something that God is speaking to you about concerning a need for repentance or reconciliation? If you are, no one else may know that, between you and the Lord. But if you are honest with God about it. That frees us off as a body to be used by the spirit, nor by the Lord. You see in verse the uh the sixth of A lesson from this is that that's particularly true of leaders. Repentance of the leaders paves the way with community, repentance, and renewal. Notice in verse 8, it goes to the nobles as those who are in power, and when he confronts them, they kept quiet because they could find nothing to say. They try to defend themselves and say, well, you know, there's another side to that story. Their hearts can move it. Exodus 21, verse 8 says, You shall not sell your brothers into slavery to jail class. Is as clear as that? Well an economic matter. It was a matter of right and wrong. It's not about a good deal, it's a free market. There's certain things that are right and certain things that are wrong in how we treat people economically. And they knew it was wrong. Verse 12. So we'll give it all back. We realize it's wrong. You've been read. And as the leaders do that, you go on to see in chapters 8, 9, and 10 how when Ezra then reads the law, there's been a pattern established. Of non-defensiveness, dealing with sin. And at that point, God brings a great revival and renewal that we'll look at in a couple of weeks on the part of the whole congregation. I believe it's connected to what's happened right here. But leaders have not excused their sin. And so there's been a pattern set. I believe that we need to examine that in our own congregation. Whenever I hear people say something like, well, you know, uh Columbia Presbyterian, you have to really kind of look good. You need to uh uh be and have your life kind of together and we're not really open here to confront uh to confess our sin be able to say you know you want to know the beloved one really living my Christian life Well, I need major help. I'm in serious sin. Pray for me. But if we feel like you can't really share that kind of thing in Columbia Presbyterian, I always wonder about myself. Am I a model of repentance to you? If I am, we as elders are, and smaller leaders are. And the various of us who have any kind of influence in this congregation, there ought to be the freedom for us as a congregation to not have to pretend we're living at a level that we're not If you notice, as I seek to share that, I'm dealing with control issues in my life, protecting myself and certain areas of selfishness that dominate my character. But then that helps you to see, yes, we are all in the process of repenting and living by the grace of Jesus in our lives. And I don't have to pretend that I'm living with all my sins in the past tense because that's kind of the unreason movement. When the leaders provide the model for penance People are freed up from repentance of their own lives. Finally, the second thing is the Nehemiah's wall gives credibility to his care. Nehemiah's walk just credibility to his talk. Again, we just pointed out now, verses 14 to 19. You see that he was concerned before this was an issue. To live with integrity before God. Look what he says in verse 15, for instance. It says the earlier governors, those preceding me, placed a heavy burden on the people and took forty shekels of soul, under the condition of food and water. Their assistants also lorded it over the people. But out of reverence for God, I did not act like that. He goes on to talk about how in fact the opposite he paid out his own profit to support them. Now you notice he did it out of reverence for God. Not his image, not how he looks, but there was an integrity in saying, I believe the Bible is true. I believe Jesus is not only my Savior from sin, he is the Lord of my life. And therefore, part of my following him is to do what pleases him. And because he was concerned to do that, not to talk about it simply, but to walk in, when it came time. To have to deal with sin, he had spiritual life. I brought that. He used it. So when you and I looked At our own situation, we need to recognize that Jesus is always the R of Employees. Jesus, you see, is a governor that is infinitely better than the opposite. Nehemiah had integrity, but he was inconsistent. He was a sinner. His renewal and his reformation was very short-lived and it was very incomplete. Jesus is building a city. And the reformation and the renewal is absolutely complete. With all the opposition that there is against it, Jesus will complete that project. And Jesus' governor is infinitely better. Nehemiah was concerned that people might fall through the crowds. They had a constant. They were fruity. He was not Who are Jesus' nuns? You have to come to him and say, Jesus, you forgot me. There's a bird in my life that I don't think you've noticed. But you know that Jesus cares for every other shit. He knows your needs. He knows the ways that you're abused. He knows the things that you're suffering. And maybe he'll raise up an earthly Nehemiah to protect and to defend you. But even if he doesn't, Jesus himself can be your protection. Jesus himself can be your security. To know that he cares about that individual life. Whenever any one of us come to with that desire to live in integrity, we're showing it up. We recognize that our integrity is my only life. We recognize that in response to a message like this, the right response is not for us to say Yeah, I've got to do a better job of this, you know. Here's an area that's lacking in some integrity. Got to discipline the flesh more consistently in them. Rather, it's for you and for me to come With our faulty, targeted, compromised integrity. Say, Jesus, you know this is part of my heart And I cannot iterate it. I want to walk in integrity, but I simply am not in it. So I invite you this morning to come Jesus, the governor of his Jerusalem, of which we are a part through the covenant with Jesus, and his love of Christ, and the forgiveness of his sins and his offerings Did you come to him with your compromising joining us? Did you come to receive the renewal that he wants to affect in you by his spirit? Bring you to a place now where he can use you and use us as a body even more effectively. Because we're people who take sin so seriously. We realize we have no power to overcome our name Jesus Himself. Let's continue. Lord, we recognize that we are a people who so lack humanity. We say so much better than we do. Part of why we don't want to know more, Lord, is because we know so much now that we're already not anymore. You're speaking to some of us this morning about our relationships. Areas we wanted to ignore? We want to bring those before you We want to ask you, Lord, to forgive us for ways that we have been greedy or selfish, insensitive to needs of others. You would give to us more compassion. We want to ask you, Lord, to help us to care more about our brothers and sisters to be able to raise questions in their lives. Where there's alienation, reconciliation, even before we come together, the Lord's supper together tonight. Lord, these are things we cannot do in your journey. So we come now to ask for you to work in us. That which we cannot be. That like the people in Nehemiah's day, you would bring renewal into our lives and free us up from the work that you want to do To get on with proclaiming Jesus to our culture, a culture that so hungers to see a people who walk with integrity. We're so sick of your box. Lord, make us that kind of people. For Jesus' sake. Yeah,