Well if you take all the things , do it, and say And divide it among you. I tell you, I want our look again at the fruit of divine and restore the kingdom of God. You can't read. Don't give it a few them because this is my bad given to you. And the same boy after the couple who took a cat saying, This cat is the new cover in my advantage. We can find that then. Excellent. That's all Proper to understand. The nature of covenant and re-pavilent things. Mording means the modern subject thing. And we try to be a truth. This is with understanding apprehension. And it's fun. Walk in the form of the food. And who will be able to keep it everywhere? Two men stood after one another , inspiring calendar. By them, before them, lay two heaps of silver and flesh. It is the solemn moment of the presence of a covenant. Each man then tests twice between those two weeks of flesh in a figure eight pattern, signifying by doing this So may it happen to me as it happened to this heart, if I break the promises of this covenant. Then each return saved the promises that they were making in their covenants. And then sat down to have a simple covenant meal, perhaps bread and white. One man is very rugby. His muscles are steel and dark tone pieces. And then he's obviously spent much time outdoors. are clad in a rough cousin since. The other man 's while also strong and muscular, with a much finer feature. Obviously a nobleman, less even a prince. And he takes off his finely embroidered coat and gives it to the sepons. And then he removed his belt and takes off his weapons and gives those also to the sepons. So we have here the accounting of this cutting of the covenants between David , part of the covenants And Jonathan, son of Paul, reported for us in 1 Samuel chapter 18. A covenant in which they fight their loyalty to one another. This is the nature of covenants , the present of fidelity, sealed in blood, so that nothing from then forth could ever separate or divide them in their marriage from one another. That loyalty was very detested. It tested strongly to the breaking point. And David was hunted by Jonathan's father, Saul. He was driven from his home and hunted as a wild animal, and the many years of hand Jonathan on one occasion remembers it's hard to defend his friend by covenant David, and for his trouble, his father through a feroz and almost killed his own stuff. And he's got a claim. Time and again, Jonathan lifts the blinds for his things and covenants freedom. And finally God delivers David. He rescues him from Paul, and in a private battle both Paul and Jonathan are killed. David now ascends the throne and panic breaks out in Saul's household because they realized that the one who's been the enemy of their king has now come to take this land. And they expect to all be wiped out. And in the mad rush and panic he escaped, a nurse who was in charge Of Jonathan's son, Mesibisha, in her mad rush to escape with him, rock them. And in that drop eleven, she broke both his peace. He was just a baby. And in those days there was not the medical attention, the cats and the various other things that we had. And as there was always our accidents, the subject, the slippers, and the last Mathibessh make the way without mercy to a desert people far to the north of Jerusalem Feed Jordan across the east side of Jordan into the stubby desert of Low the Boss. And there Mithilf goes up with a young man a cripple, an enemy of David. When he fears David, who has driven him from his throne, he probably hated David, the king. Because the Sibysh realizes that if it wasn't for David, he would be a cripple. It is because of David taking the throne that he was rough, that he's a cripple, that he's not an heir to the riches that his father Paul, grandfather Paul, rightfully had From the physics it can agree. And the pibica probably leaks the. Then many years later. David the remembrance of that covenant that had been kept that one day so long it lasts with that series last But I can say kindness to you, a call pathway, and because of the covenant that I made you stand for. One old man says, Well, you know, there's a little fellow by the name of Mr. that got away from there. And he's even way up north out in the desert in Bow Dev. We saw a whole contingent of David Army goes after Mashidha. And when Masibisha come teas them coming, continues my days remember. I've had it. And they're coming in the typical Near Eastern pattern now of the ascended king to wipe out everybody of the other king's household so that there'll be no rivals for the throne And now my life is worth nothing. Mr. Celsius brought to the tower and drags his dead feet across the floor in clutches and prostrates himself before David's throne. David says, Methodic. The subdicat moment. And he's waiting for the execution center. And then David says, The Fibysat. Receives the power from the physical side. Don 't be a favorite physical. I wanted to tell you uh Of the land that belongs to your smoothie grandfather's heart. I want to give you all the compassion that we need. And what more could you say? I want you to eat at my table as the same thing for the rest of your life And the physician man must have gone into the world of confusion. Surely he couldn't have comprehended such words coming from his army. Clearly he expected an execute sentence. And instead he received a full pardon as an exile and had all the lands of his grandfather returned to him and adopted as a friend of the king Lower cards say this method test with the sand today. It's recorded in the second term. Because if I simply lay there on the floor and cried afterwards , that would make me take notice. It's a touch of red ball I think. Now I don't know when you're feeling down on yourself what kind of references you have for yourself. But in the Hebrew mind, when you really felt worthless and down next to nothing, you called yourself a dead dog. uh you know just a carcass of garbage that's soaking within the world. Uh and the city sources of just a good dog in the country Why did you have this mercy on me? Nathivis has probably thought to himself, this is something that's reserved for the officer who's been so faithful in your army all those years while you're in exile. And surely this is a reward that was merited by the most faithful of your followers, not by an enemy. God, what are these people? Lord becomes back without a wedding thing because it's not why you need that. Because bad. Because baby. It's load of others. Good requirements. He didn't do anything to all that, nothing elsewhere. It's all because of the covenant that we receive these projects. And that picture given to us in 1 Samuel chapter 18 and 2 Samuel chapter 9 is a picture of you and me in covenant relationship with God. It's a picture of covenant, the very essence of the Bible story. It's a picture, you see, of what God did. Do you remember last week we talked about Genesis 15? In which God made a covenant with Israel through the father, Abraham. And do you remember how God made that covenant? God divided the animal in Genesis 15, just as Paul, just as Jonathan and David did. And God Himself, as a flaming torch symbolizing the present, passed through those pieces and that figuration. Where God was saying, I pledge myself to Israel with loyalty for the rest of my days. And so God has pledged himself by blood to Israel. But he called Israel into a relationship with himself Five covenants just to say the eternality. God called Israel into that relationship, summarized by the statements you see received it again and again and again in the Old Testament I will be your God, and you shall be my lead people. Read the records, the dirty records, the blocked and stowed record on page after page of the old countries. Again and again, Israel denies today with the people of God. Hardly have they come out of Egypt and Moses is still getting the law from God, the the essence of what the covenant is. When they build a golden cross and go worship it, instead of the swimming called into relationship. They grumble all the time during the the wilderness, no matter how kindly and gentle and faithfully God takes care of them. Again and again and again in the land that God called them to live. They set up idols, they commit spiritual adultery, they go after other gods and they lose the land They go after the other pleasures, and those things that distract them, and the Lord takes the back seat in their life while they still call themselves the keepers. Again and again and again. They break the covenant Again and again and again the Bible says God remains thankful to that promise. For God is promised by blood and he cannot go back on himself And so you and I cry out, Lord, if it wasn't that we were so sure that you were omniscient, we'd say you must not have known what you were getting into when you made covenants with such answers as Surely you didn't know who you were pledging yourself to when you made covenant with us. But that's just the point. God did not exactly do you God did know exactly what you and I rely on, but He made covenant with Israel and with us through. But is there no one to keep that covenant No one. No one. Until there comes one man. One man that God Himself sends into His. His own self. His human flesh. He becomes the true Israel. The true Israel comes to keep that covenant He 's the one who is born and is circumcised with a mark of covenant upon him. He's the one who worships the Lord his God alone and doesn't serve any other God. Who forms no idols or any false views of God but worships and truth. He's the one who takes his name always in reverence. He's the one who keeps his way through Who honors and arrays his character? He has no thoughts of hatred. He doesn't steal. Who has no dirty thoughts? He doesn't steal or lie or cover. And so he alone He promises the weakness of the promise. He alone, therefore, is earth to all of the blossoms and the promises of the And you say that's fine for Jesus. Well that's good for him, that's Christ, you know. It's the story of how we blew it and he made it and now he's in covenant with the Father. Great for him, but what about us? You 'll start to realize all the guilt, all the misery , all the bitterness All the broken relationships, all the depressions that you hear this morning is a result of the fact that he's broken the covenant with the God of Israel Is the fact that you have broken covenant with him and are guilty of going back on those promises, uh going back on the provisions that he has made from that covenant Why do you and I have come up with covenant? It's because the covenant. It's wonderful. After having kept the covenant since we We sacrifice it. The Lord he came to lay down here and lights, celebrating passions, a covenant year. And as he came through that year, he celebrated it with the disciples, and then said at the end of that year, in Luke chapter 22, verse 10 The same way that the paper who took the cut saying this cup is the new covenant in my life This is the new covenant in my life David Pentecost made a covenant with Jonathan, son of Saul. And now Jesus, son of Adam, son of David. makes a new covenant with the same God who had made covenants with Israel. A new covenant healed in his own life. He's the one now whose blood is shed in the fulfillment of this covenant. What was wrong with the old covenant? But there had to be a new covenant. Simply won. There was only one case long with the old covenant. That is that the old covenant had no ultimate provision for failure. There was no ultimate provision for failure in the old covenant. You see, the old covenant was excellent by telling us what is required of a people who are in a covenant relationship with the God of heaven and earth. But the old covenant did not enable us to do the things that it told us we had to do. And so the old covenant simply told us about our failures. We could not empower us to keep the covenant. So no covenants, you have sacrifices and sacrifices Well system. But those sacrifices are never able to take away. And exactly at this point That the new covenant deals decisively with your biggest problem and my biggest problem of failure. Because it's the new covenant to take care of our failures. It's in the new covenant, you see, that our failure has been dealt with once and for all. Are you overwhelmed with the sense of your failure in living to Jesus Christ with you? Are you overpowered with the sense of your failing to walk with God in the way that you believe that He Call you to walk with me. To put away old habits, old thought forms, ways of living. Uh do you come with a clean sense of how you blumlet day after day And how you live so inadequately as a disciple of Jesus Christ. So let me remind you, in the name of Jesus, this morning, the new coming. That's precisely what that was for. It's to deal with that failure. The old covenant shows you the failure, but it's the new covenant that puts it away, that deals with it In the new covenant, the covenant in my blood, Cesar Francis. He has dealt with that failure in three ways, decisively and for all First of all, in that new covenant, he has taken care of the penalty of our sins. The penalty of our sins. In which he, Jesus, takes upon himself the curses. Of the covenant, as if he who had kept the covenant was the worst covenant breaker of all time. Because in in the new covenant, Jesus is laying down himself as the Pastor Covenant. In the new covenant, Jesus he is establishing that covenant in which you and I see those particular Every animal divided and Jesus going in the midst of he's saying, So may it happen to me if I break the promises of this covenant. And then he keeps all the promises And then Jesus says, So now may it happen to me. May I be cursed. Because I've broken that covenant. Because I have killed On my stuff, the things of my people, your things, and my things. He will put those on himself And so the new covenant is win still wise. Because we've taken the penalty once and for all. And there's no more penalty left. Not only has he taken the covenants of the covenant, but he also has dealt with the power of sin, the power of our sins. You see, Jesus in dying, in establishing that new covenant in his blood, died and was raised again as the vindication The fact that that sin had been fully paid for. And therefore death could hold him no longer. He's cleaned. He's raised up. He's alive forevermore. And you and I, as we talked about Last week because we have been circumcised with Christ in his circumcision, also died in the race So now you and I are raised up and given a new life. We have died to the old judge. We have died to the old master. We are no longer subject to the power of sin. That's what the new kind of means. It deals with our failure and gives us a new power to fulfill. the the uh premises and the precepts and the stipulations of the covenant. No longer can we say the covenant only shows me my strength That the new covenant enables you to overcome things by the power of the Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is given because of the new covenant Virgin Part only does it deal with the eternity of our sin, but the power of our sin , ultimately this new covenant will deal with the very present of things One day Jesus will come back. And when he returns, sin will be put away once and forever And there will be no more sin. A God who said to Israel so long ago, I will be your God and you shall be my people. And that fulfilled. We shall never again do anything that will deny our identity as two people in the closest possible relationship Never again to sin, or even though the practice of sin. He will be our God. Our thoughts and our hearts, and we can focus on him, but there will be nothing but the name. The new power deals with the one element that is failing to be a deal with our failure. Before you see the outline that God had had made a covenant with Israel. In making that covenant with Israel God pledges himself to Israel. You see the picture of that in the story of David and Jonathan and the Tibetan But in that covenant there was no one who was able to fulfill its stipulation. The covenant of God we see with Israel is really the covenant of God that sees us, because he's the only one who fulfilled his condition Therefore Jesus is the one who is in covenant relationship with God. The further you see the covenant of God is peaceful. Because Jesus made a new covenant for those who couldn't fulfill those stipulations, who never had a hope of fulfilling those stipulations Those who are here in this room this morning can say, I have no hope of fulfilling those stipulations, being covenant with God Except through Jesus, who fulfilled them for me and suffered for my family for me Do allow people from this man. That covenant of God is with you. Through Jesus Christ. We're here this morning. We think that you can fulfill those stipulations somehow in your own effort. That you think that when you stand before God, it's a combination of what Jesus did plus what you do. Then you will never find a peace that comes in Jesus Christ. Because we can never fulfill those stipulations. And you're calling before God is in Jesus. You're clearing if you have some hope of fulfilling them in your own life. You have claimed your family is the new covenant. The new covenant in my blood is because there is no covenant. Of people coming before the families and then other But Jesus has done its faith. And as Mercedes received all of the blessings of the covenant of David with Sonic Because he was in Jonathan when that covenant was made. The Sibice was present At that cutting of the covenant that we described. Because he was in the loins of Jonathan as one to come through his deeds. You and I receive all the blessings that have been given to Jesus as the son, the Messiah, the comes and what a Because you and I were in Jesus when he died on the cross. Spiritually, you and I were united to Jesus When he dies and when he rose again. That's the meaning of submission. That's the meaning for you and for me. So my only final question to you , supporting a bear or you some relationship to this kind of experience. The 50s cleaned before David. He received the sentence. There is no penalty for you, Mathibess. You're free. Because of the covenant. There's a new position for you, Lopidas. You're adopted into the King Family. Because of the covenant Now where are you with regard to that subject? Picture yourself as the civicist And you come before King Jesus. And King Jesus has said to you, If you will receive my new covenant in my blood, not your works, not your sincerity. Not your Christian good words, not your Bible reading, not your witnessing, not your service, not your attempts, but in my blood alone. Then you are free and there's no tender. You have a new position as a son of God with Jesus Christ. Have you received that? Have you received But on the third safety harder to escape, he could have said, I want nothing to do. I'm gonna make it on my own and I'm gonna go back to low the bar. And I'm going to live as an independent man who's kept it my own way. I'm not going to be dependent on the king. I'm not going to use you as a clutch in my life A little far in movement , the pharmacy and highlights. What about these night? These are pharmacy needs for them to be talking about Did you say to him, I'm not going to have Jesus as a cost in my life? I'm going to make it my own way I'm going to live it on my own, and I'm going to keep trying to do what's right, and I'll do it on my own because I don't need Jesus Christ. I don't need that new covenant in his blood alone. If you do , you'll die in the meeting of your pain. You'll die in the frustration of your attention. In the broken relationships, from the broken sciences, and the theory of the universe. Agreed with this in the name of Jesus Christ. Come to him as the fibers that flast great on your face. Oh Lord , why would you know this new guy? Lord by if you have done that for me , you did nothing to earn on my class. Simply said, simply can I do the feel that please Dictating the penitence in your things. But the fear of power over these things. And the hope of a time when there will no longer be any purposes. That's awful to you, this lovely. Do you see it? You who have received the promise from things you have held office, are you living in my promise? Or do you say to yourself, that's really too good to be true? I mean it's really embarrassing to just have to lay here and receive nothing but grace. And so there's times when I don't go to the table of the king because I'm afraid he's not going to refuse me. I mean, after all, look at what I've done this week. Uh look at what how I've failed in the things that I've tried to do in my discipleship for him. And so surely he doesn't want me at the table today David didn't say to Mr. Cass. You come to the table if you're a good boy in the city class and you stay away as you are. Because you come as a plants. And times are always welcome to people. We and I 'm always welcome to pay on the same thing. But who will come? Who will take the daily together? Who will feed on us day by day? Do you fellowship with us? Do you claim the promises that have been held out to you? If you no longer are subject to the power of sin in life And do you rejoice from the Dulce because of the new covenant in the blood of Jesus? Your servants have been defensively darkness. Are you looking at the table table this morning? I talked to the law about our response to what he's doing to us. And if there's anyone who wants to lead us in praying out loud, then we may do that at this time and bringing us to the Father and I'll say it's not. But let's use easy to examine our hearts and talk to the Lord on our lives. So I have to say that it's a Lord we're a name to them, even though many of us have heard it so many times before. But you, the God of heaven and earth. And the cover is full. The two pledged beast by blood to be in the closest discipline But not only creatures, but creatures have so many times have indicated that you can care less about being in that close relationship that we need And like Massiddha says so often we're hidden from you. We've hidden in the scrubby wilderness of low debar because we have counted you our enemies. We've been afraid of what you do to us once you got your hands on us. And so we haven't come to hear of the pardon. We haven't come to hear of the new position that you offer us indeed. Lord, if there's anyone here this morning without the reason , and pray in the name of Jesus Christ that you will tell them what you will do when you get your hands. Great mercy that He has for those who call on you. Lord, take away that fear of anyone who thinks that you will get a hold of them in order to break them in their joy, to take away their happiness. Father, we do help us to put away our hands. We may come to you to receive the blessings. The Lord we chose the internet. We are in a relationship with Jesus Christ by covenant. The covenant that was made with Him because He alone kept the conditions of His Covenant. The covenant is made with us because Jesus established a new covenant in his blood that enabled us to be partakers of that covenant So that in him we will receive all of the covenants, of the covenant relationships with the Lord God of Israel. Oh Lord, help us the peace to the provisions that you have for us. We pray that none of us here will be living a fearful day, while the riches of the King's table are spread before us because we died and he's risen with Jesus. And in him we are heirs to all of the promises of Salton and of the things that we need to dislike. Oh Lord, how do we ever worship the Lord? To re establish that covenant and be done on the cross. When you shed your blood, the blood of the covenant dies. You did it purposely. You did it willingly. You did it lovingly. The family includes Let's voice this in now. Pim four forty-one. I'd like you to take a look at the words about him before we say it.