In Israel. Banners were flying, colours were unfurled. This was the long-awaited day of bringing the ark up from Baal, Judah, or Kiryath's Yarim to the new capital which had just recently been conquered from the Jebusites, a place called Jerusalem Gone past are the days of fear and the paranoid leadership of Saul. Now there is A new day where gone is the threat of the Philistines. The new king, David, has driven them all the way to Geezer. It's a day of celebration of God's goodness and of his favor. In fact, they pulled together a 30,000-man parade for the occasion And that's just the soldiers. In addition, they have the singers and the dancers and the families, a full orchestra. They're celebrating dancing and leaping. I mean, these are not Presbyterians. These are Jews and they're more like charismatics, amen Yeah, you made my point. Okay. Well that you know you gotta picture what's going on here. This is a tremendously festive occasion and they're dancing and singing and all the focuses on the ark. That symbol of God's presence. And for this great occasion, they built a new cart. And so they're bringing the ark up, and they come singing and shouting, and as they reach the threshing floor of Nakan. The oxen stumble. One of the attendants, Uzza, concerned that the ark might fall off the cart, reaches out and grabs it and immediately falls down, motionless. Someone rushes over and checks his pulse. He's dead. It's hard to imagine a greater contrast of emotion. Here moments before, God was friend, someone they felt they knew and could trust and was good and kind. And now, in an instant, he's become an enemy, unpredictable, someone they felt they didn't know, nor could they trust him. And it's clear that he's done this. The record of the occasion in 2 Samuel chapter 6 says that God's anger burned toward us. What were David's emotions on this occasion? Well, we don't have to guess, because 2 Samuel 6, verses 8 and 9 tell us that David was angry and he was afraid. He was angry. God, how could you do that? How could you be like that? How could you spoil everything? What what were you up to? We were praising you and and Iza was just trying to be sincere and concerned for your art and look what you do to him. How could you do that, God? He's also afraid because God seems unpredictable. He can strike you down in a moment without warning. How do you relate to a God like that? All his confidence has turned to dread. And after years I've read one psalm a week, and I've rotated through again and again through the psalms, and one of the things that I like to do when I read a psalm is to speculate and find out the best I can the occasion of the writing of that psalm, because it helps me in understanding uh the background and what the psalmist had in mind, what was prompting it. Sometimes we're told in the psalm and other times um there's some clues and other times it's pretty much pure guesswork. Well I'm going to go out on a limb for the third week in a row and uh tell you that what I'm offering here, no commentators agree with me. Okay I checked eight on this psalm. None of them think that 2 Samuel 6 was the occasion of that psalm. Most of them say it was probably when David was sick sometime, was in some life-threatening experience. Um, I don't agree. I would not bet my life. I wouldn't even make you a heavy bet of any kind that I'm absolutely right on this And it ultimately doesn't matter all that much. But I think that for at least two reasons that 2 Samuel 6 is the occasion, and if it is, it helps us to understand certain things out of that psalm. And I believe that understanding those things help us to apply this psalm at the beginning of a new year. And for those of you purists for the beginning of a new century and new millennium. Also, this psalm is helpful in dealing with tragedy that strikes without warning. So, some thoughts for the beginning of a new era. Psalm 39. Two reasons why I believe that this Psalm is in the context that I just described is because of David's emotions in the Psalm, just heard John read it. And the emotions fit the circumstances. There's anger in it, there's dread in it. There's confusion in some deep trial and crisis that to me goes beyond a matter of sickness. And you'll see that as we go through it The second reason is because you'll notice in the heading that the psalm is uh dedicated to Jedathon. Uh there's only two or three psalms in all the Psalter that are dedicated to Jedathon And who in the world was Jedathon? Well, Jedathon was the Evan Pillsbury of Israel. He was the worship leader at that time. There is He was the uh worship leader, the choir director. He was the guy who um was probably leading this procession and all the music, the singing and the dancing. Probably David and Jediton were kind of doing this together as a team. That's how I picture it. It was probably the high point of the career for both of them. And um in each case, what was a time of exuberance and rejoicing? Has turned to a time of shock and grief and confusion. So my picture of it is that as David is working through, sorting through all of this, In his own mind and his heart and spirit, he's thinking of his friend Jedathon, who also is, and um dedicates it to him as somebody who is similarly in great grief and confusion. Four points I'd like to make from the Psalm. There are four P's to help us to think about this beginning of this year. First is perplexity in my pain. The perplexity that we have in our pain, and particularly in this case, verses one to three. Notice that David says, I said, I will watch my ways and keep my tongue from sin, I will put a muzzle on my mouth, as long as the wicked or in my presence. But when I was silent and still and not even saying anything good, my anguish increased, my heart grew hot. Within me, and as I meditated, the fire burned, and then I spoke with my tongue. David's basically saying there, I can't say anything, or I'm gonna sin. Have you ever been in a situation where something came upon you in your life in a shocking, abrupt way? And It's a very, very hurtful thing. And Christians or unbelievers come up to you and try to offer some sympathy, and you know what you ought to say as a spiritual Christian. You know that you ought to talk about how it's difficult and acknowledge the pain, but then say, but the Lord is sufficient. He's with me. He hasn't left me, and I'm trusting him, and he's showing that he's going to take me through this. But you just can't say it. Because you don't feel it. And it would be false to talk about that. Because you're really struggling In fact, you're wondering, what in the world is God doing in your life? And you're angry and you're upset and you're full of all kinds of turmoil. And so you say, I better not say anything Because whatever I say, it's either going to be dishonest or it's going to be dishonoring. So I'm just going to shut up and don't ask me, okay? Now I gotta tell you something. There are times I feel like that when I come up here and preach on Sunday mornings. Do you believe that? And I gotta take the passage, whatever I'm preaching, and I gotta preach it to me two or three times to myself, Saturday night, Sunday morning, because I'm in turmoil and I don't know what to say, and I don't know what in the world God is doing And we all had those experiences, but isn't it great that God's word gives you a passage where the psalmist says that? And you can say, well, boy, David felt like that. I guess it's not so bad to admit that. But now notice there's a very important lesson here. Not only does he say, I'm just not going to say anything, just you know, go away, come back and ask me later. And he's but he's getting more and more worked up. You see, his heart's getting hot and he's on his you know, his fire is burning and he says, and I and I spoke with my tongue. And we'd expect to say, you know, so I told myself, or I told my prayer partner, or we you know uh But he doesn't say that because verse 4 says, Show me, O Lord. You see, he said, I had to pour it out, and I poured it out to God. I got alone. I got away from everybody else, so they wouldn't hear my screaming and my ranting. And I said, God, let's have this out. I would suggest we don't do enough of that. We tend to want to have it out with people And one of the things that we need to learn from the Scriptures is the importance of saying, I really better not talk to anybody right now. I just got to talk to the Lord. And to know that He's there to hear. And just pour out your heart to him in some lonely, quiet place, with a door shut. So nobody's going to hear you. Except the Lord. But he will. And it's important to have the freedom to do that. And so this year, if something comes across and you feel kind of like, boy, what was that psalm again? Go read this and get along with the Lord and Have it out with him. Take him seriously that he's there. Then another thing that's interesting to me is as you go through this He doesn't start having an out with the Lord by asking, Lord, now come on, how in the world could you justify doing that? Here's a guy trying to serve you and you strike him down dead But what he does is he reflects on some basic issues of life. I picture as I read this that here's David and he's thinking of Uzzah, his friend. Who was full of life, who was singing and rejoicing and laughing together, and they maybe joked together that morning, and now Uzza's dead. And so thinking about that, he gives three sets of three thoughts in verses four, five, and six. And they're very powerful. Notice what he says. First of all, in verse 4, three requests. One, Lord, show me my life's end. Us as dead, Lord remind me, I too am gonna die. You know, we all think we're the exception. Everybody else dies, but we somehow can't imagine ourselves dead, can we? I mean How can you imagine the world going on without you? Do you know that midlife crises were unknown in colonial America? And one of the reasons, not the only reason, but one of the reasons for that was because they grew up with death. It was a part of life. We go along and finally we reach midlife and say, Yeah, it just dawned on me. I'm gonna die. That's a kind of a new thought, you know. I I really have come to terms with the fact that someday I'll be history. But we think we're the exception. So then he goes on and he says, secondly, show me my life's end and the number of my days. Now you notice he doesn't say uh years, it says days. You know if you live seventy years, that's twenty-five thousand five hundred and fifty days. I know somebody's gonna figure that out. make sure I'm right, but twenty-five thousand five hundred and fifty, okay? That means that since Y2K began, uh little over three hundred and sixty-five fewer for you and me of the allotted time. And then he goes on, thirdly, he says, Let me know how fleeting, how ceasing, literally, the Hebrew is, is my life. In other words, they're not only just not a whole lot of days, but boy, do they go quick. How fleeting they are. Think of the words of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, it's not until time With reckless hand has torn out the pages of life to light the fires of passion with, that a person considers that the pages that remain are few in number. How fleeting, how ceasing. And then that urges him on, thinking that Uz is dead, I could be dead tomorrow, and it's Death is reality. Verse 5. Three observations on that. First is, you've made my days a mere handbread. He doesn't describe it in terms of miles, yard, or feet, but a hand breadth. Now hold your hand up before you just say it, you know, just hold it up. That's that's a span of your life. See, right? From there to there. That's what he says. Next time you look at your hand, think about that. Psalm thirty-nine, verse five, describes that as the span of your life. A reminder. And then he says, my years are as nothing. The span of my years is as nothing before you. I mean, what's seventy years compared to eternity? Or however long it is? I mean, you know, it's like a fruit fly compared to us, right? No, it's even worse than that. I mean you could take an infinite line representing eternity and you could not put a dot small enough on that line to indicate the span of our lives. So this is nothing before an eternal God. And then he says, thirdly, he says, uh, each man's life's but a breath. Very fragile, evanescent, just Ecclesiastes describes it as vanity, and so that impels them on in verse 6 to three vanities. First of all, he says man is a mere phantom as he goes to and fro. First of all, that life is a shadow. Think of the words of C. S. Lewis: life is but shadows. The real life is to come. This life is just but fleeting shadows. Secondly, the second vanity is he says he bustles about, but only in vain. All our bustling is in vain. You know, Ozza had quite a to-do list to take care of after the party. He was so indispensable. All these things that had to be done. Never got to do them. And life went on. His family went on. Israel went on. You and I can get so caught up on our list, all the immediate specifics, that we missed the big picture. I mean get so focused on things that in the light of eternity are trivialities, you know, I mean, who's gonna care ten years from now whether it was the Ravens or the Titans? I know it's a big deal now, I know, I know, and you're all watching make sure you know get out of here by twelve fifteen. You know, we get so caught up in the immediate John said he doesn't even have me doing a benediction at the end just because it's a risk, you know. That's why we want to stop now. Take stock of your priorities. Thirdly, he heaps up wealth, not knowing who will get it. Heaps, heaps of stuff. He says it's all in vain. What are you heaping up? Racks of shoes, clothes, software. Investments, stuff. A lot of stuff. The old saying, you know, there's no U-Hauls behind hearses. Still true You heap it up and somebody else is going to get it. Now it's interesting to me, David pours out all this wisdom. These three verses. Wow man, what a perspective. Just jolt me here, you know All this stuff and and at the end of it, you know, God doesn't say anything. And and that's often the way it is with me. And you know, and you we we we rest we pour out our hearts to God, God what what's going on? And you start reflecting on life. You know, you think about scriptural truth and you you pray it and you say it and you say, There, God. And He doesn't say anything. God, what do you think of that? You know. Silence. The effect of that is it pushes us deeper, doesn't it? You've got to go back and say, well, is that really the issue? And so you keep talking to yourself. And so you notice in verse 7, he gets deeper. Verse 7 he says, But now Lord, what do I look for? My hope is in you. It's not in insights, it's not in principles, it's in a person. For verse 8 says, You save me from all my transgressions. Only you can do that. Only you can save me from my failures, my self-absorbed self-worship. My unbelief, my complaining about this last year, my blaming all the things that were tough on you. When I could really look at the ways I screwed up Lord, my my hope is really you. And that's the danger of a message like this. The thing I'm concerned about is you don't go away saying, oh, Psalm 39 has a lot of insight, a lot of good stuff there. But miss Jesus. Because the point is, he's saying, My hope is you, it's in a person. Now, remember last week The point of last week's message, believe it or not, was not so that we could just identify what the star was. The point was to awake to his presence. The presence of his glory, to know God is with us. He is here. Jesus Christ has come. God is here in the person of Jesus Christ. He's here to meet with you. He's here to meet with us tonight in the elements of the supper. But he's here to meet with you. He's here to meet with you as you go home. As you drive in your car, as you speak to them, as you prostrate yourself on your floor, as you pour out yourself to them, my hope is in you. You know, just recently I've adopted a new habit. Of trying every day to take at least ten minutes to do nothing but think about Jesus Christ, God my Father, and the Holy Spirit. To just think To just focus on a statement like this, my hope is in you, and to go for ten minutes, not writing any notes, not journaling, not doing anything else But focusing on him as my hope for that night. I don't know if you've ever tried that, but I would suggest that if you do, it is not as easy as you think. Your mind begins to wander, you think of all the things that are there, what you gotta dust, what you gotta do, the noises that are going on, everything in the background, every distraction, everything that's going on. But then to come back and say, no, I am not leaving here until I've got 10 minutes of just focusing on God for this day. I worship pouring out my heart to him. I picture it as I have been ushered into his presence in a secret place, and Harris, you've got ten minutes with the king. Make the most of it. You know, we take it so for granted. I can talk to them anytime. So we never focus. Lord, what is it that I look for? My hope is in you. Try it this year. Give it a shot for a week. And see what the Lord does. But you notice that even as he's doing that, the third point, those of you who are sharp say you still didn't give us a third, the third point is the pain of ambivalence. The pain of ambivalence, because even as he's saying, God, my hope is in you, you saved me from my sins, on the other hand, he's saying, But you're the one that's brought the pain into my life. So on the one hand, you are my hope, on the other hand, you're my pain. You notice how it goes on. I was silent, I would not open my mouth, for you're the one that said this. One of the reasons why I think that The context is 2 Samuel 6. This isn't just, you know, I'm sick. You gave me a few germs. He's talking about some crisis here. You're the one that did this And then he says, Remove your scourge from me. The ark was taken and deposited in somebody's house. The whole parade stopped. Everything was aborted. It was gone. That's it. What's going to happen? Everybody's in confusion. They all just went home. I'm overcome by the blow of your hand. You rebuke and discipline men for their sin. You consume their wealth like a moth. Each man's but a breath. Here we are, God, we're just confused. What do we do? I don't know. I don't understand this. And again, God is silent. Sometimes don't you wish he'd just say something? I mean, even if it was ass shut up, or just you want to hear something to know that you're talking to a person. But he is silent. And so that pushes him deeper. And you come to the fourth P, the prayer of an ambivalent heart. The prayer of an ambivalent heart in verses twelve and thirteen. Very unusual ending to a psalm. Notice verse twelve. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Listen to my cry for help. Be not deaf to my weeping, for I dwell with you as an alien, a stranger as all my fathers were. In other words, come to me, Lord, and hear me. I come to you as a stranger here. You're my home. You're the one I come to. You're my hope. Hear my prayer. Hear my cry. But then verse 13. Look away from me that I may rejoice again before I depart in them no more. Go away, so I can enjoy this year. Lord, come to me. Ah. But that's going to be pain. Lord, how about we take this year off? You know can you identify with David's ambivalence in that? I mean tonight we're going to hear at the Lord's Supper. This is our annual time to hear testimonies of what God has done in the last year. Now maybe I shouldn't say this because I don't want to affect it, and you'll say, well, you know, now that you said it, you spoil it, but I still can't help observing. I'll bet you that some of the choicest lessons will be with tears or reflection on the pain through which those things were learned. And so do you find your heart saying, Lord, I want to know you better in 2001? But Lord, I remember some of the pain that that cost to know you better in 2000. How about we take 2001 off, okay? How about a reprieve for this year? Now I really do want to know more of the gospel. But my experience has been my learning more of the gospel, the life of repentance and faith, the life of recognizing my idols. And forsaking them to find Jesus Christ as my sole hope is a bitterly painful process. So how about we resume it in 2002? And you just go away for a year, and I'll have some fun before I depart and am no more. Life's short. I only go around once. Well pick it up in two thousand two. I mean, you know, that's really kind of what he's saying. Uh I I felt like that the day after Christmas. My wife and I went up Christmas afternoon and evening to visit with her parents in New Jersey. And we had a great time there. And just as we were leaving, her mom kindly offered to take our picture. We had just taken their picture. She offered to take my picture with my camera. Take our picture. And so I gave and she was having some difficulty holding it and not covering the light meter and all this and she accidentally dropped it. Six hundred dollar camera. And she broke it. Don't take pictures anymore. Well I thought I was handling that fairly well. You know, I mean all the perspective, you know, here it is, Psalm 39, well heaps of stuff and all that kind of stuff. I thought I was handling it In a reasonably godly way. I mean I certainly didn't blame her. It was an accident. I know she didn't mean she felt terrible about. But subsequent interaction with Kathy showed me that I was not And the next day, the day after Christmas, it hit me like a two by four, that God had somehow in the mystery of his providence and ways ordained for that camera to drop and break to show me. Some things about myself that it uniquely displayed. My arrogance. My impatience, my blaming things on other people when they don't go my way, and my protection of my things. And I felt exactly like verse 12 and 13. God, I I want to know you better this year, but you know, if it's going to take smashing my stuff and, you know, all kinds of other stuff like this. How about we just take the year off? Like, you know, I could do without this for a little while. You know, tremendous ambivalence. And if you're honest in your search for and following after Jesus Christ, I suggest to you you're going to feel that ambivalence if you're really honest. I'm going to tell you, at least I, for one sinner, can sympathize with you. Okay? But God understands that too. And that's why he says that the Christian life is a life of faith. It's day by day a life of faith. Because you see, if I'm at all on target about the circumstances of this psalm, God was not being arbitrary. God had something very specific that David and Israel needed to learn about him. They wondered why would God strike down innocent Uzzah. And when they placed the ark aside Somebody went back to the Bible and said, I think we better check out the Bible and find out what went wrong. Which is always a good thing to do when you're in some trial and things don't seem to make sense in your life about what God is doing. Because I would suggest to you that when you and I come into confusion and God doesn't seem to make sense, that what he's doing is wanting to expand our categories so that we get a bigger view of God that will encompass The difficulties that we're experiencing. We may not get the answer. I'm not saying that if you just keep probing, you'll come up. Oh, now I understand why this happened or what's going on. But he does intend to enlarge your understanding of him. So somebody went back and they noticed that in Exodus chapter 37, in verses 3 to 5 That when God instructed how to build the ark, which was a box of about two feet by four feet by two feet, that it was to have rings attached to it through which poles would be placed in order to carry it. Then somebody noticed that in Numbers chapter 4, in verse 15, That God says explicitly, after Aaron and his sons have finished covering the holy furnishings and all the holy articles, and when the camp is ready to move, the Caliphites are to come to do the carrying. But they must not touch the holy things, or they will die. The Kohathites are to carry those things that are in the tent of meeting. Couldn't be any clearer. They put it on a cart. It wasn't supposed to be on a cart. It was supposed to be carried by poles on the shoulders, but not touched. Because that was the symbol of God's holy presence. Number 7, verse 9, goes on specifically to say that they are to carry the holy things on their shoulders. There's three times in Scripture this is addressed, and they ignored it. Very important lesson here. God is gracious. But he's not accommodating. When God describes his holiness, that's the first thing he wants them to say. He's a holy God. And that in his holiness he must protect and preserve that holiness at all costs. And so when Uzzah violated that, God instantly fulfilled what he said he would do. He had already warned them. Shouldn't have been a surprise. Sometimes we suffer things because of our ignorance of God's ways and of what he's like. And we blame God. It's a tough lesson. But David learned. You and I are going to have to learn that. There's going to be some ways this year. We say Ephesians 1:17 is the basic purpose of CPC. What is it? We might know him better. Knowing him better means to know that he is a holy God. He is a God who is most concerned for his glory And that all we do must be consistent with that. But he is also a gracious God. He wanted to teach him that the ark was covered by the mercy seat. That's the second thing. The mercy seat, you see, was over the law. The art, this box that I described, had on top of it a cover. On the cover there were two angels, one on each side, with their wings hovering toward each other at the center. God says, I meet you right there, where? Between the two wings. What's there? Nothing. All the other gods of all the nations had an idol. That's where they met. Yahweh, the God of Israel, alone of all the nations, there was nothing. He's a spirit. You can't contain him. He says, that's where I meet you. But he always calls that cover the mercy seat. So a little over three months later, they resume the parade. They once again take the ark, only this time they do it the right way. They put it on poles and it's carried on the shoulders. After they take six steps, they stop. And they offer a bull and a calf to atone for their sin. And by the shedding of that blood upon the mercy seat, they are recognizing God has forgiven us. All the things that we've done, He's put it away. He's covered it with the blood. And as you come into 2001, it's very important that you and I recognize all the things that you did in 2000, all the presumptions, the complaining, All the self-centeredness, the self-absorption has been covered by Jesus Christ if you bring it to Him. If you offer that to him and are reminded tonight on the Lord's Supper that he has taken that, it is gone. Praise God, it is gone. It is covered under the blood of Jesus Christ. And you begin this year free and innocent and acquitted. That's what God wants you to know. And so He wants you to press on this year and to boldly say, Lord, I know there's going to be painful lessons, going to be difficult, but Lord, you are so worth knowing. That anything is worth to know you There's a friend of mine recently that took in a child, he and his wife took in a ten-year-old who had been arrested for a violent felony. It was a very difficult situation. To bring some relief to the family of that child, they brought the child into their home. And uh as he was telling me this, we were emailing about about it. And I emailed to him these words. I said, if we were under the law, you would get a fair amount of credit for such sacrificial love. As it is, since we are under grace, all you get is closer fellowship with Jesus. May it be. My friend got the point. One day later, he emailed me back this one-line response. Closer fellowship with Jesus, who can ask for anything more? Let's pray. The Lord Jesus We do have ambivalent hearts. On the other one hand we We want to know you, we want to know you better, and then we think, Lord, of some of the things that happened in the last year or other times in our lives, and we know that that generally is accompanied with pain that reveals to us our idols, our self-sufficiency, all the rest of it. And so, like David, we want to pray, Lord, you're my hope and come close to me, hear me. On the other hand, Lord, could you go away so that I could just forget about all these tough spiritual lessons and have some fun? But we want to pour ourselves out to you now, Lord Jesus, to say, really, there is nothing that compares with knowing you. That is the best thing. That is what we want, that is what our hearts, prompted by your Spirit, long for to glorify you, to know you, to expand our minds, understanding. of your greatness, of your glory, to awake to your presence and to the glory of that presence. And so Lord, Assure us of your forgiveness through Jesus Christ, of our self-absorption and complaining of this last year, all of our failures. And seal to us, Lord, that forgiveness through the supper tonight and through the blood of Christ. Grant to us faith to enter in, to know you, and to press on to know you better this year. In Jesus' name, Amen.