Oh what a what a blessed Sunday, Amen. I know many of us are missing our our wives or our kids at uh Hemlock But we have sisters we are meeting from Japan and what a blessing that is. And if you are a young person here today, I want to challenge you. I was a senior in high school here at this church when Dan and Carol Iverson went to Japan. And I was in college when Linda Carner, the second missionary we sent, went to Japan. And when I was in college, I was challenged as a college student to support Linda Carner. And as a college student, I can remember giving for all my college years $10 a month to Linda Carner to go to Japan and preach the gospel. And you know, $10 a month is a lot. Supporting missionaries with however much or little you have is a lot. Partnering with the work of God and spreading the gospel is always a mighty work. I want to challenge you to hear accounts and testimonies of what God is doing through missionaries And find a way to give $10. Find a way to pray. Find a way to go. I can't tell you how much it is a blessing to see the effects of that 39 years later. How many of you want to go to Japan now and see that church? Well, you all are Presbyterians, so don't raise your hands. I'm going to assume it's half of you. If you have your Bibles, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter nine. I'm going to be reading for us, beginning with verse 43b. And you might think, what in the world is verse 43b? The verse numbers and even the chapter numbers weren't original to these texts, the books of the Bible. They were added later. And sometimes the way that in the early modern period, the 1600s, 16th century, when some of these numbers were added, uh, we might want to put the numbers a different place than they would have. And this is one of those cases. So we're going to be starting this with the words, but while. But before I begin reading the scripture for us, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your majesty. The last several weeks we've been looking at your majesty, the majesty that is shown through Christ and his transfiguration on the mount. the majesty that you demonstrate through him as he does what no other could do and heals that boy suffering from possession and seizures. And Father, we thank you that we see your majesty as often as we humbly open your book and read your Bible, your word. Almighty God, we pray that you would help us to value and treasure your word. Help us to consider the Holy Scriptures to be of more substance and value and meaning and truth. than every study ever performed by any professional educated group on the entire planet. Your word is truth, and it is where we start. It is where we work, and it will be where we finish. So, Almighty God, as we come to the reading of your word, we ask your blessing on it. And Father, the preaching that follows. And as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said, we ask your blessing on that as well. For you are a good God. And you use our gifts. Weak or strong, it matters not. Bless us, we pray, this morning, as we come to your word. In Christ's name we ask. Amen. Luke chapter 9, beginning with the second half of verse 43. Hear the word of God. But while they were all marveling at everything he was doing, Jesus said to his disciples, Let these words sink into your ears. The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men. But they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, so that they might not perceive it They were afraid to ask him about this saying. An argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest. But Jesus, knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a child and put him by his side, and said to them, Whoever receives this child in my name receives me. And whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he who is least among you all is the one who is great. John answered, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him because he does not follow with us. But Jesus said to him, Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you is for you. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well as as Dick mentioned earlier, I I really struggled with whether to preach this in three separate messages, and you can see how it neatly falls into three different texts. Jesus foretelling his death The disciples debating who is the greatest, and the question of what to do with the man casting out demons in Jesus' name who didn't follow along with the other disciples. You can see how those are three separate events. But yet they're all connected. Let's look at the last two. We wouldn't necessarily think that there's a connection between the disciples thinking, who's the greatest? Am I better than Philip? Am I better than John? Am I better than James? Or is Peter better than me? And Jesus bringing up a child and saying, If you receive this child, you receive me. Now, notice verse 49. John answered, Master. You see, they're connected. And we sometimes, in our Bible studies, in our sermon series, focus on trees. And miss the forest. Now, what I'm going to do this morning is the opposite of that. I'm going to focus on the forest, and yes, we will miss some trees. But that's what you can go over in your community groups, amen? Let's take a look at this in the context of Luke chapter 9. In Luke chapter 9, we have seen Jesus' majesty revealed on the mount. Remember when Peter reflects back on this event in 2 Peter 1, verse 16, he associates it Doubly with this idea of the majesty of God being revealed in Christ as Christ's own property. He is God made flesh and he is majestic. Utterly, completely, even terrifyingly His majesty is such that it doesn't reflect the majesty of God. It shines from his own face. It transforms his clothing themselves. His cloak is dazzling. The word could be lightning-like. And he comes down from that mount, and he is immediately confronted with a crowd of people. From which comes a father grieving the fact that he has a son who no one could heal Not even his disciples who had given authority over all demons. At the beginning of chapter 9, the Gospel of Luke. And Jesus heals that boy after censuring even his own disciples as a corrupt generation of little faith. And everyone marvels at the majesty of God. The first half of Luke chapter 9, verse 43. You see, those two events show us the majesty of God on the mountain and the majesty of God in the valley. The majesty of God in his greatness and the majesty of God In his engagement with the most broken. Thinking about how great Their master, their rabbi, their teacher, their Lord was, naturally seems to prompt questions about, well, which of us is closest to him in that? Which of us is going to best follow in his footsteps and be truly majestic? While they are all marveling at everything he was doing, We read as the second half of the verse that talks about the majesty of God being revealed in the person of Christ. Jesus says to them Let these words sink into your ears. Now, what an introduction to a statement. Those of you who are college students or who were college students or have been high school, perhaps, and you have a teacher that says, write this down. Or more bluntly, this will be on the midterm. Let these words sink into your ears. The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men. Isn't it incredible that the Lord Jesus Christ, after he fully demonstrated his majesty in transcendence and his majesty in imminence? His majesty in the mountain where he's with glorified saints, Moses and Elijah, and his majesty in dealing with sinners, even demon-possessed. He immediately has to tell the people, still reflecting on his majesty, never forget this. I came to suffer. You see, greatness, the greatness that results in the majestic Son of Man coming to perform the majestic ministry of the Messiah. Necessarily involves submitting to God for the sake of others. In Luke chapter 9, verse 21 We read that Jesus told these same disciples, strictly charging them and commanding them, the Son of Man must suffer many things. and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed on the third day, and on the third day be raised. It is easy for us to think of the gospel in terms of its majesty and to think that we are called to walk a majestic path. And it is easy for us to then take the next step and think: as children of the king adopted into the family of God, ours is a road of unmitigated glory. Martin Luther, the great sixteenth-century German reformer, he distinguished between two great paths that the church can take. One he described as the theology of glory, the other he described as a theology of the cross And with respect to pursuing your own life, you can embrace a theology of glory that says, God is for me, who can be against me, therefore I'm going to be healthy, wealthy, and wise. And everything I do, I am going to do with a tendency to look towards how God is going to bless me through this, advance me through this. uh comfort me in this, bless me in this, satisfy my perspectives, opinions, and uh i it goes on and on and on But its center is self, and its objective is an immediate present glory. Martin Luther distinguished between that and what he called the theology of the cross The theology of the cross basically says what John chapter 9, verse 23 says. You see, immediately after Jesus has told his disciples that he would suffer and be rejected, And die and be raised, he said to everyone, everyone If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. Everyone who would follow Christ must eschew this theology of glory that is constantly looking for what's best for me now. And instead embrace this theology of the cross that says, every day I'm going to live my life as if my death warrant has already been signed. As if every morning I'm going to pick up that crossbar and live my life in service to God. In hopes that he uses me to bless others. Loving the Lord my God with heart, soul, mind, and strength, and loving my neighbor as myself. And that path, friends, will often not lead to you getting your way You being adored on a mountain or marveled at in a valley. That path will often not result And your health or your prosperity. That path will not result in the world thinking you are wise. That path will cause you to be rejected And sometimes oppressed. It might cause you to suffer. In some parts of the world, it might cause you to be killed. But like Jesus, you see, we know that we also will be raised. It was essential that the disciples of Jesus Christ As they were amazed at and discussing and marveling at the majesty of God, it was essential that they be reminded that true greatness involves submitting to God for the sake of others. They're still thinking about greatness though. They are afraid to talk about this issue They, because of where they are in their sanctification, they are unable to wrap their heads and hearts around the notion that someone with such majesty would come to such a strange end that he'd be delivered into the hands of of men. That word delivered into the hands of men, a word that shows up in Peter's sermon in Luke chapter two. And again when he speaks to the authorities in Luke chapter in Acts chapter three. In Acts 2 and 3, it's being delivered to death. It's not a good word. It's not like the delivery of a baby. It's like the delivery of a convict. And it's easy for them to not understand that and be confused by that and afraid to ask about it because they'd already been admonished and rebuked by Jesus for their lack of faith in healing the man. with uh healing the man's son uh of the demon just earlier that day, they instead start talking about who among among them was the greatest. Now I've seen this a lot. Some of you know that there is a large section of my heart that says lacrosse on it. And not like It's sports. I love sports and I love lacrosse. And I've coached many, many teams, many, many years, many, many sideline experiences And even after we took a big beating, because I've I've lost my share of games too, we used to take my lacrosse even California down to La Costa Canyon in San Diego, drive three hours. And we'd go down there as either the one of the first three games of our season for the express purpose of getting whooped. It was essential That the boys see this is what the game can look like as performed by high school athletes. Now take your lumps like men. And even after being exposed to that humbling experience of defeat Something like the humbling experience of failing to heal a man's only son who is demon-possessed. I can easily see those disciples then pivoting to talk about which one of them is the greatest, because I've seen it I've seen us get whooped 24 to 6, and then on the bus ride home, guys talking about which one of them had the best game. Wasn't my fault. Hey, I got my eight ground balls. I got two assists. What do you get? Arguing and debating about who is the best. Even in light of the difficulties and the suffering that was experienced. Arguing about who is the best, even after Jesus has just made it clear, you all must pick up your cross and follow me. Arguing about who would be the greatest. And this is where Jesus does something fascinating that gets lost in our culture. He takes a little child. Imagine if you were that child. He takes one kid out of the crowd and puts him next to him, and he says, if you receive this child in my name , You receive me. Now, in our world, there's a couple things we love. We love children. We love puppy dogs. And we hate the rain. In that world, dogs were not loved The word cynic comes from the word that works down in our language to canine. They were to be outside of the city. Dogs weren't pets. Children, although they were considered a blessing in the Hebrew-Israelite tradition , They were not considered the honored center of attention, beloved focus of whole families that they are today. Children were, in the old adage, more to be seen and not heard. In some of the ancient Near Eastern and medieval Hellenistic m m not Mediterranean Hellenistic culture. Children weren't even given a name until they'd been alive for a week. They had a different attitude towards children. They were not considered great. We worship youth. They did not. And when Jesus takes a little child and he says, if you receive this child in my name, you receive me, he is identifying With that which can offer you nothing. The child can't earn a wage. That little child can't provide you with Really anything. That little child is a drain on your resources in an agrarian culture We don't think about it that way. And I want to invite you to think about it that way. I want you to think about in our culture who Jesus might call up to stand next to him. And say to those of us wondering how great we are, anyone who receives this blank in my name receives me. Someone from whom you accept expect nothing. Someone who you're not transactionally invested in, because if I love them, they'll love me. If I scratch their back, they'll scratch mine. You see, Jesus is saying here that he identifies himself with the lowly, with those who appear to have the least to offer. to those who need the most. And in every generation of the church on every continent, it is a difficult thing. For us to resist the tendency to want to identify with and to court the important, the privileged, the attractive, the wealthy. And it's easy for us to look back , look past the bleeding man on the side of the road that might be a trap. The short man who's aided by culture hiding in a tree. The diseased person that might be contagious the demon-possessed who lives in the graveyard. Jesus makes it very clear that whoever is the least among us identifies with the least among us. That's the one who is great. Because that's the one who best imitates Jesus. Jesus came from heaven to earth. Jesus forsook courts of glory for a stable, dusty roads, and a horrible death. And Jesus came to call everyone from tax collectors and rabbis to lepers and the demon-possessed, Syrophoenician women. And Jewish nobility. He came to call everyone. And in calling the least as part of that, he identified with them. And you who reach out to the least, you also are like Christ, receiving the least is particular. And I want to make this point. It is very easy for us in our culture to think that we are godly if we vote the right way. And you can fill in whether that's red or blue, I care not. It's easy for us to have a view of morality that is aggregate and is uh kind of holistic in terms of just policy levels. I'm a good person because I think X, Y, or Z should be done for A, B, or C. And I would say that this text really ought to rebuke that notion. You see, Jesus calls his disciples to a particular reception of a particular person. He says, whoever will receive this child. And I want you to think about that for a minute. He doesn't just say whoever would receive children. He makes it concrete and specific. It is not enough for me to think that all children should be treated such and so. I must be personally invested in treating particular children that way. Talk is cheap. The path to discipleship, if you're going to keep in the footsteps of Christ, means that you personally engage with the least of these. And it's not enough to simply say, well, my heart was in the right place. Now, make no mistake, we are finite beings. We don't have the capacity, each one of us, to reach out and touch every other person. Can't be done. But what if Each one of us felt the call of God to reach out to one such person who was looked past, were ignored, were not noticed. Or beaten down or rejected by culture. And what if we received that one person in Christ's name? And whenever you find in his name, in your Bible, take note, it is not a generic, contentless reception of such a one. It is utterly conditioned by and informed by who Jesus is and what he's done. I am receiving that despised and rejected, that person who is least, that person who is like me. When I share Christ with them and seek to draw them to Jesus and the transformation of life that can happen through contact with the majestic Savior of the world. It is not looking at someone and leaving them where they are and accepting them as is. We accept them and we love them. But what do we strive mightily to do? To present everybody how in Christ? Presbyterians, let's hear it. Perfect. Can I hear perfect? That means mature, complete, whole. And if I see someone who's on the edges of society because of some sin in their life, I love that person and I seek to draw them to Christ so that they can, by the power of God , overcome that sin. See, it's not a loving of the least to keep them in that state. It's a loving of them to draw them to Christ, because it's in Christ's name that we are doing the receiving. Receiving the least is essential to pursuit of greatness in the kingdom of God. So is accepting the other. John, usually it's Peter who puts his foot in it. This time it's John. John answers Jesus. He responds to Jesus. Jesus has said, accept the least, receive the least in my name to be great. John responds to that by saying, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we try to stop him because he does not follow with us. Have you you know if you ever really want to feel good about yourself, read the gospels and compare yourself to the disciples. I say that tongue-in-cheek, but it's partly true. He just didn't get it. He sees some other guy. And notice, what had John failed to do, or what had John's companions failed to do just earlier that morning? Cast out a demon! And so here they come, John comes to Jesus and says, obviously referring to something that would have been at least two days prior, and saying, Well, hey, we we did this as if it was a good thing Jesus just told him to receive the least and John says, Hey, we rejected this guy How often is it that we elevate ourselves over others who don't follow Jesus precisely in our footsteps? How often is it that we reject others because they have a slightly different perspective on some point of theology? that is a little lower than what we might call theological significant digits. I know a lot of you here in Colombia are more educated than me, and nearly every one of you knows more mathematics than me. But I do know that pi is three point one four. Am I right, Charlie? Yeah. What comes next? See now you talk. Now you know answers Now, if you need to build a bridge and you have to calculate something regarding arches and load bearing, how many digits do you need to successfully build that bridge to get from one side of the bay to the other? Three. You need three digits, evidently. I heard it. Do you need all 18? Do you need 20? Do you need the infinite number? I want you to think about theology in this way. It's a helpful model. There are significant digits to theology. There are things that we must know regarding the authority of God's word. Regarding the persons of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit as one God existing eternally. In three persons. There are things we must understand about the work of Jesus Christ who came to seek and to save the lost. But there are other things regarding the government of a church, or the best way to educate kids That Christians can agree to disagree on. Digits that are maybe 15, 20, maybe 78 digits down from what is needful to build the bridge. And we have a great example here of the apostles saying, this guy is a couple digits short, and Jesus saying, no, he's not. But look at that word in verse 50. But that's a contrasting word That is a correcting word. But Jesus said to him, Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you is for you. Do not stop him, because the one who is not against you is for you. We are not radical latitudinarians who believe that there are no distinctions to be made in the church or the world. But we are men and women of faith who delight in Christians as Christians and rejoice In the offer of the gospel and the news that it's been received. And having such things as denominations and particular churches and specific polities And particular strategies for educating our kids. They're absolutely essential. But they're not necessarily dividing. I had lunch with two Lutheran pastors this past week, and I'll partly close with this. I was, and I I painfully say this, and I think it's going to become more and more the story of my life, I was the oldest one there. I'm 57. One guy was 32, the other was 27. And we were having lunch talking about how wonderful it would be if the gospel of Jesus Christ transformed Colombia. We were at Union Jacks right there by the Columbia Mall. And after the we'd finished our food, I had the Reuben and soup. I said, because I was the old man there, I said, brothers, let's let's pray for each other. How can we pray for each other? And the pastor to my left, wonderful, solid, apostles, creed believing, Bible-loving ELCA pastor, he shared his prayer requests And then I shared mine, because as the church staff knows, I'm very particular about these things, always moving clockwise. Ask one of them about that. And then the pastor from the Wisconsin synod said, brothers, I can't pray with you And I was like, well, well why not? He said, I I can't have I can't I mean I can share a meal with you, but I can't have Christian fellowship with you I've been in ministry since I started teaching Sunday school when I was 19, 57. You can do the math better than me. Never come across anything like that. But isn't there a part of our own hearts that are like that? That you don't agree with me on enough things? And don't we sometimes find a way to fight and divide and to separate ourselves over stuff that ultimately has nothing to do with even theology? Properly speaking. And Jesus Christ says that the pursuit of greatness will accept others in the name of Jesus. And these men who Jesus is urging them to accept are marked out in two ways here. They are exercising their ministries in Christ's name, undeniably And there is a demonstration of the Spirit's blessing on their work. And when you see that, love it. When you see people who are the least and the lowest and the most neglected and the furthest outcast from the decent societies we try to pretend we live in. Love them for the sake of Christ into the kingdom and seek with everything you have to present them perfect in Christ. No one is beneath you, and by the grace of God, no one is beyond him. Therefore, we can go anywhere and everywhere with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Desperately longing by any means to save some. And in everything you do, seek the cross. Pick it up for yourself And learn how to submit to your sovereign Heavenly Father, who calls you in and through difficult situations for the sake of the gospel. That's the greatness to which the disciple of Jesus should aspire. Do you see how Jesus models this greatness? You see how Jesus accepts you even though you have an imperfect understanding of theology? How many of you truly understand the nature of Christ's presence in the bread and the cup? If you truly understand that with mathematical precision, talk to me and explain it to me. And yet Jesus loves you. And he offers himself to you completely. How many of you have experienced the reality that Jesus loves you? The Lord Jesus Christ saw you as that child who had nothing to offer And yet he put his arms around you, sucked the guilt and shame right out of your soul, and took it to the cross with him. And don't you see how Jesus humbled himself Taking on even our form, submitting even to the cross and dying And because of that, God exalted him to the highest place. That was the path to greatness. Dear friend, if you're here today and you have not met Christ and have not pledged your life to Him, And committed yourself to be his follower, and decided that you would choose such a Lord of glory who gave everything to win some like you. I would urge you this day to do business with Jesus. Determine that you will not spend another day of your life pursuing your own glory. Pretending you're in some sort of special club that doesn't need to pay attention to some other segment. Trying to scrap together something of a spiritual reputation so you can ease your conscience on a long night. Instead, come to the Jesus who does everything for you, giving even Himself. This is how we do that. Almighty and living God. We pray that you might change hearts. Lord, our single greatest prayer is that your gospel would cover this world as the waters do the sea. And that men and women and boys and girls would come to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. The gospel that says the eternal Son of God became like us and lived in our place and gave his life for us. being delivered to that cross, despite his unspeakable majesty, that we might follow in the footsteps of that cross as his disciples, loving all and embracing everyone who calls on your name. Father, we pray that you would help us to respond in this manner. Lord, we know we're sinners. Please forgive us. We have heard that you are a Savior who calls people like me to you, and here I am. Be my Lord and be my Savior. Forgive me of my sins and help me to follow you. May the blessings of a living God be upon us in Christ's name we ask. Amen