As you are turning to Philippians, we'll be looking at chapter 2, verses 19 through 30 this morning. Today's passage may seem like a weird shift from what Paul has been saying throughout chapter 2. Paul shares details about his circumstances in prison and begins to describe his plans to send messengers back to Philippi. So on the surface, this section can come across as fairly mundane, merely personal correspondence that involved particular people at a particular time in history. So we we always need to come to the word and ask what value might it have for us today? And as you we begin to look below the surface, the section is uh quite beautiful. It flows from Paul's previous remarks about how the Christians that are in Philippi should work out their salvation. Doing all things as children of God and lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life Yes, Paul is sharing logistical information about these travel plans, but but Paul is doing something more than that as well. He's commending two people. as example examples of Christian love and sacrificial service. These two examples that he walks through have been transformed by the life of Jesus. They seek to live out their lives in the gospel as they work together for the gospel. Hear now as we read from Philippians chapter 2, verses 19 through 30. Hear God's word. I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be cheered by news of you. For I have no one like him who will be genuinely concerned for your well-being. For they all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. But you know Timothy's proven worth. How as a son with a father he has served with me in the gospel. I hope therefore to send him just as soon as I see how it will go with me, and I trust in the Lord that shortly I myself will come also. I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus , my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, and your messenger and minister to my need. For he has been longing for you all and has been distressed because you heard that he was ill. Indeed, he was ill, near to death But God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I am the more eager to send him, therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again and that I may be less anxious. So receive him in the Lord with all joy, and honor such men, for he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me. This is the word of the Lord. Now let us pray. Father, hear our hearts, our minds, as we interact with your word, and by your spirit may we see. May we see your kindness, may we see your goodness, may we see your mercy, may we see your provision of how you work in us and through us. And even by that, we are working together. As part of your body. We give you praise in these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I recently saw a video. Presentation by author Simon Sinek , and he was talking about the Navy SEAL. How do they recruit? How do they identify who will succeed as a Navy SEAL? And he was asking questions to them, you know, things like, how do you pick the guys? that are that that will qualify or or be part of this elite team. And after interviewing many of them, they drew a graph to uh to show Simon what they look for. And on one side was the category of performance, things like skills, uh ways about going and and and bringing about outcomes. And on the other side was the category trust. Now, this could be related to any field or a group of people working together for a common purpose. two things held together. I'm sure in your daily uh work lives, your weekly projects, you're you're grappling with how to work with people in a way to bring about effective outcomes. How do we balance performance and trust? No one, of course, wants low trust and low performance. And everybody desires a team with high trust and high performance. The Navy SEALs, in their own kind of metrics, have identified that toxic leaders and toxic team leaders fall in the quadrant of low trust and low performance. They would rather have moderate performers, even in some cases low performers , to have a team with high trust. Patrick Lancioni wrote a book called The Five Dysfunctions of a Team and regarding the edge in business over the competition. He says this, it's not finance, it's not strategy, it's not technology, it is teamwork that remains the ultimate competitive advantage both because it is so powerful and so rare. Paul is encouraging the Philippians in his letter To pursue a life of joy that's in Christ. And joy in Christ multiplies when there is unity in the gospel and when there is striving side by side for the gospel. This participating in God's mission is done with God's people, it's done for God's glory, and it and it cultivates this shared joy in gospel work. So as we look at these verses this morning, we're going to kind of walk through in three broad kind of streams. We're going to first look at how the gospel work includes a team of trusted co-laborers. Gospel work reflects Jesus' ministry, and gospel work pursues faithfulness more than success. So let's dive in with the first section as we look at how gospel work includes a team of trusted co-laborers. It's common for Paul to give thanks and to send greetings in his letters, to mention various men and women who are engaged in the gospel work with him. He gives thanks. He includes people in the greetings of his letters. He includes people in the kind of the goodbye salutations. And sometimes throughout the letter as we see today. For example, though, Paul, just in Romans chapter 16, verses 1 through 16, lists 29 people of people he's connected with, people he's in relationship with, people who are working together for the life of the church and also the the expanse and the proclamation of the gospel. Now those people are distantly removed from us, but these individuals have stories They have stories of families and friendships, stories of working together for God's glory and the growth of the church, stories of struggle and hardship, failures and successes. And the passage this morning, Paul highlights two. He highlights two examples of trusted co-laborers. This the first is Timothy in verses 19 through 24, where he's discussing to the Philippians how he he's planning to send Timothy to to visit with them. And then Epaphroditus in verses 25 through 30. So who are these men that Paul commends? Well, the first is Timothy, and we learn from the Acts of the Apostles that Timothy's father was a Greek, and his mother was Jewish. We learn from Paul's second letter to Timothy that it is part of Timothy's story of seeing how his mother and grandmother came to faith and how they played such an instrumental part in Timothy's own testimony of coming to faith when he heard Paul's preaching. All three of them could have even likely been converted during Paul's missionary journey. We can read that in Acts chapter 14. Timothy is dear to Paul. He's mentioned in ten of Paul's letters. Two letters are actually written to Timothy. We have this exchange. Well, we don't have Timothy's exchange to Paul, but we have Paul's letters to Timothy. We know that he was a disciple of Paul. We know that he was a trusted companion. We know that he was a fellow worker. in starting new churches, and he faithfully engaged in the work of strengthening in existing churches. And we have here even as an example in verse 22 how Paul often um describes Timothy with warm affection in terms of a father-son relationship. Apaphroditus is someone that is mentioned in this letter only. Verse 25, Paul describes him as brother. A fellow worker, a fellow soldier. Now, these are not necessarily distinct titles or roles, but they are descriptions of what they share in the work. There is relationship together as brothers, and there is co-laboring together for the sake of the gospel as fellow workers. fellow soldiers, metaphors that Paul sometimes uses to explain both the the the work that is involved, but also the challenge and the the the suffering that even comes with the work. that they engage with. Epaphroditus is from Philippi, and he was sent from the church to deliver their gift to Paul while he was in prison, and to further assist Paul while in prison. At that time, it was very common if you were in prison you you were able to have guests and and it was their responsibility to kind of actually take care of you, provide food, provide clothing uh while under arrest. Now, in Colossians and Philemon, there is a man by the name of Epaphras , and that is a shortened version of Epaphroditus, but these are likely two distinct people. So what we have in this travelog, this this kind of um correspondence of what's happening in their everyday life. When you think about just the passing over of names, you have time, you have the rising and setting of suns, the sun, you have you have um tide charts. You have, can you, can I get on this ship? Where do I go? Like it takes time to get anywhere in the first century. And so there's story, there is logistics. but there are relationships that are in context of all of what's being said here. In the co-laboring of the gospel. In Matthew chapter 9, verses 35 through 38, Jesus is with his disciples, he's ministering to the crowds, and as he's going about throughout the cities and the villages, Teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, healing diseases. When he sees the crowds, what does Jesus do? He's moved. He's moved with compassion. It's not just a pity. It is a hurt. It's a groaning for what he sees. Because they were harassed and helpful, uh helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. And as he sees the crowds, he moves to his disciples who are with him, and he says this. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore What? Go go make a bunch of laborers, no? He says, therefore, pray. Pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest. To send out labors into his harvest. I never grow tired of this mystery. That the second person of the Trinity, Jesus, was born, flesh and blood. He lived about 30 years before he had any public ministry. And then he had this short focus season of about three years where he proclaimed the kingdom, where he healed afflictions, he ministered to the crowds. He lived his life intentionally before a large group of people who followed his ministry, but then he invested in twelve. He invested in twelve men to be developed as the first leaders in his church. And of those twelve, one of them betrayed him. I it it moves me, it confuses me, it it it's profound, and it and I it it's amazing. In God's wisdom and God's providence, this is how he lived his life. He lived a full life, trusting and depending upon God the Father. He died for the forgiveness of sins, and he was raised from the dead to demonstrate the Spirit's power. And truly all those who believe shall experience and shall benefit from his finished work on the cross This was Jesus' plan. He ministered to many, but he discipled a few. And he's calling people from death to life. He's repairing what is broken. He's making atonement for sin. And for an amazing purpose, he's calling his people to share in his death, to share in his resurrection, to know his grace. And to be ambassadors of his peace. Jesus calls people to be with him in order to be sent by him. This is foundational to Christian discipleship. Matthew 28, 18 through 20. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you to the end of the age. Because in this great mystery, He raised from the grave and he ascended and bounced. This is his plan. He is with us to the end of the age, but he is now exalted at the right hand of the Father Acts chapter 4 verse 13. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated men, common. The council was astonished because they had recognized that they had been with Jesus Their lives, their words, their actions demonstrated that they had been with Jesus. And now their lives reflected being sent by Jesus to bear witness to his work in their lives. We see this same pattern from uh not only from the apostles in in Acts, but we see it in the pattern of Paul's life in 2 Timothy 2, as he writes to Timothy verses 1 and 2: You then my child. Be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, and trust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. the same pattern of be with Jesus in order to be sent by Jesus. And so as we look at the the the gospel work of of being in a team of co trusted co-laborers it is important to realize that that certainly is the church corporate so columbia presbyterian church This is applicable to us. But then even to you individually. How do you go about your life being with Jesus? And how do you go about your life being with other people being with Jesus so that you might live an intentional life that gives glory to him and that seeks to live out the gospel in front of others? With your words, but also your actions. And so Paul is rightfully, he's he's commending these two brothers to the Philippians. And so for us to think about our models. It's always important to have models in our life. We do it intuitively. Sometimes I guess in church school context, you know, you always think about the models or are examples of like you know, learn from my mistakes and and and we're like, yeah, we're gonna learn our from from your mistakes, but then we go on and make our our own mistakes. The the Christian discipleship is in community in a way that we're seeking to follow Jesus together. And some of us are more mature than others, and we are needing each other in the kind of the progress of our faith. But we're also needing each other in the advancement of the gospel. And so what Paul is doing here in commending them, he's connecting the dots of where he's come from so far in the whole letter. Do we have such models? Do we know how to model? Who do we engage with in the gospel work that is being done in us, but is being done through our lives? And so may we Brothers and sisters, may we glean from the models that Paul highlights here. But more than that, may we also be growing toward maturity so to reflect these qualities of love and service in the name of Christ. May we be about the work of developing others toward maturity. Gospel work that Paul is talking about is multiplied and enjoyed when it is done alongside trusted co-laborers. The joy of that work is being done side by side with others. May it be so of our community. And this same um gospel work that is done in community with others is also meant to be done in ways that reflect Jesus' ministry. So look at verse 29 through 30. This is the key sentence in the whole paragraph. So receive him Epaphroditus in the Lord with all joy, and honor such men, now including Timothy as well. For he nearly died for the work of Christ. risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me. He is sending Epaphroditus back to them. Why? Well, he tells us in verse 26 to resolve the distress in Epaphroditus ' heart about hearing that they know that he's been sick. Verse 28, to resolve the anxiety in Paul's heart, there's a lessening of his own worry by him returning home. And to experience this shared joy is the opportunity to reflect Jesus' ministry. So what do I mean by that? Verse 30. Epaphroditus was the Philippians' messenger to Paul on behalf of their shared partnership in the gospel. So it was him bringing their gift. It was him assisting Paul. This was the the work of the gospel from Philippi to Paul. Which also went together in tandem with the ministry of Paul, even while he was in prison for the advancement of the gospel. And while bringing this gift and assisting Paul, he he at some point becomes ill, uh, deathly ill. He nearly dies. And and and it's for this reason, risking his life. For the sake of another person that Paul is commending him. Epaphroditus as a model is living out chapter 2, verse 3. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit. but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. And then uh following that in verse 4, look to the interests of others. And and aphroditus embodies this For he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his very life for the sake of another. This is living out also what it meant to imitate Jesus in his pattern. of living, humbling himself even to the point of death. There was work that is unique to Jesus in redemption, but there is work that we are to embody and practice that reflects that ministry of Jesus. Likewise, he intends to send Timothy. Timothy, why? Because he's going to genuinely be concerned for their welfare. He's going to seek the interest of Christ and thereby seek their interest. Timothy has demonstrated to be trustworthy companion to Paul. And he is faithfully serving side by side with Paul in the Gospel. They know who Timothy is to Paul, and Paul is committing him Do you see how the community of faith is working together in the partnership of the gospel that spans the globe It certainly is entering into our stories and our context in the here and the now, but it is it is multiplying and expanding throughout time and history and and culture and language and and um nationality These men are to be commended of what it means to be seeking to follow Jesus for the sake of another. To receive such men is not on the sole basis of their position, nor on the sole basis of their network. So it's important to see what Paul is drawing attention to of why we should emulate them. They are to be be received with all joy, they are to be honored and esteemed because they live their lives that reflect Jesus is life. Now we often get that mixed around, don't we? We can be cynical people. How easy is it for leaders to promote their friends or themselves? How easy is it for them, for leaders to manipulate the emotions of the crowd, to lift up the privileged few? demanding honor for themselves instead of giving honor due to the work that is being shared as well as the character in others. We can be prideful people. How easy is it for us to promote and puff up ourselves? How easy is it for us to perform, to function, so that we can be seen? So that we can curate and edit and refine our image. We seek to To tell the world of who we are, but in a way, in a weird, inverted way, we're actually distancing ourselves from one another We can be a distracted people. How easy is it to slip into shame that we are not who we ought to be? How how easy is it for us to compare ourselves to others? As if other people are more uh important? than we are. As if other people are the very metric we are to measure ourselves against. How easy is it for us to promote others who fit our preconceived notion of what leadership should be or what success should be And we often do that at the expense of someone's character. In the church, things are being rocked, often because deeds of darkness is coming to light. And and people don't know what to do with that. So we either say, oh, they're sinners too, and and look at the success of their ministry. We shouldn't, we should, we should honor them. No , pastors and ministry leaders, we are but people, certainly sinful, and can err. But the ways we we put people up on pedestals in order to keep them from accountability, as well as how we might also throw people under the bus. and show them no grace. So we err on either side so often. As we think about the gospel , I am moved by this quote from Gandhi. He has been quoted saying the following to Christian missionaries, I like your Christ. I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ. Are we going about our lives With no intention? Are we overwhelmed? Are we exhausted? Do we confuse meetings for ministry? Do we confuse prophets? uh for more important than the public good. Do we organize what we do for the benefits of receiving the byproducts of the gospel? Such as friendship and fellowship, connection, safety, security. Or are we living our lives in such a way that intentionally gives of ourselves to the least, to the last, to the lost? May we prayerfully reflect on this, that our work points to the gospel of Jesus, and that the work is demonstrating something about the gospel of Jesus. We can say true things about the gospel and undermine it with how we live our lives. We do it on social media every day of our lives. We see it being done or we see it in our own selves. We are not perfect, and and we're not to pretend otherwise. But may we not May we not think that it matters what we say and how we live should not be held together. May we be prayerful in how we consider what we give our time to in the vocations of our life. Where are you called to live and serve in the name of Christ? When I'm talking about the gospel work, I am not minimizing it to my job. I am not minimizing it to the work that happens in these walls. How are we to live our lives in the joy, the freedom, and the beauty of the gospel? So that people would hear our words, see our lives, and be moved. Not because we're great, but because we've been transformed. Because we have the very gospel and the power that it is to save. So where do you give your time and your vocations? We are to live out the gospel, this work in our relationships, in our families, our occupations. And it is the work of these walls. It is the ministries of our church. It is the partnerships we have with organizations in our region, missionaries that we support in around the world. This is the mission of God that we are participating in. And by the Spirit's power, may we engage in the gospel work that involves believing true things about Jesus. proclaiming true things about him, but may we match what we believe with what we say and how we live. Gospel work reflects Jesus' ministry. And lastly, gospel work pursues faithfulness more than success. And the only thing to kind of quickly discuss this point is just in terms of um Epaphroditus gets sick. He's not a machine. He's fallen. He's limited. And Paul is sending him home and he's commending him to the brothers, to the church there. It is not the success of the mission through human lens or the metrics that we may say is successful. But it is our very lives responding by faith to the work of the gospel in our lives. It is pursuing faithfulness. It's easy to hear these stories, maybe even things I'm saying. Some of you might be responding, yes, like, yeah, this is this is this is right on, this is inspiring, this is this is what uh what we need to be talking about and and and I'm doing okay with all this. And and and others might be saying, yeah, that sounds great, but I'm struggling. I I don't I need Jesus. I don't know how to be sent by Jesus. I don't even know if I can be sent by him. I have nothing to give. This same gospel is working in us and through us. And what I love about how all of these points are being held together with the joy of this work. Is that the gospel is being spoken between these parties? The gospel is being demonstrated within these parties. So the gospel is to the fellowship in the church, but the gospel is also to be lived out for those who are outside the church. It is the internal work of the gospel, and it's the external proclamation of the gospel, so that others may hear of God's great salvation. Come to believe and join us in this process of what it means to take great delight and great joy in a good and great God. This is why unity is such an important theme in connection with joy. Because joy is easy when it's going well. Joy is hard when things are not going well. And just as an illustration, think about your own family. Think about maybe how you interacted with your parents' approaches of motivation or correction, or how you might engage your own children in that. I I absolutely love this story. There's a handful of stories from seminary that I just hold on to. And quite surprised I've never mentioned it before. But But it's so very fitting with what Paul's talking about. When things are going well, we can move forward and advance. When things are disrupted and things are hard, when we have to deal, kind of draw our attention to the side, that's good work too. We have to stop and pause and analyze and think and kind of repair. But that's not the work. It's to get to get refreshed, to get encouraged, to be equipped, so then you can engage and do the work. So for example, a professor of mine tells a story of a conversation with one of his daughters. The character, I'll just read it. The character of God's law, rooted in his own love, compassion, and holiness becomes a part of us as we keep his word. And here's the analogy that he brings up. I love and treasure my children as I do. And only want to cuddle them, to read books to them, to play with them. And my professor's weird like this. To teach them Hebrew. I don't do that. But but if one of them is disobedient, well I love her. So I'll I'll discipline her. I'll take time to spend with her. To teach, to instruct, to encourage, so that she might learn the lesson. But time is finite. The time we spend in discipline is time we did not and now cannot. Spend in cuddling, in reading, playing, in his case, speaking Hebrew. I don't say it's been wasted. We just haven't been able to go forward. So it is in the Christian growth. Obedience doesn't earn us the relationship with God, but it is the way we experience that relationship and go forward in it. Paul's letter is beautiful in commending these men that we would share in gospel work in co-laboring together. that that co-laboring would be in our worship, in our growth as disciples, and that kind of propels forward in how we function as a church. We exist to enjoy God, but we exist because our lives have been changed. And we exist to live that out. As he mentions in the previous verses, as lights to the world. This takes hard work. It takes vulnerability. It takes confession, it takes repentance, it takes trust. It also takes learning and being equipped so that we can do the work, that performance piece. It's trust and the skills and the ways we go about functioning in our work, the work of worship, the work of mission. And Patrick Lancioni in that same book, The Five Dysfunctions of a Team, he writes, remember that teamwork begins by building trust. And the only way to do that is to overcome our need for invulnerability. The joy that Paul is sharing together in Christ is the fact that he is invulnerable. Or he's not invulnerable. Like he is he has been rocked by Jesus Same with Timothy and Epaphroditus, and same with Philippians, the converts that were there, the church that is the budding church and the building church that's there together. This is it is all working in tandem. Who we are in Christ and who are we together. Not so that we are this club to ourselves. but that we may present the beauty and the aroma of Christ. Let us pray. Father in heaven, we do ask for your help in this. We pray for your Spirit's power to guide us. And your grace to strengthen us. Help us in the work of your church as we worship you in spirit and truth. but also that we might live our lives in ways that that say true things, but but we believe and act upon true things. We need your help. Forgive us our sins and strengthen us so that we may walk according to your ways. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please