Today is the first Sunday of the new year, and I thought to thank the passing of time and to the fact that all of us are getting older. Very quickly. Reminded of the fella who's reflecting on his own increasing age. He said that you know this is getting old and almost everything hurts. And what doesn't hurt doesn't work anymore. You know you're getting old when it feels like the morning after the night before and you haven't been anywhere. When all the names in your little flat book end in M D. Or when you get winded playing chess. Or when you look forward to a dull evening. Or when you knew buckle and you don't want. Or when you sink your feet into a space and don't say that. When you try to wrinkle, when you try to straighten the wrinkles in your top that you're not wearing them, a little gray-haired old lady tries to help you across the street in CV1 Before our thoughts came to the passing of our family, how each one of us, as we're reminded, beginning of a new year, we're getting older. So we've come to that time of our annual consideration of what the history says about time We're up with you to 2 Samuel. 2 Samuel chapter 14, verse 14. My text to the beginning of 1986. Come with me to 2 Samuel chapter 14. 2 Samuel 14, 14. Like water spilled on the ground, which cannot be recovered. So we must die. But God does not take away life, instead he divides his way so that a banished person may not remain a slave from me What's that about? First of all, we need to subject food. This all took place during the reign of David. King David's firstborn son , Anna, had lusted after his half-sisters came off. And finally, when he could wait no longer, Put her into a room and races. David, of course, was huge and stand and vanished. But he did not Did he say didn't do anything to Ammon away genuine penalty? Even though Leviticus 20 was very clear on what should have been done. Ammon should have been cut off immediately And he could have been cut off from God's people. David really didn't do anything. Perhaps the confidence still floated from setting his own accent from God 's people He didn't have the moral determination to punish his own son. A little difference between our brother, third brother, Absalom. Absalom said nothing to on them. But in typical New Eastern fashion he was devoted for two years until Ammons, any of the Amnons for Absalom's reprisal and then a baby. Abnum is accepting nothing. Absolutely after Remove and dead life. And so Absalom had a revenge on his half-brother. And then he fled from Israel. Because it's what David might do to him. And it's been two years now that Absalom has been an ebbside. When we pick up the story with 2 Samuel 14 So now let's give our attention to God's word as we pick up the story of Absalom and David in 2 Samuel chapter 14. Now Joab, the son of Zerura, knew that the king part of the BCUs and his roof smile had been somewhat blunted over the passing of time. But the king part long for Absalom Because Joab sent someone to capella and had a wise woman brought from there. And he said to her, become this year in morning. Just a morning clothes and don't use any cosmetic lotions. That's like a woman who spent many days reading for the day. Then go to the king and speak these words to him And put the words in her mouth. And when the woman from Sakura went to the king, she fell on his face to the ground because an eye. And she said, Help me, O king. And the king asked him , what problem is? And he said, I am indeed a widow. My husband is good , as your servant had two sons. We got into a fight to be caving and the feeling. No one was there the suffering. One struck the other and killed them And now the whole crown is risen up against the servant. They say, hand over the one who struck his brother down, so that we may put him to death for the life of his brother who is killed. And then we'll get rid of the heir as well. They put out the only burning coal that I have left, leaving my husband either normal nor dependent on the face of the earth Go home and I will issue an order in your behalf. The woman from the color said to him Oh my Lord the King. Let the blame rest on me and on my father's family, and let the king and his throne be without this. King requires. If anyone says anything to you, bring him to me, and he will not bother you again. He said, Then let the king invoke the Lord his God to prevent the evangelist might from adding to the destruction so that my son will not be destroyed. It's really as the Lord lives, he said. Not one hair of your son's head will fall to the ground. Then the woman said Don't you serve these people to my Lord the king? Peace, he replied. The woman said Why then have you devised a thing like this against the people of God? When the king says this, does he not convict himself? Who has not brought that to stand? Like water is still on the ground, which cannot be recovered. So we must have But God does not take away life, instead he divides his way so that many person may not remain a place in sin Now I have come to say this to my Lord the King because the people have made me a place. This servant thought I would speak to the king. Perhaps he will do what his servant asked Perhaps the king will agree to deliver your servant from the hand of the man who's trying to cut off both me and my sons in the inheritance God gave us. And now your servant says, Hear the word of my lord the king bring me Yes, for my Lord the king is like an angel of God and the things good and evil. May the Lord your God be with you. Then the thing said to the moment , do you ask each of me the answers when I'm going back? Oh no, my Lord speaks the moment. You know. Isn't the hand of Joab with you and all this? Women asked me. As truly as he lives, my lord the king, no one can turn to the right or the left, and anything my lord the king says. Yes, it was your servant Joab who expected me to do this and to put all these words in the mouth of your servant Said that Joah didn't change the present situation. My Lord has wisdom like that of an angel of God. He knows everything that happens in the land. Well you say. Very well. I will do it. Go bring back the young man after them. So I saw with his face to the ground to tell him honor. And he blessed the king. God said, Where are your servant ears, but he has found faith in your eyes, my Lord the King, because the king is drawn with his servants of death. Then God wrote the justice and brought Absalom back to Jerusalem. But the king said, He must go down to his own house. He must not see my fruit So Abdon went to his own house and did not see the face of the king. In all Israel there was not a man for a highly thing from the came from the king From the top of his head to the skull of his foot, there was no blending from it. Wherever he cut a hair of his head, he used to cut his hair from time to time, but it's only too heavy for him He would wear it, and the weight was two hundred sepulches by the royal standard. Three tons and a daughter, he's going to ask me Brought his name with Tana. She became a beautiful woman. Godfall lived two years in Jerusalem without the independent safe. Then add some influence they'll add in order to send things to the point. The lad refused the sentence. Because he said a second time that he refused the sentence. And then he said to his servant, look, go have seals next to mine. And he asked Barry there. Go set it on fire. So Absolut's servant Set the field on fire. Then Joab did go to Absalom Pass and he said to him, Why have you set my barn field on fire? And Absalom said to Joab, Look I can word to you and said, Come here, so I can send you to the king to ask why have I come from Jennifer? It would be better for me if I was still there. Now when I want to see the king's face and if I'm guilty of anything, let him put me to death. He told him. And then the prince came and left. And he came in and bowed with his face to the ground before the prince. And the king kissed and The one the reading that we 're explaining the lesson out of it. What then? Do we learn from verse 14 in this context? My water is filled on the ground, it cannot be recovered So we must ask. But God does not take away myself, so he divides his days, so the divine station may not remain with things in his What does this have to do with you and with me with mental images? I'd like to suggest three things to me to learn from this work. You think we're going to both have first of all these must consider the trevables of light stage Secondly, we need to learn from this text the immensity of God's grace. And one thirdly, we need to see the imperativeness of your reconciliation. First of all, then the irreceivable , the light both. Like water filled on the ground, we cannot be repeated, so we might die. You're walking along with a cup of water. And all of a sudden you stumble a little bit and the cup fills and all the water's on the ground. If you've ever tried to do that, maybe because it wasn't water but some precious liquid, maybe it was the tune you wanted to get back in the bar or something, maybe you could something trying to get it all back into the ground before the room. And you know it's an impossible problem. There's no way that you can get water that's been spilled on the ground back up into the picture to God. But a guy is the picture of the power of the past and of our eyes. And this picture is still that is heroes First of all, dust is like the spilling of water on the ground. Dust is like water spilled on the ground. Notice what the women from Tapas said. My blood is filled on the ground, which cannot be recovered , tell us we must die. That is the precise comparison which we know. When you and I laugh at the fellows of questions that I read earlier, I'm growing older. But growing older is no good. As we go older, we're reminded that we're closer and closer to God. So we can have that hope of our Christian hope. But up until this generation agrees, we tend to die before we can And we can at least know that there is a reasonable proposition of our authorized before he comes. And easily mind us of that in the passing of the years Thank you, everyone, that I'm 38 years old. It's unlikely that I will see another thirty-minute years. Our years have so quickly And moment is free. One moment you have a cup of water. And the next moment it's still on the ground. In one moment you're a young kid, trying and dreaming what we're going to do when we grow up. And the next moment you're just doing a life. And thank you. Decide the one. Go into the ground. Step the three. Prepare and be The husband of the man who is believing house. Like old age of things, and a very severe family. Some of the snow are wrong to do the high solution , while just like water does , just like nice. Notice this word of that woman of the past. Her reason. And somebody be thankful for those words and look at the mind. Everyone. Everyone. I thought I. I felt we in the path of our view. Have you ever seen a brave stone with the money? Have you ever seen a brave stone that has rebirth year on it? Realize a brief fear and mind fully and clearly. The beginning of another year reminds us so clearly. The abnormal curve of death is still fine. But every one of us must live with the realism of death. Not only is that like water filled underground, but it's so sensitive that even life itself is like water filled underground. Like what is stood on the ground which cannot be recovered, so we must die. The proof of this woman's following that is to dangerous But he found two years have held , compared to them who's been banished from the surface. Those years are irrecevable. We 'll never bring them back and how many more months and years are going to go on while the two of you are feeling right It's like water filled on the ground. Each thing is to exceed it. 1981 is to all of us. Water filled on the ground. It 'll never be recovered. You could never get a day back from 1981 and live it over and say, Well, you know, I really blew December the fifteenth. I think I'll try that one again. You know why? Oh God. The record is written. And it's amazing how few of us stop to think about that is. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow reflecting on this one for It's not till time with reckless hand has torn out half the leaves from the Book of Human Life to light the fire of the passionate from day to day But man begins to see that the leaves which remain are still remembered. We're doing good Is it spilling upon ground a fruitful trees to produce fruits and beauty? Or is it spilling upon bees? So that you look out most generally with your mood. upon my tool and perhaps you could see it only her life to him before and only our stones of Christ You and I have one being done. And I've got it seems still typically announced. Can I see this as it is? How are you investing in your age in heat? How do you find an investment with you? But perhaps you think of this verse so far and you think that it's third one fast. Perhaps he is even a bit depressive. But consider what you go on to say in the second part of that group. It's an absolutely amazing, astounding theme. He said, What like water still on the ground which cannot be recovered? So you must die. God does not for the lame us. Instead he devises them so that a damned person may not remain afraid from sin. What's the point of that? Do you see what this wise woman from Kapoor is doing is contrasting God's ways with David's ways. And he's saying, David, he's banished to Absalom because of his crimes. And because Absalom is banished to your presence, he's destroyed But that's just a picture of what you and I are before God. For we've been banished from his presence, for our crimes, for the things that we've done against him. And she's saying that there are two things that you need to realize about God's grace that are pointed out in this verse. The two in, first of all, the damaged one walk home. What is this he said? God does not take away life, but instead he divides his ways so that a banished person will not loan banished. The word is used twice there. banished person will not remain banished from women. That word banished is a word which used to drive someone away, to pass them out. And it's the word that we used earlier in the service when we read From Psalm 147. And God builds up Jerusalem. He brings out Jerusalem outcasts. The word which there is used is outcast. It's the word used in verse 13. Well if he talks about David, he convicts himself, the king can lip himself because he's not brought back his stamina from. Someone who's driven out, someone who is passed away The word is used of God's judgment a number of times in the Old Testament. Many examples could be used. Let me just give you one from Jeremiah chapter 23. God is talking to of his judgment on the wicked prophets, he says in Jeremiah twenty three, twelve, therefore their paths will become flippy. They will be savage to darkness. There they will fall and I will bring the dancer on them and be using that they are perish to their own. Speaking of polishing there is is a picture of God's pleasures. He's casting them out from his presence And its banishment of Absalom to David makes discouragement. Banishment from the presence of God means death. Because separation from God means death. That's what separation from God is. The essence of it is death. And the essence of death speak to be separated from God. The word is the word that concepts our word dispersion. The speaker with the Jews who were dispersed after the remote And that's the same word that used here for balance, to be cast away, to be an exile, to be disturbed What the Old Testament gave a promise is this woman, a lead to a promise that God will restore the enzymes, the bondage, the dispersed For instance, in Isaiah chapter eleven, he says in verse 10, that in that day the readers will stand of a banner for the people. The nations will rally to him, and his place will be a rent will be glowing. He will raise a banner to the nations and gather the exiles of Israel, and he will ascend the scattered people of Judah from the four corners of the earth You see that? He's going to God who loves that. It's the same word in 2 Samuel 14, 14. The damn ones. He's trying to bring them home. And Zechariah, remember, painted that glorious picture of what that would be like. And he wrote in Zechariah chapter 3, sing, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O Israel, be glad and rejoice with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. The Lord's taken away your penalty. He's turned back your enmity. The Lord, the kill of Israel is with you. Never again will you feel any harm. And that day they'll say to Jerusalem, do not see those eyes, do not let their hands hang rip. The Lord your God is with you. He's mighty the faith. He'll take faith delight in you, and he'll quiet you with his love. He will rejoice over you with pain. Flowers for the appointed peace, I will remove them. They're a burden and a reproach. At that time I will be with all who oppressed you. I will rescue the Lord. I will gather those who have been scattered, bannered, became going to the land. In every land where they were put to free. I will gather you. At that time I will gather you. At that time I will bring you home. I will give you honor and praise among all the peoples of the earth. I will restore your voices before my eyes. See the thing he's saying, that's what God's like. God doesn't allow the banished person to rot in his banished. What's what God's done? He says, I'm gonna bring you home I'm going to bring you back and I'm going to delight in you. I'm going to quiet you with my love. I'm going to rejoice over you. You're not going to be fathered anymore. I'm going to take you to my thoughts. Well, how did you do that? Look over the things, stage will say, well, well, some boys will be boys, you know, you have a few style calls here and there, but those things. How God does this in that very verse. What can that word take away? Notice it says God does not Take away twice. Then he divides his way to the banner space and no matter bad own comments. That word think away is a very interesting word. At the same time, what I want you to do is to follow closely, looking at the bulletin outline The the lesson of thought is right there. Because you need to appreciate the pair of words that God is using here in this verse and understand what he's getting at. You see, there not life, but sin is taken away. God does not take away the Hebrew word there is masa. What this means to snap something away, to take it away. God does not take away your life, he says here, because he took away the life of his own son. God. He took away this life because he, the Messiah, Jesus, God come in the flesh. The one whom God sent for us, he took away our sins. The same word is used in Leviticus chapter 6 How many of you remember from a couple years ago when we did that study on forgiveness? And do you remember that word was used in Levitical sixteen concerning the safety? Also that one sacrifice had been made in the temple. God says in Leviticus chapter 16 and verse 21, Aaron had finished the making atonement for the most holy place. The ten of Eden and the order, then time to bring forward a second day. And just then after he confessed all of it to your sin on this dose. This third will carry on itself all their sins to a solitary place. And the man will release them in the death Carry away, take away the sin. The word they are refused is the same word, 2 Samuel 14, 13. He will take away the sin. In fact, even more pointedly, the word is used in Hosea. In chapter 14, remember that picture, a spiritual sin spoken of a spiritual adultery. Now Hosea longly agreed back his wife who would become a prophecy. And then Hosea takes that picture and he applied it to Israel. And he says in chapter 14, Israel took words with you and returned to the Lord and say to him, Forgive all our sins. You know the word forgive there Isaiah fourteen too is the same word not take away all our things. Relate them Take them away from us and the excuse us, gave us. How did he take away those things? He hit about it again in that very same word. He took away your sins because he bore your sins. This is from that same word lesson, which means to take something up or to take it away, also means to build something in yourself. Remember in Genesis chapter 4, and Cain had slain his brother Ada, and God had cursed and punished Cain. Cain said, My punishment is greater than I can The word these words, the same word that you see in this verse, Martha, is more than I can bear in my life. Oh God, and speaking of what the Messiah would come to bear. Present Isaiah chapter 53 and verse 4. Do not be a 534 He took up our infirmities. And the word there took up, bore our infirmities, is the same word, he bore them on himself. He carried our sorrows. So we considered him stricken by God and stricken by him, but it was because he was used for our transgressions That's why he was born that country. Verse 12, it's the same thing, therefore I will give him a portion among the great. He will devise the spoils of the throne because he poured out his life on the death and his numbers of the concepts. For the board. The sin again. Again, the word bored is the same word. It's the poem woman uses. God does not take away life. Because he's taken away the life of his own sin. And he took away your sin and my sin I 've seen I'm trying. Oh, what a plan. God's rot like this, David. God doesn't let a person rot in banishment. He doesn't click away. Instead, He devised a plan. by which the ballish person can be restored to us. He's talking about Jesus here. He's talking about what God has done for you and for me so that we could receive us back to himself. Such the immensity of God's women as it remains only the point to be made. Third time , consider the imperativeness of real representation. First of all, consider that in terms of your relationship to Jesus Christ. Is it possible that there's somebody here this morning? You have seen what this is about. You recognize that you're balanced from God, you don't come into God, you don't have fellowship with Jesus Christ. The far post that we removed from you in your life. And you say it's 1982 alone. 1981 just sort of gutted it out on your own. With a little bit of help from the Lord and a prayer here and there. We look at nineteen eighty-few and we recognize that you still can tell you God doesn't design by that. See the reality? The world is the way to believe that. Because you've said all you think. He comes to Jesus Christ this morning, he will never take you. He'll take you. But he'll take that sin and he'll remove that sin. Because we'll just born it and born down. All the comes from since God the Father will never come to Jesus Christ. I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ. Don't be an outcast one day longer for God 's desire to bring you home to be decided to work. This isn't only for those who need to be reconciled to God. The point that the poem when he was making here is primarily with regard to human religious people. And David got the point. Remember he says in verse twenty-one, okay, you won. Go ahead and do it. Raise your case, run and back. And so it comes to ask for Abdulum to be returned home. Requesting comes to you. Who is it? The dear earlier in his time, at the beginning of 1983 , reliance on my life path is so quickly, so quickly, and it cannot be determined. Every day that there is bitterness between you and another person is one more day that will never be recovered again. If there's someone in you , if you're bitter again. Someone that you're eliminated, son. You look at the sort of the brevity of your life. And when we consider the immensity of God's name Because he's taken someone like you and me and I declare us to him things and be slow to the rain. How can you and I want any further in 1983 , William, from anyone else, could have had us how sensible. But in doing this, I must remind you of one last thing. Don't do it like David did it. Don't do it like David did it. Do you remember how David did it? Because he did before. Basically he said, Okay, my back's against the wall. You've got me cornered. You won your face Roll them back. I just don't want to see them. That's the way that you and I forgive sometimes, isn't it? Oh okay, I forgive you. Is it not going to be fair Uh we're just not gonna keep to each other. But I forgive you, no hard feelings. You know, or be seen husbands and wives instead of like, well, yes, okay Uh I've I've warned you again. Yes, you have. I ask your forgiveness. Okay, I'll forgive you. I'm a Christian husband. I'm a Christian wife But of course, if you ask you to do that, God will forgive me, okay, I forgive. But our spirit do not reconcile We withhold our spirit and our body from one another. And there's there's kind of a a quiet uh Cold War going on We say we have forgiven, but we really in our hearts haven't forgiven. What was the result of it and David? Remember Absalom came back to Greatland, and for two years he couldn't even see Davis. Finally, Absalom, who was not the kind of guy to sit around and just sort of let life pass him by That 's so mad you called God. You said God come here, I want to talk to you. You got me back here. I want you to get me back to my father. So I'm not getting involved in anything. I can call him one more time. Hey God, come here. I want you to come and and bring about to a conclusion that we started here And Joe said, no, I'm not getting involved in any of these family quarrels any minute. Robson said, okay, so I'd still have fuel there, all I barley This will get his attention. This let him on fire. And he's right. That got Joab's attention. Next day Joe's knocking on his door. Okay, Addison, what do you want? He says, okay, now uh now that you've come, I want you to go to my father and I want you to bring about a full reconciliation to adjust the baby. David says, okay, back against the wall Let him here let's have advice. We read in verse 32, verse 33. God goes to the king. We read that the king summoned him, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and the king said. There's no record of any worry to forgiveness for their offer. There's no record of any kind of rejoicing and re-omitting together of their spirit to their hearts. It's a formal kind of subject. Okay, you're back, you're gonna peel around here. I am not going to be alienated from you anymore. But his heart does not make him You see that 's what if you and if you go home today and you say, well , how at least on forgiveness is underway And and I really don't want to do this. But I'm gonna feel guilty if I'll get out for the rest of this week if I don't. So we've got to pack things up. You know, we've gotta get together. That's law, that's my goodness That's missing the point of the verse. What could motivate you is verse 14. Like what is spilled on the ground which can't be recovered, so we must die. But God doesn't take away life. We've been banished and he didn't allow us in that condition to be made. But he divides the plan by sending his own sons to banish him. Said you and I could be dressed home. When you begin to think about that, then in Colossians 3. 13 says you forgive as the Lord has forgiven you. A lifey precious to the law, mercy and distress The Lord's been too gracious and receiving me back to Himself and forgiven me all of my sins. Let's have this done. The Lord's been too good to me. I can't be good against anyone. But on glasses , we come back to this. He is very good. And so you leave in the very less First, chapter 15, verse 1, Absalom's beginning to turn against David Alain. And he finally God becomes throne. There's a big difference between foremost and for reconciliation And I urge you in the name of Jesus Christ, this day , if you be fully , winning with you, winning with you. By the tour of you. We settled the wordness of the money. Consider super receivable to emotion. Consider the emancipation of the voice of the Lord Jesus to you. Then consider who it is That you are right now not fully telling the truth. Someone that you experience. Someone that you know you can't really come to with a clear conscience and know that they don't hold anything against you. And if you hail anything against you, you have to produce some penetrating horses that eat away with you like Absalom against David. to have this tendency to merge a series of little blessings, little irritations, if you harbor up and speak it up with us, rather than to take before the Lord and sort of before the Lord is. What would I never do, Mobile, before suddenly with a clear sense to enjoy, to forgive us? Like water filling to the ground with cannot be detected. But God does not take away our life, but He survived the way so that you banned the person will not remain raised to them. But in right now , we can let's take a moment now, please speak to the world about what he's been speaking to us about.