And to rejoice with him, to be able to sing the hymns of rejoicing, and to realize this morning that we celebrate the fact that Jesus has in fact Amen. We got a sound meter, you know, that registers how you compare with the contemporary worship in the Amen. Just because this is classic worship doesn't mean we don't rejoice. Amen? Amen. You beat him. We rejoice. Jesus has risen. But you know I was thinking just this week when I was pondering on that. Why is it That we actually rejoice so much that Jesus has risen. Is Easter some sort of a generic kind of rejoicing that Jesus has Jesus has conquered death, that's great. What does it all boil down to? As I thought about it, I think that it all boils down to this That if Jesus has died and risen again, that means that if I am united to him by faith Faith, death no longer has terror and hopelessness for me. Amen. That is true 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verse 14, Paul says, we believe that Jesus died and rose again. And so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in him. That is our hope, brothers and sisters. And we live in a day of cynicism. In a day that has lost hope. A day that has lost hope in the resurrection of Christ, that has lost hope in the message of the Bible. And therefore has seen that apart from that, there really isn't any other basis for hope at all. Every once in a while you come across a non-Christian writer who puts it very honestly. Mary Harrington Hall is such a writer. She was once the editor of Psychology Today magazine. And this little piece. That she wrote, quote, there will always be a calliope, I think states the position of the unbeliever as clearly as can be stated. She says on Sunday afternoons in the park, they ride through the years and through the generations on a bright carousel of dreams. Watch them now. The children ride and reach for the brass ring every time they swing around and around again. The calliope plays on forever, and it sounds like all the pipers calling. And each new generation of mothers finds a merry-go-round somewhere for her children to ride. What is it the bright ride offers? Why do we all climb aboard? There is the baby in its mother's arms. This ride might as well be the boat of winking, blinking and nod off on a silver seal. For the baby, this is cuddling. It's still the mother's merry-go-round. There's the very young black girl, eager and excited on that big golden red rooster. And she is full of hope. She would answer, No, henny penny, the sky is never going to fall in, not on me. She She hasn't heard Langston Hughes's poem, Is There Any Jim Crow on this Murray Garound, Mister, 'cause I want to ride Always there is the boy perched on the great green frog, the frog who turns into a prince, the frog who would a wooing go, the boy who will grow with princely dreams. Reaching. Reaching for the brass ring. Beside him is a gentle girl on a great pussin boots. Pussycat, Pussycat, where have you been? I've been to London to visit the Queen. Ah, the horses. The bold, grand horses, more noble than any fantasy. Who designed the first great carousel steed? How many boys have been King Arthur for ten cents a ride? Wherever there is a carousel, the calliope eventually plays the same tune. The animals rise and fall and circle to wild Miami dreams and beautiful home of the rose. Watch that lovely girl as the carousel swirls She's riding the white horse, the one with all the roses. She keeps reaching for the brass ring and missing. It's time for her to get off the merry-go-round. We all grow up, don't we? And there's a moral to the merry-go-round There is no brass ring, but you can always believe in the Calliope Whenever I read that, I want to weep to think of people who believe there really isn't anything to hope for. There really isn't any dream that can be fulfilled. All you can do is listen to the collapse You can come on Easter, or you can believe whatever you want, and simply feel good when you hear it. But there's no reality beyond it. Bertrand Russell said, When I die, I shall rot. That's true if Jesus hasn't risen. But Jesus has risen, and that makes all the difference. Nothing's ever the same since the day that Jesus rose. In fact, the Christians in Thessalonica thought that because Jesus had risen No Christian would ever die again. That death had been so utterly defeated that Jesus was going to come at any moment and take us to be with him, and no Christian would ever taste death. But then Christians continued to die. And so they had to ask themselves, what does this mean? What does it mean for someone who has died? Will they, when Jesus comes, uh, go to be with him as a disembodied spirit? How is Jesus going to come and gather us who are living with those who are dead? What's the relationship? What does it all mean? Because they had these questions, Paul wrote to them in his letter to Thessalonica to answer these questions, and I'm so glad he did, because he gives to us here in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 some unique data About our resurrection and its connection with His. And so this Easter morning, that's what I would like to consider with you from 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. The hope of our resurrection and how it's related to his. So let's consider from the passage that George read to you. Just a few minutes ago from First Thessalonians chapter four, you notice he ended with the words, Therefore encourage each other with these words. And that's what I want to do with you this morning. to encourage you with Paul's words. First of all, by looking at the nature of our hope, which is our resurrection. And then secondly, to look at the sure foundation of that hope, which is his resurrection. First of all, look at the nature of our hope as Christians, who believe, as verse 14 says. That Jesus died and rose again. First thing that you notice, the nature of this hope concerning our resurrection, the first thing to notice is that you and I will be raised in a new body. That's the next blank We'll be raised in a new body. For Christians, death is a temporary experience. In fact, notice the language Paul uses in verse 13. He says, brothers, we don't want you to be ignorant about those who fall asleep. He doesn't say who died, he says who fall asleep. Verse 14, we believe that Jesus died and rose again. He died. And so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep. In him. Death is described for the Christian as asleep. In fact, you know that our English word cemetery comes from the Greek word used here in verse 13 and 14. Literally, a cemetery means a place of sleep, based on the Greek word here for sleep. So for a Christian, death is a temporary experience Because we will be raised. Just as Jesus. Because he was, we will be. Two things about that body that will be raised in to notice is first of all, it will be a physical body just like his. That's a a physical body. It's not going to be a ghostly, disembodied spirit that wafts through eternity on clouds, but it will be a touchable, huggable body. A body that can experience physical things. A body that will experience what it means that you and I experience as physical beings. And so, verse fourteen and sixteen, make this comparison, as heroes, so we will come with him in this new body. Not only is it going to be physical Though, but the other thing to notice is that it's going to be an utterly transformed body. That's the second thing. It will be a transformed body. Verse 16 says, For the Lord Himself will come down from heaven with a loud command, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet call of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. That reminds us of where Paul expanded on that day in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Do you remember how he put it there when he talks about that trumpet? In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, in verse 51 to 53. Paul says, listen, I'm going to tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep. There it is again, you see. But we'll all be changed in a flash, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, just as Paul has said in 1 Thessalonians , This is the same experience he's describing. The trumpet will sound. What's going to happen then? The dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. For the perishable must clothe itself with the imperishable, and the mortal with immortality. Now he had gone into a little more detail about what that means back in verses 35 and after that. So turn back if you have your Bible open to that. see some of the most revealing evidence about what our bodies will be like and their relationship to this body. In 1 Corinthians 15 in verse 35 we read, Paul says, Now how's this going to be? He says someone's going to ask How are the dead raised? With what kind of body will they come? How foolish, Paul says. What you sow doesn't come to life unless it dies. When you sow, you don't plant the body that will be, but just a seed, perhaps of weed or of something else. But God gives it a body as He has determined. And to each kind of seed, He gives its own body. Every year about this time I plant tomatoes as well as other things, and Gardner once reminded me, you don't plant tomato seeds, you sow tomato seeds. You don't plant seeds. You sow seeds. But you see, when I sow them, I don't plop tomatoes in the ground. And then out comes tomatoes. I plant the little things in this packet that you probably can't even see. See, there it is in the tomato. Those are tomato seeds. Now if you have done any gardening whatsoever and have ever sown seeds, you'll know that seeds all look different. You can tell what plant, if you really know your stuff, by looking at the seed. Unless it's a very fine distinction. I just sowed some spearmint seeds. Now my neighbors think I'm crazy. Nobody sows spearmint. You contain spearmint. You know, the stuff takes over the neighborhood. But Uh we actually were so successful in killing it all off a few years ago that we don't have any left, so I was some spearmint seeds. Spearmint seeds are about the size of grains of dust The tomato seeds, pretty healthy looking seed. My pea seeds are quite large zucchini seeds, you know. That's a healthy looking seed. But now when you look at those seeds and you can tell those are tomato seeds, those are zucchini seeds, can you say, what's the relationship between that seed and a nine-foot-long vine with a good hunk of super stakes hanging on the end of it. It's not very apparent, is it? There's a connection. I mean the amazing thing is that what's on here, hopefully, if I can fight the blight and the drought and And bugs and everything else, these things will be hanging from the vine next August. And they're all contained in essence in those little seeds that I just showed you in the packet. Amazing. They're already about this big. What's the point? When you and I think what's my resurrection body going to be like, Paul says, don't think of it as something that just has some sort of minor modifications to it. It's going to be so radically transformed that it will be more like a tomato to a tomato seed. Now, Jesus' body was recognizable, but it was utterly transformed, had new powers. It wasn't obviously recognized as Jesus, you notice. And so when you and I in this transformed body are raised, we will be so utterly transformed that these new bodies will not even be capable of sinning. They will be free from all disease, all weakness , all regrets, everything that separates us from the Lord. Everything of weakness, everything that threatens to with disease kill us. There will be no such weakness ever again. These bodies will be glorious, and as glorious as a three-pound superstake is compared to the puny little seed out of which it comes. That's the only analogy Paul can think of. But he says here in Thessalonians, when Jesus comes in that last day, you and I are going to be raised utterly transformed. Not only are we going to be transformed, And what a hope that is. We're going to be raised with one another. The other thing to notice, be there. We will be raised with one another Now that means first of all that we're going to be raised with all the saints. With all the saints Verse 14. He says that we believe that Jesus died and rose again. So we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in him, all those who have fallen asleep in him. Your friends, your family, not only those that you know, but the great heroes of the faith that you've read about. You've read their lives and you've always wanted to meet them. They'll be there also. All those who have fallen asleep in Jesus. You know, the world says if you want to have a good party, don't invite Christians. They'll spoil it every time But when the trumpet sounds, and we're gathered with Jesus, there will be a party that will be going on at that time, like the world has never seen. For all the saints are going to be gathered together. And as we gather together, all of a sudden, with this trumpet, the trumpet will initiate history's greatest party. We'll be having the time of our lives at the banqueting feast of the wedding of the Lamb. And everybody is going to know a joy that transforms us. That will so far outweigh the deepest heartache, sorrow, and suffering that you and I will forget those things that we wept about the day before. before. We will be having a party with all the saints. But not only does Paul say it's with all the saints, but he says it's only with the saints. That's the second thing to notice. We will be raised with only the saints. Verse 13, you notice he says, Brothers, we don't want you to be ignorant about those who fall asleep or grieve like the rest of men who have No hope like Bertrand Russell and Mary Harrington Hall, and anyone who is not joined by faith with Jesus You notice he says there in verse 14, we believe that Jesus died and rose again, so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in him. It 's a subset. And that subset is not just people who think Easter's neat. That's not just people who say, yeah, I believe that Jesus died and rose. It may not even be for everyone who's here this morning. Just because you're here and think that Easter is something worth getting dressed to come and to celebrate and to sing some hymns about Does not mean that you have the hope of the resurrection. That hope is only for those who on a day-by-day basis are trusting Jesus. As the Savior from your sin, and are obeying Him and serving Him as Lord of your life in how you spend your time and how you spend your money in all the decisions. You're following him. He is your Savior and your Lord, not just on Sunday or Easter, but every day. That's those for whom this hope exists And if you're not sure that you have that hope, if you think that Easter is something that's kind of a religious thing, and it's nice to have that comfort , But on Wednesday morning, on the times when you haven't been reading the Bible and you really aren't very sure that it's all true. You're not very sure that if Jesus were to come today, that you'd be with him. Then let me ask you and invite you to just put your name on a little rip of the message outline or some part of the bulletin. Simply put your name on there and your phone number and as you walk out the door Just put it on my hand, put it right there beside me, and I'll give you a call. We'll get together. We'll talk about how you can be sure That this hope is your hope, not just a generic hope. You know, the funny thing about Easter is we like to think that somehow Easter means that everybody's going to make it Last year a U. S. News and World Report did a poll. They asked Americans in general how many believe that there's really a heaven, a literal heaven, and how many believe there's a literal hell. Interesting. 78 % of Americans polled said that they believed there is a literal heaven after death. Interestingly enough, only 60% believe there's a literal hell It's interesting to me that that's still six out of every ten Americans who says, I believe there is a hell after this life. Then they went on and they asked them this: if you believe that there is a real heaven and a real hell, how do you rate your chances of being there? And so they had them rate in various categories. Of those who believe that there's literally a heaven, 78 % believe they have a good or excellent chance of being there. Isn't that interesting? 78% over three-quarters say, I have a reason to believe. Now you see, as I said before, we're a cynical generation. It's not a solid hoop. It's a kind of a vague I think there's something after life and and I think if there is that yeah, I'm probably graded on the curve, gonna be Interestingly enough they said of those who believe there's literally a hell, how many believe you have a good or excellent chance of being there? You know how many said so? Four percent 4% of Americans believe that there is a hell and that they have a good or excellent chance of being there. You know what that says to me? Hell's for the guy that cut me off on Route 29. See. Hell's for other people. Hell's for those guys. It's not necessarily for me. You wonder why we have a hard time getting a hearing for the gospel. You see, people believe that there's heaven, that there's hell, but they're not very worried about that. Paul says right here Those who have this hope, it's only for those who are joined to Jesus. So I urge you, don't fool around with an unsure hope. But this Easter, make that hope sure. If you want to talk about it, give me your name, your address. We'll speak about it. The other thing, the last thing to notice about this hope that we have It's not only that it's going to be we will be raised with a physical, transformed body with the saints and only with the saints, but that we will be raised with Christ forever. We will be raised with Christ forever. See, that's our greatest hope, finally. That we will be with the Lord. We will be with him. We will see him. Verse 14 says that he is going to come. Verse 16 describes it. Now, catch the drama of what verse 16 is saying. He says, The Lord Himself is going to come down from heaven with a loud command, the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet call of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first, and then you and I will join them. Now, that means that if that were to happen, say Tuesday morning , You'd be at work or around the house doing something. You'd be consumed with the usual hassles, the same old fears, worries, regrets. Nothing's any different. And all of a sudden, right while you're at your coffee break or driving down 29 or doing something, all of a sudden, you hear this voice. And this voice is like no voice you've ever heard. This voice literally surrounds the earth. And then, with that voice, there is the voice of an archangel. And with that voice of the archangel, there is a trumpet blast. A trumpet blast that literally raises the dead. And you see people coming from all over. Rising up, and they're gathered together. Now I'm not saying it's necessarily going to be over Maryland that they're all gathered, but somewhere in some part of the world we will all gather together. With all of these who have died in Jesus. And as we rise with him, the one thing that captures our attention more than anything Anything else is, I think I see it. There he is. There's the Lord. The first glimpse of him. Can you imagine that first glimpse of Jesus? And knowing that from this moment on you will never be separated from them again. From now on, brothers and sisters Nothing will ever separate you from his face and his presence and his fellowship. You will be with him, and the Bible says, forever. Verse 17 So we will be with the Lord forever. What does forever mean? We talk about when Jesus comes that it will be at the last day, it will be at the end times. C. S. Lewis commented on that once in his book Peralandra. It's a novel. And in this novel, Paralandra, he speaks of history. And when things are all set right. And that's like the time when Jesus comes. And so the hero of this says, Is this then the end? And the person who understands time says, the end. Well that that's kind of a funny way of describing this as the end. I mean, it's kind of like if somebody was on a boat And they landed at an island and they stepped off the boat and they stumbled in their first step to get on the island and they lost their footing and then as they steadied themselves they regained their footing to make the journey He said, Would you call that stumbling and steadying the end? I think rather we'd call it the beginning. In fact, it's the beginning of the beginnings And so he said, the time from now on through eternity, compared to all of human history, is but the beginning of the beginnings. So you and I, when Jesus comes, will realize that everything that has come up to this point Is but the blink of an eye compared to the forever that you and I will enjoy with him. What's the foundation of that? What is it that we base that hope that you and I have on? It's based on the sure foundation of His resurrection. This resurrection is a sure hope. As surely and as physically as Jesus rose. You know verse 14 here, 1 Thessalonians 4 is such a wonderful verse. But I would suggest that one thing that might make your Easter a bit more meaningful and joyful this year is to go home and to memorize verse 14. We believe that Jesus died and rose. And so we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep with him. Memorize that. Think about that. The connections, the implications of all that that means We believe that Jesus died and that he rose. We believe that that is a sure hope, that the historical evidence for that is overwhelming. We can't go into that this morning, but just think about it What else can account for the fact of not only an empty tomb, but for the transformed lives of disciples who were absolutely hopeless after Jesus had died? And who, as ignorant Galilean fishermen for the most part, men who didn't have charismatic personalities, who weren't the leaders by nature of followings of people, Who weren't gifted in any natural sense were able within a few weeks to spread a message so compelling That it began to change the history of the Roman Empire and the whole world since that time. What can account for the transformation of the early Christian community, other than the fact that Jesus has in fact risen from the dead. That that's a sure hope, and because it's a sure hope, your resurrection is a sure hope. And so because it's a sure hope, it's a hope that you and I can look forward to at any time. You see, the timing is unknown. But what we're sure of is that it will be very soon. Very soon. Now for the Thessalonians, they believed that that was so soon that I believe that if you were in Thessalonica at that time, you'd have noticed that the Thessalonian Christians, as they were working as carpenters and farmers, and the rest of what they were doing Which several times a day be sort of maybe glancing up to heaven. I thought I heard something. Is that him? Is that Jesus? They'd be consciously aware. Could be today. Who knows? Looking several times to heaven. When's the last time you heard something unexpected? I saw driving home on Friday a bright rainbow after the sun. after the rain had come Friday afternoon. And I looked at the glory of that. When's the last time you've looked at something like that but Is that the Lord? Is the Lord coming? You see the sun break through the crowds or something unusual happened. Is that him? But we've become jaded after 2,000 years, haven't we? I tell you on the basis of Scripture that this may be the last service that you and I will ever have. Here on earth, Jesus might come before next Sunday. And we might be with him next Sunday. Believe that's possible? What do you say? Yeah, theoretically. But hey, people have been saying that for 2,000 years. Not very likely. I think to recapture the door, you and I need to recapture some sense of that expectation. Some sense of the realization That not only is that a hope that's far off, somewhere sometime removed, and probably after my death, but that we may in fact be the last Generation. That Jesus may come at any point. And we will be the generation that will never experience death, but that will go transformed to directly into his immediate presence. Paul says right here, after encourage one another with these words. Notice what he says in the next verses. Now, brothers, he says, about the times and the dates we don't need to write to you. For you know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night when you least expect And while people are saying peace and safety, destruction is going to come upon them suddenly as labor pains on a pregnant woman, and they will not escape But you brothers are not in darkness, so that this day should surprise you like a thief. You are all sons of the light and sons of the day. We don't belong to the night or the darkness. So then let's not be like the others. Who are asleep. But let us be alert and self-controlled and looking up. Are you ready for his coming? Are you hoping for that? Are you living in the light of that? If you're not sure, please. Most important thing you can do is to be sure of that. Put your name on that paper. Give it to me. Number, phone number. Let's make sure together. But if you are sure, let me ask you: are you on a daily basis encouraged by that hope? Or is that hope unrelated to the pressures, the fears, the discouragements of your daily living? I was thinking just this week of how very much my hope, my joy, is related to where I look for that joy to be. I think there's a tendency, even as Christians, to look for our joy in the circumstances of this life. Now that's not saying we shouldn't enjoy the circumstances of this life. That we shouldn't go home and feast and celebrate and enjoy each other together as families gathered in however we can enjoy one another. But if I look for my joy in those circumstances being right, they will wax and wane, and it will be a very unstable joy. If the basis of my joy is in something beyond this life, so that I think of that joy as the expectation Of the hope of seeing Jesus and my transformed body as I go to be with him. Nothing can ever shake or destroy that hope. You see, that hope is solid, and that hope can encourage me in all the other things I do. The rest of it's just frosting on the cake. The rest of it is that which gives me an extra But the solidarity of the joy is that Jesus has risen, and so I will be with him forever. One of my favorite poems, in utter contrast to Mary Harrington Hall, is a poem by Henry Barstow. Called a feast or be not true. As I read this, ask yourself, do I have this hope? Is it an encouragement to me? If Easter be not true, then all the lilies low must lie, the Flanders poppies fade and die, The spring must lose her fairest bloom, for Christ were still within the tomb If Easter be not true? If Easter be not true, then faith must mount on broken wing, then hope no more, immortal spring Then hope must lose her mighty urge. Life prove a phantom, death a dirge. If Easter be not true, If Easter be not true, 'twere foolishness the cross to bear. He dies in vain who suffered there. What matter though we laugh or cry? Be good or evil, live or die? If Easter be not true, True. If Easter be not true, but it is true. And Christ is risen And mortal spirit from its prison of sin and death within him may rise. Worthwhile the struggle, sure the prize. Since Easter, aye , tis true. Let's pray. Lord, we believe that Easter is true. And if there's anyone here who doesn't have that hope, we pray that you would, Lord, not give them peace until they settle that with you. Lord, for those of us who believe that Jesus has died and has risen again, and that we have that hope of being with him, transformed when he comes. But somehow you haven't gripped us with that hope, and cynicism has crept into our lives. We pray, Lord, that you would take that hope and fix it in the center of our consciousness. So that we live and move and have our being in the light of the hope of Jesus coming again. And of our seeing Him with risen, transformed bodies. Encourage each of us in each of our needs, we pray. Holy Spirit, you alone can do that. For Jesus' sake, Amen.