Well, you can tell all of those who were at the Promise Keepers Conference from CPC either they have sunburn or no voices left or tears in our eyes. Uh it was quite an experience. 52,000 men together there in that stadium About 30 of us here from Columbia Presbyterian and those associated with us, can you imagine hearing 52,000 men singing holy, holy, holy is the Lord? And it was It was a one of the most moving experiences of my life to be there during that weekend. I I really believe that we're seeing in this movement one of the most supernatural things God is doing in our generation. And certainly, I believe, one of the most significant, seeing how he's pulling together threads of many things that the Holy Spirit has been doing. And I'm not saying that this is the climax of it, but I think it is a strategic part of what God is doing in answering our prayers for renewal and for revival. You hear guys, you know, on the breaks and one group would be one part of the stadium singing, We love Jesus, yes we do, Lee Love Jesus, how about you? And then you hear a couple thousand guys from the other side outside. You know, if you hear one of the worship leaders up here I mean, you know, worship's never gonna be the same around here. Uh we probably won't start waves and chants back and forth at CPC, but There was a stirring of our souls, I believe, for those that were there, um, a couple of times that even I was in tears. Saying something. Uh but And to the last day. I mean at one point when we were singing the bleachers were rocking up and down. I thought they were gonna take RFK Stadium down with them. Uh it was just it was something. But there was content. There was real Lifting up of the Lord Jesus, dealing with priorities and what it means to be spiritual leaders, so I hope we have 90 there next year, and we'll be able to really see how God will use this as part of what He's doing in our own midst. Because of that, of course, we've we've been looking at Psalm 112. And as we've been looking at this, we've been trying to see what it is that God speaks to us about. And so we have been looking at those two verses from Psalm 112. Praise the Lord. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord and who finds great delight in his commands. His children will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright will be blessed. There are two girls that I particularly recall from back in my high school and college days They were in our church youth group. Both were unusually attractive, although I'm claiming that's not the reason that I particularly remember them. Both came from very strong, God-fearing families. Strong Christian homes. Both had very strict standards at home. And both were extremely talented Chris was an honor student and uh extremely talented in many ways and uh many things, great things were expected of her. After college, I lost touch with her. And then heard some years later that she had gotten pregnant by some fella that she hadn't known for very long at all And then married him because she felt that she should do that, and found out that he had connections with a mafia, and then the marriage failed. And then there was the other girl, Susie, from a family that had deeply affected my life. Susie got pregnant from a guy in the youth group. And this was back in the 60s. She decided to have a secret abortion. And when she had the abortion, she felt so ashamed that without telling her parents, she ran away to Las Vegas and became a prostitute. What happened? I certainly don't pretend to know all of what happened in those situations I'll tell you something that's given me a lot of pause as a parent in my own life. It's it's the kind of thing that can send terror to us as parents. We think, i that kind of situation and that's what happened. Um Chris as far as I know is going on with the Lord now. I don't know about Susie. We've lost all contact But as I looked at those families, I realized that they were families who feared the Lord. But somehow I wonder if they found great delight in his commands. And that's what I want for us to look at together this morning, brothers and sisters, is how God combines these two things, which may be hard for us to think of together, fear and delight. Blessed is the one who fears the Lord, and then right with that, who delights, finds great delight in his commands. And in the response that I've gotten from a number of you about the fear of the Lord in the last couple of weeks Uh I've been encouraged. Uh you know, I certainly got the idea that nobody's leaving because I preached on y you know, if you left I didn't hear from you and you're not here, so who knows? You know, it's a kind of a biased sample, but From those that wrote and commented to me there was a lot of affirmation. And yet I wonder if in our hearts it may not be easier once we have come to Christ For us to gravitate to a fear of the Lord than to be finding great delight in his commands. And yet the scripture puts these two things together. And what I want to do this morning is look at why I believe those are together and what are some of the implications on us as families. And so I'll be particularly applying this to dads for those of us, whether we are promise keepers or not, and for those of us who are moms. For certainly the same principles. And for those of you who are without kids or who are not married, there are still basic principles here that are applicable to every one of us. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord and who finds great delight in his commands. I wanted to look at three points in the terms of the relationship between these two things. First of all, look with me at the relationship between fear of the Lord and delight in his commands. The first R, three R's today. The first R is the relationship. And you see the uh summary above it put in the last couple of weeks so that you This is if you're here this morning and weren't here for the part of first part of the series, at least you see the flow of the thought. Do you see that what I mean by the fear of the Lord there is a continual awareness that I am thinking, speaking, and acting in the presence of a holy, just, and almighty God who hates sin. Four asterisks, progression of thought. First of all, we cannot separate the fear of the Lord from love for the Lord. We cannot separate the fear of the Lord from the love of the Lord. Because the fear of this God who speaks with his sovereign authority, who hates sin, and who knows all of my sin. When I recognize that this is the God with whom I have to do, and then I hear that that God has sent his son. Then what I see of the work of Christ becomes to me something that not is of casual interest, but of desperate concern that I find in Him my refuge. When I consider the fact of how much God hates sin and how much of my sin he sees Beyond even what I see, and I'm aware of sin now that I wasn't aware of five years ago, ten years ago. There are things in my life that I hate that I didn't even that didn't even bother me ten or fifteen years ago. And when I consider that God knows infinitely beyond that, he knows every crevice of my soul and motives. And he hates it with a holy hatred in all of his being. And then I see how powerful he is to destroy everything he hates. And then I considered that he poured out all of that just, righteous, holy wrath. Upon his own son, substituting in my place. I am truly awestruck by such love How can you and I behold such love and not be compelled by such a love to respond with a love to Him? You cannot separate a biblical fear of the Lord because that fear of the Lord is a fear that is enveloped in the gospel. It's enfolded in the good news of God sending His Son. And not have faith in that Son, and a delight in Him. And so secondly, you cannot separate a a love for the Lord from a delight in His commands. You can't separate a love for the Lord from a love or delight, a love of his commands. Because you see, when you see and know the Lord, to know him is to know what he loves. He loves truth and mercy and compassion. Last week we tried to, I mentioned that there's a connection between Psalm 111 and 112, and in June we're going to look at that connection. We're going to see how Psalm 111 speaks of the character of God, and 112 speaks of the character of the man of God. And how there is a parallel structure between these two psalms. But what I want for you to notice uh simply now without looking in that in any detail is that the point is that we become like what we admire Now we can't say that we admire what God loves, that He loves righteousness and all these things, and then it's of no concern to us. You become like what you worship. Anthropologists will tell you that. In any of the religions of the world, people become like the gods they worship. In Psalm one hundred and nineteen, you see a very emotional response to God's law, his word And at least twenty-two of the verses of Psalm 119 speak about the delight that the writer has in God's law. Notice again that verse 1 does not say, blessed is he who fears the Lord and who does his commands. It could say that But the emphasis here you see is on for you and me to see that it's not so much what we do, it is the delight of our hearts. It's our it's our emotional response. Our affections toward God. He has great delight. Let me just give you a few of the verses from Psalm 119 summed up. Without the references, here's some thoughts from Psalm 119. I rejoice in following your statutes, as I rejoice in great riches. I delight in your decrees, I don't neglect them. Direct me in the path of your commandments, though I don't do them all yet, because in these I find delight when I do them. I long for your precepts, in contrast to the counsels of men. I delight in your commands because I love them. I lift my hands to your commands, which I love, and I meditate on them. The hearts of the arrogant are callous and unfeeling, but I delight in your law. It's a refreshment in contrast to the impurity of this world. Let your compassion come to me and live in me, for your law is my delight. If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction. There's a limit to all perfection in this world, but your commandments are boundless. Oh, how I love your law. I meditate on it all day long. Your words are like honey to my mouth. Your statutes are the joy of my heart. I love your commands more than pure gold. Your statues are wonderful. They give me light. I pant longing for your commands. In troubles and distress your commands are my delight. See how I love your precepts. I hate falsehood, but I love your law. And on and on and on. He goes, You get the drift of it? Lord, when I look at your wisdom, at your law, in contrast. To soap operas, to TV, to magazines, to self-help books. To all the so-called wisdom of this world, more and more I treasure your word. One of the very moving things about the Promised Keepers Conference was here's guys from all kinds of backgrounds. And here is an evident delight, the center of all of it, one whole session devoted to being a man of the word, a delight in God's Word. And I I marveled Friday night at Luis Palau, the most simple message Calling men to righteousness. Calling them to Jesus. Nothing fancy about it. Very direct, very simple. Half hour simply bringing the claims of Christ. And then the call to see one or two or more thousands of men streaming down the aisles in repentance and desire to come to God for changed life. Oh, how I love your law. It's so far superior to anything else. You can't separate the love, you can't separate the fear of the Lord from the love of the Lord, and you can't separate the love of the Lord from a delight, a love in his for his word and his commands. But then also you can't separate a love of his commands from a desire to do his commands. And that's the next asterisk. You can't separate on love of his commands from a desire to do his commands He loves faithfulness. You can't say, oh, I love your word. It speaks of faithfulness and purity. Of course, I don't have any intention to be faithful to my wife or my husband I have no particular desire to be pure in my life. I just admire it. It's nice to think that some people could be like that. To admire it, to love it in our hearts, is to say, that is what I want for my life. One of the songs that we sang there was The Main Thing is the main thing. Jesus is the main thing. And centering our heart's desire around submitting ourselves to Him. So when we see in the Psalm, what do we read there? Uh we see uh well first of all let me let me know getting ahead of myself that w when we when we desire to do his commands, you need to See that we don't do that perfectly. It doesn't say that. Verse 1 says he finds great delight in his commands, and that means that there is going to be a desire To work those commands in our lives for the Holy Spirit to work them in us. But we don't do that perfectly. I certainly admire people with a servant's heart. Beyond what I have, who are willing to give themselves for others and lavish themselves unprotectively on other people. It makes a difference that I desire that, but I certainly don't do it the way I would like to. I hope that the Lord is growing me in it. But what I want us to see is that only Jesus does it perfectly. Psalm 40, verse 8. Is an anticipation of his coming where it says, Behold, I come, I delight to do your law, O my God. Hebrews chapter 10 quotes that and says that Jesus is the one who fulfilled that. He came to delight to do the will of God. And so when you and I realize what we love to do, And yet how deficient we are, how we don't do that, how far short we come of that, we look to Jesus and we say, but Lord Jesus, you did it perfectly. You did all that you delighted to do, and your delight was fully in your Father and in pleasing him. And that made you eligible to take his wrath in my place. Because you are eligible, I am fully forgiven. You are enough in my place. Amen. And because he is enough, we love him. Because he is enough, we want to please him. Because he is enough, we want to do what he wants us to do. Because he is enough, we find blessing in following him out of love. And you see that that blessing, the last thing, you cannot separate a desire to do his commands from the blessings that flow. Look again at Psalm 112. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his commands. The blessing that flows immediately, his children will be mighty in the land. That is, that they will be mighty in the kingdom. We saw that a couple of weeks ago. The land is his kingdom. The generation of the upright will be blessed. That speaks of salvation. Our kids will go on with the Lord and they'll go beyond us. In their integrity, in their wholeness in Christ. And then down in verse 5, good will come to him who is generous and lends freely. And because he delights in his command, he's generous, he's a fellow who lends freely, he conducts his spirits with the justice. And what happens? Good will come to him Surely he will never be shaken. A righteous man will be remembered forever. He will have no fear of bad news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in the Lord. You can't separate the fear from the Lord from the love of the Lord. You can't separate the love of the Lord from the love of his commands. You can't separate the love of his commands from a Desire to do is commands And you can't separate a desire to do his commands from the blessing that flows from such obedience. And so as we look at that, we see The reasons why we delight in his commands. First of all, because his commands are simply good in themselves His commands are good in themselves. This is the second point, the reasons for our delight. Blessed is the one who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his commands. Why do I delight in his commands? They're good in themselves. They reflect God. Josh McDowell and Bob Hostetler have written a book Right from Wrong. Let me quote to you one little section there where this girl who's been sleeping with her boyfriend decides not to continue that and wants to break off that relationship. He says, I still don't understand why you broke up with me. I told you, she said, I don't want to do those things anymore. But why not? I thought we were in love. I thought so too So I don't see what the problem is. I love you, Brittany. I just want to show you how much I love you. She turned to look at him. Can you show your love for me by waiting? Waiting to have sex until we're married? She turned and began walking away. Matt circled her and stood in front of her, blocking her progress. He placed his hand on her arm and leaned his head close to hers. He kissed her neck. She closed her eyes. He moved her hair and kissed her again. I want us to be together like we were. What's wrong with that? She opened her eyes and stepped back from him. It's wrong because our kind of love wasn't willing to wait. Our love wasn't pure. I've had some kind of twisted idea about what makes something right or wrong. But I've been learning that my problem has been trying to figure those things out myself instead of looking to God. God? What's God got to do with this? Matt persisted. A lot, Brittany responded. I can't explain it as good as my mom can, but I know that something is right if it's like God. If it's not like God, it's wrong. What wisdom in that one statement. If it's like God, it's right. If it's not like God, it's wrong. Why do we delight in his commands? Because they're like God. And what is there about Jesus Christ that you wouldn't like to be like? What is there about him that is in any way deficient in your understanding? Isn't he the fullness of all that we would want to be? Of all that we could admire and love And if something's like him, it's right. And if it's not like him, it's wrong. But not only do we delight in his commands because they're good in themselves, they reflect him, but we also delight in them because they're good for us. His commands are good for me. See, I didn't finish the sentence. She actually says there, I can't explain as good as my mom can, but I know that something is right if it's like God. If it's not like God, it's wrong, and that means it's not going to make me happy. The fact is that God has woven together his glory And our delight and joy. They're never in conflict. And so when we understand what his commands are for, primarily to reflect him and to bring him honor. But also because they are for our good and to by the designer make us to be what he intended. And to find our satisfaction and joy in that. We delight in them. And so you see in Psalm 112 that there is a delight in being generous. Good will come to him who is generous and lends freely, who conducts his affairs with justice. Do our kids see that there is a delight in being generous? In tithing, in giving the first fruits to the Lord? Or do they see it as something that we simply say, well, you know, it's just what the Lord says you're supposed to do, and so we just kind of do it mechanically without any sense of delight? Or do we believe that as we set this aside by faith and trust God to meet our needs, that there is a joy in that? That we kids are going to see God provide for us Even if the job situation is very unstable, even if we don't know where things are headed, the fact is we're going to see our Heavenly Father take care of us. And there's a delight in obeying what he says. What I want to do thirdly, finally, is to try to make some application of this by the simple statement, be real. First is to see the relationship between the fear and the delight Secondly, to see the reasons for the delight. And thirdly, to be real. God's intention is that our kids see the benefits of fearing and trusting him. The reality, Psalm 22, verse 6, I've often said to you. means not train up a child in the way he shall go, and when he will de won't grow old he won't depart, but the Hebrew has to do with a palate. The word train there has to do with the palate, the taste. And I think a better translation of it is give a child a taste of the way he should go. And when he's old, he will not depart. Let him see the reality of God in our lives and in our families. And when there is the experience of the taste of that They'll never want to depart. I recall in our own family some years ago, one of our kids was going out for hockey. And uh the tryouts uh passed. I don't recall the details of it, but I just remember the weeping and the wailing about the fact that they had missed. It was impossible to get this. Uh they had lost the season. There was no way that they were going to be able to get on the team, and the life was about to come to an end. So as we considered that and whether we should move from the area and start over or whatever else maybe would be an appropriate response. I thought, God just impelled with me that this is an example, a way to see God's work. And so I said, let's take this to the Lord and ask him. To work out if he wants you on that team, he can get you on. It wasn't simply neglect or irresponsibility that had brought them to this place. So we prayed about that. And I still remember two days later, I'm not going to tell you which daughter it was, you know. Preserve a little bit of anonymity. When she came and she said Dad, you can't believe the teacher said this and this and they changed this and I'm on the team. There was a taste Of knowing God as our Heavenly Father. A taste as a family that we could share in and that we could see the reality and delight in His commands. Four points. Reason I say be real is that I'm using that as an acronym. R-E-A-L. These are the four points. First of all, the R Focus on relationship, not simply rules. Focus on the relationship, not simply the rules In Matthew 8, excuse me, Matthew 8, 11, verses 28 to 30, Jesus says something that's so precious to me. He's been very precious through my life. When he says, Come to me all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest, take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and humble of heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. He's contrasting himself as a teacher from the rabbis, the Pharisees, who said, these are the rules that you must follow. Jesus says it's not a matter of following these rules, it's a matter of learning from me. It's the relationship with me that makes all the difference. Take my youth, learn from me. And I'll tell you, if you haven't learned it by now, those of you who are parents, you probably haven't been parents very long, but it's something we need to continue to remind ourselves of when our kids get to be teenagers. The rules won't matter nearly as much as the relationship. We live in a generation where the kids don't have to obey the rules that they don't want. They can take off to a friend. They can leave. They can do what they want. You and I will not win as parents if they don't want to obey by the time they get to be teens and go on. The thing that will make the difference is whether they care about the relationship. Whether they say it matters to me to have a relationship with my mom and my dad. Take my yoke upon you. Learn from me. And so one of the most important things that we can do is, as we're working with our kids, to cultivate the kind of relationship So that when our kids get into those teen years, they care to continue that relationship. There's something there that we've done that bonds us. There's things that we share that are going to hold us through those difficult times. When they're saying, I really want to do this and I really don't want to do what you want me to do. I don't care about the rules. We made a distinction in our home between a relationship and a policeman I said, we can have a relationship as father to son or daughter, or we can play policemen. And I'd really much rather have the relationship. But if it's got to deteriorate to the policeman, then we've got to have certain standards in our home. But I long with my heart to continue the relationship with you. And as we do that, we pray for the relationship. We do everything to build the memories for the relationship. Because to delight in the commands. is to delight in the relationship. We delight in God's commands because of our relationship with Him. Secondly, the E, encourage more than rebuke. Encourage more than rebuke. What power there is in encouragement. After last week's message, two of you wrote me notes of encouragement of how God had used that in your life and what it meant to you. And that made my week. It encouraged me, because I wasn't all that encouraged by last week's message. There were things that I didn't get across that I really wanted to. And yet you're encouraging me. You know, you don't say, well, you know, uh you really could do this better and you could do that better, and I need to hear the constructive criticism to correct and help and improve my preaching, but The power of encouragement is so much beyond what we imagine, particularly as parents, isn't it? I mean, there's so many things we need to correct. Sometimes we forget that we need to hunt around finding something right so that we can say, that's good, and be specific and honest. Looking for the improvement, to encourage, to be able to say, you did this really well. I see you're doing this better. Than a couple of months ago. I really see you trying. That was neat. That paper showed thought That work, that task that I gave you to do, I appreciate it, just stuck with it. Maybe it wasn't perfect. Maybe there was a lot of things deficient, but there were things there to encourage. And I'll tell you, if we don't receive encouragement, what happens to us? Why do we think our kids are less tender? We need encouragement. Encouragement more than simply rebuke. 1 Thessalonians 5. 11, Paul says to us, encourage one another and build one another up as you're doing. That applies to our kids too. The third thing, the A, is to aim at the heart, not just behavior. Aim at our kids' hearts, not just their behavior. You see, we're trying to produce kids who delight in God's commands, not simply Pharisees who are able to keep the rules. And that means that we aim at their heart. Our tendency as parents is to want our kids' behavior to look good so that we'll look good, right? You reflect on me. Don't mess up. But if I focus simply on the external behavior, I will produce a Pharisee, not someone who delights in God's commands. And I must confess, I've been deficient in this. One of the things, one of our hottest topics you want to ever get into and around our home is family devotions. Uh-huh. I mean I've gotten to the point now where if you said, Al, teach us about family devotions. I'd say, get out of here. I gotta go back and learn the course all over. One of the things that I think that I did poorly was to desire a behavior in the devotions. We're gonna do this because it's important. God says to be in his word. As a family. Deuteronomy 4, 6, many other places. But the goal is That the kids love the word and that we're in the word and there's a producing of a delight in that, not simply a rigid conformity to certain exercises we do as a family. Aim at the heart Not simply as the behavior. And then finally, the L is to laugh more Laugh more. As Christians we're so busy and so burdened, aren't we? I think if there's one thing I would want to do if I was starting over with kids again is not take them so seriously. You know, I really think that we see so much that needs to be done, that needs to be corrected. We begin to look at our kids like problems. You know. They're not people to enjoy their problems to correct. A survey was done in 1976 on men and their families. They found that three times as many men in 1976 saw their families as restrictions on their lives as in 1957. I wonder if they took that survey now. You know how many of us view that our families are a restriction, it's something to get through, teenage years, the rest of that, without delighting and enjoying. The good times, the fact that God has redeemed us, the Holy Spirit is on our side, God has given us promises to claim. And I remember James Dobson saying a number of times, the main goal of the teenage years is to get through it. Still smiling, still friends. I mean Mark Twain said, you know, stick 'em in a barrel when they're fourteen, when they're sixteen, plug the hole in the barrel, you know. But as Christians, there should be a sense that God is on our side and that we can laugh That we are able to enjoy one another. Because God has said, Blessed is the man. He's a person who has levity in his heart, who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his commands, his children. Children are going to be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright is going to be blessed. We need to claim it. And we need to let our kids see. That we're lighthearted and that we desire and delight to serve the Lord. Let's pray. Oh Lord, I I feel for kids who see parents. The view that Christian life is simply a duty. That the things I want to do for myself, those are the things I delight in. But when it comes to my serving the Lord and Loving people in the body and my small group and these other things, that's just that's a duty that I gotta do. Oh Lord, no wonder. As our kids look To see what it means to follow you, they don't anticipate a lot of delight. And Lord, we we confess to you that we've we've really gotten a number of things screwed up. And yet we we thank you so much, Lord Jesus, that you are on our side. That you're training us and you are instructing us. And that you're gracious to us. That our hope is not that if we do things perfectly, then you're obligated to make our kids what we would hope. Our hope, Lord Jesus, is in your power. It is in your mercy. It is in your covenant faithfulness. That you who have given to us these promises work in us by your spirit, that fear and delight. Which causes us as families to have a taste of the way that we should go. Lord, may our kids see a light-heartedness in us May they see an enjoyment of serving you that's so attractive they would never want to miss out on it. We hold them and ourselves up to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.