Amen. Thank you so much, all these uh dedicated musicians Giving us the gospel and the assurance of Christ in the that is found in the gospel with a uh a toe-tapping beat. It's good stuff. That third verse, John just saying, I and I will not fear though darkness come abroad o'er all the land, if I may only feel the touch of his own loving hand. Though I tremble when I think how weak I am and frail, my soul is satisfied. To know his love can never fail. His love can never fail. That love, that powerful demonstration of the love of God for you. sinner is love that motivated a holy God to send his one and only Son to live a life Under the law, under God's holy law, to become a curse for you Take the curse that was yours upon himself, motivated by love, demonstrating God's love, carrying you forward in life by his love. My soul is satisfied to know his love can never fail. His love has effect in the life of his people. That's what Paul is trying to get across to the church in Galatia. It's what I think God is trying to get across to us. His love has effect In the life of his people. It should, it ought, it must. I I said the three words you're not supposed to say from the pulpit. Should, ought, must. We should be seeing the fruit of the Spirit in lives that have been regenerated by God's Spirit. We should be seeing those lives lived out in love. That's what Paul's saying. We're in the fourth of four. Here we've reached the end of this brief uh look at the gospel of of Christ found in the book of Galatians. The last message today. It's interesting and very uh refreshing for me. I was I had a fairly weird Friday. So Uh I didn't get to read Galatians chapter 5. That was the Friday chapter, remember, in our reading through the book as a church this month. So last night, Dana and I read Galatians 5 and 6 together, and what a great thing of God to do that for me, to uh to put us right smack in the in the middle of chapter 5 and 6. I have a frustrating exercise for myself today because I want to preach all of Galatians 5 and 6. Can't do it. But what I do want to do is highlight one aspect of what I believe Paul is is trying to conclude in this letter, an aspect that uh is just imperative for us. As God's people to understand, to follow. I don't want to start in Galatians 5 and 6, though. I want to take you back to the very first, the very first verses of this letter. Because Paul gives, if you will, the the foreshadowing of what's to come. Paul evidences himself as someone who is radically Christ-centered, radically cross-centered. centered radically gospel sent saturated and centered. In the very opening Salvo in this epistle, in this letter, Paul says, Listen, I'm Paul the apostle. Not from men, not through men, not of the flesh. But through Jesus Christ and God the Father. Jesus Christ and God the Father. Paul he doesn't shrink back from even equating Christ with God the Father. This is just an aside, but That's a full expression of Christ's deity for you. You want evidence, you want proof? Paul, numerous times We'll equate those two. They are equal in power and glory and substance in eternality. Christ is fully God and fully man. We know this. But Paul goes on and says, Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Christ, raised him, raised Christ from the dead. The very first verse out of the shoot, Paul says, the resurrection power of Jesus Christ is what I want to talk to you about. Your greatest enemy, my greatest enemy is the death is death and the grave and hell, the judgment of God Poured out against sinful people like us. That's our greatest enemy. Wages of sin is death The power of sin is the law. And Paul says Christ was raised from the dead. The resurrection power of God Almighty is yours, beloved. It's yours. And all the brothers who are with me. And he writes to the churches in Galatia, Grace, God's grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. There's the equation again. God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Get that. In verse four, he gives us the gospel. Gospel's this Jesus Christ was delivered up. For us. He gave himself, point one, for our sins, point two, to deliver us from the prevalent present evil age according to the will of God our Father. Point three. Paul is letting the church in Galatia know beyond a shadow of a doubt that it's the resurrection power of Christ that is your power to live, and it's because of the cross of Jesus Christ. Does this excite you? This is exciting stuff because Paul says, a holy God, the other, someone who's not us. Took on flesh, took on this, and came as lived as one of us, and he gave himself up for you. He gave himself up. He willingly laid down his life for you. The cross, the demands of the law were satisfied. In Christ's substitutionary death. He willingly gave himself. But what did he have to give himself for? Paul says, for our sins. All those thoughts that we have that run through our head, all those things that we entertain, all those deeds that we accomplish with our hand. All those things that some of you, even within the sound of my voice, can't wait to get out of here to go and do again. Paul says Christ gave himself up for us for our sins. That's why he was crucified. Not because of his sin, but because of your sin and my sin. Paul said he gave himself up for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age. That's the gospel. The gospel is a way of life. It's remember we've talked about the last couple of weeks, it's a way of life between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ. This is the first time of present evil age in which we live. Do you think about that? I gotta start with these questions for myself, for you, for us, as a as a body of believers. Do you think about the Son of God who gave himself up for you? Paul will go on to say that, of course, Galatians 2. 20. We see it in Ephesians 5. Husbands, love your wives the way Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her Ephesians 5, Paul says, walk in love even as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. Paul told Pastor Titus that the grace of God had appeared bringing salvation. It trains us. in this present age to say no to ungodliness and to say yes or to live lives of of godliness in this present age While we eagerly await the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people eager to do good works. Right? So the love of God has effect. It's supposed to work itself out. We see that the walk of the Spirit is uh being that we're being called to keep in step with the Spirit So we look at Galatians 5, Galatians 6 today. We're going to just read some passages here to kind of get us into this, but I want us to think about this. It took me four weeks to come up with a little theme sentence for the series, so glad I got it in today. The gospel, if you will, think of it this way. The gospel way of life. Is a process of growth that's evidenced in our lives by believing the promises of God and walking. In step with the Spirit. The gospel is a process of growth by believing the promises of God as we walk by the Spirit and the strength that He provides to us. I had a dear friend in seminary, we're still in touch, and he used to talk about people trying to grunt out fruit. You know. I'm gonna be joyful. I'm telling you this right now. I'm gonna be patient. And it's not that way at all. In fact, it's quite the opposite. The the gospel way of life is a is a process of growth that takes place. In us as we believe the promises of God found in the gospel Let me read some scripture from Galatians 5, Galatians 6, and talk about this process of growth. It takes place in our lives. Paul says to the Galatians, to his beloved, those who would turn away from the freedom in Christ, he says, listen, for freedom Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look, I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope. Of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in this one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. I say this then, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. Walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit. And the desires of the spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things That you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Skipping ahead to chapter six, brothers, if anyone is Caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. And keep watch on yourself lest you too be tempted Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. Whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. And let us not grow weary of doing good. Let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap if we do not give up. So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. A couple of more verses down at the end of the chapter. Far be it then for me to boast except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation. May God add his blessing to the reading, to our hearing of his word, to the preaching of of thoughts that are uh, Lord willing, based in the scriptural truth of his word. This is a process that you and I are in, beloved, follower of Christ. Those who have gotten to the point in their lives where they've humiliated themselves publicly and said, I'm a sinner. And I cannot do anything to rescue myself from the wrath of God that I justly deserve I'm a sinner. I'm unfit and unable to come to God on my own. And so if I'm to be saved, I need to trust in Christ and Christ alone. It's his death that paid for my sins. It's his life that I clothe myself with as I interact with the world around me. That's what we do when we enter into that Life of commitment to Christ. It's a process of growth by believing the promises of God are true and living out of them. Are you going to feel saved when you wake up in the morning? If if you do, could you email me what that feels like? Because we walk by faith and not by sight or the senses or the feelings. We walk by faith in the Word of God. Believing by faith that the Son of God loved us and gave himself for us. That's the gospel. This process that we're in is not without its setbacks either. That's what the last two chapters in this letter are about. Setbacks. You remember last week we talked about my five-year-old, Kyle. Training wheel-free. It's a process of growth. But training wheel-free Kyle met the asphalt of our cul-de-sac this week on numerous occasions. I only witnessed about a dozen of them Because training wheel-free Kyle wants to ride at 45 miles an hour. There is no slow with him. In fact last night I was trimming our uh grass to get ready for our Under Shepherd Group picnic today. And training wheel free Kyle is pedaling around in a circle in the middle of the driveway where I'd moved the cars. And there's a tennis ball in the middle of that circle. And training wheel freak Kyle believed that he could jump the tennis ball. With his twelve inch bike. The training wheel Kyle met the pavement. Fell. We fall sometimes in this process of growth. And not to try to borrow too much from the Batman begins movie series, but you know, Alfred the Butler and Bruce Wayne, you know, why do we fall, Master Bruce? So that we can pick ourselves up again. Because in Batman's mind, that's why you fall, to pick yourself up again. But then Batman gets the glory Why does God ordain or allow that Christians sin? He allows us to fall So that by his grace and in the strength and through the strength that he provides, and among the fellowship of the body of Christ, we are picked back up To the glory of God and the praise of his wondrous gospel That delivers us by the power of the resurrection in this present age. Why do we fall, Master Bruce? That's why. So that God gets glory even. As we repent of our sin and we follow him. So we've had some great feedback on some of these messages from you. I heard of one five-year-old wanting to go home last week and actually take her training wheels off and try the bike. It's not really the feedback I was looking for, but I'll take that But when we talk about the free gift of God's grace, it is so vivid, this picture of God's free gift, and yet We don't believe it. We don't act like we believe it. One of the feedbacks that I've gotten from a dear sister in the body was apparently I did this last week as I was talking about the Lord's table. And I leaned over and I said, This has been purchased for you. Make every available use of the means of God's grace, because when this table is laid out, it's Jesus himself. Saying to you, this is my body that was broken for you. And this, this is my blood, which covers your sin. I've done that for you. It's been purchased for you. It's a free gift of my grace. Take advantage of it. And she said in that moment that the Lord gave her this kind of picture. Now I've changed the restaurant for my likes, but I'll share with you my version of what she shared with me. It'd be like getting a phone call from their very dear friends that said, We've purchased you a meal at Ruth Chris Steakhouse. And everything is paid for. We've got appetizers lined up, your choice. We've got my choice would be the ribeye steak seared with a big thing of butter sitting on it when it comes to your table. Dessert that you want, the drinks that you prefer, the beverage to go with your meal, it's purchased for you. You need, but go down there and take advantage of it. And it'd be like for this dear sister, she said, it'd be like hanging up the phone from that friend who had purchased that for them and saying, What have we got in the pantry again? Maybe we could have uh some goldfish crackers. You know, I was thinking maybe we can make breakfast for dinner tonight. I'll just do pancakes. Does that make sense to anybody? It's what it's like to to live by the flesh, to to want to keep the law. It's a miserable life. Because the freedom that Christ has purchased for us is available to us by his grace. And that's what Paul said. Don't fall away from that. He gives the warning there in the first several verses of chapter 5. I'm not going to highlight those in detail. Christ would be of no advantage to us. You'll be saying in your actions by living by the law, you're saying that Christ's death means nothing. What a testimony as you trample the blood of Christ underfoot. We obligate ourselves to keep the whole law. You want to do that? How are you doing? You've fallen away from God's grace. Paul's not contradicting the doctrine that he teaches in other places about the eternal security of those who belong to Christ. The perseverance of the saints. Paul's not contradicting that. What he's saying there is, it's in the voice that says, When you try to live under the law by your flesh, you fall away from God's grace. You remove yourself from the only thing that brings you life and peace. Don't do that. He pleads with them not to do that. Christ is the center of salvation. It's his achievement, not ours, right? And we live it out in this present age with a confident hope. Hope in this present age, Paul says, that's through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for that hope of righteousness. Remember, it's just like the my ten-year-old Anna. Eagerly waiting for her Glenburney backyard, above ground pool, steam crabs, and shrimp presents provided by two loving grandparents' birthday party. Kind of waiting. Because there's a confidence. In the one who is hosting the righteousness, the party The completion of our walk. So Paul highlights that the work of God's Spirit is a process in the life of the believer, and we wait. on the Lord. That's what we're called to do. But we don't wait like people wait at a bus station for a bus. We don't wait like you sit on the on the uh dock waiting for the train to come and pick you up. It's not that kind of a wait. It's a battleground. It's a battlefield. Your flesh, your sinful nature, that sin that still dwells in your members, it wars against the spirit That's the thing he's teaching here in Galatians 5 and 6. You and I are in a battle. And we best not go it alone. Paul is preaching about how the body of Christ, the community of believers, the communion of the saints, live out this process together. I believe next week and the following weeks, as Steve Green comes to fill the pulpit, he's going to be preaching on community. And we'll see, I hope, and and pray for Steve that that as the Lord uses him to point us again to this wonder and privilege and responsibility we each have to live in community with one another. That's what Paul is talking about here. It's a battlefield, and we need each other. I I grew up in a Southern Baptist church, and not all Southern Baptist churches have Southern gospel quartets, but we did We had a Southern gospel quartet and they used to sing at all the picnics and they would do special music sometime. But there was one song that we always loved. And all of us young guys would request it because it was just a cool song. It had a description of David up against Goliath and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego up against Nebuchadnezzar in the fiery furnace. And when it got down to the chorus, this presentation of those uh Acts of faith, those demonstrations that, you know, I didn't come to play around. We would sing that chorus with them Run if you want to. Run if you will, but I came here to stay. When I fall down, I'm going to try to get up. Because I didn't start out to play. It's a battlefield, brother. Not a recreation room. It's a fight. Not a game. So run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to stay. When we get embroiled in that fray, that struggle in the flesh, are you gonna run? Are you going to stand in Christ and fight? It's even better with the music. Run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to stay. If I fall down, I'm gonna try to get up, 'cause it didn't start out to play It's a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room, it's a fight and not a game. Run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to stay I hope and pray that that's the the posture of your heart when you face sin, the temptation of sin. And Paul says, listen, this life that we're called to is an extraordinary life. It's not going to make sense to the world. Two verses I want to highlight, and we'll try to move on and close here. Paul says two provocative statements. He equates the circumcision as those who are trying to keep the law. He says, No, it's circumcision, and it's not uncircumcision. Neither one of those avails anything. But it's your faith. Working through love. It's your love for one another. You see, it's all throughout these two chapters, five and six. Paul talks about don't uh don't uh make a Don't allow the desires of your flesh to take over. Walk by the Spirit, for the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit. They're opposed to one another. Don't use your freedom as opportunities for your flesh, for your sinful nature, but through love serve one another. What's going on? What Paul is saying there is the life of Christ that lives in us is the life of Christ living in us. Christ's life is This kind of other-centered, self-sacrificing love. It was love that put Christ on the cross. Came across a quote from Sinclair Ferguson. When we think of Christ dying on the cross, we are shown the great lengths to which God's love goes in order to win us back to Himself. Listen, Ferguson says, we would almost think that God loves us more than he loves his own son when we see the cross. It's that kind of love. And my question to you is: have you personally experienced the love of God? Do you know this love? Personally. The Apostle John talked about that in the life of the believer. Not a lot of time to go into it, but in his first letter, John says, listen, this is what we know what love is. That one lays down his life for the friend. This is how we know the love of God, that God gave his one and only Son to be a propitiation, to to take the wrath on himself. And then John says these radical words, so then in that love, we ought to love one another. I believe the highlight of Galatians 5 and 6, there's a lot of stuff here to preach. But I think and believe with all my heart that what God wants to communicate to Columbia Presbyterian Church and Tim Flora in particular. is if I have personally experienced that love, then That love should be evident as I interact with you and you interact with me. That's how we know, right? Remember Jesus' words himself? This is how they will know you are my disciples. Your love one for the other. Right? Paul is so clear that as we are crucified with Christ and and we no longer live, but Christ now lives in us. And that Spirit of God indwells us. Keeping in step with the Spirit produces fruit. And the very first one in that list of spiritual fruit is love. Because that list of spiritual fruit is merely a description of Jesus Christ Himself. So Paul says that any one of you who is caught in a transgression, if a brother is caught in a transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him with gentleness. He's not saying you who are sinless. He says, as you keep in step with the Spirit, that same gentleness should be evident. That was evident in Christ, that when he came seeking to save that which was lost, The God of the universe, the creator of all things, wrapped a towel around his waist and knelt before his disciples and washed their feet. This is the Spirit of Christ dwelling within you. What bugs you about the person across the aisle? What really gets your goat about someone calling when it's not convenient? Whatever it is, Christ said says to you today, see my cross again. View the cross rightly. Because in that cross, the Son of God loved you and gave himself up for you. And my question is, have you personally experienced that love? Listen, I I'll make no uh Make no mistake here, what we're trying to say is not that when you embrace Christ and his cross, everything becomes easy It doesn't. In fact, I believe sometimes at that point it becomes harder. Because the world hates this message of the cross. It's foolishness to them, it's a stumbling block, it's an offense. Remember, we said a couple of weeks ago that it's counterintuitive, this message of the cross. And it should never be discussed in abstract terms. It's always personally applied to your life and to mine. That's what's going on. I want to close with this. I feel like I have to compete We're not going anywhere, are we? Sorry. I want to close with this because I know it's a struggle I know it's a struggle because it's a struggle in my own life to love the way Christ loves. It's a struggle for you But God knows that it's a struggle. Listen to the words of Paul. In chapter 6, he says this. But let us not grow weary in the doing of good. Let's not grow weary, because this confident assurance he gives that we will reap. What we have sown. That's the whole argument there about not being deceived. God is not mocked. If you sow to the flesh, you will reap of the flesh. So to yourself, so to uh everything for you. You're gonna reap it. You'll reap isolation, destruction, misery Don't be deceived in that way. But Paul says also, don't be deceived. That as you sow to the Spirit, as you and I Sow to the Spirit, the struggle to fight against that flesh, the battleground. As we sow to the Spirit, we will in due time reap the harvest of the spiritual blessing in Christ. It's for us. It's for common people, just like you and just like me. Praise be to God. Amen. Let me pray for us. Father, help us to um to embrace your gospel with a full heart and minds that can comprehend and apprehend and Lord, by your Spirit then, would you be pleased to lead us from this point forward? We pray all that in the name of Jesus. Amen.