Uh say hello and uh to all of you. I'd like to also wish a very happy uh New Year's. Um I'm not sure how 2002 uh what that year brought for you. Perhaps for some it was a very blessed year, and others perhaps it was a year of struggle. Um in either case I do hope that 2003 will be blessed with abundant riches from our Lord to you as well as to your family. As we begin this new year together, this being the first Lord's Day in the 2003 year, It seems appropriate that we begin by perhaps meditating on the highest of all Christian activities. That of course being worship, worship to our God, worship to our Savior Jesus Christ. And so uh the words I'd like to share with you today are some thoughts uh related uh to the worship that we are called to offer to God. And for those of you who were here earlier in the morning, we uh began our middle hour classes for this Sunday as well as for the next For the next several weeks now, where we will begin where we will have our worship leaders uh leading a class on some issues regarding worship for us here at CPC. And uh if anyone here um Missed the uh middle hour class this morning and I know it's snowing outside and driving and traveling is somewhat of a uh uh of a difficulty for that reason I'd like to encourage you to really take this as an opportunity to grow in your understanding of worship, to learn more about the Word of God has to say about worship. uh to see in fact how God wants us to worship him. And so for that reason I would encourage you to uh to use this as an opportunity uh to learn on these things and come and join join us for a time of learning within God's Word during these middle hour. uh sessions over the next several weeks. Today I'd like to share with you a message regarding worship. And I only have really one agenda, one point within my sermon that I'd like to share with you this morning, and that really is the object of our worship. The object of our worship is in fact a person. It is God, it is Jesus Christ. Jesus is the object, the center of our worship, therefore worship must be centered upon Christ. Christ-centered worship. Um this may seem a obvious point, so obvious that perhaps we don't need to make it. Um but I'd like to remind us all perhaps that on a From an outward perspective, from a superficial perspective, if I can use it that put it that way, our worship is really not that much different from the worship you could say of other world religions. other religions out there have their form of prayer and in fact if anything they may depending on the religion that we're talking about may pray more than Christians do Um, they have their own versions of fasting. They have their own religious holidays and calendars. They have their own concept of God. They have their own uh what they would consider divinely inspired scriptural words. They have their own songs of praise. They have essentially, you could say, on a superficial level, every parallel that we would have as well. What makes our worship unique and therefore um different and life-changing, what makes our worship true and meaningful is not so much the act of worship itself as in the person whom we worship. Our worship is significant because it of the God whom we worship. Just similar to our faith. Our faith is powerful and strong because our God, the object of our faith, is powerful and and strong. Which is the reason why our Lord says all you need is this is the is faith like the size of a mustard seed. Just a little bit of faith. And that is all you need because our God is strong. And so with that in mind, as we focus our thoughts on Christ as a center of our worship, I'd like for us to turn to the book of Revelation, chapter 5. And I'll be reading from verse 1 to verse 14. Revelation chapter 5, verses 1 to 14 And Revelation five begins Then I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll with writing on both sides and sealed with seven seals And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming in a loud voice, Who is worthy to break the seals and open the scroll? But no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth could open the scroll or even look inside it I wept and wept because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or look inside. Then one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. See, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has triumphed. He is able to open the scroll and its seven seals. Then I saw a lamb looking as if it had been slain, standing in the center of the throne. Encircled by the four living creatures and the elders. He hath seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all of the earth. He came and took the scroll from the right hand of him who sat on the throne, and when he had taken it, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each one had a harp, and they were holding golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saint. And they sang a new song You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its fields because you were slain and with your blood you purchased men for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. You have made them to be a kingdom of priests, kingdom and priests, uh to serve our God, and they will reign on the earth. Then I looked and heard the voice of many angels, numbering thousands upon thousands, ten thousand times ten thousand. They encircled the throne and the living creatures and the elders. In a loud voice they saying, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength, and honor, and glory, and praise. Then I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea and all that is in them singing to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb Be praise and glory and honor and power forever and ever. The four living creatures said, Amen, and the elders fell down and worshipped. That's the reading of the word of God. You know, I'm I am much more of a uh of a new of an Old Testament uh student. I I have come to really appreciate and value and in fact love studying the Old Testament scriptures. But if the Lord allows me someday to really focus my thoughts and time and energy on the study of one book in the New Testament, if he ever gave me time Fifteen, twenty years would be good, I think, to uh to really get a grasp of uh any book in the New Testament, the book that I think I would choose is the book of Revelation. Um the images and the teaching and the pictures that you get in this book, you own you get nowhere else in the entire New Testament at all. In fact The only other parallel that we could that I could think of in the entire Bible is that within the book of Daniel. The pictures here is the pictures of our Lord victorious and triumphant not only of our Lord, but you and I as well, victorious and triumphant. And in fact, one person has summarized the entire message of the book of Revelation in two words. God wins. Or another two words you can look at as to the complete opposite, Satan loses. It's kind of pessimistic, so I prefer God wins. If you read the book of Revelation, in addition to all of the complexity, there's clearly much more there than that statement But it is a nice summary of what the book of Revelation talks about. In the end, God wins. And our we can have hope in all of our struggles because of that one simple fact of life. God is always victorious. Revelations chapter four and five really begins to describe the the throne room picture of God, the initial visions of the uh of the Apostle John as he sees Um God triumphant and completely revealed. He sees the throne room of God and out of Revelation 4 and 5 flows now the rest of the book of Revelation. From chapter six to chapter twenty-two, all of the visions and the cycles that you see there, the pictures of the bowls and of the trumpets and of the seals being broken that lead to the condemnation of God's enemies. And to the glorification of God Himself, all of these things you see flowing out of these chapters right here in chapter 4 and 5. Revelation chapter 4 begins the images of God seated on his throne. And what John sees there is a picture of a figure that he simply just calls him who sits on the throne. He who sits on the throne. He is sitting on his throne triumphant and victorious. What he sees then are four living creatures, creatures that are really a composite of different animals kind of bunched together into four different creatures, all now worshipping this one significant figure sitting on this throne. In addition to these Of four living creatures, he also sees twenty-four elders. So four living creatures, twenty-four elders, all surrounding the throne of God, lifting up praise and exaltations unto him. So the picture in the end of Revelation chapter 4 is really the picture of doxology, the picture of praise, the picture of glory unto God. But when you get to the beginning of Revelation chapter 5, the picture now is all different. There's a dilemma. There's a problem. And the problem is that this person who is sitting on the throne, he who sits on the throne, is holding in his right hand a scroll. A scroll that has been sealed, not with just one seal, but seven seals, to really signify the the the enclosure of the scroll. This scroll is described to have written have writing on both the front and the back side. It is completely written. It is completely full. And this scroll no one is able to open. And now all of the praise that we hear in Revelation chapter 4 at the beginning of Revelation chapter 5 is now gone. Heaven is now silent. There is no praise. It is now contingent on the opening of this scroll. And of course the problem is Nobody can do it. And because nobody can open the scroll, John weeps. He doesn't just weep, he bitterly weeps. So what's going on here? What is it that John seems to understand about this scroll that's so significant that causes him so much remorse and so much despair We're not really told what the scroll is. Um there are only, as far as I'm aware, two other passages in the entire Bible that describes anything like a scroll. One is in the book of Zechariah, where Zechariah sees a picture of a flying scroll. And the other is in the book of Daniel, uh the second half of the book of Daniel from chapter seven to twelve are really the visions of Daniel, the the the prophecies of Daniel, which is very, very similar to what we have in the book of Revelation. At the end of Daniel in chapter twelve, Daniel is commanded by God to roll up the scroll, what he just wrote down, in terms of the vision that he just saw, to roll these up and in fact to seal it. And in fact, and in and it is to remain sealed. for some unknown time for period of time. So it is possible that the scroll that we're talking about here in Revelation 5 is very similar and parallel parallels the scroll that we have at the end of Daniel chapter 12. And one other thing is that Daniel chapter 12, or Daniel, the book of Daniel, is essentially the Old Testament parallel of the book of Revelation in the New Testament. The Old Testament Revelation, you could say, then, is the book of Daniel. And both Daniel and the book of Revelation share these common themes and messages. To summarize both books, God wins. And it's not just God who wins, but you also win as well. And in fact, one common phrase that you read in the book of Daniel over and over again is not just the fact that God is victorious, but the saints of God are victorious as well. The saints of God, me You also win because God wins. And so in the book of Revelation, when you read from chapter 6 Throughout the entire chapter, one thing that you will constantly read about is the picture of the saints of God. You see, the picture of the saints of God in the book of Revelation are very black and white You are all either pictured as martyrs who die for the cause of Christ, or you are victorious and triumphant in Christ. You either are ones who have given your life for the faith, or you are completely victorious and triumphant because of your faith in Jesus Christ. There is no middle ground in the book of Revelation. You are one or the other. So you see the book of Revelation describes not only God's victory, but your victory as well. The problem, of course is that this scroll is closed. The rest of the book of Revelation is somewhat contingent on this scroll being opened No one can open the scroll. No one can break these seals. For that reason, there is no victory. There is no triumph. No triumph for God, no triumph for the people of God. It's no wonder that John begins to despair. John, of course, is on the island of Patmos. He is in exile. He has been persecuted because of his faith. He is going through enormous trials and persecution and hardship emotionally as well as physically. And the only hope that he can draw in the midst of all of his trials and difficulties is the hope that there is meaning behind all of his struggles. that there is going to be someday victory for him as well as for his God. But until this scroll is opened He can't find any comfort in that. Now perhaps some of us are going through that similar trial. Perhaps some of us are going through difficulties as well. Perhaps for some of you, the year of 2002 was nothing more than just one bitterness af bitter issue after another. Perhaps for some of us, one day, living one day after the other has been nothing but just torment, pain. Madness. No sense to the chaos that seems to be going around us. Imagine for one minute if I were to give to you, if I were to tell you that there is no hope. What if I were to tell you that there is no purpose behind your pain? There is no glory For your grief. What if I were to tell you it's it's just a hopeless dilemma? Even for the faithful of God who who have a solid grounding of faith in Jesus Christ Oftentimes that is the picture of life. The beginning of the book of Ecclesiastes, written again by the most wisest man in the Old Testament, begins by saying meaningless. Meaningless. All of life is meaningless. Even by with faith, it's very difficult at times to see that there is a ray of hope, a light of hope in the midst of the darkness that seems to just sow. Cloud our da our days from from week to week, month to month. What if I were to tell you there is no hope? You see folks, life without Jesus is hopeless. There is, I can offer no hope. But because there was one who was able to open this scroll, the victory of God is revealed, not only for him. But also for you. And so I can tell you, there is purpose behind your pain. There is meaning behind your madness. Your grief will not always stay the way it is. There will be a day of victory and a day of glory. There is going to be hope someday for those who have no hope. And the reason why is because there came one who was able to open this scroll There is hope because of our Lord Jesus Christ. The solution, of course, comes. John is in utter disarray. John is in absolute hopelessness. He is weeping madly because there is no one who is able to open the scroll. An angel, who perhaps attempted to open the scroll, realizing that he wasn't able to do so, now proclaims in a loud voice to echo throughout all of the Universe, who is able to open the scroll? And they found absolutely no one And then of course one elder comes forward. The angel may not have known, but the elder definitely did. Elders know everything. And so this elder declares, Have hope There is one who is able to open the scroll, the Lion from the tribe of Judah, the root of David. He is triumphant. He can open the scroll. Of course, this picture that you get of the lion, the lion uh in the Old Testament, and not just the New Old Testament, but it just seems to have been a cultural understanding uh in the days of the Old Testament that the picture of a lion is a picture of royalty, of legalness, of of majesty, and of power Um this line is from the tribe of Judah, and that allusion is back to Genesis chapter forty-nine, a a a prophetic promise that is made from Jacob to his twelve sons. Of course to his to one of his sons was Judah, and to Judah he promised that there would come always kings from his line. That picture you get here in the book of Revelation. Not only that, he is called the root of David. We had talked about this root with this idea of the root of David was preached to us in similar passages in the book of Isaiah over the last month in the book in uh the last month of uh December as we were talking about the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ. The root of David, of course, talking about the coming king When all seems lost, Israel in exile, and all things seem defeated, there is going to come a root, a shoot who is from the line of David, a kingly descendant of David who is going to come out of the midst of this chaos. In other words, the picture that you get here from the promise of the elder is a picture of a champion, a triumphant figure, victorious and powerful. A king. A king who is going to be mighty and strong. That is the picture that we get. But when John sees this figure coming, what does he see? He doesn't see a lion. He sees A lamb. Not this picture of might and victory, but a picture of humility, really a picture of weakness But this lamb is not just looking, it's not just a lamb, it's a lamb having look as if it had been slain, it says. It's not just a lamb weak and humble. It's a lamb that has been sacrificed, a lamb that has been slain. And you kind of wonder, was John perhaps surprised? He was expecting a champion, and what does he get? He gets humility. Was he perhaps disappointed? You know, sometimes we will do that. We we have a certain picture in our mind of who God is and what in fact He will do. And if if that doesn't match up with our expectations We become surprised. In more worse days, perhaps, we become disappointed. Disappointed with who God is, disappointed with what God has done. Um when I was a single man, uh longing for the day when I would marry. I had a certain picture um of what my wife would be like. Um when I started ministry, um At the church that I was serving at at the time, someone told me about a young lady named Clara Shin. And what people said about her, she seemed to have ran the church. Really? Why do you laugh? No, it's true. I mean, uh she taught Sunday school She led a children's uh choir that performed uh a a ma a a a spectacular Christmas program. She organized their own praise team. Uh she sang in not just one choir but a number of different choirs. Um so as a young single guy I was, you know, very curious to meet this person. And there was no picture of her. She was studying abroad in Sweden at the time, but I had this picture of who she would be and what she would be like this very tall, you know, strong willed but beautiful young lady. You know um you ever see the uh uh uh the old T V show uh Zena, Spiritual uh Zena Warrior Princess? It was a spiritual zena. That's sort of what I pictured in my mind. The day that I met the day that I met Clara Shin You know, she just came off the plane after flying like twenty-four some hours from Sweden. She came directly to the church and uh she was a little tired, she was kind of grungy, and my first initial reaction was What is this? This is not quite what I had expected. In one sense I was a bit disappointed Now again, this just youthful foolishness because I to this day, and you can quote me on this, I praise God Almighty for my wife. But you know, sometimes we think that way about God. He gives to us things that we don't expect. He gives to us things that we may think as being a surprise Disappointing. He doesn't give to us perhaps what we want. He gives to us things that just don't seem to make sense. Even our understanding of who God is at times becomes challenged Who is the God that we have been worshiping all of this time? Who is the God that that that we come together and and sit here for an hour and a half on any given Sunday to offer up our prayers to at times? When we face a crisis like this, it challenges our perspective of who God is. It challenges our worldview. It challenges our value system at times because it doesn't always match up. Yod here, John expected, the picture of a champion. What he gets is a lamb. But the difference of course here is of course the lamb is a champion The lamb here looks as if it had been slain because in fact it was slain. This lamb though was no longer didn't stay slain and defeated and slaughtered. It clearly was breathing, it was walking. This is a lamb that proved itself triumphant over death and is now victorious. This lamb is no longer dead, it is now alive. And we perhaps need to meditate on that one single point too, the God whom we worship. The Lord whom we worship is alive. He is not dead. Oftentimes our worship may be so fueled with such little passion because oftentimes our concept is that with the God that we worship is not truly alive That he is in fact dead, and so that reflects in our lives throughout the day that we live from day to day in our work, in our interaction with uh family and co-workers and friends. They look at the life that we live at times because it seems to reflect the worship of a dead God. Our faith seems dead because our concept of God is not truly that He is living. And people are not attracted to dead things. People are attracted to life. We can do every pomp and circumstance to make our worship as quality as possible. Have the greatest priesting. Have the best projection. Have two in fact if you want. Have the best music. Have the best sanctuary. Have the best entire worship setup that you can imagine possible. Get rid of the bad wors uh weather. Put the best weather that we can possibly put in. pews if that's what you want. Have everything the way that we have set up. And unless there is life in the church, people are not going to come in. Lives will not be changed unless, of course, we give to them life. And that is the God that we worship. It is a God that is not dead, no longer remaining slain, no longer slaughtered, a God who is alive, resurrected, and powerful and true. This lamb, of course, now comes, looking as if it has been slain, now resurrected, and it is now walking to the throne. The throne of he who sits on this throne. He grabs the scroll and now is able and worthy to open it. Now to reveal for the first time perhaps victory for him. As well as thou for you. And he sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. The picture that you get in Revelation chapter 5 is the coronation of Christ the King. The Christ triumphant, Christ victorious, Christ who is true. And the reason why he was worthy to open the scroll is given to us in verse nine You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals because you have been slain. And you purchased, and with your blood you have purchased man for God. You see, the reason why this the Lamb was worthy to open the scroll that promises to us victory is because he was slain. And now he bought us, paid for with a price. And the price that he paid, of course, was his very life, was his very body, with his own blood. And we perhaps have to stop and meditate upon that truth as well. What is it that God gave up? His one and only son, his own life, the shedding of his own blood. Essentially, he gave up everything to get what What did God get? What did he pay for? What did he buy? Did he get awesome worshiping people? People who can make it on time to the worship of God. Did he get people with fire and exuberance share the good news of the gospel courageously, without fear? Did you get people who would worship him without distraction, focused upon who he is, not so much on what we are going to have for lunch? What he got was me. What he got was you. He paid the highest price possible. He gave up everything to get us. But what did he do with us? The last half of verse 9, he made us kings and priests. See, he didn't just leave us where we are. He gave up everything to gate us. And now he gives to us. Everything. We now rule with him. We now, as priests, stand in the presence of God, and for this reason, he is worthy of our worship. He is worthy of our praise. If you look at the doxologies that are lifted up to our God on the Flip if you flip the outline sheet over, you can see a graph here to have outlined for you that outlines a bit of the doxology that is lifted up to God. That starts really back at Revelation chapter um chapter four. The object of the praise of worship there is to him who sits on the throne. The doxology that is lifted up to him is to glory, honor, and power. And the reason why is for his pre acts of creation. It says that because all things exist because of you, you are worthy to receive all glory, honor, and power. And the people who are worshiping, in fact, are the twenty-four elders. My outline has The four creatures and the twenty-four elders. I think now in retrospect it's probably just the twenty-four elders. In Revelation chapter five, verse twelve, the object of worship is now the Lamb And the Lamb, the doxology that is given to the Lamb is power, wealth, wisdom, might, honor, glory, and blessing. And the reason That he is worthy to be praised is because of his work of redemption, or, to say it as Paul would say it, his act of making us a new creation He who sits on the throne is praised because of his acts of creation. The Lamb is praised because of his acts of re-creation. And the ones who are worshiping are the four creatures and the twenty-four elders. When you get to Revelation 5, verse 13, the object of praise is he who sits on the throne and the Lamb combined together. The doxology that is lifted up is blessing, honor, glory, and might for their acts of creation and recreation. And the ones in fact who are singing are the four creatures, the twenty-four elders, and now this majestic host, an army of angels surrounding the throne room of God, all lifting up their praise and exaltation to Him. And if you see the way in fact the doxologies are lined up in that second column there, one is connected to the other. So where one ends with power in Revelation 4. 11. Revelation 5. 12 begins then with power. Where Revelation 5. 12 ends with blessing, Revelation 5. 13 begins with With blessing to show you the interweavenness, the interwovenness of this doxological praise, all being We together into one cosmic fabric of praise being lifted up to our God. Glory and honor and power and praise be all be given To him who sits onto the throne and to the Lamb. But of course, the one voice that is missing in this anthem of praise is our voice. The voice of the redeemed community, the voice of the saints of God. That you find in Revelation chapter 7, Revelation 12, and Revelation 19, in the song that is lifted up, salvation belongs to our God. You see, the angels cannot sing this song because they were never saved. The creatures can never sing this song because they have never been saved. This is a song that is specifically for us. This is our song that we and we alone can sing. Psalm chapter 19 begins by saying that the heavens declare the glory of God. All of creation is praising him. The angels at the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ sing the song of praise, glory to God in the highest. When you read uh Later on, you read about the ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ after his resurrection as the ascent up into heaven. And then echoing the words of Psalm 24, lift up your heads, only gates, for the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? It is the Lord, strong and mighty. The angels then sing here in Revelation chapter four, echoing the song that was sung in Isaiah chapter six. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. So holy is the presence of God that they cannot say it just once, they cannot say it just twice. So overwhelmed by the presence of God they have got to say it three times Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. And then the doxological procession that we had just talked about in Revelation chapter four and five. All of this climaxes and join together in one gigantic cosmic anthem of praise to our God when it is joined with our song, the song of the saints. Let the redeemed community of God sing Salvation belongs to our God, to whom belongs all glory, honor, power, and praise. Let's all pray together. Father, thank you once again. Thank you for the victory that you earn, the victory that you give to us by faith. Thank you, Lord, for the songs that you have given to us and for the Lamb. And thank you, God, that you have poured out so much abundant grace and mercy upon your people. And as we do so, Lord, as we meditate upon that victory and upon who you are as our victorious champion. O God, allow our hearts to sing praises unto you, for you are so worthy to be worshipped. And so, Lord, for the remainder of this day, let our voices lift your name and exalt your name up on high. Salvation belongs to our God. And so, God, hear our prayers for we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.